THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
— AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER,1525.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
HOW SLAVERY IS DEFENDED, &c
Extracts from a Discourse, entitled’ Our Duty in relation to Southern Slavery,’ delivered at South Hingham, Jan. 29, 1860, by Rev. J.J. BRAYTON:-
There are arguments, not without apparent plausibility, in favor of the proposition that Slavery is right. I notice them, for I am speaking impartially. I only regret that I have not read the Southside views of Dr. Adams, that I might present them more fully, and in their best possible light.
It is claimed that, in general, the physical condition of the Slaves of the South is preferable to that of the free negroes of the North,-that they are better fed, better clothed, and enjoy more bodily comforts; when rendered helpless by illness or old age, they are not turned out to the cold and uncertain charities of the world, but kindly nourished and cherished to the last. It is claimed that there are less invidious distinctions on the ground of color in the South, than at the North;-that, instead of the Northern coldness, which passes by the colored man on the other side, there are often genuine and tender attachments between the families of the slaveholders and slaves themselves. It is also claimed, that even the intellectual, and, above all, the religious condition of the slaves in the Southern States, is rendered greatly superior to that of their own nation on their native soil. In initigation of the acknowledged evils of the system, it is claimed that they are not overtasked,-that they are seldom said, except as punishment for refractoriness, or from the master’s stern necessity, and that it is the custom to avoid, if possible, the separation of families, and the slave is allowed to find, if he can, his own purchaser; to select his own master whom he will serve. It is claimed, also, that while the superior native enterprise and executive skill of the white race is requisite to the development of the natural resources of the southern soil and climate, the requisite manual labor can be successfully performed only by another and distinct race, whose physical adaptation befits those warmer latitudes. And it is claimed, too, that the African race are, by native inferiority, incompetent to the attainment, the full appreciation and enjoyment of the highest forms of civilized independence, and, therefore naturally, and properly occupy a position of civil and social subservience.
These last two claims, though they seem plausible, are still questionable, and as yet, I think, unestablished. The others now enumerated I cordially and undoubtingly admit. In the face of northern prejudice, which loves to make the most of the worst features of slavery, holding them up constantly to view, and which is slow to admit any plea whatever in apology or mitigation of its acknowledged evils, I cordially, freely, gladly admit those claims. I admit them on the ground of the unanimous and undisproved professions of Southern men; of the testimony of anti-slavery men who have visited the South, and become acquainted with the institution and its workings; and I admit them because, also they are reasonable in themselves, inasmuch as humanity, even in its coldest aspect, could not be expected to withhold all that these claims demand. But, in admitting these claims so cordially and freely, it must not be overlooked that they do not justify, but only mitigate the evil in behalf of which they are made. It is welcome to our hearts to know that the slaveholder, notwithstanding his unfortunate connection with a system that is hostile to humanity, may be, nevertheless, far from destitute of humanity itself. And if our interest for the slave be genuine, we will welcome with gratitude and delight the assurance that he is sufficiently fed and clothed, cared for in old age, and the necessary evils of his lot alleviated, in some degree, by ministries of human kindness. But, I say, these are only mitigations, creditable mitigations of slavery. They do not show the institution to be good, they fail to justify its evils.
Next in unjustifiableness to the use of warlike weapons, is the indulgence and manifestation, on the part of the North, of the warlike spirit towards the slaveholders of the South. But still, such a spirit, it grieves me to say, appears to prevail in our abolition presses and conventions. to animate anti-slavery speeches, in the senate, on the rostrum, and in the pulpit, and to be breathed unsparingly from the lips, even of the so -called philanthropist and the professed disciple of the lowly Christ.
All this is unchristian, unmanly, and wickedly wrong. It is wickedness in the heart of him who indulges it,-a sin against him towards whom it is manifested, while its only tendency is to stimulate the resistance of the slaveholder against out our arguments and appeals, and to tighten the very bonds which we seek to loose.
If our advocates of Anti-Slavery complain that the prospects of the cause of freedom are less favorable to-day than they were’a few years ago, 'if the cause seem hopeless now, whereas it did not even appear ‘difficult’ then, the cause of all this-I hesitate not to avow it-may be found lying very near their own doors. They have withheld the fraternal spirit. They have been ungenerous.-They have been uncharitable. They have been intolerant. They have scolded the South,-denounced the South,-insulted the South; they have menanced the South. Our tone has been spiteful. unduly obtrusive and dictatorial. We have assumed ourselves to be the paragons of virtue, and on all occasions, drawn invidious contrasts between ourselves and them. We have persistently done these things till we have justly awakened their indignation, and are used their resentment,- till at length, in exasperation, they, instead of freeing their slaves at our demand, return us railing for railing, insult for insult, contempt for contempt;-intimating at length, and not without reason, their more than willingness to part from our company. If we were in their stead, we would act as they do, and I fear, with even less forbearance than they. Perhaps the Southerner, born and educated within the surrounding arms of this institution, is unable to see its evils as we behold them. Perhaps he honestly regards it as just and right. On this ground, he is certainly entitled to our courteous and Christian regard. But, if he feels it to be wrong, he may yet consider it a misfortune unavoidably entailed upon him, rather than a sin for which he is wholly responsible. On this ground, he is entitled to our commiseration and kind assistance. But, even if he knows it to be an unjustifiable wrong, still, a just pride, with a the sense of manly honor, cannot allow his peers to hurl the wrong with contempt and menace into his face.
It is not strange that they view us as hypocrites and fanatics, when, professing philanthropy, we talk like madmen-professing benevolence, we stone them with stones.
Besides the moral wrong of the spirit we condemn, it is the very height of folly, provided we are sincere in the profession of our purpose. It is no way to reform a man, to drive him beyond our reach by insult and contempt. Passion is not argument. Denunciation is not logic. Scorn and bitterness are only convincing to our own disadvantage. If we <illegible> such a spirit as this, our Southern neighbors.
<c02>
have a right to suspect that our motives are not what we profess,-that our purposes are not religious, but political; for how should bitter water flow from a sweet fountain?
NORTHERN SCHOOL BOOKS.
It is time that we were rid of Yankee school books. Ever since Morse published his Geography, in which there were flings at the institutions of the South, the school books of the North which flooded the South-in fact, we have had no other school books-have been filled with Abolitionism, and if not with the outrightness of Longfellow's anti-slavery cant, the books, nevertheless, squinted that way, and had the taint of Northern fanaticism in them. Now that our students of medicine have come home to stand by home institutions, it is time that home institutions stood by them. We are not saying that, medical students should not use the books best calculated to teach them their duties-medical books do not interfere with the slavery question-but we do say that the books in which they are taught to read, and from which they derive their first impressions, should be sound, conservative and constitutional. There is treason to the South in many of these northern school books. And they have made us very squeamish, until lately, in proclaiming the moral right of slavery.
Mr. O'Coner, a northern man, has spoken out as strongly and as truly for the institution of slavery as Senator Hammond himself, in his most able exposition on that subject. We have been too much in the habit of apologizing for slavery, where we should have justified it, as it is justified in Paul's most beautiful letter to Philemon, as well as in the Old Testament. It is these insinuations, nay, assertions, of the moral wrong of slavery, which our youths read in these northern school books, which give an early bias to their impressions-impressions which they do not reason, and the result is that when many of them come to their second childhood, in their last will and testament they liberate their slaves, and fill the country with a miserable herd of free negroes.
We must stop this northern inundation of school books. Have we not southern men capable of compiling them? Have we not a southern literature from which much of the compilation might be made? How many beautiful things, just fit for such books, have Wirt and Legare and Grimke and others written, to say nothing of the political speeches of our Southern and Western orators of the slave States, whose names and eloquence are true to the Constitution, and are able expositors of it! Halleck said, of certain of this class of school-book makers and Abolition preachers:
That they were gallant and godly, making love a teaching;
And gaining, by what they call hook and crook,
A decent living. The Virginians look 
Upon them with as favorable eyes 
As Gabriel on the devil in paradise.'
Good reason have we. But Halleck says these are but New England's ‘outcasts;' but why should they come to us? ‘Words are things,' said Mirabeau-and sometimes they are very potent things in the influence of young minds, and sometimes they are fatal things, as Mr. Seward will find in the utterance of his’ irrepressible conflict' sentiment, and in his endorsement of ‘Helper's impending crisis.'-Richmond Enquirer.
GEMS FROM THE BOSTON PILOT.
The Life of John Brown, by J. Redpath, and published by Thayer & Eldridge, of Boston-is a s- tub, crammed with inconsistencies, misstatements, daring falsehoods, and absurd blasphemies. It cannot bold together long, but its short existence will help to increase the horror and disgust already existing for such public nuisances as Brown, Howe, Wilson, Redpath, Phillips. Parker, &c., &c.,
The Calumet is a periodical started by Mr. John Beeson, an Englishman, who is burning with love for the poor Indian. Well, we must say that we feel sympathy for him, i. e., if he is honest in his endeavors, and we hope he is. Would to heaven the abolitionists took Mr. Beeson by the hand, and let the Wooley-heads go! how happier the public weal would be! By-the-bye, Mr. B. ought to secure Rev. father De Smet's endorsement; it would outweigh all the Kirks, Beechers, Bellows, Phillips, &c, in creation.
SELECTIONS.
AMERICAN SLAVERY.
To the Editor of the Sligo Champion:
DEAR SIR,—Mr. William Smith O'Brien having given his opinions to his country, and to the world, on American slavery, they have become a legitimate subject for criticism: and when we reflect on the intimate relation which subsists between Ireland and the United States-so large a proportion of their population being Irishmen-the opinions of so distinguished an Irishman as Mr. O'Brien, on that subject, should be strictly canvassed; particularly as (I assert) it is a fact, which will not be denied by any truthful and well-informed man, that our countrymen in America have not been faithful, as a body, (there are, doubtless, many noble exceptions to this rule.) to those principles of liberty which were to be expected from a people who exclaimed loudly before the world against oppression at home, and who left the land of their birth in the expectation of finding greater freedom in the country of their adoption; but in which country they joined hands with the oppressor, and have always been found among the determined foes of the equal rights of the colored race; thus giving the lie to their own. convictions of duty, and telling the stranger that Ireland sent forth unworthy men, who prated of their own wrongs, but who were willing to heap tenfold greater wrongs upon others, who ought to be the object of their nearest sympathies, because they, too, were passing through the furnace of affliction. I have been long jealous of the honor of my country on this point; it is a vital point, one upon which there can be no halting between two opinions. That man who makes a slave of his fellow-man, who holds him as a chattel, a thing, a brute, not entitled to any of the rights of humanity; that man is a robber in the first degree, and the Irishman who does not hold him as such, almost deserves to be made a slave of himself. 
What said Jefferson, one of the first of American statesmen, and himself a slaveholder:-One hour of American slavery outweighs whole ages of the oppression we rose against England to shake off.'
It is with feelings such as these, and with warm desires for the true honor and glory of my country, that I now canvass the opinions of Mr. O'Brien on slavery in America. I attended his lecture in our Mechanics' Institution, and I left it with a feeling of deep disappointment. This distinguished man expressed, it is true, in plain language, his own personal disapproval of slavery, which he considers an institution opposed to the rule of right; but he uttered no strong words of condemnation against the man-stealer, unless he went to Africa to do the
<c03>
foul deed. On the contrary, he extenuated his conduct, by looking upon him as an involuntary agent in the wrong; that he merely inherited a plantation and the stock upon it-human cattle among the rest. Even if this were true, which it is not, in the case of any Irishman, is that a reason for plundering the child of God of all his rights? And how sounds the sentiment from the lips of Irishmen who were willing, for wrong not to be compared in magnitude, to take the sword, and imbrue their hands in blood? I expected from Smith O'Brien, and I had a right to expect it from him, a stern denunciation of slavery, and this Ireland had a right to expect from him, because some of her sons are actual slaveholders in America, and thousands of them in the free, as well as in the slave States, are supporters of the infernal system.
Every Irishman in America (and Mr. O' Brien names several of them with approval) who holds these relations to his colored fellow-citizens, is untrue to the principle of liberty, and therefore a disgrace to the land of his birth; and he is thus unfaithful to principle, without any fancied compulsion as an inheritor, for he went abroad to do the wrong.
If this were the proper time, or if it had anything to do with the question at issue-which is purely one of right and justice-I should be prepared to prove, on testimony hardly to be questioned, that the immediate emancipation of every slave in America would be a large pecuniary gain to the masters. But this is not the time or place for a discussion. I shall, however, be happy to submit my proof to any candid inquirer.
My great anxiety in this matter is, that my country may be relieved from the stigma of supporting slavery in America: it would do us incalculable good at home, to have the noble principle of liberty imbedded in our hearts, so as that it should form a part of our very nature.
According to the logical conclusion of Mr. O’Brien's argument, slavery must be perpetual in America; he makes no proposition for its abolition. One suggestion, indeed, he offers, and I heard it with great pain. I could scarcely believe my ears that it was William Smith O'Brien, the advocate of the right to freedom of every man in Ireland, and who has suffered so much to prove his sincerity in the cause of their rights, should have given utterance to it. He advises that the man created free by God, and declared, by the written words of the American Constitution, to be ‘equally entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,' shall be allowed to purchase his freedom at the market price-to buy his own body and his own soul-and then, if he be able, he may be allowed, I presume, to buy his wife and their little ones; and what is this man, this equal brother of us all, thus to give his life-long labor for-hear it, Irishmen, and hear it from Smith O'Brien-that he may ‘prove his fitness to become a free member of society.' I am sick at heart when I think of these words; I hope they will find no response in our bosoms, but Irishmen will declare to the world that God has given to every man his right to liberty, ‘without money and without price.' These I hold to be the sentiments which every Irishman, every true man, the world over, should entertain; and I have the first of Irishmen in all ages at my side. I call back to earth the spirits of the noble men who, at Armagh, in the twelfth century, banished slavery from Ireland, because it was a sin against God, and a crime against man, to hold human beings as slaves; and I ask these departed worthies to frown on their successors who palliate, even in the smallest degree, the outrage on our common humanity, which keeps man as a chattel, and places him on the auction block.
I invite back to earth the spirit of that good man, who, perhaps a century ago, in Belfast, saved Ireland from the curse of a participation in the slave trade; and I ask my countrymen, will they, with such a bright example before them, cover over, as with a garment of iniquity, the doings of Irishmen in America, who give any aid to keeping four millions of their fellow-creatures in that condition of bondage which rejects the marriage tie, which denies the wife to the husband, and the children to their parents, as if they were all brutes, and not men, made in the image of God, and placed but a little lower than the angels in heaven?
I appeal to the departed spirits of those Irishmen in the British Parliament, who, to a man-not one member proving renegade-supported Wilber-force in his motion for the abolition of the slave trade; and I entreat my countrymen, in this more advanced day of civilization, to follow their lead for the speedy overthrow of every remaining vestige of a system so adverse to every noble principle in the heart of man, as chattel slavery unquestionably is.
We, in Ireland, have never yet, as we ought to have done, taken a right and manly grip in our consciences, of the principle of liberty; that principle would teach us to demand for others the freedom we claimed for ourselves-and to make no abatement in our demand. But we have not so acted in America. There, as a general rule, the Irish emigrant has taken sides with the man-stealer: he has either done so directly, by open advocacy of his criminal practices, or, indirectly, by sneaking away from his duty, and holding his tongue, while giving his vote on the wrong side. This criminal and unmanly conduct on the part of Irishmen is the true cause of our unpopularity in America. Our labor is useful there, and, therefore, the Americans would welcome us to their shores; but we disgust them too often by our sad inconsistency to our professed principles of liberty and justice, and also by the intemperate habits we so frequently take with us from home. We must become a self-respecting people before others will respect us, and this means that we must be honest to our own convictions of duty.
I am utterly at a loss to conceive why it is that intelligent Irishmen in America are so pro-slavery in sentiment. Mr. O'Brien referred with much good feeling to the hatred which follows the colored man in the Free States: but he blamed the Abolitionists unjustly for this; the true Abolitionists have no such feeling towards their colored brethren. It is, unfortunately, the general sentiment of the white population, and Irishmen are no more free from censure in this respect than others, except that in the Catholic churches, and in these alone, and the Baptists, I apprehend, the black people are permitted to worship God along with their white brethren. But the colored free man is driven, by this wicked prejudice, to the lowest social employment, as white men will not work in company with them as artisans.
Countrymen, is this-or the slavery in which it has its origin—right, in the sight of God? Did He not make of one blood all the nations of men? And are we not doing despite to Him when we despise our brethren who are colored like ourselves? My countrymen, I entreat you to think on think on these things; we must be for, or against God; we must be for, or against man; we must be for, or against liberty; we are unworthy if we halt between two opinions on these points.
I remain, Mr. Editor, faithfully yours,
JAMES HAUGHTON.
35 Eocles-street, Nov. 1859.
<c04>
DESPICABLE DIABOLISM IN THE DISTRICT.
Some three months since, two colored men, free citizens of Philadelphia, returned from the Paraguay Expedition on board a Government vessel, and were landed at the Navy Yard in Washington, where they were honorably discharged. Wishing to return home after their long absence in the service of the United States, they repaired to the rail-road depot at Washington, to take the cars for Philadelphia, when they were met by a regulation which requires all colored persons, ere they can obtain tickets, to file a bond to indemnify the railroad company against loss in case they shall be claimed as slaves. Having no friends or acquaintances in Washington, of course they could furnish no securities for such a bond, and so had to abandon the idea of going to Philadelphia, for the present; and, finally, they obtained employment as servants at the Avenue House, a hotel in Washington.
But the slave-fiend would not let these innocent young men alone. About ten days since, being still at work at the Avenue House, they were arrested, under a municipal regulation or ordinance, as non resident negroes; this ordinance requiring that persons of African descent, coming into Washington, shall have their names registered, and pay fifty dollars, or be liable to a fine of ten dollars for every five days that they remain in the city without complying with the ordinance 

These young men, discharged at the Federal Capital from on board a United States vessel, on which they had performed faithful service, when met with this rascally Federal ordinance, knew nothing about' the requisition as to registration, and they had no fifty dollars to pay for a license for remaining in Washington. In fact, they did not wish to stay there at all, but were doing their best to go to their homes in Philadelphia, when they encountered this oppressive railroad regulation, which compelled them to remain and seek employment on the spot, for doing which, they subjected themselves to other penalties.
The fact of the arrest became known to Mr. Potter, Member of Congress from Wisconsin, and Mr. Covode, Member from Pennsylvania, who board at the Avenue House, and upon whom these colored men were in the habit of waiting. They interfered to save them from these oppressive fines. In so doing, they explained the case to the Mayor of Washington. He admitted the law to be a hard one, and suggested that, as these young men were servants at the hotel of Messrs. Potter and Covode, they might properly claim that they (the colored persons) be exempt from the operation of the ordinance as their servants; and that, in this way, and in this way only, could they be saved from the payment of the $50 each, and a fine of $10 each for every five days during which they had neglected to register their names. Under these circumstances, and at the suggestion of the Mayor, Messrs. Potter and Covode, having meanwhile employed these colored men, addressed notes to the Mayor, claiming them as their servants; and whereupon they were discharged.
In return for their humane interference in behalf of these defenceless boys, the press of Washington, and especially The Constitution, the organ of Mr. Buchanan, pours out its foulest abuse upon Messrs. Potter and Covode, perverting the facts, representing them as having been purchasing negroes, as trying to evade the municipal laws of Washington, and more of the same sort. Their notes to the Mayor are published, accompanied by characteristic comments. Through whose interposition this turn has been given to the affair, whether by that of the Democratic Mayor, or the officer to whom one-third of the fines was payable, we know not, nor do we care. We aim at higher game than vulgar tipstaffs and brawling newspaper organs, in our comments upon these scandalous transactions. We do not so much blame the officer, as the law, nor The Constitution newspaper, as the system it defends. The Marshal and the journal are but laboring in their appropriate vocation. The former picks up a precarious living by enforcing a code that would be scouted out of the Feejee Islands. The latter coins money by arguing its adaptation to the state of society which exists in Washington. 
Turn we, then, to the remedy. This oppressive railroad regulation, and these infamous ordinances, exist by the special permission-nay, more, by virtue of the positive enactments-of Congress. We insist, therefore, that these rules, regulations, ordinances, or whatever name they bear, together with the system of which they are a necessary and homogeneous part, instantly cease at the Federal Capital. And if the denizens of the District demand that this despicable diabolism shall continue in force, then let the Capital be removed to some community where civilization and Christianity are not contraband commodities.
It must not be forgotten that these outrages, that make the blood of freemen turbulent in their veins, are not perpetrated in a slave State; that they are not the legitimate offspring of the peculiar institutions of Virginia, Georgia, Louisiana, with which the North has no right to interfere; but are committed right under the eye, and by the special permission of Congress, and for which the people of New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, are as directly responsible, as if perpetrated under codes enacted at Albany, Harrisburg, and Columbia.
We repeat, then, that these wrongs, together with slavery and the slave-trade, the fountain-crime whence they flow, shall cease, or the capital be removed. We are quite in earnest, in enforcing this alternative upon the consideration of Congress. The leaders of public opinion in Washington have no claim upon their rulers for forbearance. A bully assails a Senator, with bloody intent, for words spoken in debate, sending him into exile for years, and Washington fines him $3,000. An estimable member of the Society of Friends, an old resident, utters the traditionary opinions of his sect against slavery, and Washington arrests, arraigns, and imprisons him. During the contest for the Speakership, assassins, armed to the teeth, pack the galleries, threatening death to the Republican Members of Congress, and the press of Washington cheers on the blood-thirsty villains. The publisher of the National Era is assailed in the street, and carries his life in his hands for many weeks for speaking the sentiments of George Washington, and Washington City applauds. An upright member of Congress from Pennsylvania utters, to the friends in his own hotel, the current opinion of the country in regard to the imbecility of Virginia in the face of the John Brown raid, and he is waylaid and mal treated in the Capitol grounds, by functionaries high in office, and Washington lauds the assailants and jeers at the assailed.
Do such cowardly creatures, does such a demoralised community, deserve any forbearance from freemen? Is it a fit spot, and are such the fit custodians, of the Capitol of the Republic? The country demands that these <illegible> and their apparent cause cease to exist, or that the seat of government be removed to a spot where freedom of opinion, of speech, of publication, of locomotion, can be respected 
The Capitol could hardly be established in a more detestable locality than Washington. Originally a
<c05>
swamp and-quagmire, the climate is execrable, engendering rheumatism, chills and fever, pneumonia, bronchitis, and cognate diseases. As to the public buildings, erected and being erected, even were they to be utterly abandoned, we doubt whether this would ultimately be a dollar’s loss to the country. They are to the last degree ill-contrived. To complete such as are unfinished, upon the scale now contemplated, will cost more than to erect entire new buildings of suitable descriptions elsewhere. They are mere sinks of jobbery and corruption.-Therefore, we trust Congress will not vote a dollar to go on with them, until the country sees whether the crimes and villanies of which we complain are to cease. And, if they do not, and it should finally be resolved to change the Capitol, then, as the new location would doubtless be accessible from Washington by vessels, if any of the materials in the existing structures were worth transporting thither, they could be taken down, removed, and used in the new edifices. At all events, Congress should not sink another dollar in the present public buildings until these questions are determined-not a dollar.
We have an able Committee in the House of Representatives upon the District of Columbia. A majority of its members are Republicans. They are all men of ability. Will they take action in the premises? The country will expect it.-N. Y. Tribune.
TREATMENT OF DR. DOYEE AND HIS SON IN MISSOURI.
Dr. Doy, one of the earliest settlers in Lawrence, Kansas, and among the bravest defenders of that Territory, who, with his son, was kidnapped by a band of Missouri ruffians, and incarcerated some weeks in Platte city jail, and subsequently in the jail at St. Joseph, from which he was adroitly liberated by a company of friends from Lawrence, after having experienced much suffering, has just published a pamphlet, entitled-‘The Narrative of John Doy, of Kansas-a plain, unvarnished tale'-making 132 pages, and sold at 25 cents. To give our readers an idea of the insults, outrages and sufferings inflicted upon Dr. Doy and his son, we make the following extracts from this thrilling narrative:-
As we landed at Weston, we were greeted by the most unearthly conceivable yelling and swearing. The firing of guns and pistols, the ringing of bells, and the hideous combination of other noises, made it appear as if all the evil spirits had been let loose at once. I doubt if they could exhibit more malignity in gloating over their victims, than did those howling ruffians in the streets of Weston, over the captives who had fallen into their power.
The colored people, with Charles and Clongh, were again put into the wagon, and I was forced to mount my horse, amid the yells and execrations of the infuriated mob. Our captors surrounded us, and thus attended, we paraded through the town for the space of an hour, which seemed much longer to us.
As we went on, the shouts rang up fierce and loud; the crowd pressed upon me as I sat on my horse; my coat was nearly torn from my back; the skirts and sleeves were rent in pieces, and divided among the mob as relics of a ‘live abolitionist.' Thus pushed and mauled, struck and insulted, with every indignity that can be conceived offered to our persons, amid cries of ‘Hang him! Hang him! Hang the d-d nigger-thief! Burn the c-d abolitionist!’ and so on, we were made to take part in this fit triumphal ovation to the cruel and bloody demon of SLAVERY!
After having gratified their malice in this manner, our captors stopped at the door of a frame building, known as Lawson's law office, and we were ordered to go in. As I entered, some one standing in the doorway seized me by the heard, and beat my head against the wall. With blows and threats we were violently pushed into a bar room, and told that it was our quarters for the rest of the night. The passage and room were crowded with the ruffians. The room appeared to be a justice's court, and the upper part, separated by a bar from the rest, was assigned to us.
While we were there, a burly man, with Border Ruffian stamped on his face, came in with a lighted candle, and, seizing me by the arm, looked me over, from head to foot, in the most provoking manner. My blood boiled at this insult, and, unable to bear any more, I shook him off, asking him, at the same time, if he considered himself an American citizen when he treated a man in that manner. Thereupon he flew into a terrible passion, pouring out all the filthy vituperation that is found nowhere else in such variety, as in the vocabulary of a Platte County Ruffian, and demanded to know how I dared speak to a white man except in answer to questions, being a d-d nigger-thief. I called to the constables to take him away, or there would be mischief done.
This person I afterwards! found to be a well-known ruffian, by name Jim Murphy, a brother of the man who was mayor of Leavenworth during the troubles of’56, when Border Ruffianism ruled. He was driven out of that city by the Free State people in the fall of ‘57.
We had scarcely got rid of one ruffian when another appeared: a young man, with a light in one band and a revolver in the other. Shortly he began to push my son round, shaking the revolver in his face, and crying,’ By G-d! you've got to die this night, and by this revolver!
The light began to flash from Charles's eyes and the angry flush to deepen on his cheek, and I, knowing my son's disposition, appealed to the officers to take away the insulting ruffian, if they wished to prevent bloodshed.
I felt that any forcible resistance on our part would probably furnish a desired pretext for our death by the hands of the mob; and though we might hold our lives cheap in a good cause, we had no wish to throw them away without benefit to any one.
After much entreaty, I succeeded in obtaining some water for our party, but could get nothing else, though we were almost famished none of us having tasted food since the morning before-the provisions laid in at Lawrence for the passengers having been consumed by the kidnappers.
Finally the crowd departed, escorting our captors to a supper, which had been got up in honor of the exploit by which they had rendered themselves in famous while we were left to get such sleep as we might upon the bare floor, without beds or covering of any description. Our rest was not very refreshing, as may be imagined, nor our thoughts of a hopeful character.
At an early hour in the morning, we were roused from our uneasy slumbers by men who came in and searched us. They took from me some papers, my pocket-book, which contained sixty-eight dollars and a half, and some loose silver change. We were then taken out, handcuffed in pairs, and marched through the streets to the <illegible> Hotel, for breakfast, as we were told to welcome word to a men who had not eaten for twenty-four hours. Of course, we were attended through the streets by a yelping crowd of rowdies.
At the hotel we were placed in a room with glass
<c06>
doors, in order that the curiosity of the people might thus be gratified. Hundreds of persons came and peered through the windows of the room to look at us.
After eating we were again marched into the streets. Our reception there was even more demoniacal than on the previous night. Everybody seemed to be out; and oaths, yells, and insults, with cries of ‘Give’em hemp!’ ‘The rope is ready!’ accompanied us to the Court House, whither we were carried for examination.
There we were taken into a large unfinished room, filled to overflowing with the unwashed and unterritied Democracy of Weston. It was a rough room, with bare brick walls", and open rafters overhead, from which hung down, directly above where we were placed, three new ropes with a hangman's knot at the end of each. The prospect, at this moment, would certainly have been alarming to a nervous man, or to any one who had not had our five years' experience in Kansas. The fierce faces, rough and dirty, with the inevitable pipe, or to haceo saliva, marking the corners of the mouth, that glowered savagely upon us; the significant ropes that dangled above our heads, and the open, fiercely uttered threats which filled the hall, interspersed with the strangest oaths that ears ever listened to, suggested all the horrors of moboeratic violence.
At this time I thought, as did my son, that our hour had come, and that two of the hangman's nooses above our heads would not long remain empty. It was evident, from the muttered threats of the crowd, that violence would be attempted;: while from the windows we could see the streets, through which we should have to pase, filled with an excited mob, whose cries and shouts rent the air. We were both ready to meet our expected fate like men; but, to leave no stone unturned, I again addressed the magistrates, and demanded their protection. They were evidently ararmed for the result; and, after a short consultation, we were hastily taken out by a side door, down the stairs into a deserted back street, and hurried into a little filthy calaboose. While there, I said to the marshal, Lewis, I would rather have been hung by the mob than treated in this manner! ‘Ah!' he replied; we don't mean to let the abolitionists make capital out of our hanging you.' About dark, when the streets were empty, we were taken to the hotel, where we were carried into the attic, handcuffed, and a guard set over us; the colored people being already there, in another part of it.
While we lay thus chained in that dismal garret, we were infamously abused. Drunken ruffians continually came in to look at, and gratify their malice on the live abolitionists, as they called us. Some kicked us in the body as we lay on the floor; some, more brutal, in the face. At last my son, goaded to frenzy by the continued insult and abuse, jumped up, and lifting his shackled hands above his head, his face being covered with blood from the blows he had received, exclaimed,’ You think you can cheaply insult, and even overpower a fettered man; but you can never, never subdue me,' and using his chains as a weapon, he drove them all out, clearing the room.
It was a sight to behold: two American citizens, kidnapped from our own soil, unconvicted of crime, our clothes almost torn from our bucks, ourselves covered with blood flowing from wounds inflicted by men who arrogated to themselves also the title of American citizens!
Soon after breakfast, on the second day after our examination, the marshal, constable. and several others came into the garret where we were confined, and ordered Charles and me to get up and follow them. They led the way down stairs, and helped us into a carriage, to which two horses were harnessed. A large crowd of ruffians greeted our appearance, and amused themselves by comments upon our condition, which was certainly pitiable. One of them said, ‘Well, old doctor, we’ll pay you a visit at Platte City, and give you another dose.'
Eight men soon rode up on horseback, and ordered the driver to move on. As we left the crowd, our mounted escort was advised to keep a sharp lookout, for the d-d Yankees would try to rescue us. They followed the advice, and did keep a sharp look-out for Yankees all the way, four horsemen preceding us about five or six hundred yards, and the others following behind. After a drive of about seven miles, over almost impassable roads cut through the timber, we reached Platte City, a village of some eight hundred inhabitants, where we were received by another excited crowd, who repeated the insults.
They followed us to the jail, a gloomy-looking log building, two stories high and about twenty-four feet square, with walls two feet thick. Here we had to wait a short time for the jailor to bring the keys; while the mob clustered round the carriage in which we sat chained, amusing themselves as usual. 
At last the jailor came, and we were ordered to leave the carriage and go in. He lighted a candle, and ushered us into a hall, warmed by a stove, upon which a door opened into the cell we were to occupy. It was unlocked and thrown back. We entered, and found ourselves in an iron box, exactly eight feet square-for I measured it over and over and about seven feet high, furnished with a mattress on an iron bedstead, and with a horse rug and an old piece of cotton carpeting for a coverlid. The sheriff of Platte County came in and searched as, taking from me a memorandum book containing notes of my journey to Holton, and a letter addressed to the editor of the Country Gentleman, an exclusively agricultural paper, published at Albany, New York State; also his pocket-knife from Charles.
After removing our chains they went out, telling the jailor to keep a sharp look-out on us, and locked the door, leaving us in total darkness.
We seized the first opportunity to examine our cell, and found ourselves entombed in a metallic coffin of the dimensions before given. The walls, floor and ceiling were all of boiler-plute iron, without any other opening than the door, which was also of iron, grated, with a hole about twelve inches from the floor, through which our food was passed in to us. We afterwards learned that there was a passage round three sides of our cell, and that there was another adjoining it of the same dimensions and material, in which two young men were confined, because they had nearly escaped from the jail by sawing through the iron bars of the window. One of them was imprisoned on a charge of stealing cloth; and after laying for six months in prison, he was brought to trial and acquitted. The other was in for horse-stealing. A light mulatto lad. Allen Pinks, of whom I shall have more to say hereafter, and a white boy, were in the hall; while in the room overhead was a negro woman, put there for running away.
The hall, or look-up, in which prisoners were usually confined while awaiting trial, and slaves were kept by the traders, until sufficient number were collected to make up a gang or coffle, was about ten feet by twenty in size and had but one small grated window in it, which could not be seen from the door of our cell, and, consequently, threw no light upon us-neither could we see the outer door of the jail, but only the light from it opened.

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is’a convenant with
death, and an agreement with hell.’
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing. of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Some days after we were thus immured, when the jailor's son brought us our dinner, we saved the fat of the meat, and put it into a tin plate then we manufactured a wick by unraveling some of the threads of our cotton coverlid, and getting some matches from the slaves confined in the hall, lighted our improvised lamp; and this was the only light we had until my wife brought us some candles.
We entered Platte County jail on the 28th January, 1859, and remained inclosed in the iron coffin I have described until the 24th March. That cell we were not allowed to leave until called before the Grand Jury a few days before our departure. There was no other furniture than that mentioned, except an iron bucket with a broken lid-which often remained unemptied for weeks-and a Bible, which, it would almost seem, was put there in mockery. We were thrust in as we came from the hands of the Weston mob. For more than a week we had not enough water to drink, and none to wash with, but were compelled to remove the blood from our faces by rubbing them with the old horse-rug, moistened with spittle. No clothes were furnished to us, nor did we get a change until my wife, after the lapse of three weeks, found out where we were, and brought some to us. Our condition may be better imagined than described.
About eight o'clock every evening, a guard of two men came, and remained in the hall through the night. The jailor came in occasionally. During the first week of our imprisonment, there was a regular camp of some three hundred Border Ruffians round the jail. They were armed with muskets and rifles, and had a brass cannon planted in front of the door. The first night they fired the cannon in triumph at our arrival, and, as the jailor informed us, broke every window in the Court House. A description of that night will answer for every other. We could hear them all night shouting, yelling, screeching, firing guns, and threatening the Yankees, Jim Lane and the Kansas abolitionists, with the direst vengeance. All this preparation was to meet and prevent the rescue which it was supposed John Brown and Jim Lane would attempt. Fifty determined Kansas men would have sent them all running.
Shortly after our imprisonment, a public meeting was held in the town, at which highly inflammatory resolutions respecting us were paused, and the people talked of hanging and burning the 'd-d abolitionists then in prison for stealing niggers.' Late that evening, some one came to the jail, and shouted to the prisoner in the cell adjoining ours, to ï¿½tell the old Doctor and his son to get ready and say their prayers, for twenty-five men have voted in the meeting to come down, take them out and hang them, and they'll be here soon.' Soon after, another person came to the jail, and in a loud voice called to me and communicated the same information.
We resolved to be prepared to meet the ruffians, and to sell our lives as dearly as possible. So we called to our fellow-prisoners in the hall to pass us some sticks of fire-wood through the hole in our door, which they did, after cutting them to the right length for clubs, and smoothing one end for a handle. With means and light which they also furnished, we wrote a note to the family, informing them of our situation and probable fate, and bidding them farewell. This was sent to a prisoner in the other cell, who expected to be out in a few days, and he promised to mail it for Lawrence at the first opportunity. We then barricaded our door with the iron bedstead, so that it could be only partially opened, and stood till dawn in readiness to meet the expected hangmen; but no one appeared to molest us.
This soul-quickening narrative may be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, and at Bela Marsh's. 14 Bromfield street, Boston. As Dr. Doy lost everything at the hands of the Border Ruffians in Kansas, we hope it will be readily purchased, that he and his family may derive some pecuniary benefit from it.

ANOTHER OUTRAGE.
The Belfast Age publishes a letter from a correspondent in Georgia, giving the revolting particulars of a gross outrage committed upon a ship's crew near Jeffersontown, in that State. We give the following extracts:
The brig B. G. Chaloner, of East Machias, Me., was chartered in New York to come to Statilla Mills, on the Statilla river, to load lumber. Capt. A. V. Kinney was master, who had with him his wife, Mr. Patterson the mate, and a crew of four men.
Mr. Patterson was well acquainted with the river, having once been wrecked up White Oak Creek. At that time, while stripping the vessel, he lived with a wealthy planter, who became much attached to him. No sooner had his planter friend-Mr. Morrissey-learned that he was again on the river, than he sent a negro to conduct him to the house. Mr. Morrissey, learning the Captain had his wife with him, sent a pressing invitation by Mr. Patterson for the Captain to come, and bring his wife with him, to take a Christmas dinner with his family.
On Sunday morning, Dec. 25th, the Captain, with his crew and mate, took the crew in the boat and started for Mr. Morrisseyï¿½s plantation, having to go about 15 miles by water to his place of landing, from which, to the plantation, was five miles. After landing, he sent his men to Mr. Peters' house, (he being acquainted with Mr. P.,) to tarry until his return. The crew had been in the house but a short time, before six armed men came there, by the names of David Brown, and his two sons, Burrill Brown and Nathan Brown, with their brother-in-law, Thomas Harrison, and two others whose names I don't recollect, and told them they must go to jail. The sailors, believing their innocence would appear the more apparent if they yielded, concluded to obey their orders, supposing they were authoritative; they were then taken into the woods, tied to a tree, and a negro made to give three of them fifty lashes apiece. The reserved one was a tall man, of the height of six feet three inches, whom they called ï¿½the captain of the crowd.ï¿½ Upon his back they dealt one hundred lashes. After he was taken down, they asked him if he would run as fast as the others had? they having been compelled to run, as fast as released.
As he did not at once start, one of the gang raised his gun, saying, ï¿½-you, you won't run, will you?' and fired, the ball passing near his head, and lodging in a tree. With what strength remained, the suffering man then started, hastened by the profane threats of his menacing tormentors. By the kindness of Burrill Brown's wife, the men were shown the way down, and a boat was provided to take them on board the vessel.
On Monday morning, as Capt. Kinney, his wife, and Mr. Patterson were coining down toward the landing, they were met by the men who took the sailors aboard, and told what had happened, and advised to go back to Mr. Morrissey's and leave the woman, and then go round the other way, and send a sheriff for the boat. This advice was acted upon.
They had not gone more than half a mile, before they were overtaken by a man on horseback, who pointed a double-barrelled gun at the captain's head, and told him to stop. Presently old Brown and his gang came along, armed with pistols and guns, and ordered the captain and mate to take off their coats, which they refused to do. Guns were at once cocked and levelled at their heads, and compliance demanded, by threatening to blow out their brains.
After they had divested themselves of their outer garments, a negro was ordered to give them fifty <illegible> apiece. The captain's wife piteously interceded in behalf of her husband and companion, but they coarsely told her to stop her d-d crying, or they would give her the same number of lashes they were now giving her husband. After the negro had completed his task, old Brown, who was unable to walk without a cane, came hobbling along, and commanded the slave to give them four more for tally.
The six inquisitors then marched the sufferers before their guns to the boat, and then shoved it off, leaving them to row fifteen miles, against the tide, to their vessels.
A few days after the transaction, the mate showed me his back, which was bruised and cut from his neck to his knees, as was also the case with the others who were flogged.
The above reason given for committing this outrage was, that the captain and his men were ï¿½<illegible> Northerners.'
The above is only one of a multitude of similar outrages which have been perpetrated upon Northern <illegible> at the South within the last four months, and which ought to unite the whole North as one-<illegible> redrew and protection at any cost. These cannot be obtained within the Union.
<c02>
The Liberator
No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, MARCH 16, 1860.
SPEECH OF HON. WM. H. SEWARD.
In our last number, we occupied as much space as we could conveniently spare, in making some comments upon the recent speech of Mr. Seward in the Senate of the United States. We proceed to finish our review of it.
On the 7th of March, 1850, Daniel Webster made his fatal speech upon the odious Compromise Bill of Mr. Clay,-a speech which took the entire North by surprise, kindled a flame of indignation universally, and sent its author reeling to his grave, like one stricken and blinded by the lightning of heaven. On the 29th of February, 1860, William H. Seward, the most prominent candidate of the Republican party for the Presidency, in the same Senate chamber, reverts to this melancholy occurrence as a praiseworthy act, and in complimentary terms speaks of it as an evidence of ï¿½unquestionable devotion to the Union'! It was, unquestionably, the last desperate bid for the Presidential chair by the recreant New Englander, under the pretence of ï¿½devotion to the Union'; and the retributive consequences which so speedily and so fearfully followed it, should admonish Mr. Seward that, if he desires to ï¿½go down to an honored grave,' or to be truly respected while living, he must pursue a very different course.
Of his speech we said, last week-ï¿½Its effect will be highly detrimental to the moral sentiment of the North on the subject of slavery'-and the truth of this assertion is already beginning to be seen in the altered tone of the Republican journals generally. Not one of them, as yet, ventures to express any objection to anything contained in the speech; all of them, so far as we have seen, are loud in praise of it for its ï¿½moderate,ï¿½ ï¿½conciliatory,ï¿½ ï¿½conservative,ï¿½ ï¿½Union-loving' tone-ominous and detestable terms, because always significant of treachery to the cause of freedom, through concession and compromise when that cause is most imperilled!
It would be an unwarrantable impeachment of the intelligence and discernment of the Republican party to suppose that it perceives no change for the worse in Mr. Seward-no alteration of tone or mien-no lowering of the standard as originally erected-no retraction of the doctrine of the ï¿½irrepressible conflict.' Thousands of its members are mortified, disappointed, and privately indignant at the cautious, calculating, retreating policy of their favorite candidate; but, at the same time, they feel that, in order to achieve the success of the party in the approaching struggle, they must smother their feelings, and assume to be satisfied with what he has recently said and done. It is by such a process, in such an exigency, that demoralization on a wide scale is effected, because there are few whose moral integrity is proof against a powerful political temptation. Such are ever pronounced impracticable, unwise, visionary. So, in his 7th of March speech, Mr. Webster sneeringly said-
'There are men who are of opinion that human duties may be ascertained with the exactness of mathematics. They deal with morals as with mathematics; and they think what is right may be distinguished from what is wrong with the precision of an algebraic equation. They are apt to think that nothing is good but what is perfect, and that there are no compromises or modifications to be made in consideration of difference of opinion, or in deference to other men's judgment.'
Here we have any amount of moral profligacy concealed in the drapery of a deceptive phraseology. The sneer is intended expressly, and only, for those who maintain that it is a crime to 'strike hands with thieves and consent with adulterers'; whose motto is, ï¿½Let justice be done, though the heavens fall'; who believe it is at all times better to obey God than to violate his laws; who enforce the doctrine of immediate emancipation as the duty of the master, and the right of the slave; and who cannot be coaxed nor bribed to play fast-and-loose with principle. ï¿½They deal with morals as with mathematics,' and do not make them matters of convenience or barter. They are not, as Mr. Webster says, ï¿½too impatient to wait for the slow progress of moral causes in the improvement of mankind'; but they see, by a close examination of history from its earliest to its latest date, that such causes make 'slow progress' because of the tendency of public men, like Mr. Webster and Mr. Seward, to substitute policy for principle, and they say to every such overture, as Jesus said in a similar case, ï¿½Get thee behind me, Satan!' In subserving the slaveholding interest of the South, Mr. Webster finds no difficulty in discovering ï¿½what is wrong with the precision of an algebraic equation'!-ï¿½I put it,' he says, ï¿½to all the sober and sound minds at the North, as a question of morals [what! 'dealing with morals as with mathematics'!] and a question of conscience, what right have they, in their legislative capacity or any other capacity, to endeavor to get round this Constitution, or to embarrass the free exercise of the rights secured by the Constitution to the persons whose slaves escape from them! None at all; none at all.' It is such reasoning, or rather such sophistry, that bewilders, misleads and corrupts the multitude, and at times almost ï¿½deceives the very elect.' Hence, the artful collocation of specious words by Mr. Seward, (whereby it is hoped the plunderers of the poor and needy will be propitiated, and the friends of freedom made less exacting, in order to make personal and party success a possible event at the coming presidential election,) renders his speech seductive and dangerous to an incalculable extent.
In noticing the Southern allegation that the Republican party in the North is hostile to the South, Mr. Seward soothingly says-
'It already is proved to be a majority in the North; it is, therefore, practically, the people of the North. Will it not still be the same North that has forborne with you so long, and CONCEDED TO YOU SO MUCH? Can you justly assume that affection which has been so complying, can all at once change to hatred intense and inexorable?ï¿½
Will the reader analyze this pregnant language? Hitherto, the forbearance of the North with the South has been a combination of selfishness and cowardice; and this is to be continued, forsooth, if the Republican party shall triumph! It will be the same North that has ï¿½conceded to you [the slaveholders and slave-breeders of the South] so much ï¿½-yea, till not a vestige of constitutional liberty remains at the South for any Northern citizen! And further concessions, therefore, may be expected in the same direction, and to the same end! What nonsense to talk of the ï¿½affection which has been so complying'! Say, rather, the passion for money-making, the lack of backbone, the absence of moral principle, the want of self-respect and true courage! What the South calls ï¿½hatred intense and inexorable,ï¿½ means anything that threatens the safety and non-extension of her slave system; and, therefore, if his words have any meaning, Mr. Seward desires her to believe that the ï¿½affection which has been so complying,ï¿½ hitherto, will characterize the North as much under a Republican as under a Democratic administration. For what is the object of such language, except to disavow the necessity of any conflict with the South, on account of her slave institutions, ï¿½irrepressible' or otherwise? Is it not a promise to keep the peace-to abstain from whatever policy may cause irritation or alarm at the South-to make the preservation of the Union paramount to the preservation of Northern liberty?
Not less objectionable is his language concerning the <illegible> race, whether bond or free. The South, he says, accuses the Republican party of having ulterior and secret designs, but she names only one:-
<c03>
'That one is to introduce negro equality among you. Suppose we had the power to change your social system: what warrant have you for supposing that WE [REPUBLICANS] would carry negro equality among you? We know, and WE WILL SHOW YOU, if you will only give head, that what our system of labor works out, wherever it works out anything, is THE EQUALITY OF WHITE MEN.... In which of the [free] States I have named is it that negro equality offends the white man's pride?... Did Washington, Jefferson, and Henry, when they implored you to relinquish your system, and accept the one we have adopted, propose to sink you down to the level of the African, or was it their desire to exalt all WHITE men to a common political elevation?ï¿½
If this is not to evince and encourage the unnatural, malevolent, and all-prevailing prejudice against a most wickedly abused and outraged people-if this is not to justify the distinction of race by unjust and crushing legislation in the future as in the past, in the North as well as in the South-what is the meaning of it? It cannot relate to social tastes or conventional associations, for these exist in strong diversity and striking contrast among the white population whose ï¿½equalityï¿½ is declared to be fully recognized and enjoyed. It means, therefore, that the Republican party is exclusively the white man's party, and will give no countenance to POLITICAL EQUALIITY, irrespective of complexional differences. It is the confession of Mr. Seward-not our accusation.
Like every self-seeking aspirant for office, Mr. Seward deems it profitable and politic to burn incense upon the altar of the Union, and to bend the knee in worship thereof, after the manner of a heathen devotee. Instead of rebuking the idolatrous spirit which prevails at the North for a mere piece of parchment, he seeks to intensify it, and to diffuse it where it seems to be wanting. The Republican party is the party of the Union; no party can hope for success without upholding the Union; ï¿½the firm-set earth' is not more sure than the perpetuity of the Union! The Union, then, must be of heaven, not of men-the creation of God, and not the contrivance of independent colonies to assimilate under one form of government; else the analogy is impious and absurd. Not such is the doctrine laid down in the Declaration of Independence:-
ï¿½We hold these truths to be SELF-EVIDENT: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that, TO SECURE THESE RIGHTS, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed; that, whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute a new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.ï¿½
Hence those who affect special reverence for the Union, and make its perpetuity the test of patriotism, are mere babblers, as blind as they are foolish; for by the rule we have quoted from the Declaration, an experiment of seventy years proves that it is time to ï¿½institute a new government,ï¿½ the old one having necessarily proved a failure by its incongruous and irreconcilable elements. 'For Jerusalem [the North] is ruined, and Judah [the South] is fallen, because their tongue and their doings are against the Lord, to provoke the eyes of his glory. The shew of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom; they hide it not. The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses. What mean ye that ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of the poor? saith the Lord God of hosts. Your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand. Associate yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; take counsel together, it shall come to nought. Say ye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, A confederacy: neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid. Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself; and let him be your fear; and he shall be for a sanctuary.'
Compare the following complacent language with the doctrine of the ï¿½irrepressible conflict,' and observe what an alteration in the tone of Mr. Seward, as well as what idolatry for a man-made Union!
ï¿½Mr. President, we are perpetually forgetting this subtle and complex, yet obvious and natural, mechanism of our Constitution; and because we do forget it, we are continually wondering how it is that a Confederacy of thirty and more States, covering regions so vast, and regulating interests so various of so many millions of men, constituted and conditioned so diversely, works right on. We are continually looking to see it stop and stand still, or fall suddenly into pieces. But, in truth, it w ill not stop; it cannot stop; it was made not to stop, but to keep in motion-in motion always, and without force. For my own part, as this wonderful machine, when it had newly come from the hands of its almost divine inventors, was the admiration of my earlier years, although it was then but imperfectly known abroad, so now, when it forms the central figure in the economy of the world's civilization, and the best sympathies of mankind favor its continuance, I expect that it will stand and work right on until men shall fear its failure no more than we now apprehend that the sun will cease to hold its eternal place in the heavens.'
The South is ï¿½full of the habitations of cruelty'-her soil is daily saturated with the blood of her oppressed victims-and she proclaims her determination never to yield up her revolting slave system. What does Mr. Seward say about it?
'Use your authority to maintain what system you please. We are not distrustful of the result. We have wisely, as we think, exercised ours to protect and perfect the manhood of the members of the State. The whole sovereignty upon domestic concerns within the Union is divided between us by unmistakable boundaries. You have your fifteen distinct parts; we eighteen parts, equally distinct. Each must be maintained in order that the whole may be preserved. If ours should be assailed, within or without, by any enemy, or for any cause, and we shall have need, we shall expect you to defend it. If yours shall be assailed, in any emergency, no matter what the cause or the pretext, or who the foe, we shall defend your sovereignty as the equivalent of our own.'
ï¿½Use your authority to maintain what system you please'! Rob the poor, oppress the needy, trade in slaves and the souls of men, according to your own taste; and if thereby you get yourselves into trouble-if other John Browns shall try to ï¿½deliver the spoiled out of the hands of the oppressor,' and to bring your tyrannical power to an end-we stand ready to assist in hanging them, and protecting you against all harm! Horrible!
Here is another significant comment upon the ï¿½irrepressible conflict' doctrine. Now how altered the tune! ï¿½Mutual toleration and a fraternal spiritï¿½ between Liberty and Slavery-freemen and men-stealers-Christ and Belial! Statesmanship, forsooth!
ï¿½You are equally at liberty to reject our system and its ethics, and to maintain the superiority of your own by all the force of persuasion and argument. We must, indeed, mutually discuss both systems. All the world discusses all systems. Especially must we discuss them, since we have to decide as a nation which of the two we ought to ingraft on the new and future States growing up in the great public domain. Discussion, then, being unavoidable, what could be more wise than to conduct it with mutual toleration and in a fraternal spirit?'
Perhaps no statement in the whole speech will excite more surprise at home, or more indignation abroad, than the following:-
ï¿½I am no assailant of States. All of the States are parcels of my own country-the best of them not so wise or great as I am sure it will hereafter be; the State least developed and perfected among them all, is wiser and better than any foreign State I know.'
The most barbarous and benighted slave-driving State ï¿½wiser and better' than England, France, or Germany! So says William H. Seward!
The entire speech is as impassive as marble, and as bloodless as a corpse.
A very searching review of it appears in the Boston 'Pionier; (German,) which, translated, we shall lay before our readers next week, with additional remarks. We are still for the ï¿½irrepressible conflict.'
<c04>
NINETIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BOSTON MASSACRE, MARCH 5, 1770.
This occasion was duly observed as announced, at the Meionaon, on Monday evening, March 5, 1860.
Revolutionary relics and emblems were in full view upon the platform.
Mr. WILLIAM C. NELL, of Boston, came forward, and addressed the meeting as follows:-

REMARKS OF WILLIAM C. NELL.
Though there are many good things appropriately set down to the credit of our tri-mountain city, there is yet a trinity of events connected with its history and the great cause of Human Freedom, seldom thought of or referred to. They are these: 1st. The first slave revolt that we have any knowledge of in this country, took place at East Boston, October 2d, 1638, by a slave claimed by Mr. Samuel Maverick. 2d. The leadership and martyrdom of Crispus Attucks, a slave, in the scene of the Boston Massacre, March 5th, 1770. 3d. The advent of the Liberator, January 1st, 1831, by William Lloyd Garrison, the pioneer, and persevering advocate of immediate emancipation.
Notwithstanding the many historical references by Botts, Hewes, Goodrich, and others, to Crispus Attucks and his prominence in the scene of March 5th, 1770, there has been a studied attempt, as you are well aware, on the part of the wrong-headed and the hollow-hearted, to ignore his patriotic claims, and assign him the position of an incidental disturber of the peace. One writer, animated by the spirit of the old tories, intimated in a Boston paper of March 7, 1851, that if Attucks had not fallen a martyr, he would richly have deserved hanging as an incendiary; and the Boston Courier, of only last Saturday, in an article on the Boston massacre, speaks of Attucks as ï¿½a fierce and turbulent black man, who was temporarily here on his way to North Carolina.'
Without attempting to refute the aspersions thrown upon Attucks, though the materials are ample, I beg leave to submit, as pertinent to this occasion, some gleanings from historical documents, traditionary records, and private correspondence, significant and interesting.
I have a letter from a member of the present Legislature, dated ï¿½House of Representatives, Boston, Feb. 18th, 1860,' from which I extract the following:-
ï¿½He (Crispus) was the slave of my great grandfather, Deacon William Brown, of Framingham. He returned after his runaway excursion, and was a faithful servant. He was allowed to buy and sell cattle on his own judgment. It was probably upon one of these trading tours that he was drawn into the affray of March 5th. He pressed close upon the British troops, who received him and the other people with loaded muskets.
Attucks beat down their guns with a heavy stick, and shouted, ï¿½They dare not fire!ï¿½ They did fire, and with what effect is known to all. Of stout and vigorous frame, athletic, bold and patriotic, had he lived, he would, doubtless, have acted a conspicuous and useful part in our great revolutionary struggle.
Yours, &c.- 
From a letter dated ï¿½Natick, Feb. 17th, 1860,' I select the following:-
'Several persons are now living in Natick, who remember the Attucks family-viz., Cris, who was killed March 5th; Sam, whose name was abbreviated into Sam Attucks, or Smattox; Sal, also known as Slattox; and Peter, called Pea Tattox.
My mother, still living, aged 89, remembers Sal in particular, who used to be called the gourd-shell squaw, from the fact that she used to carry her rum in a gourd shell. [This unfortunate drinking propensity, in accordance with the all-prevailing custom of the times, gives evidence that Sal was, at least, an ardent-spirited member of a patriotic family.]
The whole family are described as having been uncommonly large, and are said to have been the children of Jacob Peter Attucks, who lived with Capt. Thomas Buckminster, of Framingham.
It has been conjectured that Jacob and Nanny were of Indian blood; but all who know the descendants, describe them as negroes. Crispus lived in many different places in Natick and Framingham.
When the inhabitants were detained in Boston, he used to smuggle their horses out of the town. He brought out three or four horses, which he took to Framingham, and then returned to kill the red-coats. His sister used to say that if they had not killed Cris, Cris would have killed them. Cris is said to have been in every street fight with the soldiers for some time previous to March 5th, 1770.'
John Adams, counsel for the British soldiers, admitted that ï¿½Attucks appeared to have undertaken to be the hero of the night, and to lead the people.ï¿½ He was foremost in resisting, and the first slain. As proof of a front engagement, he fell face to the foe, having received two balls, one in each breast.
It is easy to infer that he had an intelligent appreciation of his mission, which should long since have secured to all other colored Americans an equality of those rights, to-day, so unjustly monopolized by the dominant class.
In the popular compilation, entitled 'The Hundred Boston Orators,' are narrated the following facts:-
The Boston Athenaeum overlooks the cemetery where were deposited the remains of our fellow-citizens, martyred in the cause of liberty, March 5th, 1770. Four of the victims were conveyed on hearses, and buried on the 8th of March in one vault, in the middle burying-ground. The funeral consisted of an immense number of persons n ranks of six, followed by a long train of carriages belonging to the principal gentry of the town, at which time the bells of Boston and adjoining towns were tolled. It is supposed that a greater number of people attend the funeral than ever assembled on this continent on any occasion.'
Attucks and Caldwell, not being residents of Boston, were both buried from Faneuil Hall. A stone was erected, and on it carved this inscription:-
ï¿½Long as in Freedom's cause the wise contend,
Dear to your country, shall your fame extend;
While to the world the lettered stone shall tell
How CALDWELL, ATTUCKS, GRAY and MAVERICK fell.'
No remains of the stone are now visible, as it was probably destroyed by the British regulars.
On the 5th of March, 1851, a petition was presented to the Legislature, asking an appropriation for the erection of a monument to the memory of Attucks; but that body decided it to be inexpedient; though the same session awarded one to Isaac Davis, of Concord! Both were active promoters of the American Revolution; but one was white, the other black-and this is the only solution of the problem, why justice was not fairly meted out.
But, if I rightly interpret the signs of the times, they warrant the prediction that, by the 5th of March, 1870,-the centennial anniversary of the Boston massacre,-a monument will be erected, commemorative of the day, and of the man whose martyrdom invests it with a halo of historical glory.
Among some of the early races of the North, each man who passed the tomb of a hero cast a stone upon it as his contribution to a commemorative monument. The pile rose high, and furnished a most impressive lesson to new generations, appealing to them in like manner to secure the grateful remembrance of mankind.
In view of the seal with which the Bunker Hill, Lexington, and other monuments, typical of events and persons of revolutionary fame, have been erected, let the claims of Attucks not be forgotten, inasmuch as his offering upon the altar of American freedom preceded them all.
Senator Toomba is reported to have said, in a lecture in the Tremont Temple, a few years since, that ï¿½if the colored race were blotted out to-day, there would be no record left to tell that they had ever existed.ï¿½
Let this aspersion of a whole race be affect by the Attucksï¿½ monument, and by keeping green the memories, in each locality throughout the Union, of all other Colored Patriots of the American Revolution!
<c05>
SPEECH OF DR. JOHN S. ROCK.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
I have been invited by my friend Mr. Nell to say something to you on the occasion of this, the ninetieth anniversary of the birth of the American Revolution, and that, too, in the face of my recorded opinion that that event was ushered in by the rashness of one of our ï¿½noble, but misguided ancestors.' If, under the circumstances, I should give you a little plain talk, differing somewhat from that which you have been accustomed to hear, on occasions like this, you need not be surprised. The times require us to speak out. I am free to confess, that the remembrance of the details of the event which we are assembled here to celebrate are, by no means, dear to me. I am not yet ready to idolize the actions of Crispus Attucks, who was a leader among those who resorted to forcible measures to create a new government which has used every means in its power to outrage and degrade his race and posterity, in order to oppress them more easily, and to render their condition more hopeless in this country.
I am free to confess that I have strong attachments here, in this my native country, and desire to see it prosperous and happy; yet, situated and outraged as I am, in common with a race whose lives have been one of toil to make this country what it is, I would deny the manly promptings of my own soul, if I should not say that American liberty is a word which has no charms for me. It is a name without meaning-a shadow without substance, which retains not even so much as the ghost of the original.
The only events in the history of this country which I think deserve to be commemorated, are the organization of the Anti-Slavery Society and the insurrections of Nat Turner and John Brown. (Applause.)
I believe in insurrections (applause)-and especially those of the pen and of the sword. Wm. Lloyd Garrison is, I think, a perfect embodiment of the moral insurrection of thought, which is continually teaching the people of this country that unjust laws and compacts made by fathers are not binding upon their sons, and that the 'higher law' of God, which we are bound to execute, teaches us to do unto others as we would have them do unto us. William H. Seward, (the most prominent Republican candidate for the Presidency,) who has been a 'Helper' in speeding on the 'irrepressible conflict' between freedom and slavery, has suddenly lowered his moral standard, and dwindled from a great statesman to a cunning politician. I agree with Le Courier des Etats Unis, that 'his recent speech has disappointed both his friends and his foes:-the former he has deceived, and the latter are authorized to look upon it as a snare.' Chicago and the Presidency have done this. But when the crisis is passed, I think you will agree with me, that while he has sinned, he has not wholly fallen from grace.
John Brown was, and is, the representative of that potent power, the sword, which proposes to settle at once the relation between master and slave-peaceably if it can, forcibly if it must. This is, no doubt, the method by which the freedom of the blacks will be brought about in this country. It is a severe method; but to severe ills it is necessary to apply severe remedies. Slavery has taken up the sword, and it is but just that it should perish by it. (Applause.) The John Brown of the second Revolution, is but the Crispus Attucks of the first. A few years hence, and this assertion will be a matter of history.
Crispus Attucks was a brave man, and he fought with our fathers in a good cause; but they were not victorious. They fought for liberty, but they got slavery. The white man was benefitted, but the black man was injured. I do not envy the white Americans the little liberty which they enjoy. It is their right, and they ought to have it. I wish them success, though I do not think they deserve it. I desire to see all men enjoy freedom and prosperity. (Applause.) But by this I do not mean to imply, that, should our country be again situated as it was then, we would be willing to re-commit the errors of our Revolutionary fathers. The Scotch have a saying, ï¿½When a man deceives me once, shame on him; but when he deceives me twice, shame on me.ï¿½
I see one thing in celebrating this day, which it would be well not to overlook, and that is, Crispus Attucks has demonstrated to us that insurrections, when properly planned, may lead to successful revolutions.
If the present aspect of things is an index to the future, then, indeed, our prospects are gloomy. Of the two great political parties in this country, one is openly hostile to us, and seeks to reduce us to the position of beasts of burden; and the other has evidently but little sympathy for us, only as we may serve to advance its interests. The only class who avow themselves openly as the friends of the black man are the Abolitionists; and it would be well for the colored people to remember this fact. (Applause.) I do not wish to be understood as saying, that we have no friends in the Republican party, for I know that we have. But the most of those who sacrifice for our cause are among the Abolitionists. Next to them I place the Republicans, many of whom I have found more practically interested in our welfare, than the rank and file of the Abolitionists. But I place no one before the leading Abolitionists in this country-they who have spoken for the dumb, and who have braved the storms in their fury. In this connection, I must not omit Gerrit Smith, (applause,) the leader of the Liberty party, who is one of the most liberal and disinterested of nature's noblemen. He has done more for our race, pecuniarily, than any other man-in this country. May a kind Providence preserve him! (Applause.)
It is the Anti-Slavery men and women, who have made our cause a holy thing. I always feel proud of my humanity, after an interview with any one of them. In the language of Moore, I can say:-
ï¿½Oh, there are looks and tones that dart
An instant sunshine through the heart;
As if the soul that minute caught
Some treasure it through life had sought.'
The position of the colored man to-day, is a trying one; trying, because the whole country has entered into a conspiracy to crush him; and it is against this mighty power that he is forced to contend. Some persons think we are oppressed only in the South: this is a mistake. We are oppressed everywhere on this slavery-cursed land. To be sure, we are seldom insulted here by the vulgar passers by. We have the right of suffrage. The free schools are open to our children, and from them have come forth young men who have finished their studies elsewhere, who speak two or three languages, and are capable of filling any post of profit and honor. But there is no field for these men. Their education only makes them suffer the more keenly. The educated colored man meets, on the one hand, the embittered prejudices of the whites, and on the other the jealousies of his own race. Perhaps you may think that there are exceptions. This is true; but there are not enough of them in the whole United States to sustain, properly, a half dozen educated colored men. The colored man who educates his son, educates him to suffer. When La Martine said to an Arminian chief at Damascus, ï¿½You should send your son to Europe, and give him that education you regret the want of yourself,ï¿½ the Arminian answered, ï¿½Alas! what service should I render to my son, if I were to raise him above the age and the country in which he is destined to live? What would he do at Damascus, on returning thither with the information, the manners, and the taste for liberty, he has acquired in Europe? If one must be a slave, it is better never to have known anything but slavery. Won to the men who precede their times: their times crush them.ï¿½ And woe to the black man who is educated: there is no field for him.
The other day, when a man who makes loud antislavery <illegible>, and who has the reputation of
<c06>
being the friend of the blacks, had it in his power to advance the interests of a colored man, and was asked to do so, he said, ï¿½Colored men have no business to aspire-the time has not come'! This gentleman no doubt regrets that he did not originate the ideas that ï¿½black men have no rights that white men are bound to respect,ï¿½ and that ï¿½a white skin is the only legitimate object of ambition.ï¿½ He has new only to sigh for ï¿½a plantation well stocked with healthy negroes,ï¿½ and his cup of pleasure will be full. Some men are ruined by success. I remember very well that about five years ago, he was an active laborer with us, and I am certain he did not say, ï¿½the time has not come,ï¿½ when he asked us to elect him to the Legislature. (Applause.)
No where in the United States is the colored man of talent appreciated. Even here in Boston, which has a great reputation for being anti-slavery, he is by no means treated like other talented men. Some persons think that because we have the right to vote, and enjoy the privilege of being squeezed up in an omnibus, and stared out of a seat in a horse-car, that there is less prejudice here than there is farther South. In some respects this is true, and in others it is not true. For instance, it is five times as bard to get a house in a good location in Boston as it is in Philadelphia, and it is ten times as difficult for a colored mechanic to get work here as it is in Charleston, where the prejudice is supposed to be very bitter against the free colored man. Colored men in business here receive more respect and less patronage than in any other place that I know of. In this city, we are proscribed in some of the eating houses, many of the hotels, and all the theatres but one. Boston, though anti-slavery and progressive, supports, in addition to these places, two places of amusement, the sole object of which is to caricature us, and to perpetuate the existing prejudices against us! I now ask you, is Boston anti-slavery? Are not the very places that proscribe us sustained by anti-slavery patronage? Do not our liberal anti-slavery politicians dine at the Revere House, sup at the Parker House, and take their creams and jellies at Copelandï¿½s? We have several friends, (whose tested anti-slavery is like gold tried in the fire, which comes out purer every time it is tried,) who speak occasionally upon platforms that are claimed to be anti-slavery, and which are dependent upon their eloquence for support, which have, up to this time, refused to give any colored man a hearing. The Boston Theatre, an institution which has been fighting death ever since it came into existence, could not survive a single year without anti-slavery patronage!
The friends of slavery are everywhere withdrawing their patronage from us, and trying to starve us out by refusing us employment even as menials. Fifteen or twenty years ago, colored men had more than an equal chance in menial employments; today, we are crowded out of almost everything, and we do not even get the patronage of our professed friends. The colored stevedores who could once be found all along the wharves of Boston, may now be found only about Central wharf, where they meet with just encouragement enough to keep soul and body together. Such is the progress of the public sentiment and of humanity in Boston!
Last summer, a colored servant who was stopping at the Revere House with a gentleman from New York, was maltreated by the Irish servants. He told his employer, who made complaint to Mr. Stevens. Mr. Stevens replied, that he would not interfere in anything that his servants should do to any colored man-that if gentlemen travel with colored servants, they must expect to be insulted, and he would rather that such gentlemen would stop some where else. That is the idea-colored men have no right to earn an honest living-they must be starved out.
Fifteen or twenty years ago, a Catholic priest in Philadelphia said to the Irish people in that city, ï¿½You are all poor, and chiefly laborers; the blacks are poor laborers, many of the native whites are laborers; now, if you wish to succeed, you must do everything that they do, no matter how degrading, and do it for less than they can afford to do it for.ï¿½ The Irish adopted this plan; they lived on less than the Americans could live upon, and worked for less, and the result is, that nearly all the menial employments are monopolized by the Irish, who now get as good prices as anybody. There were other avenues open to American white men, and though they have suffered much, the chief support of the Irish has come from the places from which we have been crowded.
Now, while we are denied the humblest positions, is there anything higher opened to us? Who is taking our boys into their stores at a low salary, and giving them a chance to rise? Who is admitting them into their workshops or their counting-rooms? Who is encouraging those who have trades? With the exception of a handful of abolitionists and a few black Republicans, there are none. If a few more of those who claim to be our friends would patronize us when they can, and in this manner stimulate us to be industrious, they would render us infinitely more service than all of their ï¿½bunkumï¿½ speeches.
You can have but a faint idea of the charm their friendship would carry with it, if they would spend a dollar or two with us occasionally. It will not do to judge men by what they say. Many speak kindly of us when their hearts are far from us. Or, as Shakspeare has it,
ï¿½Words are easy like the wind,
Faithful friends are hard to find.ï¿½
This is our experience, and we have learned to appreciate the Spanish proverb, ï¿½He is my friend who grinds at my mill.ï¿½ In New England, we have many good mechanics, who get very little patronage. Indeed, a trade appears to be of but little service to any of us, unless we can, like the tailor of Campillo, afford to work for nothing, and find thread.
I hope that our friends will look at these things, and receive my remarks in the spirit in which they have been given. I do not mean to underrate the efforts of our friends, or to speak disparagingly of their labors; but I would discriminate between our real and our pretended friends. I differ, however, from many of our true friends, as to the means to be used to elevate our race. While I believe that anti-slavery speeches, whether political or otherwise, will do much to correct a cruel and wicked public sentiment, I am confident that such means alone can never elevated us. My opinion is, that the only way by which we the free colored people can be elevated is through our own exertions, encouraged by our friends. Every colored man who succeeds is so much added to the cause. We have nothing to stimulate our young men. They see many of us struggling hard, and not appreciated, and they become discouraged. The success of such a man as Mr. Martin is worth more to us than a pile of resolutions and speeches as high as Tremont Temple. (Applause.) All honor to Mr. Kalloch, who had the courage and the will to give him a hearing in his pulpit, where he could and did do credit to himself and his race (Applause.) I thank Mr. Kalloch and the immense congregation that assembles at his church every Sunday for the interest they have manifested in his welfare. I do this in behalf of a struggling people who seldom meet with such friends. Mr. Kalloch has done for Mr. Martin what the abolitionists have long been doing for others, and the enchanted audiences who have listened to the lively and witty speeches of Wm. Wells Brown, the inimitable mimicry and the pungent sarcasm of Frederick Douglass, and the burning eloquence of Charles Lenox Remond, must agree with us that the abolition idea of human rights is the correct one. (Applause.)
It is in this manner that we ask our friends to help us open those thoroughfares through which all others are encouraged to pass, and in this manner keep continually breathing into the Antislavery movement the breath of life. Then will we become educated
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and wealthy, and then the roughest looking colored man that you ever saw or ever will see will be pleasanter than the harmonies of Orpheus, and black will be a very pretty color. (Laughter.) It will make our jargon, wit: our words, oracles; flattery will then take the place of slander, and you will find no prejudice in the Yankee whatever. (Applause.)
The question whether freedom or slavery shall triumph in this country will no doubt be settled ere long, and settled in accordance with the eternal principles of justice. Whether the result is to be brought about by the gradual diffusion of an anti-slavery gospel, or the method introduced by Crispus Attucks, and seconded by John Brown, no one can tell. I hope it may be done peaceably; but if, as appears to be the case, there is no use in crying peace, then let us not shrink from the responsibility. My motto has always been, 'Better die freemenfreedom than live to be slaves.' In case of a contest with our enemies, fifty negroes would take the State of Virginia without the loss of a man. Gov. Wise, as a matter of course, would be the first to surrender. (Applause.) One thousand negroes would sweep the slave States from the Potomac to the Rio Grande, and the time and places that know the slaveholders now would shortly know them no more forever. It has been said that 'Virginia was frightened by seventeen men and a cow'; but, if I remember aright, Virginia, even when under arms, was frightened by a cow. (Laughter.) Verily, verily, I say unto you, the slaveholders are a base race of cowards. (Laughter and applause.) 
The slaveholders affect to despise the leaders of the Anti-Slavery cause, as you have a fair illustration in Gov. Wise's bombastic speech to the half-civilized southern medical students, who left Philadelphia for Philadelphia's good. But we too well know that it is common for men to affect disdain, when in reality their only sentiment is fear. Metellus ridiculed Sertorius, and called him 'fugitive' and 'outlaw'; and yet he offered for the head of this 'fugitive' and 'outlaw' no less than one hundred talents of silver, and twenty thousand acres of land! The barbarous offers of large sums of money by the slaveholders for the heads of prominent anti-slavery men prove that the latter are a power that is not disdained. All efforts, thus far, to crush the pioneers in our cause have proved the most miserable failures. Our cause is of God, and cannot be overthrown. (Applause.) Governor Wise, the distinguished Virginia knight-errant, after his imaginary victory of driving Wendell Phillips into Canada, might have quoted these lines from Homer:—
'I saw my shaft with aim unerring go,
And deemed it sent him to the shades below;
But still he lives; some angry god withstands,
Whose malice thwarts these unavailing hands.'
And when he commences his raid upon the North, he will find it exceedingly difficult to drive a windmill with a pair of bellows. (Laughter.)
Our cause is moving onward. The driving of the free colored people from the slave States, and the laws preventing their ingress into the free States, is only the tightening of the already stranded cord that binds the slave; and I am daily looking for some additional force to sever it, and thereby annihilate forever the relation existing between master and slave. (Applause.)
Mr. NELL next introduced WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON to the audience, who was received with the warmest demonstrations of applause. He paid a merited tribute to the memories of Crispus Attucks and Peter Salem, and other colored Americans who had freely shed their blood on every battle-field for American independence; and spoke of the atrocious injustice which had ever since been meted out to them. He examined some of the most plausible objections urged against the emancipation of the slaves, and showed them to be 'empty as the whistling wind.' He then passed to a review of the political parties, and the issues before the country, and concluded by uttering words of cheer to the colored people in view of the signs of the times.
Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN referred to the disparagement of Attucks by the tory press of the past and present day, as the usual treatment awarded to colored men, however meritorious. In his usual eloquent vein, he gave a graphic sketch from the history of Hayti, during her days of peril and suffering, and illustrated the heroism and diplomacy of her colored patriots by cogent examples; closing with a beautiful tribute to Crispus Attucks and John Brown.
[We regret not having a report of Mr. M's speech.] 
The following letter, not received in time to be read at the meeting, is inserted in place of Mr. Downing's anticipated speech:—
NEWPORT, March 3, 1860.
W. C. NELL., EsQ.:
DEAR SIR—I acknowledge the receipt of your invitation to attend the Attucks celebration at Boston, on the 5th inst. I have been cherishing the hope that I could be present; but I find it impossible. I would be with you, because it is an occasion of which I feel proud; proud, because it is to commemorate one, and a prominent one, of a number of incidents, in which colored Americans have played parts for liberty, which will cause their names to live. I might allude to many; I will mention Margaret Garner, who, when hotly pursued by ruthless slave-hunters, killed her little ones; calling upon her mother to assist her in sending their pure spirits to God, to make them really free, and not continue to breathe, and be slaves. Then the noble, nameless black hero of Tennessee: the slave who received seven hundred lashes, and died, refusing to disclose who his associates were, that were plotting for freedom. Then Leary, Copeland and Green, who risked and lost all, save immortal names, for liberty; and that liberty to be enjoyed by others.
As for the colored hero who is the subject of your celebration. I will leave him to the able array of speakers announced to speak; they will speak of him as his bright merits deserve.
I will allude to an idea, in connection with Crispus Attucks, which I would be proud to hear Wendell Phillips discourse upon. It is well known that, up to the 5th of March, 1770, there was a hesitancy and a dread felt by the Colonies' best friends, shared by Adams and others equally true to their interest, who hoped for concessions on the part of the mother country; this, though then deemed almost impossible, was nevertheless cherished. But the blow struck by Attucks; his bold defiance of all England; his intrepid leading on the populace, and the encounter—was the decisive blow that led to Independence. Had it not been then struck, there might have been delays; and delays, and some concessions following, resulting in a resolve to remain subjects of the mother country. And is it not possible that we might, in that event, now, like Canada, sustain such a relation to England? Then may we not say, that, but for the blow struck at the right time by a black man, the United States, with all that it of right and justice boasts, might not have been an independent republic?
May the moral blows now being struck for freedom by our friends, be as effectual in their consequences as were the blows struck by our forefathers, in so far as they struck off English shackles!
Yours, for the freedom for which Attucks died,
GEO. T. DOWNING.
The speakers were listened to with deep interest, and their remarks much applauded; while the music imparted great pleasure and satisfaction. At 10 o'clock, the audience separated; many, however, wending their way to the levee, where greetings of friends and social conversation wound up the ninetieth anniversary of the Boston massacre.
The Republican National Convention will not meet on the 13th of June, but on the 16th of May, the persistent efforts of the early-meeting men having succeeded in bringing about the change desired.
<c02>
WENDELL PHILLIPS-DEMOCRACY.
Extracts of a letter from a highly intelligent and respected colored citizen of Connecticut:-
NEW LONDON. Feb. 20, 1860.
WM. C. NELL, ESQ.—DEAR FRIEND—This city has been favored with a lecture from WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., on the 'Lost Arts.' and I echo the words of every one I have heard speak of it, (and those are not few,) that it was the best of the course of lyceum lectures that has been delivered here this season. Indeed, so great is the enthusiasm to hear him again, that he is to be invited to speak on any subject that he may choose. To me, who have always resided here, I consider it a significant move in the right quarter. John Brown's campaign has set white men to thinking, and the only thing that has brought it about is the fact that white men have been made to feel the crushing weight of slavery. Northern Democracy cannot save them. Here is a case in point, since the Brown invasion: Two young men (brothers) took letters from——, a noted Democrat of Woodstock, Ct., to Gov. Letcher of Virginia, stating that they were all right, i. e., 'sound on the goose' in regard to slavery. But, (mark this!) they were mechanics-carpenters-and, of course, 'had no rights that slaveholders were bound to respect'; consequently, they were watched in words and actions. One day, some of the butterfly troops of Virginia were on parade, and a remark was made by one of the brothers that they were a fine looking set of men! The other replied, Yes, they were; but twenty Yankees would drive them all into the swamp; which observation was overheard by a slaveholder, who instantly had the mob upon them, and they barely escaped with their lives, glad to get home to old Woodstock-changed in their views in regard to the peculiar institution and Democracy. For me, there is not much difference between a Democrat and a Republican; they are both unsound. The Republicans in this section are as much afraid of any thing dark as a booby would be in passing through the woods. They have to keep crying out about this country being free for the white man, just as the booby whistles going through the woods, and for the same reason, because they are afraid! It is no use to waste powder on the Democrats; the game is not worth it. A man, to be a Democrat now-a-days, must take an oath similar to what sailors used to when crossing the equinoctial line, that is, to go contrary to what they know to be their better nature. Thus they say, Slavery we go for, even if it enslaves us, our children, and their posterity.
My dear friend, you know we have no votes here, but we have tongues, and mean to use them. When white men ask me if I do not feel bad about slavery, and the wrong of it upon the colored people, I tell them the time has been when I thought it touched none but the colored man, but now I say, 'Weep not for me, but rather for yourselves and your children, and the evil that shall come upon you.' I tell them I have prayed that the white man might feel what the colored man felt in regard to slavery and they are feeling it; and, unless slavery is abolished within fifty years, white men will feel it shifted upon their own shoulders, for slavery grows whiter every day; and the whiter it grows, the dearer it grows.
Yours, truly,——.

AN EVENTFUL DAY AT SOUTH NATICK.
The last Sunday in February, Mr. Garrison had large and appreciating audiences, afternoon and evening, at South Natick meeting-house. He spoke upon 'Conscience,' and upon 'Anti-Slavery,' with his remarkable ability and persuasiveness. No wonder that his power is feared, and his name reviled, by pro-slavery advocates and apologists, by slaveholders and tyrants; for whoever hears him, becomes a believer in him and in his cause.
What made his lectures at South Natick the mere effectual and timely, was the disgraceful attempt of the Parish Committee to keep the church locked against the pastor, just closing his third year in the place. All through the fall and winter, eminent speakers have occupied the pnlpic, and edified good-sized audiences, and no objections were offered by the Parish Committee to such a wise and beneficent course; but on this occasion, owing mostly to the minister's sympathy with the working-men's strike, and in part to his carrying out his programme of lectures by having Mr. Garrison in the place, and, in fact, without giving any reasons, the Committee took it upon themselves to disturb the succession of Sunday services, by closing the church, and calling upon a constable to prevent any one's entering it. The pastor, with a few friends, did open the church, and make the fires, and the constable was not present till meeting time. A large delegation of working men attended church in the forenoon, with South Natick people, to listen to what proved to be the farewell sermon of the pastor; and in fact, three large and interesting meetings would have been lost, if the Comittee's orders had not been disregarded.
The readers of the Liberator know the position of the pastor, in all movements for the liberation of slaves, North and South, and will not be surprised, therefore, at some of his difficulties with the money power. He can now say that having Mr. Garrison with him on that eventful Sunday, has crowned his labors for South Natick, from which he can now depart in peace. W. G. B.
THE RIGHT WORD IN THE RIGHT PLACE; A New Pocket Dictionary and Reference Book; Embracing Extensive Collections of Synonyms, Technical Terms, Abbreviations, and Foreign Phrases: Chapters on Writing for the Press, Punctuation, and Proof-reading; and other interesting and Valuable Information. By the author of 'How to Write,' 'How to Talk,' etc. Price 50 cents.
This volume contains the essence of three or four heavy works, condensed into a size and form adapting it to the Desk or the Pocket, and afforded at a price which brings it within the reach of all. We hazard nothing in pronouncing it almost indispensable to the writer and speaker. It short, this work should be a universal pocket and desk companion. Sent by mail, to any address, on receipt of the price, by FOWLER AND WELLS, 308 Broadway, New York.
COLLEGE SONG BOOK. A Collection of American College Songs; with Piano-Forte Accompaniment. Compiled and arranged by C. Wistar Stevens, and dedicated to the Class of '60 of Harvard, and to all music-loving Students of American Colleges. Boston: Published by Russell & Tolman, 291 Washington street.
This volume is intended as a companion to College Words and Customs. It has been the Editor's aim to select nearly all the melodies of all Colleges which cultivate music. The whole number of songs here brought together is about sixty. It is neatly and handsomely executed, and no doubt will find a sale outside of the college precincts.
THE GUILT OF SLAVERY AND THE CRIME OF SLAVE HOLDING, demonstrated from the Hebrew and Greek Scriptures. By Rev. GEORGE B. CHEEVER, D. D., Pastor of the Church of the Puritans; author of 'Lectures on the Pilgrim's Progress,' 'Wanderings of a Pilgrim,' 'Windings of the' River of the Water of Life.' 'Voices of Nature,' 'Powers of the World to Come,' 'God against Slavery,' &c. Boston: John P. Jewett & Co., 20 Washington street. 1860. pp. 472.
Dr. Cheever has here met the pro-slavery arguments drawn from the Bible with consummate logical acumen, scholarly ability, and irresistible power. We commend this work to all who profess to revere the Scriptures; at the same time protesting against making the rights of man to depend upon any parchment whatever.
<c03>
MASSACRE OF INDIANS IN CALIFORNIA.
Heavy claims for fighting the Indians of California having recently been presented to the Legislature of that State for payment, a correspondent of the San Francisco Alta Californian gives a history of the operations of one of the military companies who wish to be paid for their services in exterminating the poor savages. The recital is a horrible one. It appears that a body of volunteers, under Lieut. Langley, known as the 'Pitt River Rangers,' organized for the protection of the valley, encamped last summer at Lockhart's Ferry, on Pitt river, where they commenced drinking and carousing. Here they formed the plan of attacking a tribe known as the Rolf Indians, a quiet and peaceable band. The company, which numbered twenty-one, arrived at the Indian camp at night, and commenced a furious attack. The camp was taken completely by surprise, as the Indians knew they were innocent of any depredations, and were confident of the kind feelings of the whites towards them. The greater part of the male Indians fled at the onset, and the inhuman white troop perpetrated a brutal massacre upon the squaws and children. The account says:—
'The attacking party rushed upon them, blowing out their brains, and splitting open their skulls with tomahawks. Little children in baskets, and even babes, had their heads smashed to pieces or cut open. Mothers and infants shared the common fate. The screams and cries of the victims were frightful to hear, but no supplications could avail to avert the work of devilish butchery. It will scarcely be credited that this horrible scene occurred in Christian California, within a few days' travel of the State capital. Humanity sickens at the thought. Many of the fugitives were chased and shot as they ran.—Where whole families had been butchered was indicated by heaps of bodies composed of the mother and her little ones. The children, scarcely able to run, toddled towards the squaws for protection, crying with fright, but were overtaken, slaughtered like wild animals, and thrown into piles. From under some haycocks, where some of them had taken refuge, they were dragged out and slain. One woman got into a pond-hole, where she hid herself under the grass, with her head above water, and concealed her pappoose on the bank in a basket. She was discovered and her head blown to pieces, the muzzle of the gun being placed against her skull, and the child was drowned in the pond. The ground was covered with blood, and the brushwood ranches, of which there were fifty or sixty, were filled with the dead bodies. Old decrepid squaws, young girls and infants, none were spared. Guns, knives and hatchets were used, but the favorite method appears to have been staving in the head with tomahawks. The blush of dawn shone upon this fearful spectacle, and still the massacre went on.
Some of these wretched creatures had lived with the very men who now struck them down. Thus they had become, in a measure, intimate with them, and had other claims than the common humanity which ought to actuate every breast. But even this relationship did not suffice to save them. One of the butchers named Lee, had been attended to, while sick almost to death, by the Indian women, who had shown him all the simple kindness inculcated by their rude ideas of charity and hospitality. The wretched beings looked around in their terror; some of them recognizing the man whose life they had saved, cried out-"Lee! Lee!" raising their hands towards him with gestures of supplication, but in vain. Lee was among the most infuriate of the party, and afterwards boasted of the number of skulls he had split open, and exhibited his tomahawk, hacked and broken in the dreadful work.'
It is stated that when the slaughter was over, more than sixty squaws and children were found dead on the field. The Indian huts were then set on fire, and the smell of burning flesh, the crackling of the flames, and clouds of smoke, marked the closing scene of the tragedy. The Indians crept down at night, and carried away a few of the remnants of the bodies, and continued to do so until the remains became so offensive and decomposed that they could not be removed. The rest were left a prey to the buzzards, and the bones lie bleaching there yet. Their murderers now claim pay of the California Legislature for the fiendish atrocities they perpetrated. This account of the affair is given by Mr. Lount, a resident of the Pitt river valley.—Boston Journal.'

JOHN BROWN IN HAYTI.
The John Brown excitement has not yet subsided in Hayti. Le progres says:—
'Not a town, not a village, not even a little hamlet, but should feel it a duty to co-operate actively in this great national work in proportion to its means. Shame and ignominy should be the portion of that Haytian who will not take his part in this contribution. We can find for him no word of stigma sufficiently bitter, cutting, and severe. Hasten, then, every one, to the subscription offices opened in every town, to honor the memory of John Brown and glorify our race. Ye poor, bring your mite; dread not an increase of your privations, for God will reward you an hundred fold. Ye rich, delay not! Listen to the impulses of your heart, and give abundantly. The more you give, the more will you honor your country, your race, and yourselves.
From the opposite shores of our harbor our fathers, the brave soldiers of 1804, are contemplating us. They are touched with joy and delight. They animate us by their voice and actions. The successful result of the subscription in favor of John Brown will be the glory of our country, and the resuscitation of the negro race; let us not forget it.'
Le Progres also contains an address to the 'Philanthropists of America,' in which special allusion is made to Albany, N. Y. in the following terms:—
'Citizens of Albany: The cannon you fired to commemorate the death of John Brown has re-echoed in the hearts of Haytians, and of the strangers of our land, and reverberates through our fields and cities. Your energetic protest against an act of barbarity does you the greatest honor, as it evidently proves that there exist in the American Republic courageous men devoted to the holy cause of the freedom of the blacks. Receive, then, the sincere thanks of the citizens of the Republic of Hayti, a republic that its enemies on another continent represent as always in ruin. Albanians, the Haytians are without prejudice; they receive, without hesitation, all who come to join them. It is by our conduct, and by that alone, that you can find arguments capable of refuting the assertions of those enemies of humanity who decry us.'

RIGHTS OF COLORED CITIZENS.
The Review of Gov. Banks' s Veto of the Revised Code, an account of the Enrolment of Colored Citizens in the Militia, an octavo pamphlet of 62 pages, by F. W. Bird, Esq., is a masterly examination of the whole course of reasoning and action which was found necessary in order to put a stigma on our fellow-citizens of African extraction. Mr. Bird, as probably most of our readers well know, was one of the original free soilers of 1848, and now is a Republican of the ultra class. He manfully accepts the consequences of his principles, and while fighting the slave power, admits the equality of the African race. Indeed, no honest man can deny these consequences, unless his mind happen to be horribly warped by long subserviency to that most detestable of all the forms of pride, the pride of race. If we cannot make up our mind to treat the colored man as our equal before the law, we are far from feeling sure that we have any moral right to object to anything the slaveholders may see fit to do with their 'people.' To break down slavery merely to create a low caste race, mere Pariahs, would be as little the part of benevolence as of wisdom. Hence, to exclude the colored race, by formal action, from the right to bear arms, the exercise of that right being one of the evidence of the existence of political equality, is condemnable alike by philosophy and by philanthropy. That any man should desire to bear arms in mimic war is to reasonable beings something so incomprehensible, that we are apt to underrate the grievance of which intelligent colored people complain. They feel it as an acquiescence in that view of their condition which leads, practically and logically, to the existence and perpetuation of slavery. It is to be regretted that Governor Banks should have felt called upon to take the view he took of the subject; but we are not disposed to call in question his intentions. Mr. Bird has stated, clearly and learnedly, the reasons why a different course might have been taken, and he has enlivened the discussion by the use of very pointed language. This 'Review' will be extensively read, embodying as it does the sentiments of thousands who do not feel called upon to protest under their own names. [John P. Jewett & Co., Publishers.]—Traveller.
HATRED TOWARDS THE NEGRO.—The New York Evening Post, in alluding to the recent action of the Legislatures of Maryland, Missouri, Kentucky, and Tennessee, in regard to expelling free negroes from these States, very truly states:—
No, these provisions are not the effects of a drunken frolic, but of malignant hate towards a race which has hitherto returned good for evil. There is too evident a determination to tear up the very foundation stones of the temple of Liberty; to outrage the moral sense of the human race; to afford a proof how rapidly it is possible for a whole people to degenerate from the principles with which they set out-to attribute the legislation to any influence short of the satanic.
<c04>
SLAVE TRADE BETWEEN THE STATES.
Mr. Charles Reemelin, of Ohio, is publishing in the Cincinnati Commercial notes of a Southern tour he is now making. Attached to the train he was on in Alabama, were two car loads of negroes, and Mr. R. writes:
We went forward to have a look at them, and a sight met my eye never to be forgotten. There were some 150 negroes, young and old, men, women and children, mothers of large families, some alone, some surrounded by their offspring. Their clothing was of the most motley character, and the gifts of fair white ladies of cast off bonnets and gowns, and of fine white gentlemen of worn out hats and coats, were there, to show that at parting there was some natural feeling. The negroes came, as the trader said, from Virginia and North Carolina, from which region and Tennessee 100.000 are taken South each year; at this time the emigration amounts to 3,000 a week. They were destined for the New Orleans slave market, where the trader expected to get $2 000 for every healthy, full grown negro. When I first entered the car, a foetid stench, like that of a menagerie of monkeys, made me doubt, for the first time in my life, that the sleeping bodies before me belonged to human beings, and had I not afterwards heard them talk, and seen them exhibit other attributes and propensities, my nose would have taken judgment by default. Some among them looked just as if imported from Africa. They were nearly naked, and seemed unable to reply to questions put to them. The conductor frankly admitted that negroes, whom he could not mistake to be slaves directly from Africa, did frequently come on their road; that 200 such came the week previous, and that 800 more were contracted for.
THE NEGRO EXODUS FROM MISSOURI.—The St. Louis Democrat states that the exodus of slaves from Missouri continues brisk as ever, and that there are sad incidents connected with this exodus, which detract greatly from the pleasure which is produced by the removal of the institution from Missouri-many a story of sorrow and of woe too deep for utterance. It says:
A steamer is now on her way from this place to Natchez, with a cargo of twenty-four slaves. On her previous trip she had forty-seven slaves on board. Our informant states that among these was a beautiful young girl of about 13, who, he learned, with astonishment and pity, was a slave, and as hopelessly in slavery as the blackest of her companions, all of whom were in charge of traders on their way to New Orleans. The girl was nearly white; her hair straight, her complexion blooming, and her shape and bearing, gentle and attractive. She is the daughter of a Missouri river merchant, whose well-known intention was to emancipate her; but he died, and his executors, or heirs, thought it would not do to bring up together any longer this girl and her whiter sister, the merchant's other daughter, therefore she has been sold away into the South.
Can men be still found in Missouri to say that slavery is an unalloyed blessing, when it brings in its train such evils as the above-so morally degrading and so offensive to humanity?
MANUMISSION OF A BEAUTIFUL SLAVE. A young female, of almost classic beauty, about eighteen years old. so nearly white that the tinge of African blood in her veins was scarcely preceptible, and perfect enough in form and feature to have served as a model for a Praxiteles or a Powers, was yesterday manumitted in the Probate Court by a well-known New Orleans merchant. Her countenance was beaming, expressive, intelligent, her dark eye brilliant, melting, and her general appearance quite spirituelle, owing partly to the worm of consumption that was evidently feeding on her cheek. She was elegantly attired, and in point of personal appearance would contrast favorably with most fashionable Fourth-street belles.—Cincinnati Enquirer.
THE SLAVE TRADE.—The New York Times has a correspondent on board the United States sloop-of-war Portsmouth, who writes as follows from St. Paul de Loando, Dec. 20:
'The few months' experience we have had on the const, has not altogether been thrown away. It has thoroughly convinced us that the whole slave coast is, we may say, lined with slavers, who are generally from New York, cleared from the Custom House, bringing all the appliances of the trade with them, and maneuvering about on the coast, under various pretences and disguises of legal traffic; particularly under that most specious blind-the obtaining palm oil -until the favorable moment having arrived, the cargo is shipped, and a few hours finds them out of danger, on their way to the West Indies.'
The Travernier was captured by a British cruiser, the Viper, and sent to St. Helena. When captured, she had on board six hundred slaves. Most of them were from eight to sixteen years old; some were women; all were naked. When visited by the officers of the Portsmouth, although the slaves were then in a better condition than when captured, some were dying, and nearly all were sick. The writer states that when opthalmia broke out among the miserable Africans, every new case was thrown overboard, under the supposition that the disease is contagious.
THE NON-INTERCOURSE BUGBEAR.—The following communication in a recent number of the Alexandria (Va.) Gazette, shows what a bugbear the cry of non-intercourse is, which some people are trying to use for political ends. The writer asks:—
'Will any well-informed and intelligent citizen of this State who has turned his attention to the subject, inform the public what has been the actual result of the high falutin, rushing, rearing, prancing and pitching resolutions about non-intercourse, domestic manufactures, buying at home, encouraging Virginia cities, employing Virginia mechanics, &c, &c, passed lately, not only in this city, but in nearly every town and county in the Commonwealth? I was in New York and Philadelphia last week and had some opportunities of knowing, and am firmly of the opinion that more goods of all kinds have been sold in both places to Southern markets than was ever before the case. Southern merchants and Southern people, despite of everything done and said, will buy where they think they can get the best assortment and purchase at the cheapest rates. They are mistaken frequently about the cheapest rates. But what merchant has yet stopped going to the North? How can they?
LINSEY WOOLSEY.'
The Alabama House of Representatives has passed a fiery preamble and resolution, declaring that it now becomes the duty and interest of Alabama, and all other slaveholding States, to cease commercial intercourse with the Northern States of the Union; and to effect this object, they recommend the people to hold meetings in every county and neighborhood, and resolve not to buy any article of merchandise or manufacture obtained in the Northern States, or procured through any Northern firm or agency.
IT WAS A SCENE.—We have been troubled to give a proper name to the act of brutality exhibited at Washington by Brooks' murderous attack upon the unarmed sumner. and the later cowardly assault by Edmundson, of Virginia, upon the invalid Hickman, of Pennsylvania, but Vice President Breckinridge has solved the difficulty. In a late card published by that gentleman, relative to the affair, he says:
I happened to witness the difficulty between those two gentlemen. It was not a fight-it was a scene.' Clev. Herald. 
The 'Southern Conference' scheme was defeated in Virginia, although nearly all the Democratic papers, and both the aspirants for the Presidency, Wise and. Hunter, favored it strongly. The Richmond. Whig says:
'Virginia still occupies her ancient proud position of perfect independence and unsuspected loyalty to the Constitution and the Union-and there let her stand beside an overwhelming majority of her Southern sisters, allowing South Carolina, Alabama and Mississippi to go out of the Union in a blaze of glory, if they choose. But they will not choose, and there will be an end to the whole matter.
The porter of the steamship Marion, named Francis Mitchell, has been tried at Charleston, S. C, for aiding a slave in trying to escape, was found guilty and sentenced to be hanged! As a sort of companion to this, a grand juror sitting in the county court at Charlotte, N. C.—a Mr. Francis Davis-was, on the 26th of January, on motion of solicitor D. B. Rea, expelled from the jury for expressing sentiments in opposition to the institution of slavery. He was subsequently arrested, thrown into prison, and a thousand dollars bail demanded for his appearance at the next sitting of the Supreme Court! Austria is a paradise compared to such instances of American inhumanity.
SLAVEHOLDERS SHOULD LOVE THEM-The New York Journal of Commerce (Democratic slaveholders’ organ) says that the efforts of Northern anti-slavery men have completely tied the hands and silenced the tongues of anti-slavery men at the South, and have postponed the final extinction of slavery at least half a century. If this be so, the slaveholders ought to change their anathamas upon anti-slavery men into blessings. But who believes that it is so?
<c05>
CLEVELAND, (O.) Friday, March 9, 1860.
GOV. Letcher of Virginia has made a requisition on Gov. Dennison of this State for the arrest of Owen Brown and Francis J, Meriam, two of the Harper's Ferry insurgents who are now or hare been in Ashtabula County. Indictments were found against them in Jefferson County, Va. United States Marshal Johnson on the 5th inst. delivered the paper to Gov. Dennison, who, in a letter dated the 8th inst., declines issuing warrants, and states that the reasons for this conclusion have been communicated to Gov. Letcher.
SYRACUSE, March 8th.—A man named Tucker died this morning, from the effects of poison, having previously killed his two young children the same way. The cause for the suicide and murder was the estrangement of his wife, and her intimacy with Dr. Searle, under the influence of 'free love' principles. There is much excitement here, and Searle has been locked up in the penitentiary, to protect him from the fury of the citizens.
Two of the boys run over by the express train, near Buffalo, were from Boston, named Clemens. James was killed; William had his arm torn from his body, and it is feared he will not live.
Ship Luna, from Havre, bound to New Orleans, was wrecked on the French coast, near Cherbourg. She had on board 88 passengers, and a crew of 22 persons, of whom only two men were saved, names unknown. The ship was a total loss.
Speaking of Wendell Phillips, Cassius M. Clay says:—'He is the greatest man that I ever listened to-I speak of his intellect. One idea as he is called, there is a power and a versatility and universality in him that is possessed by no other orator, living or dead. That is my opinion.'
THE WISCONSIN RESCUE CASE, AGAIN. Milwaukee, March 2.—Sherman M. Booth was yesterday rearrested by the United States Marshal, on the Glover rescue case. Should our State Supreme Court issue a habeas corpus as before, the writ will be resisted by the United States authorities, and the question tested as to the power of the State court over the U. S. court.
The Virginia Commissioners appointed to audit the expenses incurred at Harper's Ferry report the total amount at $ 185,667 06.
Last Saturday, the atmosphere at Newport was such that people within the city saw distinctly, with the naked eye, Block Island, thirty miles distant. So clearly could this be done, that the slope of the hills and color of the sand were traced. By the aid of a glass, the people moving about were seen.
Senator Sumner sends to the New York Tribune one of Macaulay's articles on slavery, never before published in this country, accompanying it with some remarks on the subject of the article and its writer.
Hon. J. R. Giddings writes to the New York Evening Post, saying in substance that he finds the Republicans, in eleven States through which he has recently travelled, are opposed to taking a Presidential candidate from outside the party, and that he himself thinks it would neither be right nor politic to do so.
The democratic bill to banish free negroes failed to pass, but an act graciously allowing free negroes the blessed privilege of choosing masters and becoming slaves, is recorded among the enlightened statutes of the sovereign State of Alabama. 'Will you walk into my paror,' says the spider, &c.
NEW SERIES OF ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.
We announce with much pleasure the issue of three new and valuable Anti-Slavery Tracts. They consist of the freshest and most interesting matter, and we invite to them the attention of all our readers. As they are to be sold at the simple cost, (or less,) we hope that orders for them will be numerous. The series is to be continued, from time to time. The three already published are as follows:—
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. 28 pp.
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished  individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. 24 pp.
No. 8. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. 36 pp.
Price of the first two of the above, five cents single; 50 cts. the dozen: $3 50 the hundred. Of No. 3, six cts. single; 60 cents the dozen; $4 the hundred.
To be had at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beek-man street, New York; 107 North Fifth street, Philadelphia; and 21 Cornhill, Boston.
The AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY has also just published, in a neat pamphlet form, the able and eloquent speech of THEODORE TILTON, Esq., of New York, in reply to Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, on the American Board of Foreign Missions. Orders for these should be sent to the Secretary's Office, No. 5 Beekman street, New York. Price, three cents single; $2 50 per hundred.

READ THIS.
The subscriber can now furnish copies of the Photograph of LYDIA MARIA CHILD, with autographic fac simile, executed by Ormsbee, at the low price of 50 cents. Also, the few remaining Lithographs of JOHN BROWN, at $1.00 each; and will receive orders for the handsome Colored Engraving, 20 by 28 inches, of the BOSTON MASSACRE-on sheet, $1.50; gilt frame, $3.50. As the stone on which this design was drawn has been accidentally destroyed, this is a rare chance for purchasing, as the stock on hand is very limited.
All the above will be mailed safely without additional cost. WILLIAM C. NELL,
Boston, March 12, 1860. 21 Cornhill.
CASSELL'S ILLUSTRATED FAMILY BIBLE. We have received from the publishers, Messrs. Cassell, Petter & Galpin, 37 Park Row, New York, the first number of this splendid Work, which our exchanges are continually praising. It is published in semi-monthly parts, and so cheap that it can come within the reach of all-the price being only 15 cents per number. The present number contains no less than 32 engravings, illustrative of Natural History, Geography, &c, and the printing and quality of paper are excellent. This work, when complete, will form one of the most magnificent copies of the Scriptures ever published in this or any other country.
The following are the contents of the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER for March:—I. Womanhood. II. The Liberal Religious Movement in the United States. III. The Book of Job. IV. Robert Burton. V. Dr. Bellows and the Pulpit. VI. Dr. Huntington on the Trinity. VII. The Heart of the Andes. VIII. Review of Current Literature. New Publications received. A very able and interesting number. The Examiner is worthy of the widest circulation.
THE MILITIA LAW. The amendment to the Militia Law of Massachusetts, striking out therefrom the invidious, unconstitutional and absurd word 'WHITE,' which passed the Senate, last week, by a very large majority, was adopted by the House of Representatives, on Tuesday, on the passage of the bill to its third reading, by a vote of 105 to 97. Further particulars, with a list of the Yeas and Nays, next week.
SENT TO PRISON. Last week, THADDEUS HYATT, Esq., of New York, appeared before the bar of the U. S. Senate, and read to that body a long and elaborate protest in defence of his refusal to appear before the Harper's Ferry Inquisitorial Committee as a witness, placing it on constitutional grounds. He was subsequently committed to jail, and must remain there until a venomous pro-slavery majority of that body shall see fit to release him!
SAVAGE VINDICTIVENESS. This day-Friday, March 16-Virginia will strangle upon the gallows two more of the brave associates of John Brown-STEVENS and HAZLETT-the slaughter of fifteen of them at Harper's Ferry, and the previous hanging of four others, only whetting, instead of appeasing, her appetite for human blood! But a day of reckoning is coming. It will be seen that a commemorative meeting is to be held this day and evening at the Meionson in this city. Let the hall be crowded.
<c06>
FRIDAY, THE 16th OF MARCH. 1860.
THE MARTYRDOM OF STEVENS AND HAZLETT.
Let the day and the event be duly observed. The friends of freedom in Boston and vicinity will hold a public meeting in the evening, at the MEIONAON, at half-past 7 o'clock, for this purpose.
Dr. JOHN DOY and JOSEPH GARDENER of Kansas,—the former who was rescued from the Missouri ruffians by the latter and his brave associates-also, R. J. HINTON, of Kansas, and WM. LLOYD GARRISON, STEPHEN S. FOSTER, T. W. HIGGINSON, and other speakers, will be present.
A meeting will be held for consultation and a free interchange of sentiment, at the same place, at 10 o'clock, A. M., to which all who desire the overthrow of slavery, by all suitable means, are cordially invited.
WM. WELLS BROWN will lecture as follows:—
Northampton, Wednesday, March 28.
Florence, Thursday, " 29.
Haydenville, Friday, " 30.
Cummington, Sunday. April 1.
RALPH WALDO EMERSON will address the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society (Rev. Theodore Parker's) at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon, March 18.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Worcester on Sunday next, forenoon and afternoon.
DIED-In this city, March 12th, MARGARET B. KEY, aged 75 years and eleven months. She was grand-daughter of the ensign of the colored military company to whom Gov. Hancock presented a flag, at the close of the Revolutionary war.
Funeral services were conducted at Christ Church, of which she was a member. Her remains were deposited at Mount Auburn.
In Dorehester, Dec. 10, at the residence of D. B. Stedman, Esq., BETSY THORNTON, colored, aged 101 years.
In Brighton, March 13, CHARLES WILLIAM, son of John M. and Lucretia Hilton Lenox, aged 2 months and 13 days.

DR. CHEEVER'S GREAT WORK
The Guilt of Slavery,
AND THE
CRIME OF SLAVEHOLDING,
DEMONSTRATED FROM THE HEBREW AND GREEK SCRIPTURES.
BY REV. GEO. B. CHEEVER, D. D.
THIS work embraces an examination of all the passages in the Bible on the subject of Slavery and Slaveholding as a sin against God and man. It contains a thorough analysis of the Mosaic laws of domestic service, as well as of tributary subjection; and of the national history in illustration of the laws. The learned author has spent years of research upon this work, and it is without doubt the ablest effort of his life, and the most thorough demolition of all pro-slavery arguments, based upon the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments.
PRICE, $1 25.
JOHN P. JEWETT AND COMPANY,
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
March 9. 6wis
Mrs. Lydia Maria Child's
LIFE OF
ISAAC T. HOPPER,
THE DISTINGUISHED QUAKER PHILANTHROPIST,
IS one of the most intensely interesting and useful biographics of MODERN TIMES. 
His was emphatically
'A TRUE LIFE.'
A NEW EDITION.
THE TWELFTH THOUSAND
Is just published. No library is complete without the record of this TRUE LIFE-a life spent in deeds of the most active philanthropy and benevolence.
PRICE, $1 25.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
March 9. imis

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET.
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVER, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Walton’s, Velvets, beat qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
SUFFOLK. To the next of kin, and alt other persons interested in the person of ELLEN STARR, of Boston, in said county, a minor.
WHEREAS, application has been made to me by LEWIS HOWARD, and NANCY HOWARD, wife of said Lewis, of said Boston, to adopt said minor; you are hereby cited to appear at a Probate Court, to be held at said Boston, on Monday, the nineteenth day of March next, at 10 o'clock, before noon, to show cause, if any you have, against granting the same.
They, the said Lewis and Nancy, are hereby directed to give public notice thereof three weeks successively in the newspaper called the Liberator printed in said Boston.
Given under my hand, this twenty-seventh day of February, in the year one thousand sight hundred and sixty. ISAAC AMES.
judge of Probate and Insolvancy.

PHRENOLOGY.
BY urgent request, Prof. N. WHEELER, well known as a scientific and truthful Phrenologist, has opened rooms at 99 Court street, corner of Hanover, Boston, where he will make Phranological Examinations, give written delineations of Character, and furnish Charts; heal the sick, impart instructions relative to health and habits, and the management of children.
March 4. tf
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
From the Atlantic Monthly for March.
TO THE MUSE.
BY R. W. EMERSON.
Whither? albeit I follow fast,
In all life's circuit I but find
Not where thou art, but where thou wast,
Fleet Beckoner, more shy than wind!
I haunt the pine-dark solitudes,
With soft, brown silence carpeted.
And think to snare thee in the woods:
Peace I o'ertake, but thou art fled!
I find the rock where thou didst rest,
The moss thy skimming foot hath prest;
All Nature with thy parting thrills,
Like branches after birds new-flown,
Thy passage hill and hollow fills
With hints of virtue not their own;
In dimples still the water slips
Where thou hast dipped thy finger-tips;
Just, just beyond, forever burn 
Gleams of a grace without return;
Upon thy shade I plant my foot,
And through my frame strange raptures shoot;
All of thee but thyself I grasp;
I seem to fold thy luring shape,
And vague air to my bosom clasp,
Thou lithe, perpetual Escape!
One mask, and then another drops,
And thou art secret as before.
Sometimes with flooded ear I list,
And hear thee, wondrous organist,
Through mighty continental stops,
A thunder of strange music pour:-
Through pipes of earth and air and stone
Thy inspiration deep is blown;
Through mountains, forests, open downs,
Lakes, railroads, pariries, states and towns,
Thy gathering fugue goes rolling on,
From Maine to utmost Oregon;
The factory-wheels a rhythmus hum;
From brawling parties concords come;—
All this I hear, or seem to hear;
But when, enchanted, I draw near
To fix in notes the various theme,
Life seems a whiff of kitchen-steam,
History a Swiss street-singer's thrum,
And I, that would have fashioned words
To mate that music's rich accords,
By rash approaches startle thee,
Thou mutablest Perversity!
The world drones on its old tum-tum,
But thou hast slipt from it and me,
And all thine organ-pipes left dumb.
Not wearied yet, I still must seek,
And hope for luck next day, next week.
I go to see the great man ride,
Ship-like, the swelling human tide
That floods to bear him into port,
Trophied from senate-hall or court:
Thy magnetism, I feel it there,
Thy rhythmic presence fleet and rare,
Making the mob a moment fine
With glimpses of their own Divine,
As in their demigod they see
Their swart ideal soaring free;
'Tis thou that bear'st the fire about,
Which, like the springing of a mine,
Sends up to heaven the street-long shout:
Full well I know that thou wast here;
That was thy breath that thrilled mine ear;
But vainly, in the stress and whirl,
I dive for thee, the moment's pearl.
Through every shape thou well canst run,
Proteus, 'twixt rise and set of sun,
Well pleased with logger camps in Maine,
As where Milan's pale Duomo lies
A stranded glacier on the plain,
Its peaks and pinnacles of ice
Melted in many a quaint device,
And sees, across the city's din,
Afar its silent Alpine kin;
I track thee over carpets deep
To Wealth's and beauty's inmost keep;
Across the sand of bar-room floors,
'Mid the stale reek of boosing boors;
Where drowse the hayfield's fragrant heats,
Or the flail-heart of Autumn beats;
I dog thee through the market's throngs,
To where the sea, with myriad, tongues,
Laps the green fringes of the pier,
And the tall ships, that eastward steer
Curtsy their farewells to the town,
O'er the curved distance lessening down;-
I follow all where for thy sake,-
Touch thy robe's hem, but ne'er o'ertake,-
Find where, scarce yet unmoving, lies,
Warm from thy limbs, their last disguise,-
But thou another mask hast donned,
And lurest still, just, just beyond!
But here a voice, I know not whence,
Thrills clearly through mine inward sense,
Sayipg, ' See where she sits at home,
While thou in search of her dost roam!
All summer long her ancient wheel
Whirls humming by the open door,
Or, when the hickory's social zeal
Sets the wide chimney in a roar,
Close-nested by the tinkling hearth,
It modulates the household mirth
With that sweet, serious undertone
Of Duty, music all her own;
Still, as of old, she sits and spins
Our hopes, our sorrows, and our sins;
With equal care she twines the fates
Of cottages and mighty states;
She spins the earth, the air, the sea,
The maiden's unschooled fancy free,
The boy's first love, the man's first grief,
The budding and the fall o' the leaf;
The piping west wind's snowy care
For her their cloudy fleeces spare,
Or from the thorns of evil times
She can glean, wool to twist her rhymes;
Morning and noon and eve supply
To her their fairest tints for dye,
But ever through her twirling thread
There spires one strand of warmest red.
Tinged from the homestead's genial heart,
The stamp and warrant of her art;
With this. Time's sickle she outwears,
And blunts the Sisters' baffled shears.
'Harass her not; thy heat and stir
The greater coyness breed in her:
Yet thou may'st find, ere Age's frost,
Thy long apprenticeship not lost,
Learning at last that Stygian Fate
Supplies for him that knows to wait.
The Muse is womanish, nor deigns
Her love to him who pules and plains;
With proud, averted face she stands
To him who wooes with empty hands.
Make thyself free of manhood's guild;
Pull down thy barns, and greater build;
The wood, the mountain, and the plain
Wave breast-deep with the poet's grain;
Pluck thou the sunset's fruit of gold,
Glean from the heavens and ocean old:
From fireside lone and trampling street
Let thy life garner daily wheat;
The epic of a man rehearse,
Be something better than thy verse,
Make thyself rich, and then the MUSE
Shall court thy precious interviews,
Shall take thy head upon her knee.
And such <illegible> lilt to thee,
That thou <illegible> the life-blood flow
From furthest stars to grass-blades low,
And find the Listener's science still
<illegible> the Singer's deepest skill!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
CRITICISM ON THE CREATOR.
A London paper (quoted by the New York Tri-bune) says of the historian Macaulay-
'A true friend of liberty, he preferred to deduce it from the immemorial practice of our ancient monarchy, instead of from the fallacious doctrines of natural right.'
This is not unlike what Rev. Nehemiah Adams says (p. 128) of his 'South-side View of Slavery,' viz:-
‘While it [the Constitution of the United States] remains, all our appeals to a higher law are fanaticism.'
The slaveholding that has prevailed in our nation ever since its national existence, and that is fast destroying all our rights by the boldness and extent of its usurpation, proves that we need a new Revolution. The currency of sentiments like the above, and the unblushing impudence with which they are put forth even by clergymen, those whom the people accept as competent teachers in morals and religion, show that we need a new Reformation. Are the statutes of men really better in themselves, and safer to be followed, than the laws of God? Are we to receive the ' traditions of the elders' as of supreme authority at the command of modern 'Reverends,' any more than of ancient 'Rabbis'? Yet South-side Adams is received in this community as a Christian minister; a large congregation assembles to hear his preaching, absurdly taking for granted that it is the preaching of the Gospel; ministers, even those who call themselves anti-slavery, fraternize with him as a minister of Christ; and all these stupidly admit and echo his assumption that the men who, in opposition to him, maintain God's laws as supreme, are infidels!-c. k. w.

THE PRODUCTS OF SLAVE LABOR.
To what extent are the consumers responsible for the system?
The consumer creates the demand. The demand does not create the supply. It is only one occasion of it. The other occasion, Deity (or Nature) creates. Many things would find a market at once, and in this sense are really demanded, but they never will be produced, because Deity, or Nature, has not produced the other occasion, or means, e. g., a ' perpetual motion,' and many other conceivable inventions.
A. consumes corn-so creates the demand. Deity creates the soil, climate, rain, sunshine-the other occasion. B. produces it. Let A. stop consuming, and B. will stop producing the same, if Deity withholds his part. Really, the means are the only essential occasion for the production; consequently, Deity is as responsible as A. for the corn which B. produces.
Deity does not compel B. to produce corn by slave labor, or to connect with its production any wrong. No more does A. who consumes it. The fraud or wrong in producing no more goes forward to the consumer than it goes back ward'to the means. The rain, and sunshine are more directly involved in the production, than is the consumption-and more essential. Deity or Nature is in fact a co-worker with the producer-with the slave.
Is 'God, who maketh his sun to shine on the evil and on the good, and sendeth his rain upon the just and upon the unjust,' a supporter of slavery-a party to all injustice? He is so, if the mere fact of consuming, and so furnishing an occasion for slave labor and fraud, makes one a supporter of slavery and a party to fraud. All natural means of producing may be as well used by free labor, and rightfully, as by slave labor, and fraudulently. So the market may be supplied by free and honest labor as well as other-wise. The mere fact of furnishing an occasion-an opportunity-a means, or even a temptation for a mean man to sin, does not involve one in the sin.
If nobody carried money, there would be no robbery. Is the carrier of money responsible for robbery? 'But the buyer of cotton knows that it is the product of slave labor.' So God, who waters and warms the soil with sun and rain, knows-if he knows anything-that he is making the labor profitable, and doing just as much to sustain it as the buyer.
Deity, nature, and man furnish the opportunities, the occasions-and each individual man is responsible for the use he makes of them-the blame rests with him. If I take the means God has given me, and wrongfully use them to supply the demand you create, when these means could be rightfully used, and that demand honestly supplied, the wrong rests upon me-I alone am responsible.
Again. I find an article harmless and useful in itself in the possession of another. I pay him his price, and take it with his full consent. I purchase his title, and if I know of no other just claimant, the article is mine rightfully. If I do know of another rightful claimant, but know that he is so situated that the property or the value of it can never go back to him, the article is still mine justly.
Suppose the article be cotton, produced by the labor of a slave, and rightfully belonging to him, but I find it actually possessed by another. I purchase his possession, and rightfully own all claim to it, except that of the slave. Now, the property cannot go back to him, nor can any pecuniary value; still it is his. What am I to do? Honestly get his consent, if possible. I can do this by laboring for his freedom, and in no other way. If I labor for his welfare, I have a right to assume that he consents to my using the products of his labor. I have a right to assume this, because it is not possible to get his personal verbal consent.
2d. Because the product cannot go back to his possession, and this is the only remuneration possible. But the cotton is not the article stolen from the slave. It is no more his than the corn produced by an unpaid hand belongs to that hand. Truly, every laborer has a claim upon the products of that labor till he is remunerated; but the products are not property, if he produced them in the service of another. The labor is what he is plundered of, not the products of that labor. He, who hires another, and does not pay him, steals only his labor, for this only he takes from him; but the slaveholder steals the person of the slave-steals his physical strength, and applies it to the production of cotton. The buyer of the cotton is no more responsible than the buyer of corn is responsible for the farmer's cheating his hired man out of the price of his labor which entered into the production of the corn.
Who that goes into a grocer's store and buys goods considers himself responsible for the unpaid rent of that store, or for the grocer's indebtedness to the producers of those articles? 
If I can just as conveniently patronize an honest man, it is my duty to do so, for the encouragement of honesty. But if I honestly, on my part, deal with a rascal, I do not become a partner to his rascality. He may take advantage of my patronage to continue his wrong, just as he takes advantage of the facilities nature affords; but I am not responsible; nor is nature. There can be no wrong inherent in any good, useful product. There can be no wrong in the honest and just purchase and possession of such product. Where, then, can there be wrong in an anti-slavery man honestly purchasing and using the product of slave labor? If this reasoning be true, there can be none in any sense, nor can such consumers be, in any sense, supporters of the slave system. But, if this reasoning be false, will not some one point it out? 
J. H. FOWLER, Cambridge.
TOOMES ON DURLLING. Senator Toombs says that 'the noblest death any man could die was death in a duel.'
<c03>
THE NON-RESISTANCE PRINCIPLE
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Your correspondence with friend Whittier, and your mutual recognition of non-resistance as an inviolable principle, remind me of a request I long ago intended to make, viz., that yourself or Mr. Whipple (who never fails to make things clear) would state the moral or the logical grounds of the non-resistance principle. I have read whatever I could find upon the subject, but never have found anything to me, conclusive, and therefore infer that I have missed the considerations which satisfy such minds as yours, and friend Whittier's, and Adin Ballou's, and C. K. W's.
Self-defence (including defence of our neighbors) seems to me not only a natural instinct, but a natural right-which may be regulated by self-imposed considerations of policy, or by social compact, but cannot rightfully be suppressed. Moral measures, so long as they serve effectually, are doubtless most proper. If we can persuade the robber and murderer to pass by and leave us unharmed, or if we can run away from them, and thus prevent mischief, it is well to do so. But if our own safety, or that of others, re quires other means of protection, involving danger or destruction to the aggressor, I know of no just restriction of our right to use them according to the apparent necessities of the occasion. The same power which gave me a tongue to persuade and legs to run away, gave me hands capable to fight, and, so far as I can see, gave me the right to use either of these three remedies against wrong, according to the exigencies, of each occasion.
But if it can be shown that it is morally wrong to use force for self-protection in any case, then my hands are debarred from a main resource, though my tongue and feet may still be left free. Or, if the inviolability of human life in all cases be admitted as a settled principle, then my right to use force is limited to such means as may not endanger the life of the assailant. But, until one or both those propositions be established, there is no limit to my right of defence, except my own views of expediency, or some compact to which I am a party.
Arguments or authority drawn from Scripture are not likely to dispose of this question. If either of the above two propositions is true, it can be sustained without Scripture help; and I am of the mind of Horace, 'Never to bring in a divinity for a purpose not absolutely necessary.'
Nor do I think that arguments drawn from the admitted abuse of force at all conclusive against the right to use it justly, but rather as favoring an opposite conclusion. If force is often used to overthrow right, the more need it should be used as far as possible to uphold it.
Nor is it sufficient to show that moral means may be more effectual than force. This would be rendering the question one of expediency, to be settled according to the exigencies of each particular case, which is, indeed, the very ground which I assume as true. I think that non-resistants, on principle, can only maintain their position either by proving the unlawfulness of all force in self-defence, or the inviolability of human life in all cases.
This question is of particular importance now. Since the Harper's Ferry event, the thoughts of people are taking a new direction in regard to duty. Notwithstanding Senator Wilson's and Senator Wade's disclaimers on behalf of the people of the free States, every man who mingles in common society knows that there is a vast amount of John Brown faith in the people. In the north part of Ohio, I can aver, from extensive personal knowledge and the testimony of others, that most anti-slavery men (including nearly all the real strength of the community,) are Brownonians, at least in sympathy and principle, and many are ready to become so in practice, when good opportunity offers. This prevailing feeling is even now tending to organization, and very likely, I think certainly, will culminate in action. It embraces a large proportion of men of strong moral principle, open to moral conviction. If you can show that their views in regard to the use of force are wrong, you will do much towards turning the tide which is now setting very strongly in a hostile direction. My own sympathies and faith tend that way, because it seems to me the way of duty. If you can show otherwise, I am, in any event,
Yours, for the right, and the right way to the right,
DANIEL MANN. 
Painesville, Ohio. 

RIGHT OF SUFFRAGE. 
In the legislative report of proceedings in the Senate, not long since, we find the following:
'Mr. Simmons, of Plymouth, from the Committee on the Judiciary, on petition of Lydia Emmereon and 49 others, demanding the right of suffrage to women, report that while the Committee assent to all the principles set forth in the petition, the Committee are constrained to ask to be discharged from the further consideration of the subject, until it appears that a majority of the women of the Commonwealth ask for the right of suffrage.' 
So George the Third might have said to the American colonists, claiming that representation and taxation should go hand in hand, that persons should not be sent to England to be tried for acts committed in this country, &c., &c.,- Gentlemen, I assent to all the principles contained in these propositions; you have been, and are, subject to great injustice and hardship; but until a majority of all the men in the colonies petition for relief, I shall not relax the stringency of my colonial administration. Most lame and impotent conclusion of the learned Committee on the Judiciary! Is this the course pursued with reference to other petitions? Does the legislature always wait until a majority of all persons interested in any proposed law have expressed their wish in its enactment?
We cannot see why, on the great principle of truth and justice, women are excluded from voting. They pay taxes on their property, just as men do. They are held to answer for the commission of crime, just as men are. Are women inferior to men in mental power and attainments, so that they may not be entrusted with the decision of political, civil, and social questions? Are they more selfish than men? The statement of these questions is enough. They require no answer. But, says an objector, 'They would be out of their sphere.' Who is to judge that this would be the result of the permission of suffrage to women? There is just about as much danger that any legislation can make men effeminate, as there is that women will, by admission to the elective franchise, become masculine. 
The exclusion of women from participation in making the laws by which they, equally with men, are governed, is a relic of the dark ages, when women were considered inferior in intellect to men, and fit only to occupy the post of slaves or playthings, and is preserved through prejudice, and a blind fear of innovation. Most women are less ready and familiar with the working of the political and civil machine, simply because a formidable 'No admittance,' has deprived them of the inducement and opportunity to become familiar with its movements.-Nantucket Mirror.
THE CALMUT is the name of a monthly of 32 pages, the first number of which is before us. It is issued by John Beeson, Indian Aid Office, No.55 Broadway, New York, and is furnished to subscribers at $1 year. The work is devoted to the interest of the Red Man, and we bid it God speed in its mission of mercy and its labor of love.
'Our land, once green as paradise, is hoary
E'en in its youth, with tyranny and crime;
Its soil with blood of Afric's sons is gory, 
Whose wrongs Eternity can tell-not Time;
The red man's woes shall tell the damning story, 
To be rehearsed in every age and clime.' 
-Ohio A. S. Bugle. 
Three brothers, named Bunker, residing near Des Moines, were hanged in the woods of Tama county, Iowa, recently, by a number of persons from whom they had stolen horses. It appears that a Mr. Small, member of the City Council of Des Moines, and Seaman, a constable of Des Moines, were the chief actors in this lawless deed of vengeance. Small and Seaman were arrested, but made their escape from the sheriff.
<c04>
From a Correspondent of the Portland Transcript. 
THE PEOPLE IN CONVENTION.
GREAT UNION SAVIN MEETIN IN HORNBY.
I do suppose, that of this ere blessed old country of ourn has bin onet on the very varge and pint of eternal smash since I fust wore trowsis, it has bin in that alarmin sitivation at least fifty times.
And toe the intent and end that honor may he gin whar honor is dew, I want it kept before the people as a everlastin rememhrence-perpetooal sevener and momentus moses-that in all cases whar the union has bin gin over when perlitical doctors elswhar have pronounced it in extremis mortar, an not likely toe live afore mornin-Hornby has always kum toe the rescue, an never failed to put the critter on its legs agin. 
When aour folks tirst hearn that Seward an Garrison had committed a reserecshun in Virginny and killed John Brown, and that the Ossy wattimies and niggers had tuke Harper's ferry bote, we was considerably struck I allaow, but we didn't lose aour presence of mind. It don't take longer to raise the spirit of '76 in aour people's buzzums than it duz to git up steam in your new fire engine. Thar's only one pesky nigger lives in our town. Let alone his bein a nigger, I deu spose he is bout as clever a ole critter as ever lived; but then, he's a posterity of Cain and Able, which slew aour fust parients with the jaw bone of an Ass, and consequently is agin both scripter an the Constitootion. Afore a hour had rolled away among the things as never was, we'd tore his haouse all to smithers, and the black cus hisself only escaped by leavin part of his skulp and wool enough for a pair of mittins in the hands of Zoorabable Peabody. Arter he had thus acted in accordance with the pervisions and compermises of the constitootion, we adjourned to meet agin into the meetinous the next nite, whar a meetin in on the state of the Union was appinted. 
When we went in, the meetin was organized and Peltiah Pettibones was goin it in a 2:40 speech. As the Deacon and I not only lickered but 'smiled,' and then tuk susthin, we only heered the pearoar-ration. 
'Over the sky-blew sirrulian vastness of the everlastin hill-tops,' says Peltiah, says he-'up from the Peelin ambiguities onspeekable koeruscation an ossillated permeatons of the howlin wilderness, borne on all the breezes that sweeps the eternal circumambiett, shrieked by every eagle as he rises from his prey and sores into boundless contiguity, I hear but one cry-Union!-union agin everything, naow, hereafter, henceforth and forever more! Amen!'
Perhaps there warnt no stompin when Peltiah sat down. Of course there warnt.
The committee on resolutions then kim in and reported the following, which was adopted syne dye:- 
1. Resolved, The day we celebrate-may its shadder never be less.
2. Resolved, That things has kim to a pooty pass and oughten so to be-so they oughtent. 
3. Resolved, That all abolitioners is reserectionists, and that hangin the hull lot would permote the interests of trade, and serve to make aour free instertootions a terror to the world.
4. Resolved, That Gov. Wise, in hanging old Seward and Garrison, is entitled to the ginerous sympathy of all who keep step with the Union.
'And if he wants the hornby Falanks,' the selick men be authorized to send that corpse on, ef they will go.
5. Resolved, That we recognize in aour Southern Brethren the trew Shiverly Paytriots and Paytriarks. That they rollers right and that we of the North is prone to wrong as the spark is to go up chimbly. That slavery was sot up in the covenant with Abram when he was caught in the bullrushes, and is therefore a sacred institootion. Long may it wave!
6. Resolved, Ef aour Southern Brethren don't think the foregoin strong enough, and will write about sich a one as they wants, we'll pass it. 
7. Resolved, That the Falanks remain underarms until further orders, with pour to arrest all niggers, Peddlers, book agents and aberlitionists found runnin at large agin the statoote, and that the town be considered under marshal law for the present.
Adjourned syne dye.
ETHAN SPIKE, Sec'y.

A SLAVE SELLS HIS OWN MASTER.
Matthew Hobson, (generally called 'Black Matt,' on account of the darkness of his complexion,) was well known by the inhabitants of the seaboard of Virginia, years ago, as a slave-dealer, and an accomplished ' breaker-in’of bad flesh. He once purchased a bright mulatto by the name of Sam, at a very low price, on account of his numerous bad qualities-such as thieving, lying, and drunkenness. Sam was intelligent, with all his faults-could read and write, and ape the airs of a most polished gentleman. He was so far removed, too, from the pure African, that he could scarcely be distinguished from a white man. On his becoming the property of the slave-dealer, he received several severe admonitions, in order that he might have a foretaste of the temper of his master. Secretly he vowed vengeance for these striking proofs of Matt's affections, and in a short time an opportunity offered to gratify that vengeance.
Matt made up his gang, and shipped them at Norfolk. The barque arrived safely at New Orleans, and was brought to the wharf. In order that Sam might bring a good price, he was togged off in fine clothes-calf-skin boots, a silk hat, and kid gloves. Matt thought by this external show to realize at least $1,500 for the mulatto, as the body servant of some rich planter. Sam was consequently allowed to go on shore, in order to show him off. He proceeded to the Alhambra, and there strutted about among the best of them. Hearing a portly gentleman remark that he wished to purchase a good body servant, he went up to him, and with an independent swagger, said:
'My dear sir, I have got just the boy that will suit you.'
'Ha!' rejoined the planter, ' I am glad to hear you say so, for I have been looking for one for several days. What do you ask for him?'
'Nine hundred dollars,' replied Sam, ' and cheap enough at that. He has every quality-can shave, dress hair, brush boots, and is, besides, polished in his manners. I could have got fifteen hundred dollars for him, but for one fault.'
'Ha!' ejaculated the planter; 'and pray, what kind of fault is that?'
'Why, sir, a ridiculous one. He imagines himself a white man.'
'A white man!' exclaimed the planter, laughing; 'that is a funny conceit, indeed; but I can soon cure him of that-I've had considerable experience in training and managing gentlemen of color.'
'Oh! sir,' continued Sam, 'there is but little doubt that he can be cured-though you may find some trouble at first.'
'Well, sir, you appear to be a gentleman,' said the planter, who was rather too anxious and confiding. 'I will take him on your recommendation. Where is he now?'
'On board the barque -,yonder, at the wharf; you can see him at any moment.'
Good!' exclaimed the planter; 'I am much pleased with your honesty and candor, and in order to save time-here are your nine hundred dollars-please give me a bill of sale.'
Sam got the clerk to draw up a bill of sale, signed the name of Samuel Hopkins, pocketed the money, and told the planter to ask the captain for Black Matt; he would himself be on board as soon as he had closed a bargain with another gentleman, who was desirous of purchasing one of his field hands.
The pursy planter made his way to the barque and demanded of the captain to see the boy Black Matt. The officer pointed to Matthew Hobson, who sat on the quarter deck, smoking his cigar, and superintending the debarkation of his slaves.
'Are you Black Matt, my fine fellow?' asked the planter, addressing the slave-merchant.
'Folks call me so to hum,' was the reply, 'but my name is Matthew Hobson. What do you want?'
'I'll tell you, Matt, what I want. I want you. You're a likely looking fellow, and will just suit me.'
'Look you here, stranger,' said Matt, firing up, 'maybe you don't know who you're speaking to.'
'Yes I do, though-you're my property; I bought you of your master; Samuel Hopkins, just now, and-'
'You bought me!' exclaimed Matt, standing up at full length before the planter; 'hell and the devil, sir-I'm a white man!'
'Come, come, now,' calmly said the fat man, 'it won't do -I know you-you can't humbug me with your conceits-I'll whip it out of you, sir-I'll teach you-'
Here Matt drew back, and aimed a blow at the ruddy nose of the planter, who seized him by the
<c05>
throat, and bellowed for the police. An officer happened to be on the levee-he at the instance of the planter seized the refractory slave, and bore him to the calaboose, where he remained until evidence could be procured, identifying him as a free-born, white citizen of the United States.
Sam, in the mean time, got on board a ship that was just weighing anchor for a European port, and has never been heard of since. Thus the rascal had his revenge-Matt lost his slave, and the 'green' fat gentleman his money.

BUGGING AN OVERSEER.
We will tell the tale 'as 't was told us,' by a jolly steamboat captain, at the theatre, a night or two since, substituting fictitious for real names: 
Down the Alabama river, in a country which we shall name Derby, lives an enormously rich and very clever young planter, who sometimes takes a grand frolic, and who, when whiskey is in his head, cuts up tricks and capers the most fantastical that ever were generated by a heated brain. His family. when he goes off, invariably send a with him a trusty ‘mustee’ servant, a stout fellow, who cares religiously for his master's welfare, at times when he can't look after it himself.
A week or two since our Eccentric-whom we shall call Hudgins-attended by 'Cub' his servant, started on a general frolic, being equipped with two bottles of the 'royal blood of France.' The twain travelled south-westwardly about fifty miles, into the county of Cumberland, (we'll say,) where Hudgins was unknown. Jogging along, they came to an overseer sitting on the top-rail of the fence of a cotton-field, overseer fashion, watching his hands, at some sort of work within. To stop, have a chat, and treat the overseer, was the first impulse of the Eccentric; and speedily all hands were growing merry over the superior Bourbon, in a corner of the fence. But, in an evil moment, an unhappy idea struck Hudgins. He would quiz the overseer, by making him believe that he, the Eccentric, was one of Brown's men, and ' Cub' a boy that he had stolen-so he would! And he did, in the most confidential manner, and with many injunctions of secresy, relate such a tale to the overseer, urging him to join. 
The astounded overseer stood a second or two with distended eyes and mouth, pale, silent, statuesque.
At length he shouted to one of his 'drivers' in the field: 'Ned, come here, and bring Big Peter and Jake.'
In a trice, three stout negroes jumped over the fence. Said the overseer-
'Harness that d-d white Abolitionist!' And immediately, upon giving the order, himself took hold of 'Cub,' and quickly had his hands tied behind his back-the boy knowing his place too well to resist.
Hudgins at first was taken by surprise, and his laugh began to grow wonderfully weak, as the negroes seized him. 
'Hold on, stand off, you d-d fools,' he said,' 'I was only bugging that squash-head there!'
'Tie him!' thundered the overseer; and they did tie him, and that in double quick time.
The overseer drew a long breath, as he surveyed his captives. Eccentric wished to explain the little joke, and told who he was, and what his object was -just to have some fun. The overseer didn't believe one word of it-not he! 
'Oh, d-n you,' said he to Hudgins, now a very pale man-'it's reasonable to s'pose you'd deny it when I wouldn't go in with you, you cussed white-livered scoundrel, that wants to make a free negro of yourself! But right off you go to Cumberland county jail. I've been watching just twenty-days for a man like you, and for fear the town folks 'll let you slip, I'll make the niggers hit you a hundred, before we start!' 
And right then and there that trusty guardian of another's property strung up Eccentric, and made one of the negroes 'draw him' one hundred times, with a keen-cracking driver's whip. The yells, groans and protestations of Eccentric were awful to hear. He swore he was ' sound on the goose.' 
'Yes!' said the overseer-' but you'll be a heap sounder when we've done with you down yonder at town!'
Mules were brought, and the horses of Hudgins and 'Cub' led away-and themselves mounted on the hybrids, and forthwith the resolute overseer trotted them, ten miles, to town, securely bound and watched by himself and a trusty negro, each armed with a double-barrel. Arrived, the Eccentric was safely jailed, amid the execrations of the populace, who wanted to tear him to pieces. 
A few hours only had elapsed, when Hudgins, now duly sobered and ashamed, contrived to communicate with a friend in town, who knew his family; and on a full explanation of the affair-and his doing the overseer the justice to say that he had only done his duty-he and 'Cub' were released from imprisonment. 
The overseer, on hearing the denouement, very foolishly ran off, fearing vengeance; but will, no doubt, return as soon as he gets over his fright, and learns how his conduct is viewed.
Moral. Never trifle with so grave a subject as tampering with slaves. A rope, instead of a whip, might be the reward of the joker.
THE BLIND NEGRO BOY PIANIST.-THE SINGULAR EFFECT OF HIS MUSIC UPON HIMSELF.
We have before alluded to the remarkable musical talent of the blind slave boy Tom, the property of a slaveholder in Savannah. The report of this boy's wonderful powers is thus confirmed by the Charleston Courier of January 24. The editor says:-
'He strikes the keys with all the confidence of one largely gifted with the musical faculty, or talent. His manipulation is most graceful; his touch is now exquisitely delicate, and then all the strength of his frail body is thrown into his hands, and he strikes the instrument with impassioned earnestness.
In his execution he not only reproduces the piece with perfect fidelity, giving every note its sound, but the style of the performer is likewise exactly imitated. Several of our most eminent musicians performed in Tom's hearing long and complex operatic pieces, and the Heaven-taught boy reproduced them without committing a single mistake. 
We might conclude that this boy's talent consisted in a remarkable development of the faculties of memory and imitation, did he confine himself to those compositions he learns by the ear. But he not only astonishes by the quickness with which he acquires a piece, no matter how long and difficult, but he improvises with readiness and fluency. On the occasion of which we speak, Tom was directed by his master to play an original piece, and he complied with cheerful readiness. He composed with all the ease and confidence that mark the fluent orator in the use of language.
These original compositions increase the wondering interest excited by the performance of this prodigy, and force us to look upon him as one possessed of that rare and strange gift termed genius.
We have alluded-to the exquisitely graceful touch of this lad; but what we have said concerning his manipulation gives no idea of this style and manner. For he has a style of his own, which is seen when improvising, and it is as brilliant as it is original and peculiar. But it is his manner and countenance that most profoundly impress. When not under the influence of sweet sounds, his face is devoid of life and expression. This is partly owing to blindness, but in far greater measure to imbecility. We see a boy with a decidedly African type of face-low, retreating forehead, the spreading nose and projecting upper lip, with every mark of idiocy, we see this awkward and stupid negro led to the 
piano stool. He takes his seat; but the first touch on the responsive keys shows us that his soul is made for melody. He sweeps his hands over the keys with the air of a master, and then we behold the inspiration manifesting itself in his countenances and movement till interest changes to awe, and we are dumb with astonishment. The melody penetrates his whole breast. An ecstatic influence flows from the keys into his fingers, and rolls like a tide through his veins, lighting up a fire in every nerve as it courses along. His head is thrown back; now it rests on one shoulder, then on the other, and again it falls upon his breast. A radiant light kindles on his blank face, and as we gase, wondering, the fashion of his countenance seems changed. It is absolutely beautiful. The divine ravishment increases every moment, and when he is thoroughly diffused with the inspiration of the melody, the muscles of his face twitch, and his upper teeth are pressed firmly upon his lower lip. A feeling of reverence steals over us as we behold this mysterious and sudden transformation.'-Chicago Dem.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING. AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGNLIST:-'My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A.Allen's Resterer,' No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once is three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRFTIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly as advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.'
Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22, 1855.
President J. L., EATON, LL., D., Union University,
Murfreesboro, Tennesser. 
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but not withstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible. THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY. WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz, PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK,
Editor 'Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.' 
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor 'Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N. Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c. 
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD,D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsomum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era,' Boston Mass.
'Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months put with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bold nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness,' Boston
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro’, Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. w. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye, I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,)Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati,Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement’, &c. 
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y. 
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful balck.' 
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Eropus, Ulster county, N. Y. 
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.' 
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.' 
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania. 
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.' 
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N.H. 
'We think very highly of your preparations and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
Rev. Mrs. E. S.ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburg, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually usirgusing Mrs. S. A. Allen's she writes to the 'American Baptist.'-'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen. 
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing tess than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell artical on which they make more profit than on these; alway NSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 871/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuins has 'Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Iuk to outside wrappers, and in Black Iuk to directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a criming offence. 
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD DEALER. 
Oct14 Iyeop 
