<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING, AT
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GERNRAL AGENT. TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance. Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS; if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to made, and all letters relating to the <illegible> concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are <illegible> to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, vix; WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUIRCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. JERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 53. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1769.
Selections.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN-GENERAL BANKS
Extract from a speech delivered by Major B. Rush Plumy, before the Free Colored Men of New Orleans,
at Economy Hall, on Monday evening, November 14, 1864;-
I esteem President Lincoln (loud applause) as the safest friend of the colored man, and as the safest friend of the white, because he is a friend of the colored. With & simple honesty of purpose that lifts him occasionally to the dignity of an inspiration, he is anticipating history upon this subject That be does much or little for us is not, to me, the wonder; but that he lives at all. Standing in the focus of civilization, with all the Past and all the Future converging upon him in the tremendous Present, is it not a marvel that he is not swept away? A tithe of his anxiety pressing; upon Pitt in the Peninsular war, sent the great statesman to the comb. In our own history, a single surge of the sea that breaks constantly upon President Lincoln hurried to their graves those tough old soldiers, Harrison and Taylor, hardened though they were in camps and habituated to command.
Probably, in addition to the strength that Mr. Lincoln draws from looking confidently through all the issues to the assured end, he is sometimes reprieved of care by his elastic and playful habit that summons mirthfulness to relieve other overloaded facilities in the commonwealth of the brain. Mr. Lincoln's stories-which, by the way, are usually significant- may be to him what the harp was to King David, or quoits to Chief Justice Marshall.
So much is sure, that his clear perception of the signs of the times, and his righteous use for the benefit of man of the vast power conferred upon him, will ensure to him an historic height, dwarfing all others in our annals, and without a rival in modern times.
Men of color! is it not safe to follow the indicated policy of such a man?
As a radical Abolitionist, I am satisfied with Mr. Lincoln.
Here in Louisiana, as an Abolitionist, I gave my almost efforts toward the election of Hon. Michael Halm (cheers) as the first free State Governor of restored Louisiana. 
Men said he was against the rights of the colored 
men. I knew that he accepted the conditions of the revolution, and was up to the issues of the time. He might not agree with me on all points, but he was safe to trust on the great question. He has not failed us.
The. Tribune of this city implies a censure of me, because, as an Abolitionist, I have accepted heartily the various orders of Major Gen. Banks respecting the colored man. (Cheering.)
I believe in the great ability of Gen. Banks, and in his steadiness of purpose to ensure justice to the colored man, for the sake of all men; justice to be attained by means so wise, that there will be no sliding back. I confess that I have not discovered in his orders, affecting colored people, any other spirit than that which he manifested in the Shenandoah Valley, when be lifted the little, weary colored girl to the carriage of the cannon, thus making the dread-arm of the Government the conveyance of the slave to freedom.
I came to this Department, opposed to what seemed to he the policy of Gen. Banks, in relation to the colored man. I have studied that policy carefully; have worked under it assiduously, watching it at every step of its progress. If I could discover in it any purpose or any tendency to injure the colored man, 1 should reject and denounce it.
I say to you, gentlemen, that, familiar as I am with all the obstacles, I do not know a public man in this country, who, in the face of so many practical 
difficulties as beset the negro question in this Department, would have accomplished so much as has been done by Gen. Banks.
We seem to forget that those orders of his, about which men differ so much, have had not only the approval of our Government, but the commendation of high authorities abroad.
His order for the organization of the Corps d' Afrique. under which I labored actively, attracted attention abroad, and was commended by the journals of France-the most martial people of Europe.
His order creating the Enrolment Commission, of which I was a member, was a great step towards a true consideration of the freedmen. It was fully approved by Secretary Stanton, whose care of the colored man is not to be disputed.
The "Labor Order," criticized by various animosities,
was the signal step that lifted the colored man, <illegible> pell-mell from the chances of war, the vindictiveness of his late owner, and the cupidity of adventures, to the opportunity of organized labor and secure pay.
I had the honor, by the request of the late Brig. Gen. Ransom, then at Natchez, to escort a committee of planters from Natchez to Vicksburg, to ask of Major Gen. Grant some order for the control of the colored labor of that department. 
After hearing their statement, and examining the Labor Order of Gen. Banks, Gen. Grant said he would issue a similar order. Subsequently, the Labor Order of Gen. Banks was approved by the War Department, and ordered to be made general. 
A few planters who are opposed to the freedom of the colored man, or to any recognition of him, except as a slave, are writing against the Labor Order.
These men are of the class who sit forever under the nightmare of St. Domingo, in the dread of insurrection and ruin. They are the Bourbons of our revolution, of whom it may be said, as Napoleon said of them in France: "They never learn anything, and never forget anything." They seek to make the Labor Order responsible for their lost crop this year. Some Northern adventurers, who
come here to hire a plantation, make a fortune in a single reason, and go away to spend it; but those who have failed are crying aloud against the Labor
Order as the cause of their success. 
Neither of these classes are the men to develop the vast resources of this delta.
Their losses are owing to their unacceptance of the conditions of revolution, to the chances of war, to their grasping monopoly of too much land, of their peculiar management of which they are ignorant, to hasty and imperfect cultivation, to the ruinous effects of an unpropitious season falling upon such cultivation, and, above all, to the worm. Possibly, God means to teach us, through the fearful desolation by the "worm," that not the men
who are wedded to the past, nor yet the temporary <illegible> are to reap the harvests of this productive clime.
There are "firms" here of Northern men who work or control from twelve to trendy plantations. When it is remembered that these contain from one to two thousand acres each, some idea of the wildness of the business may be had.
There are migratory lawyers, ex-members of
<c02>
Congress, attended by trendier adventures, who publicly announce that a negro is no better than a male-who, by official collusion, have possession of from three to five plantations.
Must it not be impossible for men to succeed in such a manner?
These two classes are exceptions to the general rule of cultivation, but the exceptions are of sufficient number to be disastrous. There are planters 
who are earnestly accepting the new order of things. There are Northern men who are doing whatever they can for the community and themselves in working their plantations. They suffer, but they attribute it to the true cause-the visitation 
of the " worm." Such is the fertility of the soil and the organization of the labor, that even those experimentists might have made money but for the "worm." I know of one plantation on which was the labor, and all the appliances, with the growth and promise for two hundred bales of cotton-the product is four bales.
Many of these itinerant cultivators, who were rich, but are now ruined, vent their woe upon the "Labor Order." The " worm " has gathered their crops, leaving them to the just retribution of unprofitable and melancholy gleaning.
The "Education Order" is to-day affording gratuitous instruction to many thousands of colored people, young and old.
Above all, the free State of Louisiana is the vanguard of an army of returning commonwealths. The free Constitution of Louisiana will become the model for the organic law of the whole circle of Southern States.
Commanders may ignore the civil State. Lawyers, unfit for revolution and incapable themselves of governing, limited by constitutional narrowness to negations and legal precedents, may reject it. Politicians, wedded to their own plan of restoration, for their own political advancement, may condemn it. But there it stands, the free State of Louisiana, an organic body, vitalized by the life-blood of the people, as real, as continuous, as permanent as they. (Cheers.)
Gentlemen, with these measures and their results before me, am I not warranted in my faith in the ability and true purpose of Major Gen. Banks?
As an Abolitionist, looking to the best interests of the colored man, am 1 not warranted in urging the free colored Creoles of Louisiana to lend their united support to these measures as the best and most speedy mode of attaining what they desire?
There is one significant circumstance connected with the restoration of Louisiana, which we do not seem to note, and that is, that nothing has been said of it by the rebel journals.
They do not discuss it. For their silence, there may be two reasons. First, the discussion of it might enliven the hope of many of their own people 
that restoration is possible, and so weaken the rebel hold on those who long for peace.
Secondly, they cannot endorse it, and they may be unwilling to condemn, what hereafter they may wish to adopt. Following the triumph of our arms must come the restoration of the States and the reign of peace, made stable by freedom.
I do not expect that emancipation will be followed by an immediate rush of millions of freedmen upon the suffrage of the country.
I see no reason why the free colored Creoles and all free colored men who have fought for their country, 
or who can read and write, should not vote.
I see a hundred reasons why they should. Nearly two years ago, the Hon. Secretary Chase wrote to me, suggesting that the colored man should vote upon a property qualification. I replied at once, recommending an educational qualification. Mr. Chase immediately accepted my suggestion, and urged its adoption.
A bill, framed upon that basis, will be passed by the Legislature, soon or late, by patient and persistent effort. It is just, and cannot be met by any argument 
but that of prejudice or passion. The bill now before the Legislature is not sound in principle, because it bases the right of citizenship upon the degree of white or black blood. It would perpetuate caste.
We must not forget that this political equality has nothing to do with social equality. A man is not my companion because he votes. Many white men will not associate with me, many I will not associate with. We want, for the sake of the country and for man, civil justice, equality for all men before the law-and politically. Then the social question will take care of itself.
I think that the right of the free colored men to vote lies, to-day, almost in their own hands. What is needed to accomplish it are unity, wisdom, patience and labor.
If, instead of combining all these forces for the benefit of the race, he shall plunge into division and weakness, fighting his friends when he should fight his enemies, refusing a part because he cannot get all of justice, then assuredly the colored man, in all his classes will go underpin the restoration of the nationality, even in peace and freedom. He will not have exhibited that fitness that is claimed for him to become a constituent of a great Government, and nations or classes of men never receive benefits for which they are not fitted.
Free colored Creoles of Louisiana! The condition of the colored man, on this continent, for years to come, may depend upon you.
Combine your influence, enlarge your patience, increase your labor, sustain the Government, and you will win.
Apart from all other considerations, believing as I do most firmly that the power and grandeur of my own race on this continent are to enlarge by justice to the colored race, I shall help them whenever and wherever I can.

HENRY VINVENT ON THE AMERICAN WAR.
The eloquent British platform orator, Henry Vincent, 
Esq., delivered an admirable address before an excessively crowded assembly, at the Lecture Hall of the Northampton (Eng.) Mechanics' Institute, on Monday evening, 21st ult, the subject being-" The present great American rebellion'-its causes and consequences." We give the following extract:-
I am not about to debate the crime of negro slavery with you. I have too much self-respect. I trust that no one in this assembly wants an argument against, slavery. (Cheers.) If he does, I make bold to say be could not understand it if put before his mind; for he who wants an argument against slavery is morally dead, and is fit for nothing but to be enslaved himself, and placed under the most grinding of all bondages. (Cheers.)
If there were no slavery at issue, I would go with the Northland I will tell you why.. For the last 60 or 70 years, there has been a little hop-o-my-thumb in politics, who has come down to talk politics to the people. This gentleman has always had one grand prophecy. He has always said, the day is coming when America will have some trouble, and then you will see that this great Republic, founded on universal suffrage, will all go to pieces; let this
<c03>
therefore be a warning against believing too much in Representative institutions. What if the boot should be put on the other leg? (Cheers.) What if the American Republic should show that a Republic can have Conservative elements? (Cheers.) There has been a great complaint in England, that what was called the mob did not tear Lincoln's Government in pieces. The stupid fellow who writes in the Standard newspapers had an article in the other day, which stated that them would be rows all over America during the election; but it was obliged to be announced in the telegram that the elections went off peacefully everywhere. (Load cheers.) Why was this? Because every man in America is a part of the Government, and has an object in upholding it. Conservatives! what you see in America is the Conservatism which you would prize in England. 
It is a Conservatism which says there is a limit to rebellion. You Conservatives have been converted to a rebellion which I never dared to preach ever in the wildest days of my boyhood. I find that you have been converted to believe in rebellion; and while I think you are pushing your new-born zeal a little too far, I am glad to see that the English Tory has begun to like rebellion. (Hear, hear.) I cannot, however, agree with them, that a people have a right to rebel whenever they like. I, Henry Vincent, a Radical, am obliged to talk Conservatism 
to them, and I am obliged to say, "No, no, not always." (Cheers.) Rebellion is the last sad right of a people who have exhausted all peaceful means before they can rebel. Rebellion is not the right of a people because they have been defeated at the polls. (Cheers.) No, sirs, there could be no government, all government must be put an end to, if this theory of absolute rebellion, under all circumstances, were enshrined as a portion of the laws of the world. (Cheers.) I should go with the North, because there are now at issue the great principles involved in the power of a free people, not only to found liberty, but to defend it when founded. (Cheers.) There is involved in this the assertion that this Republic, unlike some old Republics, sustained its vast territory by a vast number of men, and is unmistakably showing its self sacrifice in the profusion with which it sheds its blood; oh, sad necessity! oh, appalling necessity! in the profusion with which it accumulates debt, in the readiness with which it pays taxes. (Cheers.) This Republic is showing that a Government standing on this broad platform has a power of cohesion, a power of Conservatism which will show timid men that the Anglo-Saxon race, impregnated with the races from the continent, where you have free schools and free churches, notwithstanding the admission of a large amount of rowdyism and crime-that this grand race is able to conserve their institutions by courage and zeal. (Cheers.)
I believe it is mooted in the Southern States that they are going to arm their own slaves. Be it so. Oh, avenging Providence! Oh, mighty God, who ruleth in the heavens! Oh, wonder-working Power, that the very men who have treated these slaves as cattle and chattels, are obliged to take the long injured sable races to defend their own master! (Cheers.)
Passing on to show that the potato blight in Ireland did more to repeal the Corn-laws than all the eloquence that had been used to obtain the repeal, Mr. Vincent said the potato blight in America is this bloody war. America would not look to God; America would not pray; America would not listen: America was mad with her success; she rebelled against her conscience and her God, and she sinned against light and the Gospel. And, lo! she is brought down in tears, and in blood, and in misery. The North is bruised and wounded, bleeding from every pore; retributive justice even presses down upon the North. The same justice blights the South. Oh, appalling fact! That State of Virginia, upon whose soil deeds have been done which I cannot name in a mixed assembly; that State of Virginia, which committed the foulest crimes to feed this slave institution: 
that State of Virginia has been so violated by the two armies, the North and the South, that there is scarcely a blade of grass left. It seemed as though Heaven had rained down upon it hailstones of indignation. As a State, it has been above all others cursed, withered, blighted, and blasted by the war. Oh, marvelous fact! Sirs, I believe, whatever may take place in the future, that the Union will be maintained. (Cheers.) But whatever comes of the contest, I will prophesy this, that slavery will be overtaken, root and branch. Whether the Union stands or falls, slavery will die. (Cheers.) This is my great consolation; and would to God I could have announced its death, without writing it down in letters of blood! Oh, American people, oh, Christian people of America, now, in the hour of your tribulation, seek the Lord while he may be found; pray that he may bring you out of this baptism of blood with a higher faith, and with a greater regard for the right of others! And ye Southern men, pray that, forced by necessity to arm your slaves, you may see, at the same time, the equity of conferring 
upon them that liberty which they inherited from God, and not from any bequest of yours. And oh! mighty people of England, whichever side you take, some perhaps opposing and some approving what I have said, believe me, I come before you with an earnestness and gravity which I never felt surpassed at any period of my life. I feel that this American question is the battle-ground oh which is being fought out for the Anglo-Saxon race, truths and principles that will affect its condition for ages to come. I beseech you, whether you are stirred up by North or by South, I beseech you to stand by the Government. of England in a firm and impartial neutrality. (Cheers.) Be not drawn into war. Stand on this side, whether you be for North or South. If you are for the South, never have complicity and side with the slave power. If yon have taken the side of the North, still hold by the doctrine of non-intervention. Express your sympathies on both sides, express them firmly and honestly, but still feel with me that non-intervention in this combat is not only best for both belligerents, but best for our own country and for the future peace of the world. (Cheers.) Sirs, I have done. I have placed before you an outline only of this great struggle, 
which must be supplemented by quiet reading and by earnest reflection. My prayer is that God in his infinite mercy, would soon assuage the passions that are now raging on the American Continent; that peace may be restored as the consequence a justice; with slavery overthrown and liberty triumphant; and that the Anglo-Saxon race may vindicate its honor and glory. (Cheers.) I cannot help adding another prayer, that God in his great mercy would be with Abraham Lincoln, and give him grace moderation, and wisdom to become greater than even the first Washington. May be, by his policy, his worth, and his piety, live to plant the foot of liberty on the neck of slavery, and live to blow the trumpet which shall re-echo through all European nations, proclaiming the great fact that the Anglo-Saxon race cannot only win liberty, but can conserve it by its virtue and by its policy against the foulest treason and the direst rebellion. (Long and long-continued applause.)
<c04>
ADDRESS
OF THE
Union and Emancipation Society, Manchester,
TO
HIS EXCELLENCY ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
On hit Re-election to the Presidency, November 8, 1864.
SIR,-We hasten to congratulate you on the welcome intelligence that you have again been elected to the high dignity of President of the United States of America; an election which, whilst it has sealed the fate of Slavery in your great country, cannot fail, under the circumstances of the case, to impress thoughtful minds "as being one of the most sublime spectacles in the whole history of the world."
Ever since the Baltimore Convention adopted its platform of enlightened patriotism and radical Anti-Slavery principles,-and so unanimously nominated you for the Presidency,-we have not faltered for one moment in our conviction, that the people of the free States of your great Republic would be true to their instincts and highest aspirations; and that their vote on the 8th of November, 1864, would prove them loyal to liberty, unity, and nationality. 

Nobly have they responded to the claims of duty and humanity; and gloriously have they vindicated and illustrated the value and safety of popular representative government, proving themselves worthy of those free institutions and beneficent social arrangements that grow out of enlightened, educated, and civilized commonwealths.
The Federal Union and Constitution are dearly and wisely prized by them, as a sacred trust bequeathed by their forefathers; and ought not to be yielded in the spirit of compromise or concession to that system of cruelty and iniquity, Human Slavery, which has been the blot on your national reputation.
We mourn with you over the desolation that civil war is making among the families and homes of your people, who have given their choicest sons, their bravest brothers, their best-beloved of earth; and who are still heroically struggling to save the NATIONAL LIFE,-with all that freemen hold dear, and that brave men cling to-equal civil and political liberty for men of all races, creeds and countries; and we believe that they will succeed. Already, during the term of your first Presidency, you have conquered for freedom an area of one million three hundred thousand square miles, which three years ago was claimed by the rebels; and doubtless your brave and patriotic armies will, ere long, wrest the remaining three hundred and forty thousand square miles from the grasp of the Slaveholders' Confederacy.
We rejoice in your reelection, because "we have observed in your presidential career a grand simplicity of purpose, and a patriotism that knows no danger, and which does not falter." We have recognized in you "an honest endeavor faithfully to do the work of your great office, and in doing it, a brightness of personal honor on which no adversary has yet been able to fix a stain." We believe that you have been raised up by the Providence of God to rescue your nation from anarchy, disruption, and ruin.
By this election, your people have pledged to the world their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor, that they will redeem your great country from the crime and curse of slavery; that it shall indeed and without exception be the home of the free and the brave; and that its government, in form and in administration, shall continue to be "the best and freest-the most equal in its rights, the most just in its decisions, the most lenient in its measures, and the most aspiring, in its principles to elevate the race of men, that the sun of heaven ever shone upon."
We have deplored the undisguised sympathy which has been manifested towards the slave confederacy in this country; but we rejoice to be able to assure you, that from the very commencement of the struggle, the great majority of the working classes, and no inconsiderable proportion of the middle class, together with the profoundest thinkers of our country, have been true to the principles of right and liberty; and by their united voice have prevented any hostile action on the part of those who were only too anxious to recognize an empire based upon the "Corner Stone" of Slavery.
We are not unmindful of the fact, that in advocating the full and complete adoption of the principles of civil, religious and political liberty, the destinies of the peoples of this nation and of America are inseparably linked together; and we believe that we declare the conviction of all intelligent, honest, and unprejudiced lovers of liberty and justice, when we express our unshaken faith that you will crush the rebellion, restore the Union, maintain your national integrity, and thereby secure the priceless heritage of freedom to your people throughout all generations.
Adopted by the Executive of the Union and Emancipation Society, Manchester, November 28, 1864.
THOMAS BAYLEY POTTER, President. SAMUEL WATTS, Treasurer. JOHN H. ESTCOURT, Chairman. JOHN C. EDWARDS,"
EDWARD O. GREENING, Hon. Secs. 
Offices:-51, Piccadilly, Manchester.
RESOLUTIONS,
ENDORSING THE PRINCIPLES AND POLICY OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
The following joint resolutions, introduced by Mr.
Meeks, were passed unanimously, under suspension
of the rules, in the House, by the Legislature of
the. Free State of Louisiana, on Friday, November
11th, 1864:
We, the Representatives of the people of the Free State of Louisiana, in General Assembly met, grateful to God, for ourselves and our constituents, for the restoration of our beloved State to loyalty and freedom, do therefore
Resolve, That our faith is unabated in the ultimate triumph of our arms, the liberation of our sister commonwealths of the South from anarchy and treason, and the final and permanent reconstruction
of the National Government upon the basis of freedom and justice.
Resolved, That, for the accomplishment of these great objects, we rely, under God, upon the loyalty and devotion of the sovereign people, upon the valor of our soldiers and seamen, and the skill of their leaders; but, especially, upon the firm baud, clear head, sound heart, and large experience of our National Executive, Abraham Lincoln, in whom we trust. 
Resolved, That springing from the people-by the people inspired-Abraham Lincoln has, borne the ark of their political covenant to places of safety, through perils from without and within, such as seldom, if ever before, have beset any people.
Resolved, That, therefore, Abraham Lincoln, as the Chief Magistrate, is entitled to the unwavering confidence of his countrymen. He may be assured 
<c05>
of the unshaken adhesion of free Louisiana to his Government and policy, whether of the Cabinet or the Field.
Resolved, That we are but ante-dating the language of history when we speak of Washington, the founder, Lincoln, the liberator of the nation.
Resolved, That to the consideration and acceptance of the Representatives of the nation, in Congress assembled, we do earnestly commend the free State of Louisiana-a State that has arisen, in the midst of civil war, from the ruins of rebellion to the dignity of a free Commonwealth, clothed with the attributes and exercising the functions thereof.
Resolved, That the free State of Louisiana will be forever a monument, fitting to his fame, of the wisdom, patience, patriotism and great administrative ability of Major General N. P. Banks,
THE RESTORER OF STATES.
Resolved, That the free State of Louisiana to the free State of Maryland sends greeting.
Resolved, That the hearty sympathy and encouragement of free Louisiana are hereby extended to our suffering brethren of Tennessee-to the noble men who, under the heroic leadership of Andy Johnson, the worthy friend of the immortal Jackson, are struggling through blood and fire against rebels without and traitors within, to secure those free State rights to which we have measurably attained.
Resolved, That in Grant and Farragut we do honor the hero-representatives of the American Army and Navy, 
Resolved, That to the united gallantry of the Army and Navy we are indebted for the privileges that, as Representatives of the people, we this day enjoy.
Resolved, That to our soldiers and seamen, who are meeting in arms and vanquishing the rebel enemies of their country, to all loyal men who at home are defeating at the polls the auxiliaries of armed rebels, to all sick or wounded leaders, and to private soldiers and seamen-the unnamed heroes of this great conflict, who are in hospitals or prisons, we, the members of the first Legislature of the free State of Louisiana, for ourselves and our constituents, do hereby send hearty greeting and Godspeed.

WHAT HAS ALREADY BEEN GAINED.
BY HON. ROBERT J. WALKER.
Is this war for the Union indeed a failure? Let our many and well-fought battles upon the ocean and the land answer the question. Let a country nearly as large as half of Europe, taken from the rebels since the war commenced, respond. Let Shiloh, and Donelson, and Gettysburg, and Vicksburg, and Port Hudson, and New Orleans, and the Mississippi from its source to its mouth, answer. Why, this wretched calumny had scarcely been uttered by the McClellan Convention, when Sherman, the great commander, and his army had washed out the accusation in the blood of the vanquished, and unfolded our banner at Atlanta, the grand military strategic center of Georgia, never to be recalled! And while the shouts of the great victory in Georgia were still Founding in our ears, Oppequan responded to the thunders of Atlanta, and the heroic Sheridan, after a decided victory, was driving the rebel army from the valley of Virginia. Was Sherman's campaign from Memphis and Nashville to Chattanooga, and from Chattanooga to Atlanta, a failure? Why, that campaign is unsurpassed in history. Was Grant's Potomac advance a failure? What, the hero of the great campaign of the West, terminating with the capture of Vicksburg and its garrison, not know or do his duty! Was the victory of the Wilderness a failure, or the destruction in successive battles of one-third of Lee's army, together with the seizure of the great Weldon railroad, or the repulse there of the Confederate attack-were these failures? Recollect, Grant was Lieutenant General, subordinate only to the President and Secretary of War, in planning the whole campaign; and, while too much credit cannot be given to the heroic Sherman and noble Sheridan, and their gallant armies, yet it must be remembered that their great victories and strategic military movements are but a part of Grant's plan-concentrating the three armies of the Potomac, the Shenandoah, and the West, so as to seize and hold all the roads connecting with Richmond, and capture the Confederate army and government.
And now as to our navy. Were the gallant deeds of Admiral Porter at Vicksburg, on the Mississippi River, the Arkansas, and the Red River failures? Were the destruction of the forts protecting New Orleans and the capture of that city by the illustrious Farragut failures? Were the capture or destruction by that gallant man, aided by General Granger, of the forts commanding the Bay of Mobile, together with the occupation of its harbor by our fleet-and the destruction there of the Confederate navy-were these failures? Were the capture of the forts and city of Pensacola, of all the Florida forts, and the fortifications commanding Savannah-the defeat of the Merrimac and Tennessee-the destruction of the Alabama-the capture of Port Royal, and of the forts which commanded it-were these failures? No; the war is not a failure. It is a glorious and transcendent success. Already the whole Southern and Southwestern coast is ours, with far more than a thousand miles of its course from Columbus to its mouth, and even to a considerable extent up the Mississippi and Missouri, which had been once in the hands of the enemy. Chesapeake Bay is ours, and ail its tributaries, from the Potomac to the James River. The whole coast of North and South Carolina, of Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas, with vast portions of the interior, impregnable positions is ours. Tennessee, one of the seceded-States, is now wholly ours. Kentucky is loyal. Missouri is ours, and has abolished slavery. Maryland is ours, and has thoroughly uprooted slavery also. Our whole Territorial domain, greater in extent than one-half of Europe, (and about slavery in which this contest began,) is now wholly ours. Not a rebel flag floats within its limits. When before were such mighty conquests achieved within so short a period? Why, the conquests of Alexander, of Caesar and Napoleon covered no such extent of territory. And, "we take no steps back ward." Where oar flag now is once unfolded in any part of rebeldom, there it continues to float, and will float forever. What are we to negotiate about? Is it as to giving up the Mississippi and its tributaries together? with New Orleans Vicksburg, and Tennessee? Is West Virginia, which has been admitted a new free State, to be surrendered? Are Fortress Monroe and the Chesapeake to be abandoned? Is the rebel flag to float at Alexandria, and on the heights of Arlington; and are rebel canon to be planted there, in sight of and to command the very capital of the Union? Are we to insult loyal Kentucky, Missouri, Maryland, and Delaware, by negotiating about them? Are we to give back Western to Eastern Virginia? Where is the line of division to be run, and what armies would be strong enough to maintain peace upon the border? What portion of the 
mighty Territories uniting us with the Pacific
<c06>
are to be surrendered? Are we to turn over to the cruel despotism of their bloody and relentless masters the millions of loyal people of the South, to whom we have given the most sacred pledge of the protection, of the Union? And, last, of all, are the two millions of slaves, as Jefferson Davis complains, who have been emancipated by the constitutional war proclamation of President Lincoln, are they to be remanded to slavery, including the thousands; who have so gallantly fought in our defence? And as to slavery, or what, if any, may be left of it, when the war is over, are we to abandon the unquestionable right to abolish it, as Mr. Lincoln and his friends propose, by a constitutional amendment? Is Jefferson Davis to come back again a Senator from Mississippi? Are the traitors Cobb and Thompson to take their places in the McClellan Cabinet? Is Toombs, of Georgia, (as he boasted,) to call the roll of his slaves on. Bunker Hill? Slavery, we know, was the sole cause of the war. It was slavery that fired the first gun at Sumter, and demanded to rule or ruin the country. It was in the name of slavery that the South seceded; and it was to extend and perpetuate slavery, as a blessed and divine institution, that they avowedly framed the Confederate constitution. In the debates of Congress of, 1860-'61, in the proceedings of the Committee of 1833, in the acts of the Peace Congress, in the various secession ordinances, by the very terms of the Confederate constitution, slavery was the sole cause of this war upon the Government. Slavery was and is our great enemy, and shall we not destroy it? Slavery was the sole cause of the war, and shall it not be eradicated? When the patient calk for a physician, he seeks for the source of the disease, so as not merely to alleviate present pain, but to remove the cause, and prevent relapses or successive attacks. If he deals only with palliatives, to assuage for a brief period the present suffering, when he can remove the cause, and restore the patient to permanent and perfect health, he is but a quack and an impostor.
The Emancipation Proclamation being, as we have seen, clearly constitutional, as a war measure, with a view to save the Union, was it, as such, wise and expedient? We have seen that the rebel South, even by conscription, when necessary, used slaves for military purposes, and those not used directly in that way are required to raise breadstuffs and provisions (instead of cotton) to supply the Confederate army. Indeed, the debates of Congress for many years past will show that the South boasted, not vainly, of their great military strength, because they declared that, while the slaves would be used in raising provisions to supply their forces, the whole white population capable of bearing arms could then be called into the field. This constituted, as they declared, their great military strength. And is it not then a most important war measure to deprive them of that all-powerful and efficient weapon: which, we have seen, can only be done by emancipation? Now, let us suppose that while we refuse the use of the colored race, whether bond or free, in aid of the war, they are used for that purpose by the South, what would be the result? By the census of 1860, the whole population of the United States was 31,445,080, of which there were white, 26,975,575; free colored, 487,996; slaves, 3,953,750; total, of coloreds 4,441,756, of which there were in the seceded States, 3,653,110, and in the loyal States, 788,446. Add the whites in the seceded States, 5,449,463, would thus make the whole population of those States, by the census of I860, 9,102,573. In the loyal States, the whole population was 22,342,507; of which 21,553,861 were white, and 788,646 colored. Now then, if the colored race, as we have seen, in the seceding States, are used for war purposes by them and not by us, the relative number of opposing forces would be as follows: Loyal States, 21,563,861; seceded States, 9,102,573; difference in favor of the loyal States, 12,451,288. Now, to begin the process, add to the whites in the loyal States the free colored, and the total number is 22,342,507; seceded States, 9,102,573; difference in favor of the loyal States, 13,239,934. Continuing the process, if "we deduct by the emancipation policy the whole colored population of the seceded States, the result would be, loyal States, 22,342,507; seceded States, 5,449,463. But if, concluding the process, by the emancipation. policy we not only deduct the colored race from the aid of the South, but add it in aid of the loyal States, the result would be, loyal States, 25,995,617; seceded States, 6,449,463; difference in favor of loyal States, 20,456,154. Thus the policy opposed to emancipation and to the use of the colored race by us in the war, makes the difference in our favor as against the South only 12,451,288, whereas the difference in our favor by the emancipation policy of the President is 
20,546,154. Deduct from this the above 12,451,288; final difference, 8,094,866. Thus we see that, by the President's policy, there is, in effect, a gain to the loyal States equivalent to more than eight millions of people, more than 200,000 of whom are already soldiers in the Union army, all of whom must be disbanded if Mr. Lincoln's policy was erroneous. Will any say that a policy which makes a difference in the relative forces of the two contending parties of more than eight millions of people in favor of the North, and which has already increased our army 200,000, is not a most important war measure, aiding us to suppress the rebellion and; save the Government? and, therefore, it is a policy eminently calculated to preserve and perpetuate the Union. Indeed, it is this measure which renders, the maintenance of the Union certain, and, without it, the Union is subjected to great peril-Continental Monthly far November.

JEFFERSON DAVIS AT A DISCOUNT.
The Lucifer of the Confederacy is below par. He is not only charged by pu<illegible> in rebeldom with a design to p<illegible> the role of Louis Napoleon, but he has made himself obnoxious to the more serious charge of military imbecility. The Richmond press is besieging him to point out the victories lie had promised to the people of invaded regions, and the cotton planters denounce him for not annihilating Grant, and rushing to their rescue. The proposition to make Lee dictator is aimed at Davis. All quarters hold him responsible for Sherman's success.
He is abused for having removed: Johnston, by the very men who clamored against that officer's "Fabian policy." It is an instructive spectacle. At the beginning of the war, Davis was the idol of the South. It was predicted that he would head the rebel armies, and sweep away all before him. The recollection of a single charge led by him at Buena Vista gave him unwarranted credit as a military 
leader. His capacity as a statesman was also, the theme of unbounded eulogy. To crown all, he was such a Christian gentleman!-the very type and 
mirror of chivalry. 
But, lo! a change came over the spirit of this bright creation of rebel fancy. In due time reverse began to befall the Southern arms. It was hinted that Davis was "telling his beads" when he should have been looking to fields where battles 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject,not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERESTED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF THE WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the bourd, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." -J. Q. ADAMS. 

210 THE LIBERATO. DECEMBER 30.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
were fought and lost Then it began to be manifest that the great exemplar of rebel virtue was given to vulgar jealousies, that fee kept back competent officers, and advanced to high rank his parasites and mere tools. It was discovered, too, that his capacity for civil affaire did not procure that recognition from foreign powers, which had been expected. In short, it began to enter at last into the glowing Southern imagination, that Jefferson Davis was, after all, but a common mortal, and by no means a first-rate specimen of the kind.
The fourth year of the war finds the rebel iconoclasts busy as bees. They hammer away at their Idol as if it afforded some relief in the general misery to assail the author. Davis stands to day like the "Prophet of Khorassan," with his veil remorselessly turn away, exposed to the withering gaze of millions of people whom he has plunged into anarchy and ruin. His coadjutors to revolt are buried, or wander exiled from desolated homes. His own State has felt all the horrors of war, and in the midst of so much calamity be is exposed to the upbraiding of the people whom be betrayed into crime. When the end shall come, it may yet be his lot to share the fate of Actaeon, as a fitting conclusion to a career that has worked so much disaster to a large section of the country.

REBEL CRY FOR HELP.
The following extract from the leading article of the Richmond Enquirer of Dec. 16 will be received us the highest evidence of the impending collapse of the rebellion:
"Whenever we are reduced so low that we cannot maintain the contest, then we can secure liberty and nationality by the sacrifice of slavery. But until we are prepared to make this sacrifice, it is no use to look to Europe for help either by recognition or intervention. All the military authorities, those who command the armies, and those entrusted with the administration of the conscript bureau, are prepared to say that the population of the country will maintain a force in the field that shall bear to that of the enemy the proportion that the armies of the two nations bore to each other in 1863; then no necessity exists for either arming the negroes or appealing to Europe for protection.
But if those authorities shall answer differently, then we submit that a crisis is upon us that demands the alternative of subjugation without slaves, or independence by arming the negroes. There is every prospect for four years more of war; and as long as we rest on the defensive, the enemy can carry on the war without the risk of defeat. If they know that we never follow up our repulses, but must always remain on the defensive, they know that though they may not be able to defeat our armies, yet we will never defeat theirs, and the war is merely a question of exhaustion. Shall we prolong the war for the sake of the negroes? Shall we sacrifice our children to preserve our slaves? Shall we exhaust our country, destroy our noble defenders and endanger every institution, rather than test an experiment that may give us the means of recruiting our armies, of assuming the offensive, and of conquering a speedy peace? Neither rhetoric, nor argument, nor authority, can determine whether the negroes will make for us faithful soldiers, experiment must this and decide this question. Gen. Lee asks that this experiment be made. But we hate, detest and despise the enemy far more than we love and admire Slavery; and if our liberties cannot be gained but by the sacrifice of Slavery, we arc prepared to make that sacrifice, and to urge that sacrifice upon Our countrymen.
We would not return into the Union if every slave could be returned to his master, and every guarantee that human ingenuity could devise wore received for the protection of the institution. We prefer liberty with free society, to re-union upon the securest basis of slavery. Such we believe to be the sentiment of the people of Virginia. But we know that great many doubts beset this question of arming the negroes; and yet the experiment ought to be tested, and the fact ascertained, whether the negroes will make soldiers. W."

THE HORRORS OF ANDERSONVILLE!
A correspondent of the Philadelphia Press, writing from Annapolis under date of December 8th. furnishes a long and painfully interesting account of the condition of the Union soldiers that have just been released from the Southern hells. It is enough to chill the blood to read of these atrocities. After describing Annapolis and referring to the commission appointed to release the prisoners, the writer says that the condition of the prisoners had been underrated in any descriptions yet published. They all testified to having been used like dogs at Andersonville. At Florence they received better treatment at the hands of Colonel Iverson, son of Senator Iverson, of Georgia. The following is the description of the men as they were received:

SKELETON MEN, VICTIMS OF PALSY, MAGGOTS, AND VERMIN.
All the men were filthy, ragged, or naked, and swarming with vermin. They came to "God's country" with scarce enough strength to articulate their joy. Their limbs were palsied and stiffened with a scurvy which marked them everywhere; their bodies were smeared all over with the excrement of their diarrhea, in which they were compelled from sheer weakness to lie; their hair was matted with filth of the game character; some with their limbs and bodies. filthy as they were, were swollen to such an enormous tension as to suggest the idea of bursting to the pitying eyes that were bent searchingly upon them. Lice of great size swarmed over them- ravenous, torturing-living in burrows in the flesh, honey combing it all over with their dwelling-places. They were almost the bulk and shape of grains of wheat. Their bites keen-their combined attacks excruciating. Others were, in addition to these ills, afflicted with "ground sores." Their bones pierced their tightly drawn flesh, reduced by starvation; and at the hips, shoulder blades, and other projecting parts of the body, these sores were formed and peopled with hideous, slimy, maggots, whose every motion was untold agony to the unhappy sufferer, who had neither the means, nor the strength, nor perhaps, in the stupor of suffering, the will to remove them. There were but few of these, however; though, as the soldiers said on their oaths, such sights were quite common at "Anderson." But the poor victims died too fast for any large number to accumulate at one time. They might be seen at all points, gasping under their horrible pains, the maggots disporting, eating, piercing, nearer, nearer every day, to the vitals. In some instances, they formed lines of communication between one sore and another, by eating little conduits for some distance under the skin. Through these ways they traveled in lines, the living arcade over them heaving up and down as they moved. No care was taken of these martyrs", no medicines given, no facilities for even a very moderate attempt at cleanliness, and they died by scores, to be buried like brutes, in great heaps in unmarked graves. But we will not continue this reference to life at Andersonville. Our friends of the commission will soon present these facts, and others far more horrible, in a detailed way. and we will confine ourselves simply to what might be seen at the Naval Hospital wharf, on the Severn river. The terrible cases of suffering -those at which humanity would shudder to its inmost soul-had been hidden by the sod. Only those were seen which had not reached the point where death benevolently took the sufferer home. What the character of those cases were we have just shown. Concerning those who died like dogs, and found graves in Georgia, the reader may indulge in the wildest conjecture. We assure him that he will find that he has scarcely imagined the truth.

CHRISTIAN PATIENCE OF THE SUFFERERS.
In our tour through the hospitals we saw these released men, black with sun-tan and the smoke of the pine fires over which they bent as they cooked their food that mocked their hunger and robbed them of their lives. They were in "God's country" now. The grand old stars and stripes waved over them, and the notes of their own sweet national music were wafted through the casement to their grateful ears. Attentive nurses in the Union's blue hovered round their bedsides, anticipating every want, and watching with a more than brotherly tenderness each change of symptom. Words of cheer, assurances of returning health, were coaxing back the red blood to their wan cheeks, and lighting up their hollow eyes with a gleam of hope. But, alas! there were and are cheeks-hundreds of them-that will not glow, and eyes that will not sparkle evermore.
One hundred and fifteen have up to this morning already died in hospital, and the fate of many more is sealed. No medical skill can save them-no love, no hope lure them back to life again. Rebel despotism has exhausted the life-spring, quenched the life-
<c02>
lamp. One may gurgle yet a little While, the other glimmer; but both are ebbing, both shall disappear, It was a pleasant sight to see the Commission gathered around the beds of the wasted skeletons; aptly described by a simple soldier, one who was almost a skeleton himself, as looking "like skeletons that doctors have; you know, strung on wires, only covered over with skin so that yon couldn't see how they were made." Some of the Commission were men of venerable age-the chairman, Dr. Delafield, Mr. Wilkins, and Mr. Winston, for instance-all, with sorrowing faces, listened to the tale as it was gasped out from the parched throat and withered lungs of a martyr. "On errands of pity and of mercy bent, each tone found an echo in their hearts, There lay the sufferers. Most of them had been hale men, with the instinct of life strong in them. The Commission purposely selected such, so as to further the ends of truth and justice, and allow nothing like prejudice to interfere in their examination into the diabolism of treason. It would take many an effort many a systematized assault, to break down the citadel of life in those frames. They were the granite. Weaker constitutions might, like sandstone, crumble under but little strain, but it would require constant dropping to wear the rock. There lay; the strong man, punier in frame than the puniest stripling now; His tough thus and sinews had all melted away with the flesh. The cheeks were gaunt in the strictest, hollow in the strongest sense. The eye was deep sunken in the head; the lids had lost their fullness, and refused to perform their office, leaving the eye to glare and stare at you, dimmed all over with motes, dull, lifeless, despairing. Its orbits and temporal bones were so far advanced that the white enamel shone through the skin, which every moment seemed to be losing its hold on its prisoners, allowing them to escape their thraldom. The thorax marked all its parts. The ribs were clearly visible; for the skin, tanned and smoked though it was, was stretched to almost transparent tightness, till the interstices between the bones were revealed, and the curious eye almost imagined itself peering through the pleura into the chest to see the terrible emaciation there. Each struggling breath threw out the bones still more prominently, until it seemed as if their filmy covering would fall off like a garment, and leave a skeleton -indeed. The abdomen was so shrunken that the valves of the digestive apparatus caused protuberance, and the digestive portions of the food as they passed down the intestines swelled them until their outlines could be marked by any spectator, and the course of the forces easily followed. The limbs partook of the general decay. One inch and three quarters was a common measurement of those who were stout and strong as young willows.

TESTIMONY OF THE PRISONERS AS TO THEIR TREATMENT AT ANDERSONVILLE, ETC.
A friend once remarked that he thought that nature had given to the human skull the peculiar appearance called "grinning," to remind us of our utter worthlessness. The grin was a never ending sarcasm. In these faces, clothed as they yet were with the vail that hides the sarcasm, that sepulchral smile was present, the more funereal because of the medium through which it looked. The reply to pleasant words, or the recollection of some kindness that had been done them in their captivity, called up this smile-so sad, so solemn, so miserable, that all who witnessed it were touched. It was a beautiful tribute to their warmth of heart, that from among all the brutalities they have suffered, they would religiously cull some little good deed done them to show that so-and-so was not a "mean man"-the usual term they applied to their murderers. "There was Dr. Todd," (and "he was the brother-in-law of Abraham Lincoln!") chimed in another, "he was a very nice man." And then they would recount how he gave them an ounce more of this, or half a pint more of that, or a rag, or a button, or some ordinary medicine, evidently finding pleasure in the recital. Most of the prisoners seemed to have a lingering respect for Colonel Iverson, of Florence. Although his treatment was none of the best, perhaps, yet because it happened to be better than that of superlatively horrible "Anderson," they rated him as a "gentleman" and "a very nice man." So it was with the "Sisters of Charity," who were "very good, and dressed in a queer dress," and the people of Charleston. The kind acts of the rebel regular soldiers were also applauded, and the entire "onus" of the murders of prisoners, when they did not touch the forbidden dead-line, was placed upon "them conscripts who hated all Yankees;" who were, in the words of an. emaciated French soldier of a New Hampshire Artillery Regiment, "comme les chasseurs, heureux detirer un coup." Poor withered beings! How beautiful it looked to the eye of the soul to see its sisters tenanted in those frail houses, ready at almost any time to crumble, blessing those who had done them good, and uttering not a single word against those who had injured them! Christianity was in them, pure and undefiled; and we felt ashamed of ourselves even that there should be men in this happy North, who feign to tremble, for social order when our brave soldiers come home victorious from the wars. Could such an army, producing such men, ever endanger the liberty or social well being of a country they had suffered to save? To that question there came with us, as we gazed on the meek, worn faces, the parched lips, and the utter, weary, heart-breaking helplessness, an indignant and decisive-No! Some, questioned whether they would like to punish their brute captors, would answer that their jailors ought to be punished, and that if God should ever spare them to stand on the battlefield again, they would try to redress their wrongs. Against whom? would be asked. The rebel soldiers? Oh, no! but against Captain Wirtz and Lieutenant Barrett, and other petty tyrants, and against the conscripts. They asked, in their whole heartedness, that none but the guilty should suffer. In this spirit they live; in this spirit many have died, and many will die.

A GLIMPSE OF ANDERSONVILLE.
The testimony of the rebel surgeons concerning the treatment of our prisoners at Andersonville exhibits a picture of savagery surpassing even the imaginations of those who have heretofore sought to describe the horrors of that prison-house. We publish a number of official reports from the medical officers in charge of the prison, complaining of the want of food, clothing, bedding, water, air, room, and everything necessary to support life, either in sickness or health. Men in the last stages of emaciation from chronic diarrhea received no nourishment whatever, and starved to death on the coarse rations which the stomach of a strong man would reject. Others suffering from gangrene and ulcers were compelled to fester in putridity, without even sufficient water to cleanse their loathsome sores. Week after week the diseased and the dying were kept without shelter, and many of them without clothing, on the bare ground, exposed to a torrid sun by day and to heavy rains at all times, in total disregard of the earnest and almost despairing appeals of kind-hearted physicians for their relief. One surgeon complains 
that the beef served out for rations to sick men had been blown by flies, and was crawling with maggots. Another says that the prison was so crowded that the sick men could not get up to the medical quarters to report their condition. Another states that dead men had been kept four days unburied.
That some allowance must be made for lack of medicines in the South, everybody will admit; but when men die for want of food and straw to lie on, when they are poisoned with noxious air and putrid water, they are simply murdered. They are put to death by slow torture. They are killed by inches. The priests of the Spanish Inquisition never conceived of torments so horrible. A chapter has been added to the book of cruelty which makes barbarians blush. The testimony of the Andersonville surgeons covers a period of nearly a month, and yet it appears that no attention was paid to their appeals. They asked for things which were in easy reach; if there had been any disposition on the part of the rebel authorities to furnish them, they could easily have done so. The evidence is irresistible that they designed and intended the death of their eleven thousand victims, and they adopted the most shocking forms of execution that their ingenuity could conceive.

If the Government of the United States should take eleven thousand prisoners now in its hands, crowd them together in an unwholesome marsh, and gradually starve and suffocate them to death, the ends of justice would not be exceeded. Such a policy would raise a cry of horror from the whole civilized world. Yet that is exactly the case presented to us. The nations of the earth may well wonder what system of education has brought human beings up to the capacity of such horrid work. They may well inquire what manner of men are those who are waging war on the western continent in the
<c03>
nineteenth century? Can they be judged before the bar of humanity as anything better than fields? Can acts like theirs be tolerated anywhere on the face of the earth? Do we not owe it to ourselves, our posterity, and all Christian people who now inhabit or may hereafter dwell on the face of the earth, to eradicate the seeds of such national and social disorder? We heartily agree with the well considered observations of our contemporary of the Deposit Tribune, that "no such barbarous rult as now bears sway at the South must be permitted on this continent; nor should the possibility of its future exercise be hazarded by any omission to eradicate everything that might give it future existence. And the atrocities of that Andersonville prison-sepulchre should be laid bare in authentic form to the world, that the Christian civilization and aroused humanity of the age may blast with their scorn the horrid perpetrators of such acts."-Chicago Tribune.

THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1864.
OUR NEXT VOLUME.
It has been erroneously stated in certain quarters, that the Liberator and Anti-Slavery Standard are to be united on the ensuing 1st of January. Such a union has, indeed, been under friendly consideration; but no such conclusion has been reached. If possible, it is desirable and fitting that both journals should continue until the JUBILEE BELL is rung in the land, proclaiming freedom to all the inhabitants thereof. They were both established to effect the utter overthrow of slavery; they have had essentially the same experience, and gone through the same trials and vicissitudes; and now that the great victory is manifestly nearly accomplished, they should have the satisfaction to record the consummation of their labors, before retiring from the field. But, so enormously enhanced is the price of paper, and also of printing, that we have left to us no other alternative than to increase the subscription terms of the Liberator, or discontinue it a the close of the present volume. Our subscribers (faithful and kind in every emergency, though far from being numerous,) we are confident, will readily meet the small advance to be made in the price, rather than to have our flag go down at this time; especially as that advance will not make up the difference between the old state of things and the new. We shall still have to struggle against wind and tide, in order to keep our barque afloat. Those of our friends with whom we have consulted unanimously advise us to put the terms of the paper at $4.00 per annum; but we are very reluctant to do this; and have concluded therefore, to make the trial at 3.50, instead of 3.00 as hitherto. We shall be sorry to oblige any to with draw their patronage on this account; but we importune none to continue their subscriptions, and make no claims upon any for their considerate regard. Whatever is done we wish to have done for the cause's sake, and not on personal grounds.

THE CAUSE OF THE FREEDMEN.
The abolition of slavery in this country is the release of a population as large as that of all New England from a tyranny which crushed all the rights and claims of human nature at a blow; which left to its victims nothing but the capacity to suffer, and the sole duty to be as submissive to their pretended owners as though they were created to be " yoked with the brute and fettered to the soil." For them there was no home, no parental or filial relationship, no freedom of locomotion, no right to think or speak, no scope for conscience or the fear of God, no development of those faculties, and powers which take hold of immortal life, no moral culture, no educational improvement, no protection against even the most atrocious wrongs, no incentive to industry but the lash, no power of accumulation, no thrift, no prompting to invention or enterprise, no art, no science, no philosophy, no literature, no aspiration to be good or great. Their emancipation, therefore, meets them just where slavery leaves them-in need of everything that pertains to their physical, intellectual, and moral condition. Here, then, is opened an immense field for philanthropic and missionary effort; and it is gratifying to perceive a disposition widely felt to cultivate it, both by individuals and associations. No doubt the charities of the benevolent, in this direction, will be sometimes abused, through the selfishness or in competency of some who enter this field; hence, too much caution cannot be exercised by those who are asked to contribute for so laudable an object. As a friend remarks, "The term freedman is now a word to conjure with," and therefore is there a special liability to be imposed upon by self-seeking adventurers or proselyting sectarists. As far as our knowledge extends, we regard the various Freedmen's Associations now in operation as trustworthy mediums, and deserving of general encouragement in proportion to the catholic spirit in which they are organized, without reference to theological differences of opinion. We trust they will be vigilant and discriminating in the employment of teachers and agents, and endeavor to penetrate into the motives of those who apply for such situations; for if the animating spirit be simply to find employment or to get pecuniary gain, the moral and educational experiment will be neither successful nor creditable.
In this connection it is due to the American (Boston) Tract Society to say, that it is largely concentrating its means and efforts for the elevation of the liberated bondmen, and adapting its publications to their understanding and needs with excellent judgment, and on a liberal scale. In addition to its admirable rudimental sheet for their instruction,- of which an immense edition is issued monthly, and distributed wherever a favorable opening presents,-it has just published " THE FREEDMAN'S PRIMER, OR FIRST READER," to be followed soon by one for more advanced scholars;-and also the first volume of "THE FREEDMAN'S LIBRARY," entitled "JOHN FREEMAN AND HIS FAMILY, by Mrs. H. E. Brown"-a very interesting story that will convey pleasure and instruction to many a sable reader, who, having had his yoke broken, is eagerly acquiring knowledge, and rapidly advancing in mental improvement. All these publications are printed in a handsome style, on large or very legible type, and accompanied by well-executed pictorial illustrations, calculated to arrest attention as well as to please and cultivate the taste.
Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, of England, will deliver a Lecture in Tremont Temple, on Wednesday evening, Jan. 4th, at half-past 7 o'clock. Tickets 25 cents. Reserved seats, 50 cents. Can be obtained at the Rooms of the Young Men's Christian Association, Tremont Temple, and at the door on the evening of the lecture.

SHERMAN AND THE NEGROES. The Washington correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune says:
"The disposition to blame Gen. Sherman for not organizing an army of blacks on his great march through the heart of slavery is unjust. Before he started on his expedition, he earnestly demanded of the War Department that Col. S. Bowman, who raked the residue of Maryland slavery into the U. S. Army, be sent to him to organize the negroes who should flock to his columns into regiments and brigades. This request, most unfortunately for the nation, was either neglected or refused. Sherman had to march without the man, the most experienced in the United States in this business, and whom only he; wanted."
AN EXTRA. NUMBER. This year, it so happens, our subscribers will receive fifty-three instead of fifty-two numbers which ordinarily complete a volume.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
LOOKING TOWARDS SUNSET. From Sources Old and New, Original and Selected. By L. Maria Child. 12 mo. pp. 455. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. We have already noticed this admirable book in "terms of the warmest commendation, and would again call the attention to it of those who are carefully selecting their gift books-especially for such as have past the meridian of life-for New Year's Day. The first edition has had a rapid sale, and it has been difficult to procure copies. The following handsome notice of it we copy with great pleasure from the New fork Tribune:-
The charm of this beautiful volume consists principally in the brief stories and sketches by the distinguished editress, who has contributed to its pages some of the most attractive productions of her versatile and enticing pen. It contains a portion of the traits of mature experience, mellowed by the kindly touch of time, but with no marks of wintry frost, and fresh and juicy as in the prime of early autumn. The themes treated by Mrs. Child relate mostly to the conduct of life, to the sweetness and fragrance of character in different relations, and to the feelings with which persons in the decline of years should contemplate the sure approach of sunset. Without a trace of the austere, didactic spirit of the professed moralist, she inculcates lessons of serene wisdom, teaches the reader how to meet the inevitable ills of this mortal state with a brave spirit and smiling face, and points out the cheerful aspect of the path that slopes down towards the brink of the dark river. Mrs. Child has always evinced a rare command of graceful and fascinating narrative, but she has written nothing which surpasses the ease and vivacity of her contributions to this volume. The paper entitled "Unmarried Women" betrays a delicate considerateness of feeling, and abounds in thoughtful, humane suggestions expressed in language of impressive force. The personal details contained in the original letter which graces the article, as welt as the reminiscences so transparently presented by Mrs. Child herself, give a peculiar interest to this essay, without rudely infringing on the reserve of private life. "Moral Hints," " Letters from an Old Woman," and " Old Bachelors," are each delightful papers of their kind, and are alone sufficient to stamp the writer as an agreeable and persuasive ethical teacher 
with but few rivals in modern literature. Besides the original contributions of the editress, the volume comprises a variety of essays, sketches, and poems, many of them from rare sources, and scarcely one without an attractive interest of its own. Looking either at the admirable character of its contents, or the beauty of its mechanical execution, we must give this book a high place among the Christmas novelties

"WATCH AND WAIT," is the title of another volume of the Woodville Stories, by that most popular of American writers for boys, Oliver Optic, and which has been issued in neat and attractive form by Messrs. Lee & Shepard. It is the story of a fugitive slave, (the scene being laid at the South,) who, after a great variety of stirring adventures, succeeds in reaching a safe harbor in the North. The subject of the story, and the attractive style of the narrative, must make this one of the most popular books of the season.
Lee & Shepard have also published in season for a Christmas or New Year's gift, in a neat volume of 337 pages, "THE SAILOR Boy; or, Jack Somers in the Navy-A Story of the Great Rebellion, by Oliver Optic," author of a large number of popular books. It contains thirty-one chapters, all alive with incidents and adventures, such as the youthful mind eagerly peruses; and is "the record of a young man whose soul burned with a patriotic desire to serve his country in the hour of her greatest need."
COUSIN PRUDY, by Sophia May. Boston: Lee and Shepard. 1865. This is a pleasing, sprightly little story-book "for two young girls anywhere, who choose each other for dear and only friends "-giving the results of the Ruby Seal society, organized by seven young misses to keep secrets-and an account of the friendship of Grace Clifford and Katharine Hallock. It will make an acceptable new year's gift to little girls.
THE LADY'S ALMANAC FOR 1865. George Coolidge, 3 Milk street, Boston, has published "The Lady's Almanac for 1865," in miniature form, which is very neatly executed, typographically and otherwise. Besides the usual calendar pages, it contains a ruled blank page for each month for memoranda-a choice collection of poetical and prose articles, amusing, instructive, and of a pure moral tone-and a number of receipts for the kitchen, prepared according to the necessities of the times; the whole making a tiny volume of 128 pages, yet furnishing much reading in a condensed form. It cannot fail to please.
MR. COOLIDGE has also just published, in its usual handsome typographical dress, THE BOSTON ALMANAC FOR 1865-an annual which has long been a credit to the city, and found a sale far beyond the limits of the Common wealth. It contains a well-executed map of Boston; a chronicle of the events of the past year; a record of the weather for 1864; calendars and memoranda pages; a copious and valuable national register; ditto State, County and City registers; ditto transportation register; business streets lists; and an extended business directory. Every family and place of business should be supplied with it. Number of pages, 278. Price 50 cents; and sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of that sum.
THE ATLANTIC MOSTIILY for January appears in new type, and with a circulation of more than 43,000 copies, which is rapidly increasing. The table of contents presents a brilliant array of names, viz:-
Another Scene from the Dolliver Romance, by Nathaniel Hawthorne; The Wind Over the Chimney, by II. W. Longfellow; Between Europe and Asia, by Bayard Taylor; My Autumn Walk, by Wm. C. Bryant; Five-Sisters Court, at Christmas-Tide; Ice and Esquimaux, II., by D. A. Wasson; Kalundborg Church, by J. G. Whittier; George Cruikshank in Mexico; Leaves from an Officer's Journal, III., by T. W. Higginson; The American Metropolis, by Fitz Hugh Ludlow; Needle and Garden, I.; Memoirs of Authors-Moore, by Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall; On Board the Seventy-Six, by James Russell Lowell; The Chimney-Corner, I., by Harriet Beecher Stowe; God Save the Flag, by O. W. Holmes; Anno Domini, by Gail Hamilton; Reviews and Literary Notices.
WARD'S "FKEEDMAN." At Sowle's Gallery, 14 Summer Street, is to be seen a fine collection of paintings of the French, Belgian and American schools. Many of these are admirable, and worthy of attentive study. But I propose now to speak only of a bronze statuette which stands in the centre of the room, called "The Freedman," by J. Q. A. Ward, dated 1863.
This represents an athletic and finely proportioned Africa-American whose chain has just been broken. He is seated on the stump of a tree, the scantily clothed figure showing a noble, manly form. The body inclines forward, one elbow resting on the knee, and one hand grasping the shackle from which it has just freed itself; and the face, upturned, seems gazing anxiously into the uncertain future. The bands now, for the first time, belong to their natural owner. But the shackle still remaining upon one wrist, the contracted brow, and the countenance clouded with solicitude, give a forcible and affecting expression of the incompleteness of the liberation at the point of time indicated.
This work is noble and beautiful, and fitly represents a point of the highest importance in the history of our country. It is well worthy of repetition in bronze and marble, as an enduring memento of the solemn period through which we have passed; and those who cannot afford such luxuries should find it accessible to them in a plaster cast. Especially should those who buy the engraving of Carpenter's fine picture of the Debate in the Cabinet on President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, and see there the anxious faces of the President and his advisers, questioning whether they may safely give so much, possess this statuette also, and read in it the natural feeling of the negro who receives only so much as that Proclamation gave him. Every old advocate of freedom, and every new convert to it, should see this beautiful statue, which is open to the public at 14, Summer Street.-C. K. W. 
<c05>
The Boston Commonwealth again nominates Rev Mr. Grimes colored preacher in Boston-for chaplain of the Senate. It is not possible to find a Senate of white men who will elect Mr. Grimes to that office. It is a mingling of colors not to be tolerated. The Springfield Republican, in noticing the nomination, says-"Mr. Grimes is a very good man, and useful to his congregation, but nobody would think of making a white clergyman of his calibre a legislative, chaplain. He is proposed because he is colored and poor, neither of which facts furnishes a reason for giving him a chaplaincy. If he and his parish are poor, there are rich anti-slavery Christians enough in Boston to bestow upon them all needed charity; and color is no motive in the case, unless we mean to take the advance position: that the black man is 'as good as the white, and a great deal better.' There is such a thing as making a sound principle ridiculous, though some people in Boston do not seem to know it."
-Newburyport Herald.
The Editor of the Herald has long evinced a degree of color phobia as vulgar as it is criminal and preposterous. The wonder is that he is willing to remain in a Commonwealth which recognizes all as equal before the laws, without regard to race or complexion. He rabidly declares that "it is not possible to find a Senate of white men who will elect Mr. Grimes to die office of chaplain;" and in the spirit of slaveholding arrogance asserts-"It is a mingling of colors not to be tolerated." Mingling of colors, forsooth! Why, Mr. Grimes is at least as white as the editor of the Herald, and we think decidedly better looking! Besides, what legislative body, is not invariably" a mingling of colors," from the fairest to the apparent darkest featured? The soundest objection to the appointment of Mr. Grimes would be that he is not a black man, and therefore offers no radical test. As to he Springfield Republican, it is a paper notorious for its contempt of the colored race; and to quote it as authority in such a case is simply one indecorous sheet attempting to bolster itself up by another. The Republican is compelled to admit that "Mr. Grimes is a very good man," which ought to be the highest qualification required in a chaplain; and secondly, that he is "useful to his congregation," which certainly implies no unfitness to offer daily prayer in the Senate. But it sneers at his want of "caliber "-a sneer as pitiful as it is groundless. It further says that "color is no motive in the case, unless we mean to take the advance position that the black man is as good as the white man, and a great deal better." How any better? The election of Mr. Grimes would end complexional considerations in the choice of chaplain, and hence forward color would be "no motive in the case," as it has invariably been hitherto. To proscribe or favor white or black is equally irrational, and at war with the genius of free institutions. Mr. Grimes is a citizen of Massachusetts, a voter under its constitution, and eligible to any office in the gift of the people, or of their representatives. He is a courteous and refined gentleman, and a much respected clergyman, and in all respects qualified to be the Senate chaplain; and we trust that body will be disposed to make itself worthy of historical remembrance by unanimously electing him-if it elect any one-to fill that office. Let Massachusetts still lead the van in the conflict with the spirit of despotism, and for the overthrow of a prejudice which is equally unchristian and unnatural.
ROBERT F. SMALL. Our plea in behalf of this unfortunate young man, whose affecting case we have briefly narrated in the Liberator-namely, that, fleeing from slavery after the rebellion broke out, he acted as a servant in the army of the Potomac for more than a year, and was at the battles of Williamsburg, Malvern Hill, Fair Oaks, and other places; that, through illness and exposure to the wintry weather, he froze both of his feet, so that amputation became necessary; that, not having been regularly enlisted at that time, be cannot look to the Government for any pay or pension, and is therefore left in a very deplorable situation; and that we were anxious to procure for him a pair of artificial legs, by which he would be able again to walk, and to be usefully employed-has been very kindly responded to by those whose charities we have already recorded, amounting in the aggregate to 67,75-a sum, however, quite inadequate to accomplish the object sought. It now gives us unspeakable pleasure to announce, that, on the case being laid before the Sanitary Commission in this city, they promptly expressed a willingness to assume the entire expense of the artificial legs for young Small-so it will not be necessary to send us any more money for this purpose. We now leave it for those who have already contributed to instruct us what to do; in the premises. As Small is, and must be for some time to come, helpless, without a home or employment, and as he is almost entirely destitute of clothing, we shall take it for granted-unless we hear to the contrary- that they will be glad to have the sum sent by them judiciously expended to cover his nakedness, and pay for his board. In due time we hope to find a situation for him, whereby he can earn his own livelihood, as he strongly desires to do. It is remarkable what patience and resignation he exhibits in view of his sad mutilation-never regretting that he left the house of bondage to obtain his God-given right to freedom, or that he lost his limbs in the service of a Government which has virtually secured the total abolition of slavery wherever it holds jurisdiction.
OUR FREE LIST. For several years, through the co-operation of the Anti-Slavery Bazaar, and for the last two years by the aid of the Hovey Committee, we have been enabled to furnish, weekly, a hundred copies of the Liberator to various societies, institutions, and worthy individuals not well able to subscribe for the paper, yet gratefully appreciating the gift of it, and reading it with pleasure and profit. "We are now obliged to state that, as a majority of the Hovey Committee decline any longer to make an appropriation for this object-on the alleged ground, we understand, that the Liberator, for the countenance it has given to President Lincoln and his administration, "has no more claim to be circulated by the Committee than any other Republican paper" (!)-we should be under the necessity of wholly discontinuing our FREE LIST for the next volume, were it not that our esteemed friend and steadfast coadjutor, (E. D. DRAPER, of Hopedale,) hearing of this fact, generously offers to bear a large portion of the pecuniary expense of this list. Nevertheless, as it stands,-unless others are disposed to help sustain it complete as hitherto,-we must curtail it to a considerable extent. Those, therefore, who have had the privilege of the Free List, but now find themselves cut off from receiving the paper as usual, will understand the reason why. We should be glad to supply them if we could bear the burden, but our limited circulation forbids.
THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION. Carpenter's great painting, which so faithfully illustrates the grandest moral event in our national history, attracts crowds of visitors to the exhibition room at Williams & Everett's. Eight full length life-size portraits are delineated upon the canvass, which measures 14 1-2 feet by 9 feet; and the old Cabinet Council Chamber of the White House is given with almost photographic accuracy. The picture is purely historical, and as such mast hold a place in public estimation not exceeded by Trumbull's " Declaration of Independence," which has been declared by competent critics to be the only veritable historical painting in the rotunda of the national Capitol.
A fine engraving from this noble work is now being executed by Ritchie, of New York, and will be published in about a year by Derby and Miller of that city. Subscriptions are received at the exhibition room, where a large list of subscribers has already been obtained, which includes the names of many of our most noted citizens.
DEATH OF WILLIAM CURTIS NOYES. This distinguished lawyer died at his residence in New York on Sunday morning last, of apoplexy. He met with the New England Society last Thursday evening, and as President through the ensuing year delivered an address. The next day he suffered an attack of paralysis, which induced his death.
<c06>
LETTER FROM J. MILLER MCKIM.
424 WALNUT STREET,
PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 19,1864.
MY DEAR GARRISON-Enclosed, find four dollars to pay next year's subscription to the Liberator.
I am sorry that while you were about it, you did not make this the regular price. To your subscribers however poor-myself, for instance-there is no practical in a case like this, between $3 50 and $400; while to you the aggregate difference would be all-important. Any one who can afford to pay $3 50 can afford to pay $4 -and no one who would take the paper at the former price would grudge the latter. Then, 4 00 is even change, easily reduced to fractions, and convenient for remittance which is something in these days of hurry-scurry, when everything is a gain that saves time and trouble Yet I fully appreciate your reluctance to increase the pecuniary burdens of your subscribers. It is like you to be willing to bear other people's burdens, even though it increases your own.
But these times of inflated prices cannot last much longer. They must collapse with the rebellion Then you can come down to your old terms: or which would be "far better," you can go up in a glorious euthanasy.
The time is near when there shall be no need of a Liberator; we shall want in its place an Elevator, You shall retire on a pension!! And your place on the tripod shall be occupied by another. Your children in the faith will take up the work where you shall have left it off, and push it on to completion.
Our work, you know, is two-fold; first to break down slavery, and next to lift up the black man. We have done in effect the one; we must now set to work with renewed vigor upon the other Slavery is more than moribund; it is in the very "article," and should be treated as it treats its victims-"pro mortuo" The head of the serpent is smashed; it is puerile to linger over the monster with fear because it still tail. Practical men take some things for granted; they don't always demand ocular demonstration
Abolitionists are practical men. Assuming the death of slavery as a foregone conclusion, they advance to the next duty-reconstruction; reconstruction, not on Capitol Hill, but in Capitol Hollow;-not about Willard's and the White Home but not Tenth Street, and over on "the Island"; in the cabins and shanties that dot the commons, and form a fringe around the city.
The school-house; the school-house; THE SCHOOL HOUSE! this is the lever on which Abolitionists, I must now throw their main weight. As the shackles fall from the black man's limbs, our next duty is to liberate his mind. This is the way to reconstruct; thus we lay the corner-stone of the new edifice This simple instrumentally is the Philosopher's stone for all our troubles. It furnishes isolation of the whole problem-social and political. It has been tried and proved. It promotes order and directs industry; it enlightens and elevates. It is the "day of small things," which is not to be despised. It is the "little leaven" that leavens the whole lump. It is the simple but vital force that is to inform and recreate the nation.
Our prime and supreme duty at this moment is to educate the black man. We owe it to him; and we owe it not less to ourselves. For these educated slaves are to be enfranchised citizens. The one is a logical and inevitable consequence of the other. The forces-of which the anti-slavery movement was one-that produced the former, are at work to bring about the latter. This work of emancipation will go on till it shall be complete. It will not be complete till the black man and the white man stand equal before the law. In political as well as in natural rights, there must be no respect of color.
To your school houses, then, O Abolitionists! Not forsaking the rostrum; not abating the tone of your editorial demands; not omitting any opportunity of I making and shaping public opinion; but demonstrating as well as asserting the black man's right to all the franchises of humanity. B, Grate Brown-to whom all honor!-will doubtless repeat in the Senate his plea of The Cosmos in favor of "opening up the franchise to all save the criminal"; but, however eloquent, it will not equal in cogency the argument that comes from the twenty Freedmen's schools around the base of the Capitol.
Let Abolitionists everywhere take hold of and promote this school enterprise. They can thus assert and I demonstrate at the same time, They can be both practical and theoretical. They can lift up the black man with one hand, and fend off the white man with the other. They can be both Abolitionists and Elevations. They can be in the State, and yet-if they choose-not of it. They can shape politics, and be above their atmosphere. The Freedman's cause is the Slave-man's cause. It is the Freed-man, just now, that is knocking at our door. "Do the duty," saith Wisdom, "that lieth nearest to you."
Yours, ever truly, J. M. MCKIM
"MARYLAND, MARYLAND, BEAUTIFUL, MARY LAND" In another column will be found a document which will be read with the liveliest pleasure. It is an address from an association lately formed in Baltimore for the moral and educational improvement of the colored people; an association which, as appears, includes some of the best, most influential men in that city.
The address is admirable in itself, and admirably well-timed. It shows a thorough appreciation of what is due-as a matter of justice-to the colored people and as a matter of expediency to the best interests of the State. It shows that the men who have given to the slaves of Maryland their freedom know that that act will be incomplete, if not followed up by proper effort to enlighten and elevate them.
The address, we infer from its style and substance, is from the pen of the Hon. H L. Bond, Judge of the Criminal Court of the city of Baltimore, and one of the truest friends of freedom in the country Judge Bond and Henry Winter Davis-aided, as they were, by Archibald Sterling, Joseph Mr. Cushing, and a few others-are the country and the cause indebted for the first example in history of immediate, unconditional uncompensated emancipation. All honor to these brave men for their noble efforts!. We rejoice with them in the signal success that has thus far attended them.
Mr. Emerson's lecture on "Books," last Sunday evening, was brilliant and delightful, as his lectures always are. But in one passage, while treating of the literature of freedom, he seemed to awake from his usual philosophic quietude, and spoke with an impressive energy which deeply moved his audience It recalled to some the remembrance of his tone and manner in the delivery of his admirable poem, called forth by Mr. Lincoln's promise of a Proclamation of Emancipation, and recited in the Music Hall in the afternoon of January 1st very time when the news of the publication of that document was passing the telegraphic wires. The document was passing the telegraphic wires. The feeling naturally aroused by that occasion, and stimulated by Mr. Emerson's poem, found appropriate expression in nine cheers given by the immense audience for Abraham Lincoln, followed by three cheers for William Lloyd Garrison. These two are but fair specimens of a devotion to the cause of freedom which Mr. Emerson has expressed from more than twenty years.-C.K.W.
Our friend, M. B. Linton, under date of Trenton, N. J, 20th inst" says-
"George Thomson, the veteran and able advocate gave a very instructive and practical lecture last evening, in this place, upon the 'American Crisis.' This is the first of a series to be given during the present week, most of which come off in Bucks Montgomery counties, Pa. Quite an interest is evinced to see and hear one whom, years ago, the people at the North in many places so dishonorably maltreated.
DECEMBER 30. THE LIBERATOR. 211
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
EDUCATION IN MARYLAND.
Rooms of the Baltimore Association for the Moral and Educational Improvement of the Colored People, Room
No. 3, Bible House.
FELLOW-CITIZENS: Since the adoption of the new Constitution, very grave issues are submitted for your consideration.
That instrument, by its benevolent provisions, has added to the eighty thousand free colored people of out State eighty-seven thousand others, recently our State eighty-seven thousand others, recently slaves.
These two classes constitute the greater portion of the labor of the State. They are likely to remain among us; for they are attached to their homes, and no Government has ever consented to the violent removal of one-fourth of its population. 
For the most part, they are ignorant. The habits of their former industry have not been such as to teach them ideas of thrift, carefulness, or providence. Thrown upon their own resources, though their labor is in great demand they cannot be expected to know the necessity of industry, of industry, or how to geek at home permanent occupation and employment. 
We are forced to think it is the duty of every citizen of Maryland to seek to make this population most useful to the State, as it is the bounden duty of Christian men to seek their moral improvement. 
There are two courses to be pursued. The one is to leave these persons in the ignorance and moral destitution in which many of them now, unhappily, are; and the other to endeavor by education to improve their habits, instruct them in their industry, make diligent the idle, reform the vicious, and stimulate the good, that they may rise in the scale of being, and be better fitted for the varied duties they are called on to perform
The first course may, at first, seem the least troublesome and expensive; but ignorance is the mother of vice, and unless these people are taught their duties to the State, and their more important duty to God, and are not suffered to remain in the helpless state in which slavery has left them, the necessity for alms-houses, jails and penitentiaries will teach the folly of such economy. 
Educated labor produces more than uneducated labor. It is, therefore, the interest of the State that all labor should be instructed. One of the hopes of the friends of Emancipation were, that measure would induce ration in to the State, raise the price of our lands, give demand for our labor in erecting mills and dwellings, and in manufacturing the various utensils necessary for the increased population of Maryland. But it cannot be expected that any number of the class of emigrants we desire will leave their homes to dwell in Maryland, If they know they are to be surrounded by an illiterate ignorant population, whose ignorance and vice are to be daily increased by withholding all instruction in the arts of labor, all educational improvement, and every teaching of morality which would lead them no higher ideas of duty to God and to their neighbor. 
To pursue this plan would deprive the State, in the first place, of the productive labor of one hundred and sixty thousand people, and would prevent desirable emigration into her borders, and oppress those of us now residents of the State with additional taxation to furnish what the expense of education would have entirely prevented.
Perhaps those of the colored people whose circumstances require daily toil for the support of their famlies can receive but little direct benefit at their time of life from any effort now put forth; but we believe the influent of the education of their children will be felt upon the home and the household, that family respect will increase, that thrift and cleanliness will be promoted; and the same beneficent effects which education produces upon other populations will be felt among the colored people.
They have been taxed for a long while for public schools, but have been allowed none. Their present condition, when we consider what has been denied, them, and how- little means or opportunity they have had for self-improvement, is a standing rebuke to those who think they are incapable of moral or mental culture They long for opportunity to show how readily they become a people no longer degraded by, but useful to the State.
The Baltimore Association for the Moral and Educational Improvement of the Colored People intends to do what it can to give them such opportunity. Its members will give their best efforts to this charitable purpose.
Those of our fellow-citizens who feel any interest in a people upon whom their vote has thrust the responsibilities of life, and those in whom Christianity attempts kindness and duty toward these people, are invited to give us their support in such manner as they may think the most useful, that we, if necessary, by private benevolence, may do what long since ought to have been done, and we hope soon will be done, by the State-i, e., provide means for the moral and educational improvement of one-fourth of our population.
We annex a list of the officers of the Association:
President- EVANS ROGERS.
Vice Presidents -ARCHIBALD STIRLING, THOMAS KELSO, WILLIAM J. ALBERT, FRANCIS T. KING, JOHN W. RANDOLPH.
Recording Secretary- GEORGE A. POPE.
Corresponding Secretary-JOSEPH M. CUSHING.
Treasurer-JESSE TYSON.
Board of Managers.
Rev. F. Israel, Ashur Clarke.
Rev. WM. Bruce, James Carey,
Rev. F. L. Brauns, Alex. M. Carter,
Rev. T. Stork, D.D., Richard M. Janney,
Rev. J. F. W. Ware, Henry Stockbridge,
Hon. H. L. Bond, Wm. Daniel,
Dr. C. C. Cox, Jas. Carey Coale,
Dr. R. W. Pease, A. Stirling, Jr.,
Dr. J. C. Thomas, Jno. A. Needles,
Galloway Cheston, Jno. T. Graham,
William J. Albert, E. Stabler, Jr.
WM. Kennedy, George B. Cole,
Hazlet McKim, Alex. T. Johnson,
G. T. Hopkins, W. K. Carson,
Daniel Holliday, John S. Gilman.
Finance Committee.
Wm. J. Albert, Wash, K. Carson,
Archibald Stirling, Sr., Wm. Daniel,
F.T. King, Edw. Stabler, Jr..
John W. Randolph, Alex. T. Johnson,
James Carey, Geo. B. Cole.

JUBILEE IN FREEHOLD, N. J.
At 2 o'clock, a large procession of colored Americans,
headed by the Revs. Andrew Till and Mr. Catto, wending its way through the principal streets, to celebrate the abolition of slavery by Maryland. The principal hall in the place had been secured for the meeting. It was a pleasant sight to behold, as the long line of freedmen's sons and daughters preceded by their children, dressed in their holiday suits, and bearing evergreens in their hands, wound their way into the capacious hall. The children occupied the Platform. The meeting was opened by singing,
"Blow ye the trumpet, blow," &c. 
and prayer by Rev. A. Till, who subsequently, on notion, was elected president. The meeting being duly organized, the children, under the lead of Misses Bertha Burnet and Hannah Jones, sang the Star <illegible> Banner; and during the meeting they sang several other patriotic pieces with such perfection, for children, as to make their efforts a matter of considerable remark. 
The address for the occasion was delivered by Mr. Catto. It was no only well delivered, but elicited continued applause during the hour and quarter of its delivery. It was replete with instruction, and truly patriotic and eloquent. It has been said by some one here, that it was doubtful if any colored man could produce from his own brain such a speech. Of course, the surmisers can know but little of our public colored men. There is a great curiosity to see the manuscript, and out reverend friend has notified anyone who may have doubts of its originality, that it is open for their inspection.
<c02>
The following resolutions were read, and unanimously adopted by the large assembly present:-
Resolved, That the act of Maryland, in emancipating her bondmen, gives ns the assurance that freedom loses nothing by this rebellion; slavery, only, perishes beneath the blows given for the Union.
Resolved, That the progress of liberal ideas, culminating in the freedom of the slaves in many of the slaveholding States in the Union, is a fresh proof that the mission of the Union is one of liberty and freedom, and not one of slavery and proscription.
Resolved, That we pledge to our noble and excellent President, Abraham Lincoln, and to his advisers, whether in the cabinet or not, our thanks for the manly and God-like position they took in crushing the rebellion by freeing the slave, and employing the negro as an element of strength in support of the Union.
Resolved, That, like our fathers in the battles of the revolution, in the war of 1812, we will, in 1864, and in years to come, if need be, rally around the flag of our country-through triumph or defeat-at all times and under all circumstances.
ABRAM POWELL,
HENRY HOPKINS, Secretaries.
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
CONSTITUTIONAL PROHIBITION OF SLAVERY-IT IS FINISHED!-A NATIONAL JUBILEE IS MAY, 1865.
BARN-STABLE, Dec. 23, 1864. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIED-Notice is hereby given, that the bill providing for the prohibition of slavery by an amendment of the Constitution will be taken up Jan. 6th. Should the amendment be adopted, and sent to the people, and by them ratified; in the course of the spring, ns I doubt not it would be, if it is adopted by Congress, then, so far as the Federal Government is concerned, slavery has no legal existence in the United Stales; the black spot on our national character is wiped out, so far as legislative enactments can wipe it out. Slavery is not only legally abolished, but also forever prohibited within the limits of the Republic.
Slavery being legally abolished, and forever prohibited so far as it can be by the Constitution and by statute law, what more have we to do as Abolitionists? Our great work, the abolition of chattel slavery, is done. No power will exist in any State to perpetuate or to establish it. No new State can come in, and no old State can remain in, with a slave. So far as organic and statute law can do it, this "sum of all villany," this consummation of all meanness, theft, robbery and piracy, is at an end in this nation. Only the debris of that temple of blood and tears remains to be removed. Its removal will be a colossal work. To educate and elevate the redeemed slaves will require the energies of philanthropy for years to come.
In this work hundreds of thousands will join with us, who have not only taken no part in the abolition of slavery, but who have strenuously and persistently opposed it, by whatever ecclesiastical, political, social, commercial or literary power they possessed. With these we can unite our efforts to secure to the emancipated their domestic, social, political, educational and industrial rights.
Equality as to natural rights, without regard to color, country or condition! This must be the watchword of the Nation's future. To remove all obstructions which the churches, the State Governments, and the mean and base prejudices of society throw in the way of the intellectual, social and moral elevation and happiness of the negro will require great integrity and firmness of purpose, and great wisdom and energy of action. But slavery being abolished, and the negro no longer regarded nor treated as a chattel but as a man, by the State and National Governments, and by the church and clergy, his recognition as a man, by all schools and colleges, and in every department of life, will follow in due time. The self-evident truth that all men are created equal ought to be and must be the great test of the pulpit, at the bar, on the platform, on the bench, in the legislative hall, and in the executive chair, Equality of Natural Rights must be written on every pulpit, on every ballot-box, over the door of every school-house and college, home and nursery. On the practical recognition of this self-evident truth must the Republic exist, or it cannot long exist at all.
But all this must come after the work of abolition is done; and the negro, nationally, by Church and State, has ceased to be regarded as a thing, a brute, and is practically enrolled, by the State and National Governments, in the record of humanity. Should Congress and the people consummate this work this winter, what then remains for us to do, as Abolitionists, but to hold a National Jubilee in New York at the Anniversary of the American A. S. Society, and then another great Jubilee at the New England A. S. Convention, during the last week in May? Could not all the old Abolitionists, however they may have differed as to measures and means, in the past, unite in such a National Jubilee over the downfall of chattel slavery, and the triumph of right over wrong, of truth over error, of liberty over slavery? I would like to see those few that remain who began with you, and who have stood by and worked with you in this greatest of all earthly achievements,-THE ABOLITION OF CHATTEL SLAVERY IN THE AMERICAN REPOBLIC,-assembled in triumph where so often we have met in peril of our lives, and amid the threats, the scorn, and malignant wrath of Church and State. Let us meet in May, first in New York, and then in Boston, with this on our banner: "IT IS FINISHED!" and let us give a shout of triumph that shall be heard around the world.
Would to God that our great work could have been finished without the shedding of any blood but our own! But it was not so to he. On whom, rests the responsibility of these rivers of blood shed to destroy slavery, the Future will ask of those who, twenty-five years ago, had the power to abolish it without bloodshed, but who would not and did not use it.
But this Jubilee cannot be held in May next, unless the Constitution be amended so as forever to prohibit slavery in the Republic. Let all do what they can to back up and urge on Congress and the President to do this great work. Slavery is not dead. Any State may, if it choose, establish slavery. In God's name, let us have the Constitutional Prohibition! Then, in all coming time, not a slave shall clank a chain, nor shed a tear, on our broad domain.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
Correspondence of the Baltimore American.]
ANNAPOLIS, Md., Dec. 20, 1864. 
To-day will be witnessed a scene here, sad enough to touch the sympathies of the most hardened rebel in the country, and convince him of the cruel and barbarous treatment which the Union prisoners receive at the hands of the chivalry of the South. No less than 70 victims of their barbarity are to be borne to their last resting place, and 70 more horrid looking corpses never were seen by human eye. To such a state had they been reduced by starvation and exposure in open stockades, that their remains resemble Egyptian mummies, and can be kept any length of time, there being nothing to decompose but the frame, and a cadaverous skin slightly drawn over it; and I regret to say that there are many more who will soon follow them, for all the hospitals are filled to their utmost capacity with similar crises. The officers of the Northern Light state that such was the anxiety of our men to get out of the hands of their jailors, that many would walk until death would strike them down, their last look being given to the old flag, under whose folds they hoped soon to be.
PASSPORTS FOR COLORED PEOPLE. The following official letter from the State Department will give satisfaction to every lover of liberty and equality:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE-PASSPORT BUREAU, WASHINGTON, Nor. 29, 1864. 
J. B. NOTES, Esq., New York:
DEAR SIR: .Your note of the 28th inst, relative to passports for colored people., came to hand this P. M. In reply, I have to acquaint you that there it no distinction made in regard to color. Passports can be obtained by any one complying with the regulations.
Yours truly,
A. TUNSTELL. WELCH,
Passport Clerk
<c03>
THE THIRTY- FIRST NATIIONAL ANTISLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY. 
The AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY was organized for the immediate and total abolition of slavery in the United States. Its labors have been unremittedly prosecuted, "without compromise and without concealment," for a period of thirty years, through lecturing agencies, the printing and circulating of anti-slavery publications, the support of an official weekly organ, and other instrumentalities; and to these labors is largely due, primarily, that cheering and marvellous change in public sentiment, in opposition to slavery and in support of free institutions, which has taken place in all the loyal States, and which enables the Government to maintain successfully its tremendous conflict with the Southern SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION. But slavery is not yet abolished, even in the Rebel States, except by the Proclamation of President Lincoln; and it still holds a, tenacious existence even in some of the so-called loyal sections of the country. Not until its utter extirpation everywhere should the American Anti-Slavery Society be disbanded, or regard its mission as consummated, or be left without the necessary pecuniary aid to carry on its ordinary operations. Its time to dissolve will be when liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof, by the proposed amendment of the Constitution of the United States, making it illegal to enslave any person on the American soil. That grand and glorious event, it is confidently hoped and believed, will take place during the coming year, inasmuch as the potential sentiment of the people in regard to it was indicated by an overwhelming majority at the late Presidential election, and in as much as President Lincoln, in his annual message to Congress, urges this constitutional amendment upon that body for speedy adoption. Thank God that the year 1865 is, in all probability, to be the long-desired YEAR OF JUBILEE!
Once more, then-and we trust for the last time-let the treasury of the American Anti-Slavery Society be replenished by the generous donations and contributions of those who have so long given it their countenance; and also of those who, regenerated in their views and feelings on the question of slavery, have yet to show their appreciation of the invaluable labors of the Society in disseminating light and knowledge, quickening conscience, elevating the moral standard of individual and national conduct, and vindicating the rights of human nature on the broad platform of universal freedom and equality. From all loyal men and women the Society is especially deserving of consideration and co-operative support for its prompt and uncompromising hostility to the rebellion, and to whatever at the North has been in sympathy with the rebels; and for the strong moral support and hearty sympathy it has given to the Government in its long and bloody conflict with the Slave Power.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce that they will be ready to receive, with all thankfulness, whatever the philanthropic, the liberal-minded, and the patriotic; throughout the land, at home or abroad, may feel disposed to contribute, at its annual gathering in Boston, on WEDNESDAY evening, January 25th, 1865; and to this convocation of the friends of impartial liberty they cordially invite all who desire to aid in breaking every yoke, and setting every captive free. And may the result abundantly meet the necessities of an association, whose crown of glory is its unswerving fidelity, through years of conflict and martyrdom, to the "self-evident truths" enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence! 
Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. All such will he duly acknowledged and faithfully expended.
L. Maria Child, Elizabeth Gay,
Mary May, Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring Ann Rebecca. Bramhall,
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth von Arnim,
Sarah Shaw Russell, Abby H. Stephenson,
Sarah Russell May, Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Sarah II. Southwick,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mart Elizabeth Sargent,
Lydia D. Parker, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Caroline R. Putnam, Abby Francis,
Mattie Griffith, Georgina Otis,
Mary Jackson, Katharine Earle Farnum,
Evelina A. Smith, Rebecca Bradford,
Sarah Bradford, Ellen Wright Garrison. Caroline M. Severance,

SAVANNAH CAPTURED!
800 Prisoners, 150 Guns, and 25,000 Bales of Cotton Captured.
DESPATCHES FROM GENERAL SHERMAN AND GENERAL FOSTER.
"SAVANNAH, GEORGIA, Dec. 22, 1864. 
To His Excellency President Lincoln:
I BEG TO PRESENT YOU AS A CHRISTMAS GIFT THE CITY OF SAVANNAH, WITH ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY HEAVY GUNS AND PLENTY OF AMMUNITION, AND ALSO ABOUT TWENTY-FIVE THOUSAND BALES OF COTTON.
(Signed) W. T. SHERMAN,
Major General."
'STEAMER GOLDEN GATE, Savannah River-7 P. M., Dec. 22. 

To Lieut. Gen. U. S. Grant and Major Gen. H. W. Halleck:
I have the honor to report that I have just returned from Gen. Sherman's headquarters in Savannah. I send Major Gray of my staff as bearer of dispatches from Gen. Sherman to you, and also a message to the President.
The city of Savannah was occupied on the morning of the 21st. Gen Hardee, anticipating the contemplated assault, escaped with the main body of his infantry and light artillery, on the afternoon and night of the 20th, by crossing the river to the Union causeway opposite the city. The rebel iron-clads were blown up and the navy yard burned. All the rest of the city is intact, and contains 20,000 citizens, quiet and well-disposed.
The captures include 800 prisoners, 150 guns, 13 locomotives in good order, 190 cars, a large supply of ammunition and material of war,3 steamers and 33,000 bales of cotton safely stored in warehouses. All these valuable fruits of an almost bloodless victory have been, like Atlanta, fairly won.
I opened communication with my steamers to-day, taking up what torpedoes we could see, and passing safely over others. Arrangements are made to clear the channel of all obstructions.
Yours, &c., J. G. FOSTER,
Major General."
The value of the cotton captured at Savannah by Gen. Sherman will be from twelve to seventeen millions of dollars, according as either statement as to quantity may prove correct.
REBEL DESPONDENCY.
The Richmond Whig of to-day says that Jeff. Davis has been suffering from neuralgia for a few days past, but is so much better as to be present yesterday at a Cabinet meeting. On the contrary, I am assured, and believe it to be true, that Jeff. Davis is lying critically ill with a nervous typhoid fever, from which if is doubtful if he recovers. His condition is said to be rendered more precarious by the successive disasters which have befallen the rebel cause at every point of the compass, rendering it difficult to keep his mind sufficiently composed to meet the wishes of his physician and the necessities of his case.
The rebel Senate, on motion of Mr. Hill of Georgia, went into secret session immediately, upon assembling on Saturday last, and a stormy time was had. The question of immediately-arming the negroes was again brought up, and is believed to have: been pasted by an al most unanimous vote-
For several days past, every able-bodied negro in Richmond, whether free or slave, "has been quietly seized, and hurried off to a camp of instruction. The gloom which the news arriving through their own and the Northern Journals has caused in Richmond is unparalleled during the war, while the rumors of still farther disasters which the public and the army believe have been suppressed by the military authorities, cause a feeling of despondency and uneasiness that cannot be adequately described in words.
<c04>
RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION IN MARY LAND 
The Baltimore American of Saturday says
"The abolition, of slavery in Maryland is attended with the good results the friends at emancipation expected. A steady stream of emigrants from our sister Stales, particularly Pennsylvania, is pouring in upon us, now that free labor' has become .a settled fact In every county of the State, large sales of land have taken place (hiring the past two months, and the purchasers are men who intend to settle in our midst, and who do not purchase for the sake of speculation. The worn-out and half-tilled tracts of the large slaveholder, in the hands of farmers, who till their grounds by free labor-who encourage tree schools, and all the accompaniments of free institutions-will soon place Maryland in the position among the free States that she should have occupied long ago. The following from the Denton Union, published in Caroline county, is an indication of the revolution taking place:
Mr. James G. Redden has sold his farm near town, containing near three hundred acres, to Mr. Jacob L. Zook; of Cumberland county, "Pennsylvania, for $9,000. It is a healthy and desirable residence.
Mr. Redden has also sold the Mansion Farm, formerly the residence of the late Wm. Jones, near Andersontown, to Mr. J. W. Cline of Cumberland county, Pennsylvania, but at what price we have not learned.
'Mr. Redden also sold his Burrsville farm, near the Delaware line, to Mr. Tobias Miller of Cumberland county. Pennsylvania, containing one hundred acres, or $3,600.'
We have always understood that the land in Caroline is among the poorest in the State, and believe that the prices above specified are remarkably good. The Union, in commenting on the above sales, says: 'We would advise all persons, whether residents here or elsewhere, who wish to purchase farms in this county, to do so speedily, before the price of land goes up. They are cheap at present, but how long they will remain so, now that Maryland is a free State, no one can tell.' The Somerset Herald says that' more land is wanted; Northerners continue to visit this county (Somerset,) looking for farms.' Well may the President say that 'the genius of rebellion will no more claim Maryland.' That day is gone forever." 
FREE COLORED SCHOOLS. A free school for colored females was opened on Monday last, in the lecture room of the Bethel Church, Saratoga street, under the auspices of the American Missionary Association. As a mark of esteem for the President of the United States as the author of the Proclamation of Emancipation, and the deep interest he has manifested in the welfare of the colored people, the parents and friends of the children who attend this school decided to call it the "Lincoln School."
Soon after General Butler pronounced the word "Contraband," and the freed men began to collect at Fortress Monroe and vicinity, the Association above alluded to sent boxes of clothing to cover their nakedness, and afterwards well-educated teachers to open schools for them; and during the past. year has sent more than two hundred and fifty teachers and missionaries to Fortress Monroe, Norfolk, Portsmouth, Newbern, Roanoke Island, Beaufort, New Orleans, Vicksburg, Port Hudson, Nashville, Memphis, Washington, Arlington, Harper's Ferry, and other places.
Several months ago, some of the colored clergymen of this city applied to this Association for teachers to open schools; and after a visit here of several days by one of the Secretaries, and learning that they greatly desired to have their children educated, he promised to send them two excellent teachers at once, and open a school, which has been done as stated above.
The whole expense for these schools to those that lave the benefit of them is to provide a room and pay the board of the teacher, their salaries being paid by the Association or the friends of the teachers; and the Association has a large number of teachers, with their salaries provided for, ready to go wherever a room and board is offered them. No teacher is sent out, unless qualified to teach in the common schools in the North.-Baltimore American.
PROGRESS IN MARYLAND. The new constitution of Maryland is a great step in advance of former legislation in that State. Besides giving freedom to 75, 000 slaves, it provides for a system of free schools for the children of the whole State, colored as well as white, and now schools are being organized by private benevolence, until the State adopts a system for colored children, in various sections of Baltimore, and a few in the counties. One large school was opened last week under the auspices of the American Missionary Association, with two excellent and experienced female teachers from Massachusetts, and this school, together with others that will soon be opened", are under the supervision of Mr. Nathaniel Noyes of this city, a gentleman admirably qualified for the position. Mr. Noyes is now on a brief visit to this city and vicinity to obtain funds to help extend these schools.
There is great prejudice by many against educating the blacks, and it may be some time before the people will be ready to tax themselves for the support of schools for the colored children; hut by a little assistance from the friends of the colored people in the North, schools can be opened and made so successful that it will tend to hasten the State in organizing a system of free schools for the colored as well as the white children-Boston Journal.

THE BATTLE OF HONEY HILL, S. C.
REBEL ACCOUNT OF THE ACTION.
The Savannah Republican of the 3d instant contains the following account of the battle of Honey Hill:
"Honey Hill is about two and a half miles east of the village of Grahamville, Beaufort District. On the crest of this, where the road, or the highway, strikes it, is n semi-circular line of earthworks, defective, though, in construction, as they are too high for infantry, and have little or no exterior slope. These works formed the centre of our lines on Wednesday, while our left reached up into the pine lands without protection, and our right along a line of fence that skirts the swamp below the batteries. They commanded fully the road in front as it passes through the swamp at the base of the hill, and only some fifty or sixty yards distant. Through the swamp, during the winter months, runs a small creek, which spreads up and down the roads for some thirty or forty yards, but is quite shallow the entire distance. Some sixty yards beyond this creek the main road turns off to the left, making an obtuse angle, while another and smaller road makes off to the right from the same point.
The enemy came by the former road, and turned the angle apparently before they were aware of an opposing force. They consisted of four regiments of whites, and the same number of blacks. Prisoners, of which ten or twelve are in our possession, state that this force was commanded by Generals Potter and Hatch; some of them say that General Foster was also present as chief of command. The negroes, as usual, formed the advance, and had nearly reached the creek, when our batteries opened upon them down the road with a terrible volley of spherical case. This threw them into temporary confusion; but the entire force, estimated at five thousand, was quickly restored to order, and thrown into a line of battle parallel with our own, up and down the margin of the swamp. Thus the battle raged from eleven in the morning till dark. The enemy's centre and left were most exposed, and suffered terribly. Their right was posted behind an old dam that ran through the swamp, and it maintained its position till the close of the fight. Our left was very much exposed, and an attempt was once or twice made by the enemy to turn it by advancing through the swamp and up the hill, but they were driven back without a prolonged struggle.
The centre and left of the enemy fought with a desperate earnestness. Several attempts were made to charge our batteries, and many got nearly across the swamp, but were in every instance forced back by the galling fire poured into them from our lines. We made a visit to the field the day following, and found the road literally strewn with their dead. Some eight or ten bodies were floating in the water where the road crosses, and in a ditch on the roadside, just beyond, we saw six negroes piled one on top the other. A Colonel of one of the negro regiments, with his horse, was killed while fearlessly leading his men across the creek in a charge. With that exception, all the dead and wounded officers were carried off by the enemy during the night. Many traces were left where they were dragged from the woods to the road, and thrown into ambulances or carts. We counted some sixty or seventy bodies in the space of about an acre, many of which were horribly .mutilated by shells; some with half their heads shot off, and others completely disemboweled. The artillery was served with great accuracy, and we doubt if any battle field of the war presents such havoc among the trees and shrubbery. Immense pines and other growth were cut short off or torn into shreds.
From alt indications it is estimated that the loss of the enemy is fully five or six hundred. This is the lowest estimate we have heard. Many officers are of the opinion that their loss cannot be less than one thousand. Ours was eight killed outright and thirty-nine wounded, three or four mortally. The enemy fought to some disadvantage, as they fired up hill, and most of their shots ranged too high."
DEATH OF LORD MORPETH, EARL OF CARLISLE. -The death of George William Frederic Howard, seventh Earl of Carlisle, widely known in this country as Lord Maspeth, took place on the fifth of December. His grandfather, the fifth Earl of Carlisle, was distinguished in the House of Lords by his recommendation of conciliatory measures towards the Americans, and was one of the three commissioners appointed to Visit America, with a view to the restoration to peace. Lord Maspeth was a truly noble man.
<c05>
THE TRIBUNE for 1865
PROSPECTUS.
The Military and Naval successes of 1864, with the auspicious result of our Presidential contest, have lifted a heavy weight from the breasts of the. Loyal Millions of our countrymen. It is now felt, even by those who have been distrustful and faint-hearted, that the Union is to emerge triumphant from the deadly strife where into she was so wickedly precipitated by her assailants, and that Slavery, her relentless foe, is to encounter the fate of Haman. The perils of foreign intervention and of Western insurrection are safely passed; ABRAHAM LINCOLN, no longer assailable as the choice of a minority, holds the helm of State for four years longer; the Rebellion, palpably weakened by its defeats and losses during the year now closing-with its credit so reduced that its purse-bearer officially declares that its Treasury Notes can only be exchanged for coin at the rate of twenty-five for one, while its bonds command but six cents on the dollar-but awaits the blow which shall soon strike the sword from its parricidal hand, and remit its master-spirits to the justice, or it may be the clemency, of a sorely wronged and justly incensed, but forbearing and magnanimous People. Such are the auspices which justify our faith that the year soon to open will see the Stars and Stripes float unchallenged from every battlement in the Republic, and the perfect law of Liberty for All immovably imbedded in the Constitution of our Union 
The NEW YORK TRIBUNE, founded in 1841, will enter upon its twenty-fourth year with quickened hopes and enlarged means of usefulness. Its principles need no restatement: its aims are the diffusion of Intelligence and the inculcation of a spirit of Freedom and Humanity. When this truth shall have been generally recognized and established as the basis of our institutions and policy, that injustice to the poorest, the weakest, the most despised, is a fearful mistake-that no community or State can afford to wrong even its humblest member-then will our land bask once more in the calm sunshine of peace and prosperity.

THE TRIBUNE has for the last year been published without profit to its proprietors, solely because of the depreciation of our currency below the specie standard, compelling us to buy paper and other materials at a cost considerably above the full amount received from our subscribers. On our Weekly edition, the net loss has amounted to many thousands of dollars; while our large receipts from Advertising have been wholly absorbed by the extraordinary expenses of Correspondence, Telegraphing, &.c., devolved on ns by the war. As we do not suppose our patrons desire that we should work for them at our own cost, and prefer not to be patronized by any who may desire it, we have somewhat advanced for the ensuing year the prices of our Semi-Weekly and Weekly, as we had al ready done with those of our Daily editions. This increase is purely nominal: there never before was a time when the farmers of our country could buy THE TRIBUNE for so little of their own products or labor as they can by the following

TERMS:
DAILY TRIBUNE
Single copy, 4 cents,
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year-312 numbers, $10 00 
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year-104 numbers, 4 00
do. 2 copies, do. do. 7 00
do. 5 copies or over, to one address, for 
each copy, - - - - 3 00
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, single copy, 1 year, 52 numbers, 2 50
do Clubs of five, to one address, 10 00
Persons remitting $20 for 10 copies, to one address, will receive one copy extra, gratis.
Persons remitting $40 for 20 copies, to one address, will receive one copy Sera-Weekly, gratis
Persons remitting $80 for 40 copies, to one address, will receive one copy Daily, gratis.
A PICTORIAL DOUBLE NUMBER-THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURSAL and LIFE ILLUSTRATED, for January,
appears with 32 quarto pages, and a beautiful illustrated cover. It contains Portraits of Tennyson, Silliman, Sheridan, Cobb, Phillips, Susanna Wesley-mother of John-an Indian Chief, Franz Muller, Miss Muggins, Miss Fury, the Princess of Wales, Florence Nightingale, A Group of Warriors-Hannibal, Julius Cesar, Pizarro, Cromwell, Charles XII., Frederick the Great, Scott, Wellington and Napoleon, with ETHNOLOGY, PHRENOLOGY, PHYSIOGNOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, and PSYCHOLOGY. No. 1, Vol. 41st. Published at 20 cents a Number, or $2.00 a year, by Messrs. FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, New York.
A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS.
NUMBER THREE, FOR JANDARY.
CONTENTS.
Timid Tom and Old Grady. By Rev. EDWARD C. TOWSE. With Dedication to Rev. H. W. Beech
Out and In, (Poetry.) By BELLE BUSH.
Progress in Literature. By Mrs. ELIZA W. FARNHAM.
Interest on Money and Rents.
Basic Grey, (Poetry.) By GEORGE S. BURLEIGH.
Sanctification by the Troth. By Rev. O B. FROTHINGHAM.
The Kinder-Garten. (No. 2.) By Mrs. LOUISE POLLOCK,
The Moral Police Fraternity.
Carmia, (Poetry.) By A LICK CAB Y.
The Conflict of Creeds.
Minor Topics. Our Library.
Single copies, 20 cents. $2- per year,
To be procured of all news-dealers.
The three numbers sent, postpaid, for 50 cents.
Address C. M. PLUMB A CO.,
274 Canal St., New York.
CELEBRATION OF THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION. The Emancipation Proclamation will be celebrated at TREMONT TEMPLE, on MONDAY, Jan. 2, 1865. Two meetings will be held during the day and evening, commencing at 2 o'clock, P. M., and 7 o'clock, P. M. Gov. ANDREW, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, FREDERICK DOUGLASS, Rev. A. A. MINER, ROBERT MORRIS, WM. WELLS BROWN, DR. J. B. SMITH and others are expected to speak.
The children connected with the Colored Sabbath Schools will sing.

OBITUARY.
On Sunday afternoon last, we followed to the grave, with feelings of the deepest reverence, the lifeless tenement from which the soul of ISAAC AUSTIN had departed, to dwell in those mansions of the blest where those ho strive on earth to do their Master's will are assured that they will find a home of eternal peace. The death of a man like him requires more than a passing notice.
In an intellectual point of view, Mr. Austin was far above mediocrity. He possessed a mind of great vigor; his memory was remarkably retentive; his reading was of the choicest character, and he well digested the thoughts of his favorite authors. Keenly, regretting that he had not in early life enjoyed the advantages of a scholastic training, he was an ardent, an enthusiastic advocate of our common school system, and was ever ready, by night or by day, to labor that the rising generation might enjoy the blessings which he had never known. For many years he served with singular fidelity as one of the School Committee of this town,-a part of the time as Chairman, and the high stand which our schools have so long held is due largely to his early and persistent efforts. In public and private he put himself forward as their champion, and when they furnished the theme, neither his tongue nor his pen was ever weary.
But, exalted as was his character in this regard, it is when we look at it in another view, that we particularly revere his memory. He was a friend of humanity. The poor, the despised, the oppressed, were ever welcome at his home and his heart. His was no formal sympathy; it was the outgushing of a noble nature which could not brook oppression or wrong; and the stand which he took as an Abolitionist when to be such was to subject one's self to contumely and abuse, was characteristic of him. He was glad of the approval of his fellow-citizens, but if they opposed and reviled him, he was still content. With God on his side, he felt that he was strong. Of a genial, warm-hearted nature, he never knew a revengeful feeling; and when, in the ardor of debate, an opponent might use abusive language, a pleasant smile and a few simple words would be his usual retort
The warmest sympathy of their many friends is felt for the aged partner of his life. For forty-eight yean they had lived together with a beautiful and torching affection. May she who is left to grieve find consolation in the tonight that he whose loss she mourns has left behind him the record of a life, whose parity the best of earth may covet!-Nantucket Inquirer.
<c06>
CARPENTER'S Great National Picture
THE
Emancipation Proclamation
BEFORE THE CABINET.
PAINTED on canvass, measuring 14 1-2 by 9 feet, and containing full-length life-sue Portraits of President LINCOLN, Secretaries SEWARD, CHASEI, STANTON, WELLS, SMITH, Postmaster General BLAIR, and Attorney-General BATES, together with a faithful representation of the
Old Cabinet Council Chamber in the White House;
NOW ON EXHIBITON AT
WILLIAMS & EVERETT'S
234 WASHINGTON STREET
ADMISSION, 25 CENTS.

MR.GARRISON'S PORTRAIT.
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher. Price $1.50 per copy.
This portrait is deemed by Mr. GARRISON, and by his family and most intimate friends, as the most accurate and satisfactory of any yet taken of him. One who has long been personally acquainted with him, and whose judgment is very critical, writes as follows:-" I have obtained a copy of your picture of Mr. GARRISON from life, and it suits my notion of' the eternal fitness of things.'" A lady in New Hampshire writes:-"The picture gives us great pleasure. We all pronounce it as nearly perfect as any picture of Mr. GARRISON can be."
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher.
Boston, Dec. 20, 1864.

LUCIF ER MATCHES.
THE philanthropist sighs over the fearful list of human woes, incurable diseases, and premature deaths, which have been caused by inhaling the fumes of phosphorus and sulphur in the manufacture of common Lucifer or Friction Matches. The most ghastly of these diseases is Necrosis the decay of the lower jaw bone. Thirteen of these cases, mostly young women, have been treated in the Hew York hospitals, within a few months: what then must be the aggregate of human suffering from these causes?

Humanity drops a Tear
of sorrow over the numerous eases of accidental deaths caused by the use of these easily ignited, inflammable agents. A truthful inscription upon many a little tombstone would be,-

This Child was Burned to Death
BY LUCIFER MATCHES.
Scarcely a week passes without a record of one or more children losing their lives by these dangerous articles.
THE PICTURE IS INCOMPLETE.
dark as it is, without reference to the annual loss of valuable property, which may safely be stated at millions of 
FIRE WE MUST HAVE,
and the Lucifer Match, dangerous as it is, has been regarded as a very great convenience, when contrasted with the primitive mode of ignition, the rubbing of dry sticks together, or the still more useful advance upon that mode, the old-fashioned

TINDER-BOX, FLINT AND STEEL.
While tolerating these Lucifers, (clearly as a choice of evils,) scientific chemists have, fur more than a quarter of' a century, been experimenting upon the difficult problem of the production of instantaneous light and fire, in combination with two important requisites,-
First, Freedom from offensive and injurious odors. Second, The insuring of perfect safety in its daily use as a match composition. The honor of the discovery belongs to a
SCANDINAVIAN CHEMIST, who has produced, to bless mankind, the long-looked-for alchemy; and if it is true that he who makes two blades of grass grow where but one grew before is a public benefactor, will not the need of a world's gratitude be awarded to him whose persevering efforts have resulted in producing chemical combinations, the practical application of which in daily use will be the annual saving of thousands of lives and millions of treasure?

A MATCH INODOROUS AND SAFE.
all will admit, is a valuable discovery, and these are the qualities of the new match.

NO SULPHUR OR PHOSPHOBUS
enters into its composition. Satisfied of its great value and superiority over all others, the distinguished inventor was awarded the Prize Medal by the Committee of the International Exhibition at the Crystal Palace in London, while all other Matches were excluded from the building.
In order that the
PEOPLE OF AMERICA
may share with those of Europe the blessings of this invention, arrangements have been made for the working of the patent hero, and an association formed under the name of
The Universal Safety Match Co,
who now offer to the citizens of the United States
A DOMESTIC MATCH, INODOROUS AND SAFE, and for out-door use
A Safety Flaming Fusee, or Wind-Defier, which neither wind nor rain can extinguish.
A fair trial will verify the truth of oar statements.
JOHN P. JEWETT,
General Agent of the Universal Safety Match Company,
NO, 18 TREMONT STREET. BOSTON.
P. S. A beautiful feature of this great invention is its adaptability to tear compositions. Our arrangements are nearly completed for the manufacture of the neatest, safest and most perfect wax tapers ever produced.
Dee. 9.-4wis.
A FARM OF 1500 ACRES
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary's Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1600 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this road thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary's Lake ig one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the State. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mite and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences on either aide of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 38 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding-House, and even frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 fees each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circulas Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet-said to be one of the best milla in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 330 standard pear trees, a large number of plains, cherries, quinces and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1500 scre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately roiling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the beat markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east frog Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to claver and timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, house utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary's Lake Farm. HENRY WILLIS
Battle Creek, Nov 18, 1864,

212 THE LIBERATOR. DECEMBER 30.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
The following is ft very beautiful and felicitous tribute to redeemed and regenerated Maryland.
MARYLAND FREE!
BY GEORGE LANSING TAYLOR.
Maryland! Maryland! beautiful Maryland!
Sitting in light to the sun and the sea!
Shout from thy mountain sides;
Sing where each river glides;
Thunder with ocean's tides-
Maryland's free!
Maryland! Maryland! beautiful Maryland!
Praise God for Maryland! Maryland's free!
Maryland! Maryland! oft-chastened Maryland!
Long has oppression hung dark over thee!
Now every fetter breaks;
Now a new life awakes;
Shout till the welkin shakes,
Maryland's free!
Maryland! Maryland! sorely tried Maryland!
Bless God for Maryland! Maryland's free!
Maryland Maryland! conquering Maryland!
Blest are the patriots thy glory that see!
Sing, for thy foes are dead,
Drowned in war's billows red;
Thou art to Canaan led!
Maryland's free!
Maryland! Maryland! hail, happy Maryland!
Think God for Maryland! Maryland's free!
Maryland! Maryland! <illegible> Maryland!
Sanctified! sealed with the blood of the free!
Now in thy streets no more,
Purified Baltimore,
New England's blood shall pour-
Baltimore free!
Baltimore! Baltimore! blood-redeemed Baltimore!
Praise God for Baltimore! Baltimore free!
Maryland! Maryland! penitent Maryland!
First from pollution and peril to flee!
First fruits of them that slept!
Where thy dark children wept,
Freedom's bright robe bath swept-
Maryland's free!
Weep for joy, Maryland! shout for joy, Maryland!
Bless God for Maryland! Maryland's free!
Maryland! Maryland! not alone, Maryland,
Sounds for thy ransom the sweet jubilee;
Millions that hear of it,
Awed by the fear of it,
Fired by the cheer of it,
Soon shall be free!
All the great Southern land, down to fair Mexic's strand, Down to the Isthmus-band, soon shall be free!

LINCOLN AND LIBERTY.
From where the placid Delaware winds onward in its course,
To where Niagara's waters flow with their resistless force,
From where New England's stalwart sons, amidst the woods of Maine,
The axe rings forth the anthem-rings forth the glad refrain.
The miner in the land of Penn, the boatman at the oar,
The farmer in the teeming West, among his garnered store;
The sailor on the ocean, amidst the surging sea,
All, all have caught the glad acclaim-LINCOLN and LIBERTY!
And when Columbia's patriot sons encamp at Richmond's gate,
Their every shot and every shell proclaim the voice of fate!
"The slave's dull ear" hath caught the note-the anthem of the free,
As Dahlgren's voice pronounces clear-LINCOLN and LIBERTY!
'Twas thus along our country's shore from heart to heart it flew;
The lightning's wing convoyed the news that gladdened not a few;
All o'er the land, from lake to gulf, responsive thrilled each breast,
From North to South, from sea to sea, and in the "fair young West."
And where Pacific's gentle wave, far towards the getting sun,
From where the sands with gold are mixed, and silvery waters run,
From where Nevada rears his head, and Winter's chaplet crowns;
Where Nature, both in mount and tree, in giant growth abounds:-
There, in that land where Broderick lived, and where he fought and fell,
In Freedom's ranks his friends have ranged, and Freedom's cohorts swell,
The tide from out the Golden Gate is ebbing towards the sea-
Amidst the shrouds the sailor sings-LINCOLN and LIBERTY!
-Norristown (Pa.) Free Press.

PRISON HORRORS,
Beneath the traitor flag defiant flying,
And watched by guards that glory in their sighing,
Ten thousand of our brother braves lie dying.
Men, nobles,-but a year ago they came
From friends who lisped in love their every name,
To fan Rebellion back through fields of flame.
They earned a kind captivity, but fell
Mid foes too mean to treat a foeman well,
Proud of their honor-leagued in hate with hell.
And so our heroes, by their craven hand
Stretched like chained lions on the Southern sand,
Die of slow torment in a Christian land.
No shelter know the sufferers; bolder ones,
Daring to seek it, scorched by Georgian suns,
Drop on, the dead-line 'neath the warders' guns.
No rest! The lazar filth, the charnel-ooze,
A horrid couch they cannot shun nor choose,
Beneath receives them when their strength they lose.
No raiment! Bare to shame from bead to heel,
(Save rags their captors deemed too poor to steal,)
Their wasted limbs the misty winter feel.
No food-or worse! The carrion vulture's craws
Would spew the slimy dole each prisoner draws,
Flung rotten-ripe from Hate's hyena claws.
No water! Thick with their own ordure creep
The scanty runs that cross their sloughy keep,
Till their dead bodies dam them heap on heap.
No breath! A myriad mouths that gasp for air,
Shrink at the still putrescence reeking there,
And choke in foulness more than life can bear.
Humanity! There are no pitying teats,
No feeling hearts, no wholesome, godly fears,
Where Slavery's damning fester grows for years.
Ah, yearning kindred, helplessly afar,
Question the lightning-wire, the whirling car,
And weep, unanswered, at the fetes of war!
Unanswered, save to learn the gifts ye sent
To warm and comfort friends in bondage, went
No farther than some thievish jailor's tent.
Yet faint not wholly. Stay your hearts in hope;
For from the womb of death your lost cry up,
"Father, our sufferings! Bless the bitter cup!"
They shall not cry unheard! Though crushed awhile,
Their voice shall run to earth's remotest mile,
Telling the deeds of Libby and Belle-Isle.
And Danville, Anderson and Macon, made
For torture strong with castle and stockade,
Shall have their bloody work to heaven displayed,
Till universal man, in wrath descrying,
Spurn forth the fiend whose spite, and lust, and lying
Could bind and leave ten thousand brothers dying.
Ten thousand! Aye, if God the dead restore,
From graves already 'neath their dungeon floor
Shall start to judgment twenty thousand more.
-Watchman and Reflector,
<c02>
The Liberator.
MRS. PACKARD'S PERSECUTION.
Mrs. Packard is now canvassing this city with the first volume of her book, entitled, "The Great Drama." Her persecution is of so extraordinary a type that she finds it difficult to get her statements credited. Therefore we have consented, to publish the following letters in confirmation of the facts in the case, leaving the public to judge for themselves in this matter.
The first letter is from Judge Board man of Waukegan, Ill. The second from Hon, S. S. Jones, of St. Charles, Ill.
To all persons who would, desire to give sympathy and encouragement to a most worthy but persecuted woman:
The undersigned, formerly from the State of Vermont, now an old resident of the State of Illinois, would most respectfully and fraternally certify and represent-
That he has been formerly and for many years associated with the legal profession in Illinois, and is well known in the north-eastern part of said State; that in the duties of his profession, and in the offices he has filled, he has frequently investigated, judicially and otherwise, cases of insanity; that he has giver considerable attention to medical jurisprudence, and has studied some of the best authors on the subject f insanity; has paid great attention to the principles and philosophy of mind; and therefore would say, with all due modesty, that he verily believes himself qualified to give an opinion entitled to respectful consideration on the question of the sanity or insanity, of any person with whom he may be acquainted.
That he is acquainted with Mrs. E. P. W. Packard, and verily believes her not only sane, but hat she is a person of very superior endowments of mind and understanding, naturally possessing an exceedingly well-balanced organization, which no doubt prevented her from becoming insane under the persecution, incarceration and treatment she has received. That Mrs. Packard has been the victim of Religious Bigotry, purely so, without a single circumstance to alleviate the darkness of the transaction; a case worthy of the palmiest days of the Inquisition.
The question may be asked, how this could happen especially in Northern Illinois? To which answer-That the common law prevails here the same as in other States where this law has not been modified or set aside by the statute laws, which gives the legal custody of the wife's person into the hands of her husband, and, therefore, a wife can only be relieved from oppression, or even from imprisonment, by her husband, by the legal complaint of herself, or some one in her behalf, before the proper judicial authorities, and a hearing and decision in the case, as was finally had in Mrs. Packard's case; she having been in the first place taken, by force, by her husband, and sent to the Insane Hospital, without any opportunity to make complaint, and without any hearing or investigation. But, how could the Superintendent of the Insane Hospital be a party to so great a wrong? Very easily answered, without necessarily impeaching his honesty, when we consider that her alleged insanity was on religious subjects Her husband, a minister of good standing in his denomination, and the Superintendent sympathizing with him, in all probability, in religious devotions and belief, supposed, of course that she was insane. She was legally sent to him by the authority of her husband as insane. Mrs. Packard had taught doctrines similar to the Unitarians Universalists, and many radical preachers; and which directly oppose the doctrines her husband taught, and the doctrines of the church to which he and Mrs. Packard belonged. The argument was, that, of course, the woman must be crazy. And as she persisted in her liberal sentiments, the Superintendent persisted in considering that she was insane! However, whether moral blame should attach to the Superintendent and Trustees of the insane hospital or not in this transaction, other than prejudice and learned ignorance, it is quite certain that the laws, perhaps, in all the States, in relation to the insane, and their confinement and treatment, have been much abused by the artful and cunning, who have incarcerated their relatives for the purpose of getting hold of property, or for differences of opinion as to a future slate of existence, or religious belief.
The undersigned would further state, that the published account of Mrs. Packard's trial, on the question of her sanity, is no doubt perfectly reliable and correct:-That the Judge before whom she was tried is a man of learning, ability, and high standing in the Judicial Circuit in which he presides:-That Mrs. Packard is a person of strict integrity and truthfulness, whose character is above reproach:-That a history of her ease, after her trial, was published in the daily papers in Chicago, and in the newspapers generally in the State; arousing at the time a public feeling of indignation against the author of her persecution, and sympathy for her:-That nothing has transpired since to overthrow or set aside this verdict of popular opinion:-That it is highly probable that the proceedings in this case, so far as the officers of the State Hospital for the Insane are concerned, will undergo a rigid investigation by the Legislature of this State.
The undersigned understands that Mrs. Packard does not ask pecuniary charity, but that sympathy and fraternal assistance which may aid her to obtain and make her own living, she having been left by her husband without any means or property whatever.
All which is most fraternally and confidently submitted to your kind consideration.
WILLIAM A. BOARDMAN.
Waukegan, Illinois, Dec. 3, 1864.
To a Kind and Sympathizing Public:
This is to certify, that I am personally acquainted with Mrs. E. P. W. Packard, late an inmate of the Insane Asylum of the State of Illinois.
That Mrs. Packard was the victim of a foul and cruel conspiracy, I have not a single doubt; and that she is, and ever has been, as sane as any other person, I verily believe. But I do not feel called upon to assign reasons for my opinion in the premises, as her case was fully investigated before an eminent Judge of our State, and, after a full and careful examination, she was pronounced sane, and restored to liberty.
Still I repeat, but for the cruel conspiracy against her, she could not have been incarcerated as a lunatic in the Asylum. Whoever reads her full and fair report of her case will be convinced of the terrible conspiracy that was practised towards a truly thoughtful and accomplished lady,-a conspiracy worthy of a demoniac spirit of ages long since passed, and such as we should be loth to believe could be practised in this enlightened age, did not the boards of our Court verify its truth.
To a kind and sympathizing public I commend her. The deep and cruel anguish she has had to suffer at the hands of those who should have been her protectors will, I doubt not, endear her to you, and you will extend to her your kindest sympathy and protection.
Trusting through her much suffering the public will become more enlightened, and that our noble and benevolent institutions,-the Asylums for the Insane,-will never become perverted into institutions of cruelty and oppression, and that Mrs. Packard may be the last subject of such a conspiracy as is revealed in her book, that, will ever transpire in this our State of Illinois or elsewhere,-
Very respectfully,
S. S. JONES.
St. Charles, Illinois, Dec. 2, 1864.

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The closing lecture of the Fraternity course was given on Tuesday evening, 20th inst., by Henry Ward Beecher. His advertised subject was, "Beauty and the Beast."
Mr. Beecher commenced by rehearsing the old fairy tale of a beautiful young lady who, having been obliged by circumstances to form acquaintance with a hideous beast, had passed, in the course of time, from disgust to pity, and from pity to love; and who finally, by granting the beast's urgent request that she would be his wife, dissolved the enchantment which had concealed his proper form, and obtained a handsome and accomplished prince for her husband. He then went on to say-
The first condition of mankind is a condition of beasthood. Man's original value is not what he is, but what he may become. The common people have been the world's beasts. But Jesus loved them, and they gladly received the instructions which he addressed to them. The rude and unlearned are under enchantment, and need the processes appropriate for their restoration. My subject for this lecture is "Refinement and beauty for the common people."
After speaking of the irresistible claim made by beauty upon our attention and regard, Mr. Beecher said-We come to think persons beautiful as soon as we love them. The newly born infant is not and cannot be beautiful to us, but every one is so to its mother. A truly cheerful and loving nature will see beauty every where. Perception of the beautiful is not the cause, but the effect, of development and refinement. The two prime elements of education are
<c03>
love and religion. Beauty alone does not purify nor elevate, but purification and elevation open the eyes to beauty. Art does not civilize nor enlighten. The civilization of the Greeks proceeded not from art, but from religion and patriotism; and these aroused the sense of beauty, and created art.
The beautiful, in practice, should minister directly to the life. All periods in which art has been genuine and noble are those in which it has grown from high elements of character. The study of beauty for itself alone effeminates and weakens. Leonardo da Vinci and Michael Angelo were inspired men, who expressed great ideas in beautiful and sublime forms. The true artists are those who are seeking to elevate men. The beautiful is the blossom of the useful. The history of art in Europe refutes the idea that beauty is a moral force. It does not so affect the common people. They live beside the noblest works of architecture, without having the leasteye or thought for the beauty which other people cross the ocean to see. The population of cathedral towns is not a refined population, but the reverse. At Milan and Antwerp the stones of the churches seemed alive, but the people seemed stones. Only when men become developed rightly from within do they begin to understand beauty.
How is it with our American people? At present we are importing our art, not originating it. The pursuit of beauty, if it be merely the creature of wealth without culture, will tend to enervate and corrupt us. An appreciation of the beautiful, and a capacity to invent new forms of it, should be developed from within, and the means suited to that end should be put in operation. Education has already done much for us in another direction. You can mark the dividing line between patriotism and treason by the presence or absence of school houses. Education is to redeem this people, and is to find new and various channels of application, one of which should be a cultivation of the sense of the beautiful.
Mr. Beecher proceeded to speak of the dangers accompanying a sudden acquisition of wealth, which he feared might beset us alter the termination of the war. In view of the immense resources of the country, he considered the national debt as hardly worth notice, certainly no cause for anxiety. As our wealth increases, he wished our cultivation of art to increase to guide it.
Art was first employed for the benefit of the king, next for the church, and now for the wealthy. Art has become the servant of wealth. But it ought now to serve the common people, and help the development of the nation. It should become democratic, not, certainly, in the party sense, but in the Gospel sense.
The word "home" is to us the most important word in the language. Home is the best sphere for art, and it should be the work of common school education to develop it in children. From the beginning, they should be made familiar with forms of beauty. The beautiful is the natural language of intelligence and goodness, and children should have it constantly kept before them as a means of education. Instruction in forms and colors should be part of the business o the common schools, and the attention of children should preeminently be drawn to natural beauty, as distinguished from artificial. The noblest forms of beauty are most common. The sky, the clouds and the landscape offer attractions greater than the galleries of European art, if we would but notice them. We should call the attention of the young not only to the written record of God's goodness, but to the created record.
Mr. Beecher urged the cultivation of flowers and the practice of landscape gardening as important educational influences, and said that the sin against the Holy Ghost was the building of a close wall to prevent the common people from enjoying the beauty of gardens and ornamental grounds.
At some of the previous lectures the Music Hall had been filled, but on this occasion it was densely crowded, calling to mind its appearance when Theodore Parker preached or lectured there. The whole of the audience were probably disappointed in Mr. Beecher's choosing a subject of merely general, instead of special, interest. But they heard him attentively for an hour and a half, giving some demonstrations of applause towards the close.-C. K. W.

SPEECH OF ALDERMAN NASH.
Made in the Board of Aldermen, on the subject of the "Opening of the Public Library on Sundays."
After a careful reading of the very brief report presented by the Committee to this Board against opening the Public Library on Sunday, I am free to confess that I have not been able to find, from its beginning to end, one substantial reason why what I conceive to be so great a public good should be refused to any portion of our citizens who wish, to enjoy the privileges of this institution on that day.
If the Aldermen will turn to this report, they will find that there are not twenty lines of it which are not quotations from what the committee consider as "standard authority upon the management of libraries," Mr. Edward Edwards of England, a writer who probably, never published a word upon public libraries that would not be agreeable to the aristocracy of his country. The following quotation, I think, will satisfy any one that what I have stated is correct.
"Until very recently, any discussion in the United Kingdom of the question-Ought our Public Libraries to be open on Sunday? would have seemed to most persons superfluous. By a majority, at all events, of the educated and thoughtful amongst our countrymen such a step is still regarded as a manifest infringement of the spirit, if not of the letter of Christian obligations." Thus it appears that a discussion of this subject is going on in England, and that a majority of the "plain people" demand that their public libraries shall be open on Sunday; and that a majority of those whom Mr. Edwards considers the "educated and thoughtful," that is, the aristocracy, who have splendid private libraries of their own to which they can and do resort on Sundays, refuse the same enjoyment to the masses, through their public institutions.
I wonder if the "educated and thoughtful" of England ever entertained the thought that it was an infringement of their Christian obligations" to allow their thousands of gin-palaces to be kept open on Sunday. O no, this is no infringement of the Sabbath; the miseries of the poor pay the taxes of the aristocracy, and the revenues of the Lords of the Church. The upper classes in England think they are free because they have an-aristocracy, and hence their sympathy with all classes of aristocrats, slave-mongers and the like. We here recognize no other aristocracy than that of mind, and well illustrated this principle a few years ago when a free grammar school was demanded for girls. The would be aristocracy said, "No, if this is allowed, the mechanic's daughter will get too good an education." The plain people said, "Yes." And what is there to-day in all our public institutions that we are more proud of than this free grammar school, and the Normal school for girls?
Wherein, I ask, do we infringe upon our Christian obligations, when this government says the Public Library shall be open on Sunday? Its shelves are loaded with books containing the best thoughts of the best minds of past generations, and of living writers. Why, I ask, should we not throw open its doors wide to the young apprentice boy, who is thirsting after knowledge? He has no library at home, and no convenient place to read; he is too poor to have a fire in his room in the winter, and the parlor of his boarding house affords him no quiet accommodation. Suppose him to have attended public worship, still many hours of the day are left; The bar rooms and the temptations of the streets are open to him. We close those halls where innocent pleasures and improving studies would guard him from such temptations. Why should this grand institution, with all the city's lavish expenditures upon it, be closed a seventh part of the time? I had not the advantages of an education. All
<c04>
I had was poor indeed to what is now offered to the poorest boy in the city.
When I was a boy in a store, working eighteen hours a day for my employer, I would have looked upon it as an incalculable blessing to myself if I could have had a public library to resort to on Sunday. What was my condition then, is the condition of thousands of boys, young men and women, in this city to-day. I wish to put myself right before this community upon this question. I know that my motives are variously criticised. My plea is for the apprentice boys in this city, and the unfavored classes. My object is, to improve their intellectual and moral condition, to draw them from the tempting haunts of vice-yes, from the two thousand bar rooms in this city whose doors are wide open day and night, three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, and not a voice is raised at this Board to close them, even on Sunday, notwithstanding the oath of God is upon us to execute the laws. There never has been a time when bar-rooms were increasing so rapidly as now, and we all know that they are productive of more evil than all other bad influences known to the City Government.
Why is not a stop put to them? Why are they not all closed? I will tell you: public opinion in this city is not against them. The aristocracy have elegant and expensive club-rooms, and more expensive barrooms attached to them-their moral juxtaposition to the whisky shop in North street makes them a unit in forming public opinion.
The Committee tell us that if we open the Public Library Sundays, it will "be a step which, indirectly at least, must tend to aggravate evils already very formidable." Who ever heard of a public library being productive of evil? I say, if you wish to cure present evils, open your Public Library Sundays; and as we have not a free gallery of paintings, make large appropriations of money for one that will be attractive, and open this also on Sunday. Let us at least try these experiments, and see if they will not in a measure break down the formidable evils that now beset us. Why fear to open the Library on Sunday? Yield not to religious bigotry. Try the experiment. We hold the keys in our hands; if it proves productive of evil, we can close it; if it does not, you will never wish to close it so long as we preserve a vestige of moral character.
Many people say, our churches are open on Sunday, and they present attractions enough. Let a young man attend church twice a day, and he still has the evening left. Allowing they were all filled on Sunday, they could not accommodate one-third part of our population; and why build more when what we have are not half occupied, excepting those where the most stupid superstition and ignorance abound?
The lexicographers say that the word Sabbath, rightly construed, means rest-cessation. We are told that it is the day which God appointed to be observed as a day of rest from all secular labor or employments, and to be kept holy, and consecrated to His service and worship. This was originally the seventh day of the week-the day, as the Jews inform us, on which God rested from the work of creation; and this day is still observed by them and some Christians as the Sabbath. Sunday is the Sabbath of Christians; Saturday is the Sabbath of the Jews. Now I gay that there is more and better authority for keeping Saturday than there is for keeping Sunday. If you believe that God appointed a Sabbath, why don't you close the Library on Saturday? There is as good reason for our observance of the Jewish sabbatical year as there is for our observance of Sunday.
Over-tax the soil in some parts of the world, and it will require rest; but I believe that this law does not apply to our Western prairies. Over-tax the physical powers of man, and he also requires rest; but what nonsense to tell me that you can over-tax a man's physical powers six days in the week, and expect him to preserve the normal condition of his being by resting the-seventh? Who believes that God created the world in six days, and rested from his labors on the seventh? The creation of the world took more millions of years than the Bible names days. Science, not theology, tells of God's perfect law. The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. Why? Because the aristocracy in ancient times, as now, demanded of the poor man more hours of labor than he could physically endure, and thus debased both body and soul. But, thank God, man's scientific investigations have done and are doing more for man's advancement than all the theology that has been or ever will be written.
Just in proportion as the natural sciences have advanced, man has advanced, and not one whit faster. Let me illustrate this principle. Less than a hundred years ago, it took one person the whole year, working eighteen hours a day, to produce a very poor quality of cloth to clothe four adult persons for a single year. Now, a factory girl, after eating her breakfast, will go into a factory in Lowell, and when she returns to her dinner all this work of clothing four adult persons is accomplished, and the quality and fabric of the cloth is a thousand times better than that of old times. So it is in regard to every other branch of industry. What has science done for agriculture? I will tell you. The steam plough turns the furrows of the Western prairies; steam sows the wheat, reaps it, thrashes it, grinds it, carries it through all the processes of manufacturing it into flour; steam makes the barrel that contains it when ready for the market; steam transports it hundreds of miles in a single day, both by sea and land; steam manufactures it into bread; steam, and scientific machinery to which it is applied, do all this for man's staff of life, and nothing is left for him to do but to eat and digest it; but I believe there is no patent out yet for this last process. 
I think I have conclusively shown that the factory weaver of to-day has made a gain over the house weaver of a hundred years ago of 3121 2 working days, and thus it applies to nearly every other branch of industry. If by means of the development of the natural sciences you have gained all this time, what are you going to do with it? If you compel the engineer to drive his machine fifteen hours a day, and the weaver to stand at her loom the same number of hours, you over supply the wants of man, labor cannot be rewarded, the manufacturer and the merchant fail, and general distrust ensues, as many money panics we have passed through in past years abundantly demonstrate. I have asked the question, what are you going to do with this gain of 312 working days? My answer is simple. Reduce the hours of labor to four or six hours a day with full pay-let the hours of labor be those which are least exhausting-give exercise every day for the normal development of man's physical, mental, moral, and religious nature-let your halls of science be open every day to lectures on every subject of scientific investigation. For the farmer on agriculture and horticulture, the mechanic on the art of his profession, the merchant on the science of trade, and the banker on the science of currency and political economy.
Man's labor rightly proportioned is every day in the year. Thus is his physical, intellectual, moral and religious nature perfected. "All time is holy time well kept." My motive for offering the order proposing that the Public Library shall be kept open on Sunday is for the reason I have given, that it will redound to the highest moral good of the citizens. I can record my vote for this measure with greater satisfaction than any I have given during the year that is now near its close. Mr. Bates, the English banker, whose death we have recently noticed at this Board, was the founder of our Public Library-a monument to his name, and an honor to the city. Although Mr. Bates received a good education in his boyhood, this only gave him a thirst for higher attainments in knowledge, When he first came to Boston to live, books on varied subjects were not within his reach; but by the kindness of a friend, who kept a bookstore on Washington street, he was allowed access to say books he had upon his shelves. Remembering how much he lost when a young man for want of a free public library was, as I believe, the reason why he founded this institution in the city which gave him
<c05>
his mercantile education. It is from the munificent hand of out merchants that all our institution of learning bare received largely from their accumulated wealth; and for the reason that, as they suppose, a collegiate education confers a higher dignity upon men than their own profession,
Thousands of our merchant and mechanics who resorted to, this city when young men, and whose means of education bad been limited would say today open your Library on Sunday, that all who may come after us may have the full benefit of: this institution. Theodore Parker, who gave his life to humanity,: and-who has endowed this Library more liberally than any other man, making it the resort of the most learned for reference-he, too, to-day would say, as he repeatedly said when living, open our libraries and galleries of paintings on Sundays, and let them be free to all as the air we breathe. He knew the. advantages he derived from his, library on Sunday; and, now; that he-has made it free, he would have it free to all as. it was to himself. 
To return to the subject of debate. I am informed that the Committee was in favor of opening the Reading Room of the Library Sunday afternoons and evenings, but the Trustees were against it. This statement does riot appear in the: report, but if such is the fact, I wish the Committee had felt free to embody it in their, report. I am also credibly informed that the remark was made by some member of the Committee, that this question was forever settled, and would never be brought up again. I. beg leave to differ. The Public Library will be opened on Sunday, and that, too, at no distant day. For the credit of Boston, I wish that Boston should set the example to other, cities and towns throughout this great and expanding nation of freemen. This is the third time this important question has been brought before the city government. The first time was by myself in 1856; it has since been repeated by others since that time. There are some acts in the lives of men which after-years of experience and reflection cause them to regret. If there is one public act of my life that affords me more satisfaction than another, it is that I introduced this subject to the City Council in 1856, and that I repeat it here to-day. I believe it was an error to reject the order the first time it was introduced, and it will be an error if rejected now. An error repeated with conscious premeditation becomes a crime.

A CAPITAL BURLESQUE.
A MODEL AMERICAN CORRESPONDENT.
The following, addressed to the editors of the London Morning Star, is inimitable. Those who are accustomed to read the correspondence addressed to London papers,-Sala's. to the Telegraph particularly,-will appreciate the performance:
SIR: I beg to offer yon my services as an American correspondent from New York, Washington, Richmond or. Charleston, or, if you prefer it, from all places, together with an occasional letter from Vera Cruz and Havana. Excuse me, sir, if I say you are sadly deficient in the right style of American correspondence. You do not hit; the taste of the genuine British public at all. You go in for facts, sir; truth, realities, principles, common sense, fair play, and other such rubbish. May I ask, sir, if you ever happened to see any of your three great cotemporaries? If you did, you would at once understand the sort of thing which people like to read now. First of all we want the real, manly, downright, slashing abuse of everything Northern; next we want sensation; next we want what I shall call romances. You might use a rude Saxon word for that style of thing, but I prefer to call it a romance -say: "Romance of Cotemporary History "-a pretty phrase, I think. Now I am ready to supply you with the right article-at so much per letter, per line, per yard-it is all the same to me. lean make the stuff as strong as you like. My great qualification is, that I know nothing of American politics, and I don't want to know anything on the subject. I don't expect you to take me untried, and therefore shall send you a few specimens. One is enclosed. For a beginning, 1 take the slashing pictorial, allusive (history and literature and all that,) and egotistic style. This is found very attractive just now. I seize a fine striking title. Let us say-

AMERICA IN THE MIDST OF FLAMES.
Then I start off, as you shall see. There is news, and nothing to write about. I dare say, yon, now, in my place, would simply mention the fact, or not write at all. Now here is my notion of how to do the thing.
Odi profanum-I hate this profane place. Yet I am not squeamish. I have been in queer society; I have met queer people. As my particular and much lamented friend Thackeray would have said, I have observed the manners of many men and cities. I once supped with five inebriated Russians and three mad Cossacks; I have been eleven times and a half arrested by Papal spirit, and have been five and twenty times in Austrian prisons. I have fished for sharks in the Danube, and dived for mud larks in the Thames. I know the Haymarket and the Latin Quarter. I have hunted at Baden Baden, have been garroted in Islington, robbed in Vera Cruz, and bastinadoed in Cochin China. But until I came to New York, I never knew what immorality and irreligion, blasphemy and impiety, robbery, murder, sudden death, gun-ticklers, revolvers, lying, swindling, and Bourbon whiskey meant. I have resolved to do my duty as your special commissioner, and to tell the sort of truth which my engagement demands. They may kick me if they like. Some dastardly desperadoes have already, indeed, thus insulted the Majesty of England and the Union Jack in my person. " Strike, but hear," was the phrase of Aristophanes, or Julius Caesar, or Francis the First-I am not quite certain which; but I know it was some one or all of them, or somebody else, or perhaps nobody. They may ride me on a rail. They bide not done so, but if they did I should glory in the martyrdom. Their women may cut me in the street. Shoddy may look the other way when I stroll up Fifth avenue, and Wall street may be from home when I knock at his door, about dinner time. But I must do my duty. This people are going to ruin. They are mad-all mad. They are all wicked. They are all swindlers, cowards, liars, forgers. Don't I know?-expert to creed, I have dined at their fables. I have swilled their wine (your true New Yorker has a good palate for claret). I have flirted with their wives. I have lurked on their stairs. I have bribed their servants. I have borrowed their money. I am free, then, to say, without a modest blush, that I know the people. Rather! I know the lanky, gaunt, awkward, sock-(doll aging, skedaddling, bowie-knife-drawing, Bourbon-drinking race. They need not try to delude me with their official telegrams. I have heard that you in England believe that Sherman has taken Atlanta. What did Peter the Great say when he heard that Napoleon had given Wellington a good licking at the battle of Preston Pans? "Gammon" was the remarkable expression of the great Russian; and he winked on General Todleben, who was just then turning the corner of the Nevus Perspective. Gammon, say I. Gammon, Mr. E. M. Stanton; ditto Mr. Abraham Lincoln. Only you can't gumption me. Nary bit. Don't I know that the last poor straggler of Sherman's defeated army has just been appointed to the head of the Post Office to buy his silence as to the dreadful battle in which the great Confederate General Hood covered the Atlanta plains with 250,000 Federal dead? They talk of Sheridan's having twice defeated Early. Path! It is sickening. I-mosquitoes parley- happen to know that Sheridan is now hiding in one of the upper rooms of Delmonico's, disguised as a nigger help, because Early gave him such a thrashing that he Lad not a man or a gun left to bring him back to Washington. Where is Grant? At the Weldon Railroad, at Petersburg, besieging Richmond, you will say. Listen! Just six days ago the army of Gen. Lee was heard to break into one universal cheer. I heard it myself-here in the back attic-I mean the saloon of my lodging, Five Points Fifth. Avenue, I should have written. I know something of wondrous noises. Have I not, in my time, heard lions roar? I have heard the alligator yell in the jungles of new Guinea, and the behemoth bellow over the sands of Labrador. I have heard the Irish hurrah, the English hurrah, the German hooch, the French vive, the Italian viza the Greek zero. I have heard how the crusaders shouted for Jerusalem, and, the army of Xenophon for the sea. But never was there such a cheer as I heard from the Confederate army defending Richmond. What was to the meaning of that treble stentorian vociferation, that majestic expectoration of conglomerate 
<c06>
DECEMBER 30
jubilee! It was this- hark in your ear, for this is the truth which Washington must ignore and New York dare of print. Grant, with an army of 450,000 men, had surrendered unconditionally to 150 confederate cavalry. Where is Grant now? A dejected tattered melancholy man may be seen prison. That is Ulysses S. Grant, But they won't would try to persuade. They are deaf as address to I say it with a tear standing in each eye and my true piety in the Northern states I have been shocked. I have been horrified. I have went to find that pure religion is disregarded here and that even virtue is to prized as are we know how to price see the handwriting on the wall-indeed a vile miscreant of Hibernian birth only yesterday knocked my head against one. Yes they are domed let a body! Nemesis! Belshazzar! Babylon the guest, is destined to fall. Fruit Troy I cannot think of any more allusion to history now and as the post is going, shall only add that there is nothing in New York which is not ruined wretched false deceitful cheating and utterly any wore allusions to history now and as the post is, going I shall only add that there is nothing in New York which is not ruined wretched false deceitful cheerful, cheating, and utterly abominable. Suck's the natural baseness of the' American character that I have not had one solitary invitation to liquor through the whole of this dry and parching day. Anathema Maranatha! what a country! what a people!.
Now, sir, that is one style How do you like it. It can be spread over as many columns as your please and, entresols, a touch or two now and then slyly approaching the indelicate has a wonderful effect in spicing- up a correspondence 
Next time I shall take leave to send you a specimen of a different style. My dearly valued friend Man-t-n is dead, but this mantle may be worn, sir, by certain not unworthy shoulders.

MANDEVILLE PINTO LINAGE.
P.S. I can do up telegrams so as to keep in all the facts, but at the same time to make a confederate defeat look rather better than four victories and convert the capture of a Southern city into a serious disaster for the North. Specimens shall be forwarded, if required.

COLORED PERSONS AND THE CARS. 
George Moore, a conductor of the Spruce and pine street Railway Company, was charged with committing and an assault and battery on a colored woman named Maria Berrill.
The latter, a mulatto woman, testified that she had been to church on the eyeing of September 29th She lived with Mr. George W. Childs, and was required in be home by ten o'clock at night. Finding it was late she entered a car, and passing through it took a position on the front platform. Two ladies subsequently got in, and asked her why she did not take a seat. She replied that she was not permitted to do so the only crime being her color. Mr. Moore said negroes were not allowed to ride in the cars; and if she me my more impudence, he would- put her off, anyhow He then caught her by the waist and arm, breaking a ring on her finger, which cut into the flesh, inflicting a painful injury. She was thrown into the gutter twice the accused taking her by the hair of her head. The next day she was so badly bruised that she could not work.
Mary Nicholson testified that she saw her the net moraine, and she was badly bruised, besides her doting being torn.
David Paul Brown, Esq., who appeared for the <illegible>, now closed his case for the present.
"Joseph Brewster, Esq., opened for the defence, and proceeded to call witnesses.
S. G. Fry, the President of the Railway Company testified that one of the rules of the company rapid colored persons to be accommodated on the front platform form, except when they were in charge of children, then they could ride inside the car.
Mr. Hancock testified that, at Seventh and Prime street, a colored woman came into the car. The product or told her she must go on the front platform; wit -ness opened the front door at the request of the conductor; the woman stood in the door, and said it was strange she could not sit down, there being plenty at room. She kept on talking, but witness paid so it-tension to what she said. The conductor moderns put his hand on her, asking her to go out on the freest platform or get off. She said she did not want to get off. The conductor then put his hand on her, and finally succeeded in getting her out. When she got of the conductor started towards the rear of the car, when he was struck by the woman several times; he was pushed her aside, but she did not fait. The driver was then ordered to go on. Witness thought the conductor treated her well.
J. R. Kenney testified that the prosecution got an the car, and said to the conductor, "Get out of the road, and let me in." The conductor did not see she was colored, and passed her in. She shut the front door, and stood with her back against it. Some person asked her why she did not sit down; she said she could not, owing to the color of her skin. The conductor told her to keep quiet, or get off the car. We continued talking, when the conductor said she must get off. He took hold of her, and both went off together. She then struck him; he jumped on the a ear when she struck him with a carpet sack; he got his foot in her hoops then, and fell to the ground. Then was some murmuring in the car by the passengers before the Conductor spoke to her.
The Commonwealth called in rebuttal James Godley who testified that he was at Tenth and Pine in street when he saw a car stop, It young woman being of the front platform. The conductor said she must get of and then he kicked her and shoved her off She dung to the car, when the conductor jumped off, and pallet her off; did not see her fall in the melee, which continued five minutes. As the ear went off, the woman grasped at the conductor, who was running sitter the car, and he dragged her two yards, when be shored her off.
Mr. Kenney was called by the defence, and afraid that he did not see the witness Goldey in the corner at the time of the occurrence. The affray took place after 10 o'clock, and not at 9, as Goldey testified.
Mr. Brown denied the right of this or any other company to make rules excluding any respectable person from the cars. He looked upon the rule as monstrous, and supposed that after a while the corporations would order that none but aristocrats be permitted to ride in the cars. These corporations permit blacking ruffians, women of the town, and everything else to ride in the cars, except those who have as thought these corporations should make rule based on propriety, not complexion. At this period the attempt was being made to elevate the colored race, and they had been found to be fit for soldiers to fight the barleys had been found to be fit for soldiers to fight the battles of the country. He contended that the conductor had no right to put the woman off under any circumstances and so asked the court to instruct the injury. 
Mr. Brewster thought that the conductor simply obeyed this orders of his employers; and if this company had made regulations which were unconstitutional let them be taken before the District of Supreme Court, and have the matter judicially had been con tended that the evidence of the prosecutrix had been denied in toto, and asked the jury to acquit his client, and put the costs upon the prosecutrix who told a highly varnished story.
Judge Allison reviewed the testimony saying that if the conductor placed his hand upon the woman to get her to the front platform, he would only have committed an assault and battery of the most technical character. If. after the woman got upon the platform she acted in an angry, insolent violent or disorderly manner, then the conductor had a right to put her off but he could not do so because of his becoming angered with the woman, or on account humanity in their rules thought this company had humanity in their rules than some others. Indeed with some of these corporations the rules were a terrible hardship and very oppressive presides to some persons. He had seen a mother with a babe stand on a front platform in a pelting storm and finally the conductor, as a great concession permitted her to come in the car and sit upon the floor in the front of the car. He informed the jury that this company must conform to the strict letter of the authority expressly given them in their character in making their rules; and the moment they went one hair's breadth beyond that, they assume a power not belonging to them. He thought it would acting in the dark to decide the right of the company to make such rules and by-laws as they deem proper, unless their character was produced. 
The case of Goines referred to an the opinion of Judge Hare cited, in which he decided the corporations had a right to exclude individuals Judge Allison thought this decision was correct and referred to case, such as persons with lighted cigars or infectious disease, or those who were fifth dirty. It was his opinion that the defendant should have brought the character of the company into court to show by what authority he acted. He thought out the corporation could relieve themselves of much trouble by conceding so the prejudices of the community by placing cars upon their roads for colored persons. It this was not so public opinion would break down the present construction an dominate all persons under certain recites. In the absence of express authority necessary to carry our the powers given by that character they had no right to pass a by law excluding a certain class.
The jury retried and after deliberating two hours came into court a saying that they could not agree and they could not in a week's time they were discharged. Philadelphia Press.
