<c01>
THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers. 
VOL. XXXV. NO. 33. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1802. 
Selections

THE WAYS OF GOD-POLITICAL JUSTICE.
Extract from an earnest and eloquent Oration on "The Past, Present, and Future of America," delivered in the First Presbyterian Church, at Orange, N. J., July 4th, 1865, by Professor Henry W. Adams, M. A., M. D., of Irvington, N. J.:-
The strange ways of God are not restrained by statues. The arrows of the lightning feel out their own paths. Injustice cannot always be profitable. As man is older than his clothing, so immortal manhood antedates States and civil institutions. Natural rights are ingrained and ingospeled in nativity. Civil society is a combination of men to protect them. When this just object for which governments are instituted fails, revolution comes and natural rights are insurgent. In this pleading condition, four millions of freedmen hail the national sovereignty and salute its starry banner. They ask for their natural rights. Shall they have them? they have hitherto stood related to the Union through their masters; they now come nearer, and tough the hem of its garment with their own fingers. Still the virtue of the nation go forth to meet them? Shall that imploring touch thrill them with the ecstacies of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? What is their political status? To crush the rebellion of their masters, the war power has justly set them free. The Constitutional Amendment will ratify the Executive Proclamation. They are also citizens of the United States. Birth under the flag, natural rights unfretted by crime, and freedom guaranteed by the national sovereignty, make them citizens. They are not only citizens, but entitled to claim and exercise the elective franchise under proper qualifications. Five States of the Union have sanctioned this civil status. Judge Curtis, late of the Supreme Court of the United States in his dissent from the Dred Scott decision, says: "To determine whether any free persons, descended from Africans held in slavery, were citizens of the United States under the Confederation, and consequently at the time of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, it is only necessary to know whether such persons were citizens of either of the States under the Confederation, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution. Of this there can be no doubt. At the time of the ratification of the Articles of the Confederation, all free, native-born inhabitants of the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey and North Carolina, though descended from African slaves, were not only citizens of those States, but each of them as had the other necessary qualifications possessed the franchise of electors, on equal terms with other citizens." Corroborative of this view, Judge William Gaston, of the Supreme Court of North Carolina, the most distinguished jurist who ever adorned the State, thus pronounced the decision of that Court in the case of the State against Manuel: "According to the laws of this State, all human beings within it, who are not slaves, fall within one of two classes. Whatever distinction may have existed in the Roman laws between citizens and free inhabitants, they are unknown to our institutions. Before our Revolution, all free persons born within the dominions of the king of Great Britain, whatever their color or complexion, were native-born British subjects; those born out of his allegiance were aliens. Slavery did not exist in England, but it did in the British Colonies. Slaves were not, in legal parlance, persons, but property. The moment the incapacity, the disqualification of slavery was removed, they became persons, and were then either British subjects, or not British subjects, according as they were or were not born within the allegiance of the British king. Upon the Revolution, no other change took place in the laws of North Carolina than was con sequent on the transition of a colony, dependent on a European king, to a free and sovereign State. Slaves remained slaves. British subjects in North Carolina became North Carolina freemen. Foreigners until made members of the State, remained aliens. Slaves, manumitted here, became freemen; and therefore, if born within North Carolina, are citizens of North Carolina; and all free persons, born within the State, are born citizens of the State. The Constitution extended the elective franchise to every freeman who had arrived at the age of twenty-one, and paid a public tax; and it is a matter of universal notoriety, that, under It, free persons without regard to color, claimed and exercised the franchise, until it was taken from free men of color a few years since, by our amended Constitution."
Chief Justice Chase, of the Supreme Court of the United States, in a recent letter to a committee of colored men in New Orleans asserts, in very explicit language, that all the freedmen of the United States are citizens of the United States, and are also endowed with the right of claiming all their rights of citizenship. They have the further right to keep and bear arms. The Constitution says, under article second of the Amendments: "A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free State the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed." The object in keeping and bearing arms is here constructively alleged to be the security of a free state. If, then, the ex-slaves are free, citizens of the United States, with rights which cannot be infringed to keep and bear arms to secure the freedom of a State, why shall they not vote?
If they may shoot constitutionally to secure a free commonwealth, why may they not vote constitutionally for one? Is the bullet less harmless than the ballot? Ah! that's the rub. Prejudice, born of narrow self-hoods and mental pigmies, cries: Late the negro, degrade him, kick him into the gutter, disfranchise him, and legislate him into a two hundred years' whisper lest he get ahead of me; bind him with chains, and then whip him because be cannot run; imbrute his intellect, and then jeer him because he is not a Chief Justice of the law, a Solomon in wisdom, or a David in psalmody. But broad-souled justice and humanity exclaim: Give him on which to shout among his corn and flocks, the Bible to show him the rounds of the ladder up the starry pathway, the spelling-book to read the bright pages of the universe, the ballot to vote his laws, the musket to defend his liberty, and see what gems immortality are pavilioned within the blackness of his skin!
Does the bugbear of equality with the white man excite your anger? What do you mean, by a white man? Did you ever see any white blood? or white immortality? Has not God made of one blood all the nations of the earth? Do not the color and chemical composition of all human blood prove it? Surely slaveholders ought not to despise their own blood. Go and live in Africa a hundred years, you and your children would as black as the ace of spades. Did negro citizenship and suffrage for sixty years in North Carolina 
<c02>
hurt anybody? But recently the whole South panted to die in the last ditch before they would brook subjugation. Yet, how it blessed them when it came! No one cried murder, but all were very glad to get something to eat. So they would season to negro suffrage. Does the idea of miscegenation appal you? If the negro men were to vote, would it increase your love for the negress? Would it add to her charms and endanger your heart? Are you afraid negro suffrage would augment your domestic proclivities? Go into the South, and see how the absence of it has polluted the land. Promiscuity of the most despicable character exists. Scarcely a pure-blooded African can be found in the South. Yellow slaves are quite as common as black ones. I have often seen them comparatively white. The blood of the master flows in the veins of his slaves. This has been one of the direst evils of the system. Yet, with what holy horror these pinks of virtue deprecate injury to morals from negro suffrage! But do politicians fear the freed-men, if permitted, will vote for their old masters? Why did they not fight for them? Has not their conduct declared the direction of their sympathies? Is there one instance of infidelity to the Union? Have they withheld information or misled our soldiers and officers? What have their masters done to earn their gratitude? Will bleeding backs vote for more blows? Will hunger ask for less bread? Will they vote for no wages? no homestead? no education? no wife and children? Who gave them freedom? The Union. Who gave them slavery? Their masters. If they love freedom best, they will vote for the Union which gave it to them. What think you? Ask the North star how many of these children of sorrow have looked at it till tears and day-break blinded them?
Do you tell me they are not sufficiently enlightened to be trusted with the ballot? Were they not enough so to be trusted with the musket’! Which has given the best evidence of intelligence, the white traitor who knew so little about the Union that he fought against it? or the slaves who knew so much about it that they fought for it? Which kind of intelligence makes the best Union man? Js a black heart Latter than a black face? Is not he who is good enough to fight for his country, good enough to vote for it? Will you hunt from the ballot-box the limping black man with the rebel's musket in his hands, and the American uniform on him, and give place to pardoned treason, with blood-dripping fingers, to vote for more trouble? Is this democracy? or democracy? republicanism? or an outrage upon it? magnanimity? or mean prejudice? gratitude? or ill-seasoned spittle in the face of fidelity? I am sick and tired of hearing sensible men say the ex-slaves must not vote in consequence of their ignorance, and yet approve of pardoning white rebels, equally imbruted and ignorant, and restoring them to the rights of suffrage. This inconsistency is supremely disgusting. No candid man, acquainted with the complexion of Southern society, will deny that two millions of "poor whites" exist at the South, who, in every quality which adorns a worthy citizen, are inferior to the ex-slaves. Admit them to be equally ignorant, the contrast is still great. The poor whites arc lazy, quarrelsome, vicious, profane, boisterous, despisers of labor, and generally incapable of either reading or writing. To these eminent qualifications they superadd treason. The blacks, on the other hand, although they cannot either read or write, in consequence of the death penalty, and not, like the poor whites, on account of their natural shiftlessness, are industrious, docile, tractable, religious, musical, loyal, and willing to work, without revolting at the degradation of labor."

GOVERNOR HAMILTON'S PROCLAMATION.
News from Galveston to the 29th ultimo says that Gen. Merritt's cavalry command had arrived at Austin, on their march across the country from Shreve-port, Louisiana, and had re-raised the national flag over the State Capitol, where it had not before waved in four years. Provisional Governor Andrew J. Hamilton reached Galveston on the 21st ult, where, on the 25tb, he issued his proclamation to the people, announcing his appointment by the President, and foreshadowing his designed course of procedure in the performance of his duties. He fixes no time for the election or convention, but states that they would be held as soon as practicable. On matters of more detailed interest he says:
"The people of the State are invited to engage in the work of reconstructing local government for themselves. I come, tendering, in the name of the United States, amnesty for the past, security and freedom for the future. Every generous heart will feel, and every candid mind admit, that the Government of the United States seeks not, and has never-sought, to humiliate the people of the South. It but asks them to be friends rather than enemies.
Conquering the rebellion, the first use it makes of the power it possesses is to relieve the people from the legal consequences of their act of rebellion, and invite them to occupy, by their own act, their former position in the Union.
I shall not waste time or labor in the attempt to soothe those whose hearts are sore because of the extinction of slavery. It died because it made war upon the government to whose protection it owed its power and influence. It grappled with freedom in a spirit which admitted of no conciliation, no concession, no truce or neutrality; its challenge was to mortal combat, and in the struggle it went down forever. There are those, I am told, who profess to believe that it is not yet extinct; that it still lingers, and by a vigorous application of stimulants may be kept in existence for some years to come; that the Proclamation of Emancipation was but a military order, which has now spent its force since the war is over, and never had any effect except where, by the presence of Union armies, there was physical power to enforce it. There could be no greater delusion than this, and the man or men who encourage such opinions, if such there are, could not do the citizens of Texas, at this time, a greater disservice If the rebellion is conquered, slavery is dead; one is as much a fact as the other.
The negroes are not only free, but I beg to assure my fellow-citizens that the Government will protect them in their freedom.
For the time being, the freedmen are recommended to engage with their former masters for reasonable compensation, to' labor at least till the close of the season for gathering the present crop. For them, generally, to do otherwise, would be greatly to the injury of themselves and the community at large. But let it be understood that combinations among those interested in securing their labor to prevent them from hiring to persons who will pay the best price for such labor, and to ostracise in society those who oppose such combinations, will meet with no favor at the hands of the people or Government of the United States. And candor compels me to say to the people of Texas that if, in the action of the proposed Convention,
<c03>
the negro is characterized or treated as less than a freeman, our Senators and Representatives will seek in vain admission to the halls of Congress. It is indeed strange that men should take a solemn oath to faithfully abide by and support all laws and proclamations which have been made during the existing rebellion with reference to the emancipation of slaves, and in the next breath favor gradual emancipation. It is the part of wisdom and the part of duty to accept what is inevitable without resistance, and recognize truth however unpalatable.
I could not, if I were to attempt it, satisfy those who are not willing to believe it, that slavery was never a good, and emancipation not an evil. A few men in the South differ with the whole civilized world upon that subject, and I suppose that most of that few will go down to their graves sore and complaining; but, in the meantime, those who realize that a new era has dawned upon us, and who take advantage of the present, will leave far in the background the mourners over the past glory of slavery. Texas has to-day her future destiny in her own hands. Let her use power wisely, and she need not limit her power and influence in the future of our country.
In the effort to aid you in the reorganization of the civil government, I shall be guided and controlled by no personal feeling, do nothing out of malice, and shrink from nothing from fear of blame. Believing that the experience of the last four years has prepared the mind of a majority of the people for dispassionate thought and enlightened judgment, I shall fearlessly challenge their scrutiny of all I may do or attempt. I hope to merit the approbation of those who are devoted to the principles of freedom and equality in government; and difficult and delicate as I know the task assigned me to be, still, with the aid and encouragement of the loyal men of Texas, it may successfully be accomplished.
It would afford me great pleasure to meet as many of the loyal men from different sections of the State as can make it convenient to visit the capital of the State, to confer with me upon the present and future of our State, and I now most cordially invite them to do so."

NO FEAR OF THE LIBERATED BLACKS.
Extract from an Oration delivered in San Francisco on the 4th of July, by J. W. Dwinelle, Esq.:-
That slavery is dead is an admitted fact, and we. may rejoice to see it laid in its grave. (Applause.) Has it not been the pestilent source of factious strife, and finally of civil war? Did we not violate our moral instincts-and almost forfeit our personal dignity-by maintaining the letter of the compromises our fathers made, even when their spirit was lost? For they compromised with slavery upon the understanding that it was an unprofitable institution, of more than doubtful morality, and that it would soon be abolished by the slaveholders themselves; there was no understanding that if it became profitable, it should be forever perpetuated; should enter all the Territories of the Union-wield all the powers of the Government. There was, then, not merely poetical justice but political justice, when those who forfeited the protection of the Constitution, and rose in arms against the Government, were punished by the forfeiture of that peculiar species of property which constitutes the only rock of offence.
I confess, for one, that I am not afraid of these bur millions of liberated blacks. That they are capable of discipline we know, for when the colored regiments heard of the murder of Lincoln-who stood next to God and Christ in their adoration- they broke into no lawless tumult, no murderous yell of extermination, but reversed their arms and lowered their flags with the same subdued utterance of woe which pervaded the civilized world. That they have the germs of the same intellect which has received its largest development in the Caucasian race, I fully believe. Look at Governor Roberts, of Liberia, born a slave, and obtaining the mere rudiments of education in fraud of the laws which condemned him and his posterity to perpetual ignorance and slavery, but who nevertheless became an educated man and a statesman. Look at Frederick Douglass, in whose veins flows in one commingled stream the blood of African princes and a feudal aristocracy, who, as a man, a gentleman, an orator and a scholar is my equal, and I believe the equal of any one of my hearers-and tell me if you have any fears of him or his children? The solution of the problem is evident.
"It takes three generations to degrade the descendant of a nobleman into a peasant; it takes three generations to elevate the descendant of a peasant into a gentleman," is the formula of British Aristocracy. "It takes three generations to make submissive slaves of the descendants of the free inhabitants of Africa," was the axiom of the former slaveholders of the South. But if three generations can depress, they can also elevate; if three generations can elevate, six generations can exalt. Let us not despair of our experiment until it has been fairly tried. If the liberated slave is our equal, then in God's name let him enjoy the equality; if he is our superior, we will give to him the precedence; if he is our inferior, then he must yield us the pathway next the wall. That the free black can sustain himself by his own industry is shown by the experiments of Jamaica, Barbadoes, Liberia and Sierra Leone. If he will not work, then the race must perish by suicide. Yet there will ever stand the fact, that, as a result of the Emancipation Proclamation, more persons have been called from bondage than existed in the whole thirteen colonies at the epoch of the Declaration of Independence. That they will fight is a historical fact; they fought for us in the revolution, at New Orleans, and in the rebellion; and if the liberated slaves of the South shall rise to the condition of the sober, well-conducted and intelligent colored men who joined in our procession to-day, who can say that they are not worthy of freedom, and able to endure its burdens?

HORACE MAYNARD.
This intimate friend of Andrew Johnson having been elected to Congress from the Knoxville (Tenn.) district, the following views, which be uttered just before his nomination, may be profitably read and remembered:
"A great clamor is made against negro suffrage. I do not think a majority of the American people have determined to establish this measure unconditionally, but, if you desire to prevent it, hostility to the government will not keep it off, but will rather hasten its establishment. If the nation finds that all its magnanimous offers to you are in vain, and that all its efforts to reclaim a rebellious population are in vain, it will be very apt to give suffrage to the negro population, who have all this war proved its fast and faithful friends. This measure, in that event, will be adopted as an indispensable means of establishing loyal civil governments in the South, when the seditious white population refuse to submit 
<c04>
to the laws and discharge their duties as prudent citizens.
Some of you threaten to rebel in that case. You tried that once before, when you were a great deal stronger than you are now, and you know the sad result. What will your rebellion amount to? It would only give the nation a good cause for doing what it would how avoid. As Major General Logan said in a speech the other day, ‘Let them rebel again; that is just what we want!' Now, if you want to live at peace, obey the laws, and turn away from those unprincipled politicians who cry out, ‘Blue-bellied Yankee, ‘Abolitionists,' and ‘Nigger equality,' to get your votes. They are the same men who asked you, before the war, how you would like to see your daughter marry a ‘big buck nigger.'
Much has been said about the radicalism of Chief Justice Chase's views on the subject of negro suffrage. Mr. Chase believes that as the white Unionists of the South are in the minority, very largely so in many localities, it will become a matter of absolute necessity to enfranchise the black population, which is universally loyal, in order to prevent the rebels from regaining the government of their respective States at the ballot-box. He believes that the nation will be compelled to resort to negro suffrage for self-preservation, especially for the preservation of the white loyalists of the South. Now, the nation was not eager to resort to emancipation, but you forced a resort to that measure by obstinate rebellion. It hesitated to enlist negro soldiers, but was forced to arm them by the continued rebellion of the South; and it found that they made very good soldiers, and could shoot as well as anybody. This revolution is not yet over, and a great many of these subjugated rebels are acting and talking very boldly. Rust assured, that if you still defy the National Government, the nation will be forced to think seriously of putting the ballot into the hands of loyal negroes, to enable them to vote down the rebellion."

A COPPERHEAD EXPEDIENT.
The present favorite Copperhead expedient is to demand the admission into Congress of representatives from the late rebel States elected by such bitter rebels as lately threw their ballots in Richmond, Virginia. It is the great mission of the Democratic leaders. They are prompted to it by various motives. The rebel Congressmen will be the nucleus of a new Democracy, fashioned after the Breckinridge and Buchanan organizations which plunged the nation into civil war. They will help the men who broke the old party, to resume control in the several Southern States. These reunited brethren can then proceed to repeal the war-measures of Congress, especially the odious confiscation laws. But above all, when the doors are thrown open, and the rebel Congressmen are brought into the Capitol in triumph, THE ASSAULT UPON THE PUBLIC CREDIT AND UPON THE NATIONAL FINANCIAL SECURITIES WILL BEGIN UI TERRIBLE EARNEST. There will be consistency in this. The Democratic leaders have been laboring for four years to bring the bonds and currency of the Government into disrepute. They have advised their followers to refuse the currency, and, above all, not to invest in the bonds. The key-note was given by James Buchanan, in 1861, after he had assisted to deplete the public treasury, to drag down the value of our national securities, to make us beggars for loans in the markets of the world, and to strip the Government of nearly all her weapons of public defence and preservation. Under his lead his intimate friends bought real estate, rather than trust the Government; and at his cue, the Democratic press rung with sombre prophecies of ruin to all who took the national notes, or confided in the national bonds. What was true of him, was true of nearly all the same school. They fed the hopes of the foreigners who looked upon our financial scheme with amazement, and generally predicted its downfall. The fact that our debt is owed to the people alone, and that its repudiation would bring thousands of happy and industrious citizens to abject want, produces no pity in their bosoms. They, therefore, hail the idea of making an issue upon the admission of the rebels to Congress. To the rebels the national debt of the United States is a most odious sight. They know it was incurred to crush them and to abolish slavery. They know that their confiscated lands will be made to contribute to its liquidation. They know that, while not one dime of their own debt will ever be recognized, they will be compelled to help to raise the needed revenue for the payment of the interest and ultimately of the principal. They long, therefore, to get into the next Congress to unite with their Democratic brethren to vote against all revenue or appropriation bills, and boldly to raise and fight under the flag of Repudiation. The conspiracy has been duly organized, and involves more elements than the people would readily believe. I regard it as the great peril of the Republic. Thus it is the duty of all patriots, apart from their own interests, to be ready to meet it. Under the most plausible and deceptive theories this infamous demand will be made. It has already contrived to secure the sanction of what are supposed to be great names. It contemplates the completest disgrace and the most astounding repudiation in civil history. I do not fear that it will succeed; because it is only necessary to expose such a plot to bring it to shame. -Philad. Press. OCCASIONAL.

WHAT AN EX-REBEL COLONEL SAYS.
Judge Kelley, of Pennsylvania, writes to the Philadelphia Inquirer as follows:-
No one who has the field before him for observation can doubt the fact that the Southern leaders mean to avenge their supposed wrongs, and accomplish politically what they failed to effect by war. Be assured, dear sir, that precipitate reconstruction will secure the degradation of labor over the whole South, and one of these alternatives, the repudiation of the national debt or the assumption of that of the Confederacy. In support of these views, will you not permit me to lay before your readers another illustration of the Unionism of free Louisiana. The Courier of the Techs, of the 15th ultimo, published at St. Martin's, Louisiana, contains as its leading feature the address to the people of St. Martin's, of Colonel (late rebel but now of the loyal Home Guard) A. DeBlanc.
In introducing the address, the editor says: "Peace is not even a mere word, it is a farce. It is cruel irony spurted into the face of all Southrons." But let the Colonel of the loyal Home Guard speak for himself:-
"Fellow-citizens of the parish of St. Martins: The cause of the Confederate States, a just and sacred cause, has been defeated. The hope we entertained of creating an independent nationality is lost, and that forever. I, when it was yet in its cradle, hailed and defended that cause, and when
<c05>
it fell, I was hard by, and wept over its grave! But it is no more, and remaining within its territorial limits, we must yield to the only government which, right or wrong, stands now supreme on the bloody and illustrious ruins of our departed Confederacy. This submission, however, is not one of choice, but one of unavoidable necessity. A sincere allegiance to the United States we will frankly yield, when the price of that allegiance shall not be the degradation of our race.
A proclamation called the ‘Amnesty Proclamation’ has been sent forth by the President of the United States, offering to a portion of the many engaged in the late revolution a pardon for what he considers as treason against the government. The conditions of that pardon are that the alleged traitors must swear to support the Constitution of the United States, and swear, besides, to support the laws and proclamations relative to the emancipation of those we held as slaves. That is neither just nor expedient, Not just, for the laws and proclamations are a violation of the Constitution itself; and to take that oath is to bind ourselves expressly to disregard that Constitution which, at the same time, we expressly swear to support. It is not expedient, for the immediate abolition of slavery is nothing less than the complete abolition of labor, and will certainly convert our laborers into hordes of vagrants, useless to themselves, their families, and the State.
What should we do? We have surrendered to the military authorities of the United States, and our first duty is to abide strictly by and to respect, however harsh they be, the stipulated conditions of our surrender. But, though conquered, we still have those indestructible rights which we held from our God, and those rights we must have the manliness to claim even from those who have the power, and who may have a disposition to disregard and violate them. I am fully aware that among many we slaveholders are considered as tyrants, and our slaves as our victims. Many, again, would be willing to extend to those pretended victims of our tyranny those privileges which, everywhere, are denied to the white laborer, and denied even to the soldier who has fought under the banner of his country. But there are those, too, who have not forgotten that we are their equals, who should blush at the thought of wresting from us those great prerogatives which others claim for our slaves, and should not consent to disgrace their name, their victory, their epaulets, and their swords in persecuting the vanquished-those who are under the protection of the soldier's parole and the nation's honor.
That our States were sovereigns, no one, here or in Europe, could successfully attempt to controvert. If they were, we had the right to do as we have done, and, for our course, we were properly accountable to none but ourselves. Our crime, then, is not to have sought a separation from our political partners, but to have failed in our efforts in securing that separation. Had we been successful, the whole world would have courted our friendship, and the haughtiest in the United States would have bowed before that pure and noble patriot who now lingers within the mouldy walls of a federal prison, under charges which are as false as they are ridiculous.
But now we have failed, and we are criminals and traitors! Our misfortune is our crime, our treason; and they have always been few, and are few now, those whose haughty hearts have dared to justify and respect a great misfortune! No! there is nothing of the past I would repudiate. I think now as I did on the day I enlisted as a soldier, as I did on the battle-field, as I did near the graves of my fallen comrades; and, before God, who reads every heart, I think that our constitutional rights were in peril, and that it was our interest and our duty to sever from the United States! But we are vanquished; the government we bad established has ceased to exist, and we must select another government; that is a brutal fact!
Shall we leave this country? and, if we do, where shall we go? The whole world has been against us, and I know of no land where the Southern exile could find a shelter and a friend. Of all we once possessed, our pride alone is left us; and if we can do so without degrading ourselves, we should re-enter into the Union, but re-enter it as the equals of our victors, and with that legitimate pride which is the first element of all the great nationalities of
this universe, not otherwise.
ALCIBIADE DEBLANC."
The Southern people were kept in ignorance of the real purposes of the North, and seduced into the war. My fear is that the North may now fail to comprehend the purpose of the South, and ignorantly surrender all it has achieved at such cost of life and treasure.
Yours truly, WM. D. KELLEY.

THE BRITISH ARISTOCRACY AND THE SLAVEHOLDERS.
Extract from a speech by John Stuart Mill, delivered at St. Martins' Hall, July 10, 1865:
This sympathy of the rich for the rich had manifested itself in a very decided way during the last two or three years, by the extraordinary good wishes of the higher classes of this country for the success of the American slaveholders. He did not make this a matter of reproach against the rich and higher classes of this country, for he was quite ready to let by-gones be by-gones; but they were not at liberty to renounce the privilege, nay, the duty of drawing lessons from the very things before their eyes-[hear, hear]-and he should like to make a few remarks upon the cause and meaning of the sympathy of the rich for these slaveholders. It was not that they loved slavery; he acquitted them of that. [Hear, hear.] But he could not at quit them of not having realized to their own minds, by experience or reflection, what a dreadful thing slavery really was, and what were the results it produced and gave rise to. It gave a power- whether those who had it used it or not-of torturing human beings to death at their caprice. [Hear, hear.] The government which the slaveholders intended to establish had fortunately been frustrated, or there would have been a kind of reign of evil on the earth. It was this which had given rise to the bowie-knife and the revolver, not the pure government of democracy. [Hear, hear.] Our privileged classes did not consider this, or he believed they would have acted in a different manner from what they did. They merely saw one thing -a privileged class opposed by those who they thought wanted to take the privilege away; and when they saw that, they said, "These (the Southerners) must be the gentlemen with whom gentlemen ought to sympathize." He believed that to be exaggerated. [Hear, hear.] The man who nearly murdered Mr. Sumner on the floor of the House of Congress-was that man a gentleman? And the wives and daughters of slaveholders, who raised subscriptions to mark their approval of his conduct- they were gentlewomen! But the refined and polished society of Massachusetts, the poets, orators, philosophers, the popular preachers, the brightest
<c06>
and best, these who took the lead against those enormities-men such as Charming, Emerson,, Theodore Parker, Lowell, Bancroft, Motley, &c,-these were not gentlemen, they were low radicals and vulgar demagogues! [Cheers.] So blind were, these people-these privileged ones-on our aide of the water, that they did not know or care that the people whom they were thus attacking were those known to all Americana as lovers of England, lovers of English literature, sympathizers with the English people, admirers of us, and tolerant of much that was bad in our institutions. He did not make this a matter of reproach to any one, because when so many joined in it, it would not be right to apportion a share. Many who were well worthy of their respect had yielded to this general perversion of sentiment; and the moral he drew from it was this, that they had here one of the most signal instances, and so recent that it could not be objected to as belonging to olden times, of how far men could be carried away by their bias, unconscious and unintentional bias, he was persuaded, bat still one that made the rich sympathize with the rich, the privileged with the privileged; and the practical lesson which he deduced from it was this, that it was a very just and proper thing that there should be rich men in parliament for the purpose of watching over the interests of the rich, but also, if they wanted a similar care to be taken of the poor, they had better not shut the door of the House of Commons upon the poor man.

THE ANDERSONVILLE SAY AGE WEETZ.
From the card of " the counsel for H. Wertz," in Washington, the keeper of the Andersonville Prison, at Georgia, it would appear that that inhuman wretch is to have a civil trial. In one view of it I am not sorry, for even before Judge Wylie we must get some facts to add another chapter to the volume of proofs of the horrid cruelties of Jefferson Davis. I have seen and heard many of the victims of Andersonville, and all, without exception, tell the same harrowing story. One of the most eminent surgeons in the regular army, who treated some of our poor boys after they were sent home from that hell of horrors, told me it was not an uncommon thing to find a soldier whose feet had dropped off from his limbs, owing either to imperfect surgery or broken bones left uncared for; and that the dry or carious shank would protrude! In many other cases they came home to linger in inconceivable tortures, and to die the most horrid deaths. I was present when a leading Southern man frankly admitted his inability to defend the inhumanity practised at this post. I also beard a citizen of Pennsylvania who was a prisoner at Andersonville give his experience. He had escaped, but was retaken by means of bloodhounds. The food was so execrable as to lead to certain death. In the morning he woke to see himself surrounded by the corpses of these who had laid moaning and dying at his side during the night. I am not one who seeks for vengeance even against the moat guilty; but now, when there is a cry for the forgiveness of the whole body of the despoilers of our country, the deliberate assassins of our President, the murderers of our friends and defenders, and when a party is being made upon the appeal of mercy to Jefferson Davis, I demand that justice should not be lost in this exhibition of a quality which, even if exercised towards the rebel chief, would only be regarded as a proof of weakness or fear.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY AGITATION - ITS RELATIONS TO THE RESULT.
It was said by Gerrit Smith, in his speech at the temperance meeting in Saratoga, that " the anti-slavery reform was a failure; never was slavery stronger, or more deeply rooted, than when the rebellion broke out." This is. a striking admission to be made by one of the prime movers of the anti-slavery agitation. It is entirely at variance with the claim usually put forth by his compeers, that the present freedom of the slave is the consummation of their work. Wherein is it true?
 The agitation maintained by Wilberforce, Clarkson and others, in England, against the African slave-trade, was unquestionably the direct cause of the prohibition of that trade by Parliament. It confronted with very little effect at first the public opinion, and the private interests, arrayed on the side of the traffic. By persisting, it gradually subdued public sentiment, and at the end of twenty years it carried Parliament, and its task was done. The result was attained slowly, but through the legitimate operation of moral means. It was the regular accomplishment of a well-advised design and well-abstained labor. The same may be said of Jamaica emancipation. It was the practical product of moral efforts-an end wrought out consistently and regularly through the agitation of moral causes. In both cases the methods employed worked with gradually increasing effectiveness, and brought the final result in the way anticipated.
With the organized anti-slavery movement of our country, this was not so. Probably not one man who had any important influence in starting or directing that movement can say that he ever supposed that slavery would be abolished through a war between the Federal Government and the Southern people. Some imagined that abolition would be effected by dint of a moral suasion of the South that slavery was a sin and a curse; others that the South would be forced into k by an irresistible moral pressure from without; others that it could be reached somehow through the formation of liberty parties and other political action; others that dissolving the Union and leaving the South unprotected by the Federal Constitution would conduce to it; and a few even considered that the surest mode of accomplishing it was by exciting servile discontent and insurrection. In none of these ways was the institution brought to an end, or any progress gained in that direction. The South, instead of being converted to anti-slavery, under that agitation took the extreme ground, never before held, that slavery was a divine institution. The North consented to a Fugitive Slave Law in 1850. such as would have been morally impossible twenty years previous; and in 1861 its representatives in Congress agreed to an amendment to the Constitution, which erected a new protection for slavery such as had never entered the imaginations of the framers of that document.
There is no doubt that the Crittenden compromise, embodying all the abominations of the Dred Scott decision, would have passed Congress by a strong majority had the Southern leaders been disposed to take it. The great principle of non-extension of slavery would have been abandoned, outright and altogether, when forty years before the same principle was only partially abandoned before similar threats, the principle being still rigidly retained, so far as related to al! territory above the parallel of 36 30. Distinctive liberty parties, on an abolition basis, acquired some little strength fifteen or twenty years ago-enough, it is said, to defeat Henry Clay
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, far the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OP THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interferences with the institution of slavery, IN EVEY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commander! of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAM.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
for the Presidency, in 1844, by depriving him of the vote of this State-but all such parties died out before the rebellion. The number of those who were for breaking with slavery by breaking the Union did not increase during the last twenty years previous to the secession, nor did the States imbibe any new spirit of liberty. At no time during the working of the institution were there so few institution and so little open discontent as during the two decades prior to the rebellion.
The anti-slavery agitation was a failure so far as regards its direct scope and aims-as —at completely so as John Brown's expedition into Virginia,. Nevertheless, in all human probability, emancipation would have never come but for that same agitation. It was that persistent Northern agitation, and that alone, which enabled the secession conspirators to” fire the Southern heart, and precipitate the South into revolution.” Without it, all the attempts to arouse the Southern people to a rebellious pitch would have failed as completely as they did on the question of the tariff. It was because the Southern demagogues had an opportunity to declaim against a so-called crusade against Southern rights, and to picture in frightful colors the consequences to Southern society of a longer exposure to Northern agitation, that the secession movement was possible. This agitation was greatly magnified, and, in many respects, grossly perverted. Yet it had a positive existence; and it was that existence which gave Southern demagogueism its resistless power. Thus we may say that though the anti-slavery movement accomplished nothing in its own path, it was yet indirectly productive of the mightiest anti-slavery results. It was an indispensable pre-requisite to the ascendancy of a rebel spirit in the South, from which sprang the war, and finally the destruction of slavery.
We think that to be the true statement of the case. The anti slavery leaders proposed, but God disposed. They were used for the final abolition of slavery, but in a very different way from what they ever conceived. They did nothing by their own might and main; yet everything by being a ”rock of offence.” No moral reformers, probably, were ever more earnest, or had purer motives. Yet their devotion to their idea was their only wisdom. Their plans were all failures. They did not foresee any rebellion; yet had the rebellion, which was made possible only through them, succeeded, and the Union been broken up, they would have suffered unlimited reproach. As it is, their names will undoubtedly stand bright in history, and this simply by virtue of their having 
had right moral aims. Judging by the results of their personal efforts, Calhoun and Jeff. Davis did as much for emancipation, by working against it, as Garrison and Wendell Phillips by working for it. They all failed in their methods, and' yet all were necessary for the final result. The difference in honor and dishonor which history will make between them will be determined by the moral standard only; but that difference will be worldwide—New York Times.
WHY AND HOW. 
A correspondent signing himself" L.,” and whose opinions and even prejudices are worthy of respect and consideration, asks certain questions on another page, which, though not new, are entitled to answer. 
He is evidently under the impression that the fact, that in most of the free States the negro is either totally excluded from the franchise, or only enjoys it under restrictions which are not imposed on the whites, precludes or ought to preclude us here at the North from raising any agitation on the subject. But it does not; and for the simple reason that we are as much opposed to this inequality here as there, and are as anxious for its abolition. We think it is, as far as simple justice is concerned, just as great an outrage to disfranchise a man because his skin is black in Connecticut as in South Carolina, and a far greater scandal; and we hold it to be the duty of every man in the free States, while clamoring for the removal of this odious distinction at the South, to do what in him lies to procure its removal also if it exists in his own State. The one he is to do, and not to leave the other undone. The reason why we do not ask the President to interfere in the matter at the North is, that he has no power to do anything of the kind, and that he and that and we both know it. He has become possessed of that power in the Southern States by the simple fact hat those States have risen in insurrection; that their own governments have been swept away by the storm of war, and that he has exercised, and is now exercising, and we believe rightly, in all those States, the authority of the commander of a victorious army on conquered soil. His emancipation of the blacks, his disfranchisement of the disloyal whites, his suspension of the civil tribunals, or disregard of their decisions, are all done in virtue of this authority; and the use of it is imposed on him by the most imperious necessity. He has to reorganize society at the South; somebody must do it, and he is the only person who has the power to do it. To contend that the national Government may overthrow the armed forces of a rebellion, but must, as soon as this is done, retire from the rebel territory, is to contend that it may win victories, but may not profit by them. Such a doctrine as this would convert the late war into useless butchery, and while allowing the republic the power to defend itself, would deny it the power to take any precautions for its safety. One of these powers never exists except in combination with the other. Had Connecticut lost her standing in the Union by the same acts as those of which South Carolina had been guilty, we should recommend her being reorganized by the same means. As she has not, politeness, as well as common sense and the Constitution, prohibits our troubling the President about her shortcomings.
”L.”asks,” How can Pennsylvanians assume to force the inhabitants of South Carolina to grant the privilege of voting to masses of enfranchised slaves, embruted by generations of chattelism, when they refuse that privilege to the comparatively unimportant colored population of their own State, who for nearly a century have enjoyed the benefits of freedom and education?” The answer is, that those Pennsylvanians who are in favor of negro suffrage at the South do not ask South Carolina to do anything of the kind. What they do ask is, that” if ignorant and embruted men”’ are not fit to vote, the whites of that kind be excluded from the polls as well as the blacks; that if education, intelligence,. and property, or good character, be deemed requisite in a voter, any man who can prove the possession of them, in the manner appointed by law, be permitted, no matter what the color of his skin, or from whom be may be descended, to come forward and vote; that, in short, an utterly irrational distinction, based on a barbarous and unchristian prejudice, be not allowed any longer to deprive any portion of the population of political rights. We confess we are puzzled by the persistence with which the ignorance and degradation of Southern negroes is it brought forward in opposition to the agitation for negro suffrage. We do not ask, and never have asked, that ignorant negroes be enfranchised unless ignorant whites are. What we do ask in, that whenever they are disfranchised, ignorant while men may be made to share the same fate. 
We can go a step further than this, however, and affirm that even if there was not one State at the North in which a colored man was allowed to vote, the North would be justified in asking that all political distinctions based on color be abolished in the South. The total number of persons disfranchised under such a rule at the North would be, by the census of 1860, 237217,218; the total number of those who are disfranchised by this rule at the South is 4,201,000. We count in for the sake of simplicity the whole colored population in each section. Now, looked at in the light of expediency, in the light of its effect on public security and tranquillity, on the administration of justice, or of the national unity, the disfranchisement of 200,000 people in a population, of 19,000,000 is a small matter; looked at in this same light, the disfranchisement of 4,000,000 in a population of 12,000,000 is an immense matter- startling, momentous, full of danger; and it is still more startling and more dangerous when we remember that the barrier which separates them from civil rights is impassable, can never be surmounted either by genius or industry or good conduct. In all political questions numbers are the greatest of forces. Nobody can overlook or make light of them. The wrongs or disabilities of one man or a hundred men may smell as rank before heaven as the wrongs or disabilities of a million; but in the ear of any human lawgiver the cry of the million must always be the loudest and most impressive, because their griefs threaten the security of the state. Our 
naturalization laws, which convert every foreigner who lands into a citizen within five years of his arrival, and which now begin to exercise such marked, and, as many think, prejuditial, influence on the elec-
<COL2>
tions, are, in our opinion, called for by the public safety. If there were but 200,000 foreigners in the country, their exclusion from a share in the Government would be of little consequence; as there are 5,000,000, and the number is increasing, it would threaten the very foundations of the Government. And we confess we do not know how any calm reader of history can sit down and contemplate with complacency the future of a democratic country in which one-third of the population is deprived of the rights of citizenship, by those who hate and have injured them, on account of a physical peculiarity. 
The real solution of the question is, in our opinion, not” to be found in submitting it to the people in the shape of a constitutional amendment,” for two reasons. The one is, that in the existing state of sentiment at the South, the passage of such an amendment would be very doubtful; the other is, that if it were passed, it would be by the aid of a Northern majority, and therefore everything done under it would be just as distasteful to the Southern whites, and have to be forced upon them by just the same means as if the work of the President and Congress alone, in other words, our opponents would not” acquiesce in the division with the readiness which, distinguishes our people when a verdict is rendered by the tribunal of last appeals'.” We hear by every mail from the South that any attempt from any quarter to give votes to the negroes will, be resisted to the death, and how” L.,” with the events of the last five years fresh in his memory, can ask such a question, or expect an affirmative answer, we do not well see. No matter, in short, in which way the franchise may be conferred on the negro, his exercise of it will be resisted by his white neighbors, and will have to be protected by the military power of the Government for a while. That the whites will eventually reconcile themselves to this, as they are now reconciling themselves to this freedom, we do not doubt.
And we protest against the notion that, in asking the President to refuse, in reorganizing the South, to take any note of distinctions of color, we are asking anything novel or monstrous. There was not, at the time of the foundation of the Government, nor for long after, a single State in the South, except South Carolina, in which this distinction was recognized in the Constitution, in which the free black did not vote under the same restrictions, and no other, as the white. It is not very many years since color was made a disqualification in every part of the South, in compliance with the ever-rising and insatiable spirit of slavery propagandism. What we ask now is, that the South be forced, if need be, as a condition of her re-entrance into the Union, to retrace her steps, and act on the maxims which, in her earlier and better days, she deliberately adopted,. We shall say little here of the obligations which the democratic principles we profess impose upon us, in the eyes of the world and of coming ages; nor yet of obligations we have incurred to the negro for his conduct during the war, because these are considerations which, powerful as we believe them to be, the singularly confusing influence of the negro’s color on the judgment of most of our opponents prevents their recognizing.
But nothing is more certain than that, if, after having called the negroes to arms, and used their blood freely in carrying on the war, we now relegate them even to political subjection to our enemies and their old oppressors, without exacting a single guarantee for their elevation, it will be recorded in history as one of the strangest breaches of faith ever committed. And last of all we ask” L." to consider calmly the following calculation drawn by Hon. George S. Boutwell in a recent speech:
“If these nine millions of people in the South are to elect ninety representatives, they will elect one for every one hundred thousand white persons represented by the voting population; while in the North it will take one hundred and fifty thousand persons to constitute the basis of representation; that is, two voters in the South will have equal power in the government of the country with three voters in the North. I submit that the people of the North, unless they are infatuated, so that there is no hope of their being able to comprehend the means necessary for their own salvation, will reject-once, twice, thrice, continually reject every proposition which recognizes those States as States of the American Union. One of two things must happen—either that the negro shall be allowed to vote, or that, by an amendment to the Constitution, the representative power shall be based upon voters; and if, as is contended by those who oppose negro suffrage, these eleven States are States in the Union, as it requires three fourths of the States to make an amendment to the Constitution, and as the eleven States are more than one-fourth, and are interested in the maintenance of the present condition of things, there is no hope of an amendment of the Constitution." The Nation.
WADE HAMPTON,
WADE HAMPTON’S LETTER to the editor of the Columbia Phoenix—which is an address to the people of South Carolina-is a happy illustration of the kind of spirit that prevails among Secession leaders. Here is a man who is outlawed, virtually, for the crime of rebellion, and who was one of the fiercest spirits of the fiercest State of the South, that State but for whose exertions there would have been no rebellion, who takes it upon himself to advise his fellow-rebels who are at home how to act so that they shall be able to do most mischief to that country which they endeavored to annihilate, but which flogged them into submission, that would have been absolute and perfect but for the encouragement they have received to renew resistance. He talks of the” heroic struggle" in which the rebels have been engaged, and advises the Carolinians to elect to the State Convention which Gov. Perry has called,” their best and truest men,” not men who have been true to the Union, but men who were true to that rebellion which South Carolina labored for thirty years to bring about, and finally with success. He is especially bitter against all who were not active rebels, counselling his former fellow-citizens not to send to the Convention” those who have skulked in the hour of danger-nor those who have worshipped Mammon, while their country was bleeding at every pore-not the politician, who, after urging war, dared not encounter its hardships, but those who laid their all on the altar of their country.” Select such men,” he says,” and make them serve as your representatives.".” Which means that the State Convention should be composed of the most rabid secessionists in South Carolina, of men whose labors brought civil war upon the country, and who mean that that war shall be revived as soon as there shall be another democratic administration in existence to help them, as Buchanan's administration helped them in 1860-‘61, in the work of treason. Such men would be famous hands to assist in the work of reconstruction, wouldn’t they? To elect such persons to the Convention would be unwise as it would be to employ incendiaries to rebuild a town which they had deliberately fired and destroyed. Virginia’s recent action affords us some wholesome but unpleasant facts to show what comes from entrusting power to the hands of rebels who boast that, though beaten, they are unsubdued; and if Gen. Perry’s Convention should be made up of secessionists, it will be the duty of the Federal authorities to dissolve it at once. To allow such a body to sit and act would be as insulting to the nation as it would be destructive of the nation’s peace. It is plain what Hampton and his fellows are after. They aim to keep up” agitation,” in the hope that the democrats may come into power at the next Presidential election, and then they would demand the restoration of all their old” rights,” including their” right"” to hold slaves. As long as these agitators shall be allowed to have any part in American politics, they will make trouble. They should all be so treated as to render them powerless. They should not be permitted to take part in the work of reconstruction, which they are interested to hinder, not to promote. Reconstruction, if thoroughly done, would be their ruin, as great a curse to them as it would be a blessing to us. Had they been the victors, what treatment would have been ours at their hands? Let them be treated according to the mode of treatment which they would have assigned to us. We should have been silenced. Let silence be their doom-Boston Traveller. 
Petersburg (Va.) papers say that a tract of land, containing about twenty acres, nine miles from Petersburg, has been purchased by a party of negroes for the purpose of colonization. Among the purchasers are a blacksmith, a wheelwright and a carpenter. Permission has been obtained from the General, commanding the sub-district for the removal of the log huts on the adjoining tract of land, and their erection on this farm. Already a number of comfortable little buildings have gone up, and others are in progress of erection, and soon a village will spring up.
<c03 
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1865., 
SUFFRAGE LAWS AT THE SOUTH. 
We give below a condensed abstract of the provisions in the Constitutions of the late Slave States, in force immediately prior to the ordinances of secession, so far as they bear on the question of the right of suffrage. It will be seen that no two of them entirely agree in any other respect than that of excluding minors, blacks, and females from, voting. 
DELAWARE, 
by her constitution as revised in 1831, Art. 4, Sec, 1, gives the elective franchise to” every free white male citizen of the age of twenty-two years, or upwards,",” who has resided one year in the State, and the last month thereof in the county, and who has within two years paid a county tax, assessed at least six months before the election; every free white male citizen over twenty-one and under twenty-two, may vote without paying any tax. Soldiers quartered in the State are not made voters thereby; idiots, insane persons, paupers, and felons are excluded from voting, and the Legislature may impose forfeiture of the right of suffrage as a punishment for crime. 
MARYLAND 
by her Constitution, adopted in 1851, Art. 1, Sec. 1, allows ”every free white male person of twenty-one years of age, or upwards,” who has resided one year in the State, six months in the county, and is  a citizen of the United States, to vote in the election district in which he resides, but no adult convicted of an infamous crime unless pardoned, and no lunatic or person non compos mentis shall, vote.
VIRGINIA, 
by her old Constitution of 1851, admitted to vote” every white male citizen of Virginia of twenty one years, who has resided two years in the State and twelve months in the county, except persons of unsound mind, paupers, non-commissioned officers, soldiers, seamen, or marines in the United Service, or persons convicted of bribery, or some infamous offence; persons in the military and naval United States service not to be deemed residents by virtue of being stationed therein. 
NORTH CAROLINA, 
by her Constitution of 1776, prescribed three bases of suffrage: 
1. All FREEMEN twenty-one years old, who have lived in the county twelve months, and have had a freehold of fifty acres for six months, may vote for a member of the Senate.
2. All FREEMEN of like age and residence who have paid public taxes, may vote for members of the House of Commons for the county. 
3. The above two classes may, if residing or owning a freehold in a town, vote for members of the House of Commons for such town: provided, they shall not already have voted for a member for the county, and vice versa. 
By the constitution, as amended in 1835, all freemen twenty-one years of age, living twelve months in the State, and owning a freehold of fifty acres for six months, shall vote, except that
“No free negro, free mulatto or free person of mixed blood, descended from negro ancestors to the fourth generation inclusive (though one ancestor of each generation may have been a white person), shall vote for members of the Senate or House of Commons.".” 
SOUTH CAROLINA, 
by her Constitution of 1790, prescribed that every free white man, of the age of twenty-one years, being a citizen, and two years a resident of the State, having owned a freehold of fifty acres, or a town lot, for six months, or, in default thereof, having paid a tax of three shillings sterling, shall vote for members of either House. No person, however, was eligible to such seat except a free white man, of the age of twenty-one years-—a citizen, and for three years a resident of the State-—and, if a a resident in the district, he must own 500 acres of land and ten negroes, or real estate to the value of £150 sterling; if a non-resident, he shall own a freehold therein worth £500 sterling.
 This was amended in 1808, giving the suffrage to ”every free white man of the age of twenty-one years, (paupers and non-commissioned officers and privates U. S. A. excepted,) being a citizen and a resident for two years, with a freehold of fifty acres or a town lot for six months in the district, or in default thereof being himself for six months a resident of the district.".” 
GEORGIA, 
by her Constitution adopted in 1798, declares that” the electors of the General Assembly shall be citizens and inhabitants of the State, shall have paid all taxes required of them, and resided six months in the county.” 
KENTUCKY, 
by her Constitution adopted in 1850, makes” every free white male citizen of the age of twenty-one year, who has resided two years in the State, one year in the county and sixty days in the precinct.”
TENNESSEE, 
by her Constitution adopted in 1834 gave the elective franchise to every free white man of the age of twenty-one years being a citizen of the United States, and for six months a citizen of the county; provided, that all persons of color who are competent witnesses in a court of justice against a white man may also vote.
LOUISIANA, 
by the old Constitution of July 31st, 1852, gives the ballot to every free white male who has attained the age of twenty-one years, and has resided twelve months in the State and six months in the parish.
MISSISSIPPI 
makes every free white male person of twenty-one years of age, who shall be a citizen of the United States, and who has resided one year in the State and four months in the county, a qualified elector. 
ALABAMA 
is the same as Mississippi, with the substitution of three months' residence in the county.
FLORIDA 
limits the suffrage to ”every free white male person” of twenty-one years of age, a citizen of the United States, two years a resident of the State, and six months of the county-duly enrolled in the militia-and duly registered, provided that no soldier or seaman quartered therein shall be deemed a resident, and the Legislature may exclude from voting for crime. 
ARKANSAS 
makes every free white male citizen of the United States, twenty-one years of age, who shall have resided six months in the State, a qualified voter in the district where he resides, except that no soldier, seaman or marine in the United States service can vote in the State.
TEXAS 
gives the vote to ”every free male person"” who shall have attained the age of twenty-one years, a citizen of the United States or of the Republic of Texas, one year a resident of the State and six months of the county (Indians not taxed, Africans, and the descendants of Africans excepted).
THE PROCLAMATION OF EMANCIPATION, which has made the memory of its martyred author famous for all time, has been published in a great variety of forms; but none of them in so unique and novel a manner as the one designed and elegantly written by Mr. W. H. Pratt, of Davenport, lows, and lithographed by A. Hageboeck. It is in a very neat and oval shape, and by a skilful use of the pen it exhibits a fair portrait of President Lincoln made out of the words of the Proclamation! It is really a curiosity, highly creditable to the gifted chirographer, and well worthy of being framed and hung up in every family. Copies may be obtained of Robert F. Wallcut, Anti- Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street Price $1l.00.
<c04>
THE RENOVATION OF THE SOUTH.
The reports from the South in respect to the treatment of the colored people by their masters do not look very encouraging for the well-being of the blacks. Probably but a very small portion of these enormities ever reach the public ear; for only the more intelligent of the blacks, or those who live near the offices of the provost marshals, can be expected to make complaints. The freedmen who live, as very many do, remote from the points of relief cannot be expected, having the ill-will of the whites to mislead them, to know their relative condition to their former masters but imperfectly, and will probably obtain such knowledge very slowly. As a matter of course, this large class of colored people can be easily imposed on, and will be robbed of their earnings by the ungodly men whose whole system of management for generations has been robbery of the poor. It is only fair to assume, therefore, that the accounts that reach us are as but a drop in the bucket to the whole amount.
Again, the quite numerous instances of officers of the government joining hands with the villanous ex-slaveholders, in imposing upon the ignorance of the freedmen, and issuing orders so contemptible, not to say  criminal, that it surprises us that they are not cashiered instanter, afford unpleasant evidence that the virus of slaveholders so permeates the coarse fibre that enters too much into the composition of our army, that no great reliance can be placed upon its universal co-operation in the elevation of the colored people. Sad as it seems, it is no less certain that the inherent weakness and meanness that have characterised the conduct of the whites towards the blacks for six generations still clings, like the shirt of Nessus, to the dominant class, inasmuch as it appears that the very men who owe the preservation of the republic to the willing hearts and strong arms of the blacks are ready, now safety from danger is assured, to turn about and degrade and pauperize the blacks, and in some instances to slay them. The thought is too shameful to be entertained for an instant were not the evidence overwhelming. And when we see the dregs of white civilization, embodied in a regiment, and performing as a body the riotous and murderous acts committed by that New York regiment at Charleston, it needs no clairvoyant to see that a pretty base feeling may pervade many regiments, that only wants and waits opportunity for expression in the same foul and diabolical style.
From all these sources, then, danger to the blacks is to be expected and guarded against. The two latter will be temporary; for, doubtless, the government will sift out those stupid fools among the officers whose knowledge of duty is so limited as to admit of their outrageous conduct; and the soldiers who give way to the demur of prejudice, and enact scenes of rioting and murder upon their faithful allies in the cause of right, will get a taste of the Dry Tortugas, or certainly of the sunny abode of Sumter, that may correct their erroneous speculations, and tone down their erratic sympathy with the ghouls and Thugs of the South. At any rate, such a consummation is devoutly to be wished for. For we know of no medicine strong enough to correct these influences, that will grow into manifold evils in the near future, unless it be severe meditation in some lonely retreat, seasoned with severe and wholesome labor. When those semi-devils, that fail to recognize the obligations due to men who have risked life and limb for them, perpetrate outrages, let the weight of public contempt and public justice fall upon them with no diminution of might and severity. The application will not need to be long, nor repeated many times; and where it is discovered, as we believe it will be at a period not very, remote, that attempts on the life or liberty of a colored man is a sure passport to death, as was lately illustrated in Connecticut, we think the instances of such attacks will be rare.
But, on the other hand, how grateful to the soul of the lover of his country and fellow-men are the words of cheer that come up from some sections of the South! How gladsome the voice of Major General Howard on this point! He is capable, from military experience, to pronounce an opinion; and no one doubts his Christianity, or soundness of judgment on this matter. Some pious wag has compared him to Havelock, of the British army. We object to it. Havelock was a kind, professional soldier, trained to deeds of blood as a business, and was a tool for unscrupulous despotism over a subjugated race acting under the guise of Christian civilization. What did Havelock ever do for the Seapoys except to drill them? or for the Hindoos but to slay them? But our Howard is a Christian legislator in thought and feeling, and fights not to subjugate and degrade, but to elevate and bless, even the men who are in rebellion, and whose conduct in many respects has been as much worse than the Seapoys' as the Andersonville was worse than the black hole of Calcutta. 
Let us be thankful, then, that the President, while permitted, doubtless for some wise but inscrutable purpose, to appoint certain mountebank politicians and quasi-rebels to many important offices, had the good sense to appoint to the superintendence of the colored people a man of whom naught can be said amiss. It is an assurance that the vicious actions and decisions of subordinates will be constantly watched, and promptly dealt with. The business is in safe hands— for which God be praised! We look, therefore, to a careful and decided course of action soon, that shall ferret out the iniquities in the remote settlements and on back plantations; that shall inform every colored person of his true position in the republic, and assist him to the development of his mind and body for his own interest, and not for another's. 
Following in the train of this action will be the downfall of this system of fraud and robbery now in vogue; and to that end we hope to hear, another year, that the plantation system is broken up. The colored man should be encouraged, and helped to own and cultivate his own farm, little or large, as may be. There is no more need of the plantation system for raising cotton, sugar, rice, &c., in the South, than there is for raising wheat, corn, or dairy products in the North. It is a relic of an age of ignorance, feudalism, slavery. To eradicate slavery, and its collateral influences and ideas, we must destroy the system of plantations, and substitute farms. Each family must be quartered on its own land, and in supporting distance of others, and each with his own right arm and weapons of defence must stand a unit in the organized militia and productive force of the great commonwealth of the United States. 
We hope the jubilee is near at hand, when the colored citizen will not be talked of as a sort of beast of burden, as a donkey or an ox that belongs to some land -owner, who graciously employs him for the privilege of robbing him; and we hope, also, soon to see an end of similar talk in Northern papers about the negro’s dependence upon the soil in the South. Let it be understood, once for all, that the aim now is to emancipate the negro from the servitude even for wages, and elevate him to the dignity of being his own master, and working his own land, and let us hear no more about one fifth of the crop being his award for raising it. In some parts of the West, two thirds of the crop are given to the laborer who rents lands, if he finds team and seed, and one half if the laborer finds his share of each. Why should not the man who toils in the South, and raises cotton and sugar, share as well as his fellow renter up North? This quasi robbery must be stopped. We have raised and educated enough of those plantation vampyres already, and it is high time to change the tune. Away, then, with plantations! Cut them up into farms.Locate the laborers at in the North, and let them develop the country, and we shall see enough cotton, &c., as we now do of wheat, wool, and corn in the North. All the chief effort should centre in this, as on it rest the other reforms of citizenship, education, and higher development Will the wisdom of the land turn its thought in this direction?
<c05>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. N0. XL 
NEW YORK, August 10, 1865. 
To the Editor of the Liberator: It has been often proposed, in the course of the war, to punish South Carolina for her leadership in rebellion by apportioning her soil among the indigenous blacks and others who should be introduced for the occasion. This remedy for a State ready to perish of disloyalty and anti-republicanism was akin in medical practice to the Infusion of blood, by which health and youth were robbed for the benefit of veins which ran with water. It would have required for its application merely the removal of one third of the total population, and the importation of as many freedmen. Some have longed to see the day when black representatives and black senators alone should represent the Palmetto State in Congress—Robert Small in the seat of Butler or of Brooks. This sort of colonization had its amiable features. Men are not only food of witnessing what they tens poetic justice, but they will do their best to bring it about if they can. No careless voice ever chanted the John Brown song in the court-house at Charlestown, or In the historic precincts of Harper’s Ferry. It was not by accident that Gen. Anderson stood amid, the ruins of Sumter on the fourth anniversary of its surrender to treason.
Gen. Cox, the Union candidate for Governor of Ohio, has a scheme of colonization which is not based on an/ affection for moral tableaux or dramatic spectacles. Speaking at an abolitionist, with no prejudice against the negro, be urges his segregation in the southern corner of the continent as the only solution of the problem—What shall we do with him? The General uses a good many words to explain a very simple position. He regards the antagonism of races at the South as irreconcilable, and believes that amalgamation between them is impossible. Therefore, for the sake of peace and the welfare of both parties, he favors such a separation as I have described—organizing the freedmen” in a dependency of the Union analogous to the Western territories," with” full and exclusive political privileges." I do not understand that the General expects this dependency to be represented at Washington; at least be gives no hint to that effect. He quotes history, too, but without assisting his argument, or rather his assumption that there can never be a homogeneous population at the South if blacks and whites are left together. As for suffrage, he looks upon it as calculated to” embroil the fray” more hopelessly than before. 
It is easy to predict the extinction of the blacks if the infernal and unbridled passion, of the whites are to have full swing in the late rebellious territory. Already life is of little worth there when it animates a colored skin. Deny the freedman self-protection, while removing all restraint from his former oppressors, and what follows is plainly discernible. But history cannot be triflingly invoked to sustain a doctrine which springs from an abandonment of the most natural settlement of the reconstruction question. Men, and especially statesmen, may do better than delude themselves by citing parallels which are not parallels. Thierry does indeed say that the apparent territorial unity of the great modern States of Europe coven vestiges of the original diversity of the races which by turns or in part over came, settled and ruled them. But be remarks further, as Gen. Cox has quoted him, that these differences are to be found” in local traditions,” in the” instinctive enmity” which distinguishes” a few small districts from the great mass of the population.” Such are precisely the results of segregation, heightened as it was in the middle ages by the institutions of feudalism, when the baron clung to his stronghold, and the serf was attached to the soil. There was no ready mingling in such a society. Yet in time the Alemannians, Burgundians, Normans, Visigoths and Franks melted together, and France began to be a moral and material unit in the reign of the Valois. That which prevented prompt assimilation, though due primarily to the difference of race, was, after all, the hostile relations of conqueror and subject: and the lesson for us, if the history of mediaeval Europe contains any, is, that it will be long before the Northerner and Southerner can be lost in the American. But who does not recognize the altered state of things? Domestic feudalism has just been overcome on this continent by the superior vitality of republicanism, which is fatal to distinctions of classes and races. The lengthy periods necessary to make an Englishman out of a Norseman, a Latin, a Saxon, and a Norman, become superfluous here. Already it is no slight task to resolve an American into his component nationalities: a century hence it will be generally impossible. While General Cox was marshalling the French historian against the likelihood of Mack and white amalgamation, he not only closed his eyes on the admixture which has produced the mulattoes of the South, (and which is not referable to force alone, from an assumed natural repugnance and incompatibiity.) but was presently to be refuted by an incident which occurred a day or two since in a Connecticut village. You will already have taken notice of the riot at Greenwich which grew out of a brutal conspiracy against the peace of a colored man named Davenport, who had been many yean respectably married to an Irish woman. As far as my experience goes, the last race we should expect to cohabit with the people of color is the Celtic, and one example to the contrary might cause at least a day’s thinking to the would-be Governor of Ohio. 
The General condescends to speak of difficulties in the way of his little plan. There are some. He would need the consent of those whom he purposes colonizing. He would need the consent of their employers, who are dependent on their labor to raise cotton, tobacco, corn, sugar and rice. He must get permission of the inhabitants of the allotted territory. Then he must provide for transportation and support on the journey. And all the while time will be slipping away, and that which was consumed in unsettling four millions of men, women and children, might have been used to soften old prejudices, to cripple the vengeance of an exasperated because humbled aristocracy, to fortify the colored people in their rights, to educate them for the competition of existence, to prepare them for all the functions and responsibilities of citizenship. And, after all, the question will come up. By what right were these native Americans dislodged from their birthplaces and homes, and forced away from advantages which would have made the leap to civilization a scanty one? Are we ready to follow Gen. Cox in ordaining that no colored person shall be found outside of the negro district contemplated? If not, what becomes of an artificial boundary if set up, and how are you to help the contact of the whites and blacks? 
While President Lincoln was a colonizationist, we had our regrets, but no fears whatever. The war had settled the fixity of the colored race in the land of his nativity. Gen. Cox is not so much to be censured as to be pitied. He is advocating a measure which, if novel in its details, is old in principle, and obsolete withal. He is in danger, in worshipping at this shrine, of confounding himself with that Sunset Cox who bowed the lurid luminary of slavery beneath the horizon which it will never surmount again. Mean while, curiously enough, a fellow-General in Kentucky in colonizing Ohio with black emigrants from the last of the Slave Slates. Gen. Palmer has undertaken to relieve the cities in his Department of the influx of fugitives from the plantations, whom the gross falsehoods of the pro-slavery party have thoroughly perplexed and disorganized. He issues to any applicant a past to go at pleasure in search of employment. In Kentucky,” be writes to the President,” there are blacks who are free as well as blacks who are slaves. I cannot presume slavery from color; without evidence to the contrary, I take it for granted that the applicant is a freeman.” Hence a mighty exodus across the Ohio. It is a singular spectacle—we may say— poetic justice without the design of man. The to-be Governor of Ohio motions to the Gulf the freedman beyond the river. It is as if he beckoned:
<COL 6>
the negroes rush to him. If they were assured of suffrage-of protection, even, and fair wages-they would not quit Kentucky. They might even gravitate toward their Ethiopian Utopia in the everglades of Florida. Without the ballot, they will trust the people of Ohio sooner than the people of Kentucky. The people will shout at the polls for Gov. Cox.
I write amid the general depression consequent upon the failure of the second Atalantic cable. The mystery in which the causes of the disaster still are is not without some gleams of light, but we need DeSauty to dispel our fears with his”All right!” at concert pitch. M. DU PATS.
POLITICAL LIBERTY.
Liberty is defined by Worcester,-“Exemption from restraint; power of acting without restrint freedom; independence.” These definitions, when spoken of a government or a nation must be taken in some metaphorical sense, as a government or nation, collectively considered, is not a real being, but only an ideal aggregation of the distinct human beings composing sit, who may each individually be subjected to restraint. The organization combining them being only a form, and not a substance-though it may be restrained. When, therefore, we <illegiable> or liberties of a government or nation, <illegiable> literally understand the degree of <illegiable> political restraint enjoyed by the greatest number of citizens in that nation. But this does not seem to be the sense usually intended by our political writers.
We frequently see the expression, ”liberty,” where stood. Thus, restrictive statues, to secure some particular or general interest, rigidly executed by courts, are often alleged to be for the security of liberty; extraordinary powers bestowed on an executive ruler are professed to be for that purpose; and even compulsory military service, the most extreme subjection possible, is said to be imposed for the liberty of the nation. Although the intended meaning of the term is not distinctly seen in these cases, yet, from the manner in which it was otherwise employed, it seems to denote republican institutions, in distinction from those of a monarchy or aristocracy; in other words, a government constituted by the suffrages of the people. A pure democracy is especially considered the perfection of political liberty, although to a majority of the people, necessarily directed by a few, is committed unlimited power of restraint over a minority, which thus may suffer oppression.
But the impression of political voters probably is, that they participate in the rule of government, by electing representatives who hold the same opinions on the questions at issue in the contest as themselves; and thus they will be exempted from restraints to which they do not consent. But where there are opposing parties on some special issue, I which rights are involved, as is usually the case, in which rights are involved, as is usually the case, the minority plainly does not consent to the rule of the legislators; and on unexpected questions, not at issued in the election, the representatives may, and often do, impose an involuntary restraint on a vast majority of the people. There is in every nation, of every form of government, a perpetual conflict between the rulers, or those who support them, and a large portion of the people who are restrained by their rule, as they consider unjustly. They may be restrained for good, even their own good, but as they do not perceive this, it is still not liberty.
We must again take into view the invariable delusions of office, and fidelity to party interests. The representative of a prevailing party, however sincerely and intelligently desirous of the preservation of liberty, as he understands it, when once in the seat of power, pledged to the support of the prerogatives of government, and ranged on its side in opposition to the dissatisfied multitude, soon deems it necessary to enforce the views on which he was elected on the opposing minority; and as this must be done by general laws, the restraint operates in like manner on his own party, who did not contemplate it. There s scarce an instance in history where any person invested with political power has not extended it beyond the intention of its bestowment; and it is notorious that temporary power is as often abused as that measures deemed oppressive, and resisted by a minority, have been adopted by them when they in turn have become a majority and acquired its power.
We have then come to the conclusion, that personal liberty is not secured by the exercise of suffrage, how ever free and general this suffrage may be, and we arrive at this theorem; personal political liberty does not consist in the participation of the people at large in a government, but in the exemption from the power of that government, but in the exemption from the power of that government, however it may be constituted; and the checks of law or custom on the exercise of power by the government are more often additional restraints than securities against them.
It is not intended here to deny that there are many advantages in a republican over a monarchical government. A principal and important one is the general belief among the people that they possess a greater degree of political liberty. Although this is a delusion, it certainly maintains with them more harmony, acquiescence in the laws, and respect for their public institutions. Perhaps, for these salutary effects, this delusive belief is better than the reality would be, for observation leads us to the impression, that fewer persons desire or value personals liberty than is commonly supposed. 
The readiness with which all persons conform to the tyranny of custom, even in its greatest improprieties; the submission of thought and belief to the authority of political or ecclesiastical leaders, evinced by the multitude; and the pride discerned in any prominent station of that our citizens in general prefer prosperity and reputation to independence, and are content with a government which gives them no security for their personal liberty, if it only cherishes that ideal liberty which is supposed to be comprised in republican forms and the right of suffrage. To this, indeed, they are ardently attached; and though it confers on them no real good, and no evil would be confers on them no real good, and no evil would be occasioned by its loss, they consider it the greatest boon granted them by heaven, and are ready to sacrifice their lives, property, and dearest rights for its sake; and to maintain it, submit to the behests of the elected chief of a majority with as much servility as is shown to an Eastern despot. It is remarkable that, of all the laws made by government, professed to be for the public good, the greatest number and the most stringent are made for the maintenance of the power and the forms of the government itself; and in the decisions of courts this is the paramount object. Hecatombs of lives have been immolated, and innumerable sufferings inflicted, for this object only.
The circumstance most felt in a republic, as in other governments, as an abridgment of personal liberty, is the over-legislation to which legislators are so prove, which is immensely aggravated by the innumerable authorities of common law. Communities are generally best governed when least governed. Social liberty will be ever perpetually restricted, so long as legislatures persist in the mischievous and impracticable attempt to reduce to a settled code. There are scarce any rules made for protection and justice in some cases, which do not operate as injury and injustice in other cases. If all legislation were abolished, and every disputed question of interest submitted to an arbitration of equal parties, viewing it from opposite points, unfettered by any laws or precedents, on their own sense of justice and expediency, right would be more commonly protected, certainly acknowledged. Justice would not, as now, so often be sacrificed to mere forms-the most tyrannical of masters. Imperative government is always necessary to enforce judgement and afford protection; but it is one of the worst institutions to determine what right and justice are. Writers invariably view power as order and safety, and freedom with alarm; and ever deem legal <illegiable>


LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XL.
new YORK, August 10, 1865. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
It has been often proposed, in the course of the war, to punish South Carolina for her leadership in rebellion by apportioning her soil among the indigenous blacks and others who should be introduced for the occasion. This remedy for a State ready to perish of disloyalty and anti-republicanism was akin in medical practice to the infusion of blood, by which health and youth were robbed for the benefit of veins which ran with water. It would have required for its application merely the removal of one third of the total population, and the importation of as many freedmen. Some have longed to see the day when black representatives and black senators alone should represent the Palmetto State in Congress-Robert Small in the seat of Butler or of Brooks. This sort of colonization had its amiable features. Men are not only food of witnessing what they term poetic justice, but they will do their best to bring it about if they can. No careless voice ever chanted the John Brown song in the court-house at Charlestown, or in the historic precincts of Harper's Ferry. It was not by accident that Gen. Anderson. stood amid, the ruins of Sumter on the fourth anniversary of its surrender to treason. 
Gen. Cox, the Union candidate for Governor of Ohio, has a scheme of colonization which is not based on any affection for moral tableaux or dramatic spectacles. Speaking as an abolitionist, with no prejudice against the negro, he urges his segregation in the southern corner of the continent as the only solution of the problem-What shall we do with him? The General uses a good many words to explain a very simple position. He regards the antagonism of races at the South as irreconcilable, and believes that amalgamation between them is impossible. Therefore, for the sake of peace and the welfare of both parties, he favors such a separation as I have described-organizing the freedmen” in a dependency of the Union analogous to the Western territories," with” full and exclusive political privileges." I do not understand that the General expects this dependency to be represented at Washington; at least he gives no hint to that effect. He quotes history, too, but without assisting his argument, or rather his assumption that there can never be a homogeneous population at the South if blacks and whites are left together. As for suffrage, he looks upon it as calculated to”embroil the fray" more hopelessly than before.
It is easy to predict the extinction of the blacks if the infernal and unbridled passion, of the whites are to have full swing in the late rebellious territory. Already life is of little worth there when it animates a colored skin. Deny the freedman self-protection, while removing all restraint from his former oppressors, and what follows is plainly discernible. But history cannot be triflingly invoked to sustain a doctrine which springs from an abandonment of the most natural settlement of the reconstruction question. Men, and especially statesmen, may do better than delude themselves by citing parallels which are not parallels. Thierry does indeed say that the apparent territorial unity of the great modern States of Europe covers vestiges of the original diversity of the races which by turns or in part overcame, settled and ruled them. But he remarks further, as Gen. Cox has quoted him, that these differences are to be found” in local traditions," in the” instinctive enmity” which distinguishes” a few small districts from the great mass of the population." Such are precisely the results of segregation, heightened as it was in the middle ages by the institutions of feudalism, when the baron clung to his stronghold, and the serf was attached to the soil. There was no ready mingling in such a society. Yet in time the Alemannians, Burgundians, Normans, Visigoths and Franks melted together, and France began to be a moral and material unit in the reign of the Valois. That which prevented prompt assimilation, though due primirily to the difference of race, was, after all, the hostile relations of conqueror and subject: and the lesson for us, if the history of mediaval Europe contains any, is, that
it will be long before the Northerner and Southerner can be lost in the American. But who does not recognize the altered state of things? Domestic feudalism has just been overcome on this continent is the superior vitality of republicanism, which is fatal to distinctions of classes and races. The lengthy periods necessary to make an Englishman out of a Norseman, a Latin, a Saxon, and a Norman, become superfluous here. Already it is no slight task to re-solve an American into his component nationalities:
a century hence it will be generally impossible. While General Cox was marshalling the French historian against the likelihood of black and white amalgamation, he not only closed his eyes on the admixture which has produced the mulatoes of the South, (and which is not referable to force alone, from an assumed natural repugnance and incompatibilty,) but was presently to be refuted by an incident which occurred a day or two since in a Connecticut village. You will already have taken notice of the riot at Greenwich which grew out of a brutal conspiracy against the peace of a colored man named Davenport, who had been many years respectably married to an Irish woman. As far as my experience goes, the last race we should expect to cohabit with the people of color is the Celtic, and one example to the contrary might cause at least a day's thinking to the would-be Governor of Ohio.
The General condescends to speak of difficulties in the way of his little plan: There are some. He would need the consent of those whom he purposes colonizing. He would need the consent of their employers, who are dependent on their labor to raise cotton, tobacco, corn, sugar and rice. He must get permission of the inhabitants of the allotted territory. Then he must provide for transportation and support on the journey. And all the while time will be slipping away, and that which was consumed in unsettling four millions of men, women and children, might have been used to soften old prejudices, to cripple the vengeance of an exasperated because humbled aristocracy, to fortify the colored people in their rights, to educate them for the competition of existence, to prepare them for all the functions and responsibilities of citizenship. And, after all, the question will come up, By what right were these native Americans dislodged from their birthplaces and homes, and forced away from advantages which would have made the leap to civilization a scanty one? Are we ready to follow Gen. Cox in ordaining that no colored person shall be found outside of the negro district contemplated? If not, what becomes of an artificial boundary if set up, and how are you to help the contact of the whites and blacks?
While President Lincoln was a colonizationist, we had our regrets, but no fears whatever. The war had settled the fixity of the colored race in the land of his nativity. Gen. Cox is not so much to be censured as to be pitied. He is advocating a measure which, if novel in its details, is old in principle, and obsolete withal. He is in danger, in worshipping at this shrine, of confounding himself with that Sunset Cox who bowed the lurid luminary of slavery beneath the horizon which it will never surmount again. Meanwhile, curiously enough, a fellow General in Kentucky is colonizing Ohio with black emigrants from the last of the Slave States. Gen. Palmer has undertaken to relieve the cities in his Department of the influx of fugitives from the plantations, whom the gross falsehoods of the pro-slavery party have thoroughly perplexed and disorganized. He issues to any applicant a pass to go at pleasure in search of employment.” In Kentucky," he writes to the President,” there are blacks who are free as well as blacks who are slaves. I cannot presume slavery from color; without evidence to the contrary, I take it for granted that the applicant is a freeman." Hence a mighty exodus across the Ohio. It is a singular spectacle- we may say-poetic justice without the design of man. The to-be Governor of Ohio motions to the Gulf the freedman beyond the river. It is as if he beekoned: 
<c06>
the negroes rush to him. If they were assured of suffrage-of protection, even, and fair wages-they would not quit Kentucky. They might even gravitate toward their Ethiopian Utopia in the everglades of Florida. Without the ballot, they will trust the people of Ohio sooner than the people of Kentucky. The people will shout at the polls for Gov. Cox.
I write and the general depression consequent upon the failure of the second Atlantic cable. The mystery in which the causes of the disaster still are is not without some gleams of light, but we need De Santy to dispel our fears with his”All right!" at concert pitch. M. DU. PAYS.
POLITICAI, LIBERTY.
Liberty is defined by Worcester,-"Exemption from restraint; power of acting without restraint: freedom; independence." These definitions, when applied to persons, are clear and intelligible; but when spoken of a government or a nation must be taken in some metaphorical sense, as government or nation. collectively considered, is not a real being, but only an ideal aggregation of the distinct human beings composing it, who may each individually be subjected to restraint. The organization combining them being only a form, and not a substance-though it may be limited in powers-cannot intelligibly be said to be restrained. When, therefore, we reasons <illegible> or liberties of a government or nation,<illegible> literally understand the degree of <illegible> political restraint enjoyed by the greatest numbered citizens in that nation. But this does not seem to be the sense usually intended by our political writers.
We frequently see the expression," liberty", where personal exemption from restraint cannot be understood. Thus, restrictive statutes, to secure some particular or general interest, rigidly executed by courts, are often alleged to be for the security of liberty; extraordinary powers bestowed on an executive ruler are professed to be for that purpose; and even compulsory military service, the most extreme subjection possible, is said to be imposed for the liberty of the nation. Although the intended meaning of the term is not distinctly seen in these cases yet, from the manner in which it was otherwise employed, it seems to denote republican institutions, in distinction from those of a monarchy or aristocracy; in other words, a government constituted by the suffrages of the people. A pure democracy is especially considered the perfection of political liberty, although to a majority of the people, necessarily directed by a few, is committed unlimited power of restraint over a minority, which thus may suffer oppression.
But the impression of political voters probably is, that they participate in the rule of government, by electing representatives who hold the same opinions on the questions at issue in the contest as themselves; and thus they will be exempted from restraints to which they do not consent. But where there are opposing parties on some special issue, in which rights are involved, as is usually the case, the minority plainly does not consent to the rule of the legislatiors; and on unexpected questions, not at issue in the election, the representatives may, and often do, impose an involuntary restraint on a vast majority of the people. There is in every nation, of every form of government, a perpetual conflict between the rulers, or those who support them, and a large portion of the people who are restrained by their rule, a they consider unjustly. They may be restrained for good, even their own good, but as they do not perceive this, it is still not liberty.
We must again take into view the invariable delusions of office, and fidelity to party interests. The representative of a prevailing party, however sincerely and intelligently desirous of the preservation of liberty, as he understands it, when once in the seat of power, pledged to the support of the prerogatives of government, and ranged on its side is opposition to the dissatisfied multitude, soon deems it necessary to enforce the views on which he was elected on the opposing minority; and as this must be done by general laws, the restraint operates in like manner on his own party, who did not contemplate it. There is scarce an instance in history where any person in vested with political power has not extended it beyond the intention of its bestowment; and it is notorious that temporary power is as often abused as that which is permanent; and it is not unusual that measures deemed oppressive, and resisted by a minority, have become a adopted by them when they in turn have become a majority and acquired its power.
We have then come to the conclusion, that personal liberty is not secured by the exercise of suffrage, how ever free and general this suffrage may be and we arrive at this theorem: personal political liberty does not consist in the participation of the people at large in a government, but in the exemption from the power of that government, however it may be constituted; and the checks of law or custom on the exercise of power by the government are more often additional restraints than securities against them.
It is not intended here to deny that there are many advantages in a republican over a monarchical government. A principal and important one is the general belief among the people that they possess a greater degree of political liberty. Although this is a delusion, it certainly maintains with them more harmony, acquiescence in the laws, and respect for their public institutions. Perhaps, for these salutary effects, this delusive belief is better than the reality would be, for observation leads us to the impression, that fewer persons desire or value personal liberty than is commonly supposed. The readiness with which all persons conform to the tyranny of custom, even in its greatest improprieties; the submission of thought and belief to the authority of political or ecclesiastical leaders, evinced by the multitude; and the pride discerned in any prominent station of official or military servitude, warrant the opinion that our citizens in general prefer prosperity and reputation to independence, and are content with a government which gives them no security for their personal liberty, if it only cherishes that ideal liberty which is supposed to be comprised in republican forms and the right of suffrage. To this, indeed, they are ardently attached; and thought it confers on them no real good, and no evil would be occasioned by its loss, they consider it the greatest boon granted them by heaven, and are ready to sacrifice their lives, property, and dearest rights for its sake; and to maintain it, submit to the behests of the elected chief of a majority with as much servility as is shown to an Eastern despot. It is remarkable that, of all the laws made by government, professed to be for the public good, the greatest number and the most stringent are made for the maintenance of the power and the forms of the government itself; and in the decisions of court, this is the Paramount object. Hecatombs of lives have been immolated, and innumerable sufferings inflicted, for this object only. 
The circumstance most felt in a republic, as in other governments, as an abridgment of personal liberty, is the over-legislation to which legislators are so prove, which is immensely aggravated by the innumerable authorities of common law. Communities are generally best governed when least governed. Social liberty will be ever perpetually restricted, so long as legislatures persist in the mischievous and impracticable attempt to reduce the infinite ramifications of social rights to a settled code. There are scarce any rules made for protection and justice in some cases, which do not operate as injury and injustice in other cases. If all legislation were abolished, and every disputed question of interest submitted to an arbitration of If equal parties, viewing it from opposite points, unfettered by any laws or precedents, on their own sense of justice and expediency, right would be more commonly protected, certainly acknowledged. Justice would not, as now, so often be sacrificed to mere forms-the most tyrannical of masters. Imperative government is always necessary to enforce judge and afford protection; but it is one of the worst institutions to determine what right and justice are
Writers invariably view power as order and safety, and freedom with alarm; and everdeem legal maxims








<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
to be the truest, because they are the oldest. All legislation, other than that for protection of individual rights, or intercourse with foreign powers, is a usurpation and a tyranny.
Whatever of individual liberty is left by the noninterference of legislation is entirely destroyed by war, and by compulsory military establishments. No more abject subjection can be conceived than that of military servitude; and no greater tyranny than the compulsion of men to murder their fellow-men by hundreds, and to be exposed to be murdered themselves. The governments which assume this power inflict a tyranny on their citizens more cruel and criminal than the most extended suffrage can alleviate, and for which the preservation of the most perfect government cannot compensate. J. P.B.

RESOLUTIONS OF THE COLORED MEN’S CONVENTION.
Previous to the adjournment of the Colored Men’s Convention at Alexandria, the following spirited preamble and resolutions were adopted:
We, the American citizens of African descent of the State of Virginia, in Convention assembled in the city of Alexandria, on this 4th day of August, A. D. 1865, do adopt the following preamble and resolutions:
<illegible> In the darkest hours of American history <illegible> reason and rebellion swept over the South, <illegible> loyal to the Government of the United <illegible> when the Government called us to arms, we gladly came forth to fight her battles and to protect the flag that had enslaved us; and
Whereas, As peace is restored to the land, and the sound of the drum or the tramp of troops or the boom of cannon is heard no more, and the States so late in rebellion are about being restored to their relationship in the Federal Union under pretended loyalty;
Resolved, That any attempt to reconstruct the States so late in open rebellion against the general government, without giving to American citizens of African descent all the rights and immunities accorded to white citizens so late in open arms and hostility against the Government of the United States, is an act of gross injustice done to the loyal blacks who compose the great loyal element of the Southern States.
Resolved, That a petition be sent to Congress in the name of this Convention, respectfully yet most earnestly requesting them to reject the Senators and Representatives elected from this State of Virginia to seats in the Congress of the United States, and to keep the State under military control until all the rights and immunities accorded to white citizens shall be given to us.
And whereas, good rulers make good subjects, which is illustrated in the case of Queen Victoria on the one hand, and Louis Napoleon on the other; and whereas, this rule holds good with reference to rulers from peasants to kings; and whereas, the reason why American rulers, and especially those in the Southern States, have been so thoroughly detested by the colored man is because they have invariably hated us, and have joined hands with our oppressors, and in many cases were our enemies and our oppressors; and whereas, in the process of reconstruction and reappointing the officers of this State, we cannot look upon any one act, either by the Provisional Government of the State of Virginia or by any person holding office either by the appointment of Gov. Pierpont or as the result of any election ordered by his authority, as having proved friendly to us, but in every case have they sought to degrade us; therefore,
Resolved, That we, members of the Convention of Colored Citizens of Virginia assembled, do most respectfully but earnestly call upon Governor Pierpont to define his position in reference to the repeal of all the black laws of Virginia which oppress and degrade us; also in reference to the franchise of colored citizens of Virginia.
Resolved, That unless he does this favorably, we cannot regard him as our friend.
Resolved, That the very dubious course of the Government has left both us and all true friends of the Union in a great uncertainty as to his fidelity to the principles upon which he was exalted to his position of Governor of Virginia.
Resolved, That we thank all true friends of our race, of all schools, but especially Hon. Charles Sumner, Benjamin Wade, Henry Wilson, Generals Terry and Turner, who have so recently suppressed the election of our enemies; but none have a greater share of our love and respect than General B. F. Butler, who first decided the fate of slavery.
The reading of the last resolution produced the wildest enthusiasm, which culminated in three hearty cheers and a “tiger” for Gen. Butler.
A resolution was also adopted for the appointment of a committee to confer with the Freedmen’s Bureau at Richmond, for the purpose of establishing common schools throughout the States, or in such sections as might be found practicable.

A PATRON WANTED-INTERESTING CASE.
LEXINGTON, (KY.,) August 9th, 1865.
MR. WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-At the instance of some friends in our town, I have ventured to write you this letter. I am calculating an Almanac for the United States-our-country-the greater part of which is now calculated. I am a colored man, and a school-teacher by profession; and being unable, by reason of poverty, to publish my work after it is done, I desire to sell the manuscript to whoever will purchase it. Also, as two of the five parallels of latitude for which it is calculated are those of Boston and New York cities, I would rather that, being published in one or the other of those cities aforementioned, it should emanate therefrom, to prove, through the grace of the Lord, that which it shall prove. I expect, the Lord willing, to finish the calculations by the first of September. Can you find a purchaser, or otherwise aid me in disposing of my Almanac? Should you be pleased to answer this communication, direct it in care of Mr. HENRY KING, or Rev. R. G. BRANK, of Lexington.
Very truly, WILLIAM H. MILLER.
As the readiest and most comprehensive way of bringing the case of Mr. Miller before some one who may have the means and the spirit to become his patron to the extent desired, we publish his letter in the Liberator, hoping it may prove successful.-Ed. Lib.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS. The contents of this meritorious monthly, for August, are-1. Shall we make war upon Maximilian? By D. A. Wasson. 2. The First Marriage. By Augusta Cooper Kimball. 3. Past and Present. By Samuel Johnson. 4. The Masquerade. By George S. Burleigh. 5. A final Word. 6. Greater than Leaders. By R. J. Hinton. 7. The Uncertainties of Property. 8. Frankness. By J. B. L. 9. New Belief and Old Opinion. By Edward C. Towne. 10. If and If. By Alice Cary. 11. Our Library. 12. Authority in the Pulpit. By O.B Frothingham.
We regret to learn that the publication of the Friend of Progress ceases with the present number. The intention has been to continue at least to the end of the volume, (only ten numbers have been issued)-but the destruction of material consequent upon a recent fire, added to the heavily accumulating loss of the business itself, leaves no alternative but immediate suspension. The publishers state that the experiment has been a costly one to them, but that the outlay will not be regretted if it shall prove serviceable in aiding the final establishment, on an enduring basis, of a free, able, and independent organ of the most liberal and progressive thought of the age.
The Advertiser of Wednesday last states that Judge Wylie, of the criminal court in Washington, D.C., has addressed a remarkable letter to the Bureau of Freedmen’s Affairs, protesting against the establishment of colored schools in his section of the city. His reasons for the protest are not stated.
<c02>
VALUABLE PHOTOGRAPHS.
NEW YORK, Aug. 5, 1865.
The fortunate recipients of invitations to the Fort Sumter Flag Raising, last April, have recently been further happified and honored by receiving some keepworthy souvenirs of the delightful trip, in the form of three large and exquisitely executed photographic views of the historic fortress, taken from different stand points, and, in combination, furnishing an accurate portrayal of Sumter's present appearance. One scene represents the fort as seen from the harbor, and the other two give a striking picture of the interior of the work. Those who have looked upon Sumter since its last bombardment will find reproduced in these beautiful pictures everything noteworthy, in a most natural and suggestive form. The crumbled walls, the bomb-proofs, the basket-work, the look-out, the cannon crowning such portions of the wall as remain intact, and all the unmentionable but ever memorable details and accessories of the Flag Raising Jubilee, are brought vividly to view in these artistic photographs. If they were purchased by the people, instead of being circulated so charily, they would doubtless become the most popular pictures suggested by the war, and it is to be hoped that, at least, our public institutions may succeed in securing copies for the benefit of the thousands who might thus be privileged to enjoy the inspection of them. Each picture is endorsed as issued from the Engineer Department by "Richard Delafield, General and Chief Engineer," and has this inscription under the centre: “FORT SUMTER: Presented by the Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War, to--, an invited guest at the Ceremonies of restoring the National Flag, by Gen. Anderson, on the Ramparts of the Fort, on the 14th of April, 1865." Along with the views of the Fort has also been transmitted to each guest a photographic copy, or facsimile of Gen. (then Major) Anderson's celebrated telegram from Sandy Hook in 1861; which reads as follows: "S. S. Baltic, off Sandy Hook, April eighteenth, ten thirty A. M., via New York. Hon. S. Cameron, Sec’y War, Wash'n. Having defended Fort Sumter for thirty-four hours, until the quarters were entirely burned, the main gates destroyed by fire, the gorge walls seriously injured, the magazine surrounded by flames and its door closed from the effects of heat, four barrels and three cartridges of powder only being available, and no provisions remaining but pork, I accepted terms of evacuation offered by General Beauregard, being the same offered by him on the eleventh inst., prior to the commencement of hostilities, and marched out of the Fort Sunday afternoon, the fourteenth inst., with colors flying and drums beating, bringing away Company and private property, and saluting my Flag with fifty guns. Robert Anderson, Major, First Artillery, commanding." What a ring this despatch has, and how valuable a prize have they who can look upon and read it as it is perfectly photographed in the copy sent out by the War Department!-Corr. of Boston Post.

MONUMENT TO LINCOLN-ENERGY OF COLORED PERSONS.
On April 20th-our next issue after the assassination of President Lincoln-we recorded the act under the head of "A Noble Offering by a Grateful Heart," that Charlotte Scott, a colored woman living at Dr. Wm. P. Rucker's, on Putnam street, this city, has handed Jive dollars to Rev. C.D. Battelle, of the Centenary M. E. Church, to be applied towards rearing a monument in memory of Abraham Lincoln. She wished to testify in a substantial manner her high veneration for the greatest man, in her estimation, that had ever lived on earth. This originated with herself. She thought many colored persons would be delighted to contribute to a monument for Mr. Lincoln, as she said with abundant tears: "The colored people have lost their best friend."
It was added in the Register that this five dollars was to be the foundation of a fund for the erection of a monument to Abraham Lincoln.
Probably most of our readers looked upon it carelessly, and thought this would be the last of it. But, no! Various contributions, we learn, have been added from colored people in the Kanawha Valley.
Among other papers, the Missouri Democrat, at St. Louis, took notice of Charlotte Scott's noble offering, deriving its information from the Register. James E. Yeatman, Esq., a wealthy citizen of St. Louis, and President of the Sanitary Commission in that city through the war, gave the matter his endorsement in the Democrat. And lo! within a very short time, Mr. Yeatman received from a colored regiment at Vicksburg $4,200 to be added to Charlotte Scott's five! From another colored regiment came $3,200; then from a colored battery $500! How much more we are not advised; but Mr. Yeatman received divers handsome contributions and encouraging letters from officers, stating that their only trouble was to keep them from giving too much! In the fullness of their hearts the colored soldiers would push out their last "greenback," saying, "Take it all.” They were not allowed, however, to give over $5 each.
This waked up Mr. Yeatman with great earnestness, and in company with Dr. W. G. Elliot and Wayman Crow, Esq., prominent and wealthy citizens of St. Louis, they are making arrangements, both West and East, to carry out Charlotte Scott's noble thought into complete execution by obtaining subscriptions and erecting a magnificent monument in Washington as the offering of the colored people of the land to the memory of Abraham Lincoln.
Charlotte Scott was a slave, born and raised near Lynchburg, Va. She is past middle age, and has children and grandchildren who were slaves. She was given, we believe, to Mrs. Rucker, who brought her to Marietta. Of course, she is now a free woman. Mr. Yeatman sent for her photograph, with her foundation $5, and her history. She will soon be heard of throughout the nation; will live in history; has "immortalized" herself! Even Marietta may take some interest in this matter.-Anglo African.

EMANUEL VITALIS SCHERB.
"Died in Philadelphia, July 11, of disease of the heart, Emanuel Vitalis Scherb, aged 45."
This brief record may recall to some in this community the first appearance of Mr. Scherb in Boston, in April, 1848. Driven from Basle in Switzerland, his native city, by repeated imprisonments, the penalty for his bold and untiring efforts to obtain a greater freedom of the press and a more liberal construction of the Swiss Constitution, he came, about 1844, to this country.
Mr. Scherb was educated for the ministry; but, on the completion of his theological course, he enlisted with all his youthful enthusiasm in the efforts made by the liberal party in Basle, and edited a paper devoted to an enlargement of freedom of the press and the fulfilment of constitutional guaranties. His attacks on the existing order of things brought upon him more than once imprisonment, and on the other hand awakened the gratitude and enthusiasm of the more liberal party, who, on the occasion of his liberation from prison on the 23d of August, 1842, made a presentation to him of the "Cup of Honor"; and a copy of his paper, printed in letters of gold, was presented to him by the friend who had edited that paper during his imprisonment. Shortly after these events, Mr. Scherb came to this country with the son of a Swiss gentleman resident in Savannah, to whom he had been tutor for several years. Mr. Scherb spent two or three years in teaching at the South, coming to Boston in April, 1848. The writer well remembers how wisely he at that time (when all were confidently predicting the reign of "Liberty, Equality and Fraternity" in France) foretold the military despotism which would bind the people of France.
In the several years following, Mr. Scherb became widely known and appreciated in many circles as one of rare genius and high culture; and those who have heard him converse on the topics which were peculiarly his own-theological criticism and poetry-indeed, all which pertains to the highest in our being,-will not easily forget Emanuel Vitalis Scherb; and, as the grass grows green over his grave, and sunshine and shower fall in their turn over his resting place, there will perhaps come a tenderer appreciation of what was rare and exalted in this singularly gifted and constituted man. To the writer, who knew him too well not to feel that "charity" (his own ideal virtue) is needed in a retrospect of his character, it seems ingratitude to a teacher of no common order not to raise this simple "head board, with name and age," as the Sanitary Commission do at the grave of the humblest soldier who has fallen in the defence of freedom. E. C. W.
-Boston Daily Advertiser.
GEN. MEAGHER’S VIEWS. Gen. Thomas Francis Meagher has been giving his countrymen good advice in a speech at St. Paul's, Minnesota. While bespeaking a generous policy toward the defeated, he advocated justice toward those by whom the victory had been won. Of the negroes he said:
"Nor should we be less liberal-less just in fact-to our black comrades of the battle field. By their desperate fidelity to the fortunes of the nation in many a fierce tempest of the war-a fidelity all the more heroic that they fought in chains, and with the devotion of martyrs repaid with torrents of generous blood the proscription and wicked bondage in which, under the sanction of the Stars and Stripes, they had been for generations held-by their desperate fidelity and splendid soldiership, such as at Fort Wagner and Port Hudson gave to their bayonets an irresistible electricity, the black heroes of the Union army have not only entitled themselves to liberty, but to citizenship; and the Democrat who would deny them the rights for which their wounds and glorified colors so eloquently plead, is unworthy to participate in the greatness of the nation, whose authority these enfranchised soldiers did so much to vindicate.”
We hope that Irishmen will every where respond to these just and noble sentiments of Gen. Meagher.
<c03>
LETTER FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN TO COUNT GASPARIN.
Mr. Raymond's new "Life of President Lincoln" contains the following excellent letter, which has not been in the newspaper press before:
EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, August 4, 1862.
To Count A. de Gasparin:
Dear Sir: Your very acceptable letter dated at Orbe, Canton De Vaud, Switzerland, 18th of July, 1862. is received. The moral effect was the worst of the affair before Richmond, and that has run its course downward. We are now at a stand, and shall soon be rising again, as we hope. I believe it is true that, in men and material, the enemy suffered more than we in that series of conflicts, while it is certain he is less able to bear it.
With us every soldier is a man of character, and must be treated with more consideration than is customary in Europe. Hence our great army, for slighter causes than could have prevailed there, has dwindled rapidly, bringing the necessity for a new call earlier than was anticipated. We shall easily obtain the new levy, however. Be not alarmed if you shall learn that we shall have resorted to a draft for part of this. It seems strange even to me, but it is true, that the Government is now pressed to this course by a popular demand. Thousands who wish not to personally enter the service, are nevertheless anxious to pay and send substitutes, provided they can have assurance that unwilling persons, similarly situated, will be compelled to do likewise. Besides this, volunteers mostly choose to enter newly forming regiments, while drafted men can be sent to fill up the old ones, wherein man for man they are quite doubly as valuable.
You ask, "Why is it that the North with her great armies so often is found with inferiority of numbers face to face with the armies of the South?” While I painfully know the fact, a military man, which I am not, would better answer the question. The fact I know has not been overlooked, and I suppose the cause of its continuance lies mainly in the other fact that the enemy holds the interior and we the exterior lines; and that we operate where the people convey information to the enemy, while he operates where they convey none to us.
I have received the volume and letter which you did me the honor of addressing to me, and for which please accept my sincere thanks. You are much admired in America for the ability of your writings, and much loved for your generosity to us and your devotion to liberally principles generally.
You are quite right as to the importance to us for its bearing upon Europe, that we should achieve military successes, and the same is true for us at home as well as abroad. Yet it seems unreasonable that a series of successes, extending through half a year, and clearing more than a hundred thousand square miles of country, should help us so little, while a single half defeat should hurt us so much. But let us be patient.
I am very happy to know that my course has not conflicted with your judgment of propriety and policy. I can only say that I have acted upon my best convictions, without selfishness or malice, and that by the help of God I shall continue to do so.
Please to be assured of my highest respect and esteem. A. LINCOLN.

MAINE REPUBLICAN CONVENTION.
The following Resolutions were adopted by the Maine Republican Convention, on the 10th inst.:-
Resolved, That we recognize with devout thankfulness the Divine Hand that has led us through a long and desperate civil war, and has at last given to us the blessing of a lasting peace, based upon the overthrow of the rebels, the extirpation of slavery, and the restoration of the Union.
Resolved, That the citizens of Maine renew their emphatic endorsement of the principles and measures of the administration of Abraham Lincoln, who was stricken down by assassination, for his signal devotion to human freedom and the American Union; and that this Convention expresses its entire confidence in the honesty, integrity and patriotism of President Andrew Johnson, believing him to be sincerely desirous of restoring the just rights of all parties; and in behalf of the Union citizens of Maine we pledge to him our cordial support in the great work of securing national restoration and equality of human rights and an enduring peace.
Resolved, That if, in attempting to reorganize any State, and restore it to the Union, it should be found that the character of the people is such as to render them unsafe depositors of a free republican government, it is the duty of the United States to hold such State under a provisional government until all its inhabitants shall furnish satisfactory evidence of loyalty and attachment to free State institutions, and a sincere disposition to secure all loyal persons in their State equal political rights.
Resolved, That in reorganizing the States lately in rebellion, it is the right as well as the duty of the National authorities to demand as a condition precedent to their resuming the exercise of their political power, that they shall ratify the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery; that they shall remove all the disabilities which, under that system, attach to another class on account of color, and secure to all loyal persons perfect equality before the law.
Resolved, That we earnestly endorse the sentiment of President Johnson, that the American people must be taught, if they do not already understand, that treason is a crime and must be punished; and we believe that now is the time, if ever, when the law against treason should be enforced; that those who have controlled that treasonable organization lately known as the “Confederate civil and military government," have committed that crime under circumstances of the most aggravated atrocity, and that they should be made an example of which shall in all coming time deter others from committing the like crime.
Resolved, That, in administering the law of treason, principals in crime should be made the first and promiment objects of punishment; and until Jefferson Davis and other rebel chiefs are tried and punished, little good will be accomplished by trying and punishing the men who have been only their instruments.
Resolved, That the Constitution of the United States should be so amended as to secure equality and uniformity of the right of suffrage and representation of the several States in the National Congress.
Resolved, That the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, the enlistment and efficient service of more than 100,000 colored troops in the army of the United States, the good faith maintained by the whole race amidst treason and the most threatening dangers, the acts of Congress giving them pay and rank with white officers and soldiers, and the post of danger and honor assigned those troops in some of the most desperate battles fought against the rebels during the war, have pledged the national honor that these people shall be free in fact, as they are in name, and that there shall be conferred on them all the political rights of freemen; and that this great pledge, so officially and solemnly made by the Government, the people of these United States will redeem.
The following resolution, offered as an addition to the series by Mr. Goddard, was rejected:
"Resolved, That all tests, disabilities and discriminations based on color or race are unjust, Anti-Republican and pernicious, and ought to be prohibited by a constitutional amendment.”
NATIONAL TEMPERANCE CONVENTION. This body met at Saratoga Springs on 1st inst., and was largely attended by delegates from every section of the country. The Convention was called to order by Chancellor Walworth, who made some appropriate remarks on the occasion, and was followed by Gov. Buckingham, of Connecticut, in a short speech. The speaking was generally in favor of prohibition backed by legal force. Other moral reforms disassociated from the liquor question were presented, but laid on the table.
On the 2d, considerable time was spent in discussing a series of resolutions favoring governmental measures to preserve the purity of spiritous liquors, &c. Gerrit Smith was one of the speakers, and stated, amid many opposing shouts, that the temperance movement in this country had been a signal failure, because of the want of sell-sacrifice-the lack of individual devotion-the absence of fidelity in its own partisans.
The Convention adjourned 3d, after adopting a series of resolutions. A committee was appointed to convey the request of the Convention to medical men, in view of the evil effects which are often known to follow the use of alcoholic medicines, to substitute other articles in the place of alcohol, so far as in their judgment it can be wisely done. A report was presented in favor of establishing a temperance publication concern, and a resolution was adopted recommending the collection of one hundred thousand dollars to circulate temperance literature. After the adjournment a public jubilee meeting was held, at which speeches were made by several eminent advocates of temperance.
KENTUCKY ELECTION. The Chicago Tribune has the following paragraph concerning the recent election in Kentucky:
"The election in Kentucky has probably resulted in the defeat of the emancipation amendment by a decisive majority. The ancient Bourbons of that State, who learn nothing and forget nothing, have probably carried a majority of the Legislature, and a majority of the delegation to Congress. They have voted practically to be crushed between the upper and nether millstones of freedom in Ohio and Tennessee. They can, of course, have as much as they desire of this sort of grinding.
The return of members to the Legislature, so far as heard from on the 9th inst., showed 14 for emancipation and 17 opposed to the amendment. The balance of the returns will largely increase the pro-slavery majority.”
<c04>
THE ANDERSONVILLE PRISON-PEN. The following affidavit of a Union soldier gives a specimen of the torture to which the prisoners were subjected in the Andersonville stockade:
State of New York, City and County of New York, ss.
I was corporal in Co. I, 6th Connecticut volunteers, was captured in front of Petersburg, 18th July, 1863, at Laurel Hill; was taken from there to Libby prison, then to Belle Island, and to Andersonville, 5th September, 1863. Whilst at Andersonville the rations were served out by Major Allen, of the 2d Virginia cavalry (rebel). Allen sometimes would go up to the United States men, and ask them if they would take the oath to the Confederacy, and upon their declining to do so would say: “Don't give them a d-d mouthful to eat to-day."
At one time he took eight of us, myself amongst the number, all non-commissioned officers, and upon our refusing to take the oath and to persuade the privates to do so, tied each of us, our hands and arms to our sides, and our feet together, so that we could not use them, laid us on our sides, and then took a loaded pistol, and, resting it on our ears, fired it off, causing is the greatest agony, and the blood to flow from our ears. He caused the pistol to be thus fired on my ear twelve times, saying: “I will make you so you can't hear the command of another Yankee general or commander." The hearing of my right ear has been destroyed in consequence of this treatment.
Upon my return through from my imprisonment, I saw Major Allen in Richmond, Va., serving out provisions furnished by the United States Government to the poor of Richmond. There is now in Richmond a Mr. William Schaffer, who was a baker for the military prisons, who can substantiate this statement.
PETER J. SMITH, his x mark,
Company I, Sixth Connecticut Volunteers,
(Right hand disabled by wound.)
A BRITISH SUBJECT'S "LOYAL" CLAIM. We have had the pleasure of conversing with Captain Mott Johnson, of the schooner "Carleton," of Nassau, N. P., a black man of unquestioned color, who showed his friendliness to this country, equally with his skill, in rendering assistance to the U. S. steamer "Glaucus" Capt. Cooper, which became fast upon Molasses Reef, Bahamas, in December last. Against the advice of all his seafaring brethren at Nassau, who were in the rebel interest and perfectly well disposed to see the "Glaucus" go to pieces, Capt. Johnson abandoned his regular service, and went to the relief of the steamer, got out anchors and hawsers to work her off, which he successfully accomplished, and then sailed to Cape Haytien to notify the commander of the West India squadron of the disaster. He returned to the reef, and with his crew recovered four of the steamer's heavy guns, (which had been thrown overboard,) by diving into three-fathom water and affixing chains upon the guns, by which they were raised. These he took to New York, and delivered them to the government. To this service, Capt. Cooper bears cheerful witness, and acknowledges that the safety of his beautiful vessel is wholly due to this devoted black British subject. To render this assistance, Capt. Johnson transferred the mails which he was starting out to deliver, by contract, to the other Bahama Islands, to another vessel, and thus lost his contract with the British government. Capt. Johnson seeks remuneration from our government for his valuable services. He has been to large expense, and his vessel now lies in New York awaiting release from the costs incident to his generous labors. We sincerely trust the navy department, and all who have influence at Washington, will favor the speedy payment of this worthy man's just claim-Commonwealth.
CONVERSATIONS WITH PRESIDENT JOHNSON.—A Washington correspondent of the St. Louis Democrat says:
“It is but a short time since a distinguished Senator called upon the President. A delegation of conservatives had just left him. Turning to the Senator, he said: ‘I wonder if those persons, who but now passed out, imagine if I forget the power and the party to which I owe my elevation. There was not a man in the delegation that would n't have united in offering a reward for my scalp a few years ago, and now they talk to me as if I owed every thing to them. I guess they'll find I have memory.'
Again. A well-known editor of a prominent Northern journal said to the President: 'The Democracy say you will yet be found with them; that you have always been a good Democrat, and will always so remain.'
‘Do they?’ responded Mr. Johnson. 'Well, sir, you are at liberty to tell all such gentlemen that while, as President, I shall endeavor to drop any partisan character, I certainly am not prepared to do more than pray for those who despitefully use me. I think they stand in need of my prayers, and that's all I can do for them.’
‘Mr. President, we are discouraged,' said a committee of freedmen to the President. 'Richmond is as much in the hands of secessionists now as it was before Lee surrendered. Nominally free, we are yet the worst of slaves, and we see no hope of redress unless you aid us.'
'Gentlemen,' answered Mr. Johnson, ‘you must exercise patience. You are free, and the vainest Virginian shall yet not only acknowledge your freedom, but your equality, if you are true to yourselves.'
'But the local and State laws of Virginia, Mr. President '—
'What of the local and State laws of Virginia? Until these F. F. V.'s come to their senses, I rather think United States bayonets will be about the only laws they shall have. Go back to your homes-work hard, do your duty, and I will see that the lowest among you is secured in his right and title to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.'
As the President uttered the last remark, his face glowed with a high resolve, and I never saw manhood more sterling and erect than his every lineament betokened.”
BRAZIL. The mails are received with details of the great naval victory of the Brazilian over the Paraguayan squadron. Both sides exhibited great heroism, and the slaughter is described as terrible. The battle occurred three leagues below the city of Corrientes, and lasted from 9:30 in the morning to 6 o'clock in the evening. The Paraguayan fleet, consisting of 8 steamers and 6 gunboats mounting 80-pounders and also battery of 40 rifled cannon, was almost annihilated. The Brazilian force consisted of 9 gunboats, and their loss was 300 men and 19 officers. The main army of the Brazilians, 17,000 strong, was encamped on the banks of the Uruguay in Entrerios, and on the confines of the Brazilian territory another wing of 14,000 men was stationed. The condition of the Brazilian army was unsatisfactory. Typhus and dysentery were making sad ravages. A body of 2,000 Paraguayans desolated the province of Corrientes. They afterwards burst into Rio Grande, swept the banks of the Parana, and were marching through that province.
SOUTH CAROLINA. Provisional Governor Perry has issued a proclamation calling a State Convention to meet at Columbia on the 13th of September next. Every loyal citizen who has taken the oath, who is not within the excepted classes in President Johnson's proclamation, and who was a legal voter under the Constitution in 1860, can vote for members of the Convention. The qualifications required will therefore be, free white male citizenship, two years' residence in the State immediately preceding the election, a freehold of fifty acres of land or a town lot owned for six months previous to the election, or, in default of both, must have resided six months in the election precinct.
SLAVERY IN FLORIDA. GOV. Marvin of Florida, in his initial proclamation to the people of that State, says:
"By the operations and results of the war, slavery has ceased to exist in this State. It cannot be revived. Every voter for delegates to the Convention, in taking the amnesty oath, takes a solemn oath to support the freedom of the former slave. The freedom intended is the full, ample and complete freedom of a citizen of the United States. This does not necessarily include the privilege of voting. But it does include the idea of full constitutional guaranties of future possession and quiet enjoyment. The question of his voting is an open question-a proper subject for discussion-and is to be decided as a question of sound policy by the Convention to be called."
ANECDOTE OF ARTHUR TAPPAN. The death of Arthur Tappan has called forth from our correspondents many interesting reminiscences of that noble man, to which we will add one of our own. A few years ago he came into The Independent office one day, and handed to one of the editors a check for fifty dollars, saying: “This is the first money I have had for years that I could call my own." [He had been paying his old debts with interest.] “I am glad to have something to give away again, and I wish you to send The Independent to as many home missionaries as this will pay for." The act, the words, the manner, and the spirit were all characteristic of the man. Sacred be his memory.-N. Y. Independent.
THE COLORED PEOPLE OF NEW YORK. At a recent meeting in New York, one of the speakers, Rev Mr. Jones, in advocating the claims of the colored men to vote, stated that the census shows that in that city the negroes pay twenty-five thousand dollars more than the cost of their own poor; that in proportion to population, thirty-seven of them went to war to every twenty-five white men, and that the number who cannot read is only one in seven, while of whites it is one in five.
<c05>
TERRIBLE DISASTER ON LAKE HURON. The propellers Meteor and Pewabic, of the Lake Superior Line, collided on Wednesday night last week, in Thunder Bay, Lake Huron. The collision occurred at half-past eight o'clock in the evening, the vessels being about six miles from the shore. The Pewabic was struck on her port bow, just aft the pilot house. and sunk in three or four minutes. Life-boats were immediately lowered from the Meteor, and picked up those who were not carried down by the wreck. One hundred and seventy-five to two hundred passengers were on the Pewabic at the time of the disaster; 75 of the passengers and 23 of the crew were saved. The loss of life cannot be correctly ascertained as yet, but will be near 100. The books and papers of the ill-fated steamer were lost, and it is impossible, therefore, to gain a complete list of the passengers who were on board, but the fist telegraphed comprises those saved. The Pewabic was built last year, and valued at $100,000; insured for $60,000.
ANOTHER TERRIBLE ACCIDENT. On Tuesday morning last, a new locomotive, that was on a trial trip, came in collision with a passenger traic near Peyuonnock Mills, on the <illegible> Railroad, entirely demolishing several of the cars, killing six persons outright, and terribly mangling and scalding twenty more.
Much excitement existed in England concerning the Atlantic cable, which had continued entirely without signals since the noon of the 2d.inst. The general feeling was one of depression and hopelessness, although there were many who retained, faith in a renewal of the communication. The Times is despondent, although not entirely without hope. The Daily News clings to the hope that the accident is not irremediable, as the weather has not been unfavorable. The Star hopes that on board the Great Eastern they are employed slowly but surely in hauling back the cable to the affected part. The shares of five pounds experienced rapid fluctuations. On Friday they were done at 2 discount, rallied to 1 discount, and closed heavily at 2 1-2 a 1 discount.
A test taken at Valentia for conductivity shows the accident to the cable-—total loss of insulation, or " dead earth "to have occurred nearly 1250 miles from Valentia. This would be almost in the deepest water along the whole route.
The loyal men of Montgomery county, Va., held a large meeting at Christiansburg on the 7th instant, and adopted the following:-
Resolved, That the people of Montgomery county are disposed to accept the issue of the late struggle as a final settlement of the question of the maintenance of the Union, and of the authority of the Federal Government over the States of the South. They are determined to discountenance any and all efforts to impair that authority-to yield a faithful obedience to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and to cultivate peaceful and friendly sentiments toward the people of the North. They regard the abolition of slavery as a settled question, in no way to be controverted or contested. And they hope and believe that the grounds of animosity and strife between the two sections having been removed, the country, under the suspices of a common government, may realize the hopes and predictions of the founders of the republic.
OUTRAGEOUS. It is stated to us that while the 13th Pennsylvania Cavalry were lying in the vicinity of the city, and just before going home, some of their number caught an old negro woman, and for a long time amused themselves by tossing her up and down in a blanket. On one of these occasions, after throwing her some feet in the air, they withdrew the blanket, let her fall to the ground, and caused serious injury to her limbs. Not satisfied, however, with their diabolical sport, they then filled her eyes, nose and ears with mud, very much after the manner of charging a piece of ordnance. We understand the poor negro died from the effects of this maltreatment. Raleigh Progress.
LYNN. The census of the city of Lynn, which has just been completed, shows the population to be 20,794. Of this number 9,871 are males and 10,943 females, and 2,789 foreigners. The population in 1860, was 19,083, thus showing a gain in five years of 1,711. There are now 3,278 dwellings in the city and 4,433 families.
We were shown yesterday samples of cotton and sugar-cane from the White head plantation, in Charles Parish. This plantation is worked by freedmen, on their own account, under the auspices of the Freedmen's Aid Association of New Orleans. The crops are very promising, and the samples we were shown may bear comparison with the best in the State at this season of the year— New Orleans Tribune.
It is said that eighty plantations in Louisiana have recently been confiscated. These embrace many of the finest sugar estates in the Southern country. Mr. Conway, the Government agent, is making arrangements to divide up these estates into forty-acre lots for the freedmen and poor whites. This number of plantations will be more than doubled by acquisitions from the newly occupied districts of the State.
It was stated at the temperance convention at Saratoga, that the names of thirteen hundred rich men's daughters in New York are on the list of applicants for admission to the Asylum fur Inebriates at Binghampton in that State.
The entire number of accidental deaths in Great Britain in 1864 was 13,777. The number burnt to death was 2766, mostly by accidents attributable to crinoline, which is said to have caused the death of 40,000 women in fifteen years.
A well-informed Texan correspondent says that in one instance of which he has personal knowledge, a German family of ten raised annually, by their own labor, a larger crop of cotton than the forced production of forty hands on an adjoining plantation.
MASSACHUSETTS COLORED REGIMENTS. The 54th and 55th, both stationed in the vicinity of Charleston, S. C., are to be immediately mustered out of service, and will return home in about a fortnight.
Brigadier-General O. O. Howard, late Major-General in the volunteer forces, has been breveted Major-General in the regular army to date from the 30th of March, for gallant and meritorious services.
HONOR TO GEN. HOWARD. Waterville, Me. Aug.9. Waterville College to-day conferred the honorary degree of LL. D. on Major-General Howard.
The celebrated Merino buck "Gold Drop," belonging to Mr. Hammond of Middlebury, died a few days since. Mr. H. had refused $f 10,000 for him, and it is said valued him at $25,000.
The great English event of the first week in July was the triennial Handel Festival, at Sydenham glass palace. The Orchestra and Chorus numbered four thousand persons, some days entertaining twenty thousand listeners. At the close, the whole twenty thousand sang the national anthem.
Two children of Mrs. Quincy Sawyer of Saco, on Monday morning last, got some matches which were at the head of the bed, and played with them in bed, which set the bed on fire, and before assistance could be obtained, one of the little girls, three years of age, was so terribly burned that she died in the afternoon of the same day.
Col. Parker, who accompanies Gen. Grant, is a pure Seneca Indian, and a grandson of the celebrated Red Jacket, Chief of the Six Nations. He is a large, robust man, at least six feet in height. On his breast may be seen the broad silver medal presented to his distinguished ancestor by Gen. Jackson.
A black man who was liberated in Kentucky five years ago, and went to Africa as a preacher and missionary, recently arrived in Washington on private business. He brought a message of respect to the President from the King of the Bassas, accompanied with a request that the former would send him a rain coat, meaning one made of India rubber The garment has been purchased, and will be forwarded to his African Majesty in due time.
DEATH OF A MARINE PAINTER. Mr. Fitz E. Lane, the celebrated marine artist, died. at his residence in Gloucester, on Monday night last. Mr. Lane resided in Boston for several years, and painted some of the best marine pictures ever produced by an artist in the United States. 
A New Orleans correspondent says the property of John Slidell, comprising eight hundred and forty-two lots and squares of ground, with stores, dwelling-houses and a banking-house, was sold for $100,410. Before the war it was estimated at $800,000.
The planters in some portions of South Carolina, forgetting that the negroes have been freed, are practising the old barbarity of lashing them, and Gen. Van Wick, commanding the Westmoreland district, has imprisoned some of the chivalry, and introduced an order warning others against similar conduct.
The loyal freedmen of Raleigh have inaugurated a bust of Mr. Lincoln in the African M. E. church. The correspondent of the New York Tribune gave the address on the occasion.
A Cincinnati dispatch to The Chicago Times says: The Hon. George E. Pugh has received an intimation that the trial of Jeff. Davis will soon take place in a civil court, and he has commenced preparations for the defence, which promises to eclipse, in criminal proceedings, any defence ever, known in this or the old country. Mr. Pugh will join Mr. O'Conor of New York, in Washington, in a few days.
COLORED VISITORS ON THE PRESIDENT. The proportion of blacks who visit the Executive Mansion to see the President on business is not more than one in 500 as compared with the whites.
<c06>
THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be-
First-The discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second-The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civillzation.
Third-The earnest and persistent-consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fourth-The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation.
Fifth-The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory.
Sixth-The collection and diffusion of trustworthy information as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh-Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepressentation, by which so mush of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide,
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, Leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors:
HENDRY W. LONGFELLOW, 
J.R. LOWELL, 
JOHN G. WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT, (EX-Pres. Trin. College, Hartford,
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,) 
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,) 
CHARLES E. NORTON, 
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,) 
EDMUND QUINCY, 
Prof. W.D. WHITNEY, (Yale,) 
Prof. D.C. GILMAN, (Yale,) 
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,) 
Judge WAYLAND, 
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED, 
Rev. Dr. MCCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON, 
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS, 
C.J. STILLE,
HENRY T. TUCKERMAN, 
BAYARD TAYLOR,
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, 
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER, 
THEODORE TILTON, 
GAIL HAMILTON, &c. &C.
Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS, Publisher,
No. 130 Nassau st., New York. 
June 16.

WOOL,
THE undersigned, late in the employ of Messers. HALLOWELL COBURN, having leased the lofts at Nos. 6 and 8 Channing Street, is prepared to do the WOOL COMMISION and BROKERAGE business
He takes this method of calling attention to his facilities for selling, his store being admirably located, and his acquaintance with manufactures large. Consignments are respectfully solicited, and consignors are assured that all Wool sent to him will be carefully graded and faithfully handled. Liberal advances made when required.
Orders from manufacturers for the purchase of Fleece or Pulled Wools, either in the Boston, New York or Philadelphia markets, will receive immediate attention.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, JR. 
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, July 14, 1865.

Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
IS a concentrated extract of the choice roots, as combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effectual antidote for diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. Such a remedy is surely wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints; and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove, as this has, of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found in the following complaints:-
Scrofula, Scrofulous Swellings and Sores, Skin Diseases, Pimples, Pustules, Blotches, Eruptions, St. Anthony’s Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ringworm, &c.
Syphilis or Venereal Disease is expelled from the system by the prolonged use of this SARSAPARILLA, and the patient is left in comparative health.
Female Diseases are caused by Scrofula in the blood, and are often soon cured by this EXTRACT OF SARSAPARILLA.
Do not discard this invaluable medicine because you have been imposed upon by something pretending to be Sarsaparilla, while it was not. When you have used AYER'S, then, and not till then, will you know the virtues of Sarsaparilla. For minute particulars of the diseases it cures, we refer you to Ayer’s American Almanac, which the agent below named will furnish, gratis to all who call for it.
AYER'S CATHARTIC PILLS, for the cure of Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Heartburn arising from Disordered Stomach, Pain, or Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Liver Complaint, Dropay, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, and for a Dinner Pill.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best Aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Prepared by J.C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Aug. 4. 2m.

DR. DIO LEWIS’S FAMILY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINETON, MASS.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eagleswood School, New Jersey, and I.N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips’s Academy, Andover.
Send for Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS.
August 11.

THE RADICAL.
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON.
TERMS:-One dollar per year, payable in advance. Single copies, 10 cents.
The August number will contain Rev. Robert Collyer’s Sermon preached before the Western Unitarian Conference in Cincinnati, June 16, called “The Holiness of Helpfulness.” Extra copies of this number have already been ordered by persons who heard the discourse, for circulation. No person desiring to contribute his or her mite for the spread of rational views of life, could find a better method than this.
All communications must be addressed to S.H. MORSE, at Haverhill, Mass.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
SONG OF THE SEASONS.
BY KATY CARLISLE.
Elves that, in the New Year's footsteps
Following so fleet,
Lightly, over Time's worn threshold,
Pass with tripping feet:—
All the New Year's bright attendants—
All our joyful throng—
Of the New Year's radiant daughters
Sing we now a song.
Sing we SPRING, the youngest fairy,
Merry, wild and sweet,
Violet garland round her forehead,
Sandals on her feet—
Fairy sandals, light and tiny,
Mossy velvet green, 
Studded o'er with dewy diamonds—
Fit for any queen! 
Sing we SUMMER, queen of fairies,
With majestic air;
With a magic sceptre, wand-like,
And long, floating heir; hair;
SUMMER brings the soft south breeses 
And the warmest rain;
SUMMER gives the first brown tinges
To the waving grain.
Sing we AUTUMN, wildest fairy;
AUTUMN'S hand doth hold 
Ever-teeming horn-of-plenty,
Filled with fruits of gold—
Fruits of gold and leaves of crimson,
Nuts and yellow grain;
Fruits she loves, but round her pathway
Droop the flowers in pain!
Sing we WINTER, white-robed fairy;
With a lavish hand 
Scattering rainbow-colored crystals
O'er the withered land;
Hanging with the bright wreaths fantastic
All the shivering wood;—
Rough old Boreas goes before her,
In his wildest mood!
Sing we still—another fairy,
Fairer than the rest;
Tender, tearful-eyed and gentle;
Known but in the West;
INDIAN SUMMER, who, while Autumn
For a moment sleeps,
O'er the fading leaves and blossoms 
Tears of pity weeps!
At those gentle tears of pity
Grateful flowerets rise,
And lift up their bright heads, wondering,
To the brightening skies,
While she whispers low and softly 
In each charmed ear
Promise of a coming springtime—
Words of hope and cheer;
Till, once more, wild AUTUMN, waking,
Rushes on her way,
And the pitying spirit, startled,
Sighing, flies away! [1857.]
PEACE.
BY MRS. A. D. T. WHITNEY.
Daybreak upon the hills!
Slowly, behind the midnight murk and trail
Of the long storm, light brightens, pure and pale,
And the horizon fills.
Not bearing swift release,—
Not with quick feet of triumph, but with tread 
August and solemn, following her dead,
Cometh, at last, our Peace.
Over thick graves grown green, 
Over pale bones that graveless lie and bleach, 
Over torn human hearts her path doth reach,
And Heaven's dear pity lean.
O angel sweet and grand!
White-footed, from beside the throne of God,
Thou movest, with the palm and olive-rod,
And day be spreads the land!
His Day we waited for!
With faces to the East, we prayed and fought;
And a faint music of the dawning caught,
All through the sounds of War.
Our souls are still with praise!
It is the dawning; there is work to do:
When we have borne the long hours' burden through,
Then we will paeans raise.
God give us, with the time,
His strength for His large purpose to the world!
To bear before Him, in its face unfurled,
His gonfalon sublime!
Ay, we are strong! Both sides 
The misty river stretch His army's wings:
Heavenward, with glorious wheel, one flank He flings,
And one front still abides!
Strongest where most bereft!
His great ones He doth call to more command;
For whom He hath prepared it, they shall stand
On the Right Hand and Left.
—Atlantic Monthly for August.
NOT COUNTRY, BUT LIBERTY!
BY EDITH NORTH.
There are who for their fatherland could give 
The blood of them they love, or pour their own;
But I would rather roam on foreign shore,
Or banished to Siberian deserts be,
Or chained within a prison's iron walls,
Or wheresoe'er my dreary lot might be,
With living, glowing lips to press my own,
And beating breast of love to rest upon, 
Than on my sunny, native soil to see
The gory, mangled form most dear to me:
Nor could I for my country's freedom die,
Because the kingdoms of this earth must pass
As a great scroll away, or bond or free;
I could not die for what itself must die.
But, oh, immortal Liberty! for thee,
Born of God's infinite, eternal soul, 
Because thou art of God, I'd die for thee!
Because thou canst not die, I'd die for thee!
Or yet to higher sacrifice I'd rise,
Aye, yield life dearer than my own heart's throb,
And solitary walk to my own grave.
He who doth for a captive in lone cell,
Or for one dark, scarred, toiling, weary slave
Drop his own life, on home or foreign shore,
Doth die for God and thee, O Liberty!
—N. Y. Independent
SIMPLE WORDS.
BY JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL.
It may be glorious to write
Though to that shall glad the two or three
High souls, like those far stars that come in sight 
Once in a century;
But better far it is to speak
One simple word, which new and then
Shall waken their free nature in the weak
And friendless sons of men;
To write one earnest word or line,
Which, seeking not the praise of art,
Shall make a clearer faith and manhood shine
In the untutored heart.
He who does this, in verse or prose,
May be forgotten in his day,
But surely shall be crowned at last with those
Who live and speak for aye.
WHO ARE SLAVES.
"They are slaves who dare not be 
In the right with two or three."
<c02>
The Liberator.
TESTIMONIES
OF THE PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS AT LONGWOOD.
L—RELIGION.
We unite in expressing our deep conviction of the importance of religion, both as a personal and public concern; both as it relates to truth in thought, and rightness in life. It is the crowning dignity of human nature that man is capable of asking and answering, in increasing degrees, these vast questions, "What is truth? What is right?"-and that having learned the true and the right, he is also made capable of conforming his life and character thereto. True religion, as we understand it, consists in the soul's reverent allegiance to God, as revealed in our highest discoveries of moral truth, beauty and perfection. It is the spirit of faithful, willing obedience to His will as far as it can be comprehended by His imperfect children. Our whole duty and our richest privilege are clearly summarized in the great commandments which enjoin Love to God and Man. Love to God is identical with love of good in all forms; and Love of Man is the fountain of justice, purity and fraternity in all our relations with each other.
The religion of creeds, ceremonies, professions, sacraments, and institutions has obscured the true light; it has turned away the human mind from the simplicity of nature; it has obstructed the inflowing of the universal inspiration. If all the pulpits of America had proclaimed the religion of Love to God, the hideous dogmas of a Deity of hate, exacting the blood of the innocent before forgiving the guilty, and of endless, aimless hell-torments, would long ago have been forgotten. If the religion of Love to Man had held its proper prominence, slavery would have died of itself, war would have been impossible, woman would have been welcomed to equality in education, wages and civil rights, and all forms of social and political justice would have disappeared like night shadows before the advancing day.
Man's life declines towards the beast-level, if he closes his ear to the voice which calls him to duty; society sinks into debasement and disorder, if conscience is not active among its members, and if they thrill to no noble inspiration of moral principle; democracy itself becomes a most ferocious despotism "an illuminated hell" if the masses of the people reject the divine counsels of justice and brotherhood. The nations grope in dark idolatry and superstition— they wallow in seas of corruption—because they have not the knowledge of God as their Father, and of themselves as His children. We see that the woes of our own dear land are the natural fruits of our sins—of our disregard of principles we had confessed to be true, and of the teachings God has given us through history, and through our wisest and best men and women.
While we rejoice in the great good which has been accomplished by the existing religious organizations, while we welcome the spread of light in all directions, and are glad that we can claim no monopoly of the spirit of progress, we yet feel that the current religious teaching lamentably fails to meet the growing wants of the people. It does not feed the souls that hunger for the truth that sanctifies and makes free; it does not open the eyes of the blind to the blessed visions of Infinite Perfection; it does not quicken human faith in the universal love, and in the boundless possibilities of the soul; it does not even exhort or encourage us to make the freest and best use of the faculties God has given us. It frowns on rational amusement, and places our personal, domestic and public duties, outside the pale of sanctity, as secular and profane. It tells us of a glorious past, when God was near to man; it points to a far-off future, when He will visit the earth again, and does not stand in the busy present, and say with joyful lips, "Beloved, now are we the sons of God!"
But the sad history of the past must stir to diligence in the days to come. Let us consecrate ourselves to the practice and promotion of the religion of Jesus, which is the religion of Nature and of reason. Let us mingle worship with our common work; let us cultivate in ourselves and inculcate in our children the virtues which make our ideal of the heavenly life; let us do and suffer all things in the spirit of faith, Hope and charity; let us walk on the earth as those who believe ourselves and our fellow-beings born for a life of everlasting progress in virtue, knowledge and joy.
II.—SLAVERY AND THE REBELLION.
After four years of bloody conflict between the Government of the United States and that rebellious portion of the country calling itself the Southern Confederacy, the rightful authority of the Government is again recognized throughout the national domains—the Confederacy is broken in pieces—the rebellion is ended; and Divine Retribution, having fearfully scourged the whole land for its great iniquity, finds its saving purpose consummated in the overthrow of that dreadful system of chattel slavery, which John Wesley so justly characterized as" the sum of all villanies," and the emancipation of its millions of imbruted victims. Humbled to the dust, and suffering from bereavement and the desolations of civil war, it is for us, as a people, to be truly penitential; to acknowledge that we have been righteously smitten for our good; to bring forth fruits meet for repentance by doing full justice to the colored population in regard to all their political and civil rights; and to be zealous in seeing that, so far as in us lies, universal justice is meted out to all who live on the American soil, without regard to complexion sex or race; so that our peace may be based on a sure foundation, and no future explosion follow as the result of wrong-doing.
As touching the reconstruction of those States recently in rebellion, while this meeting does not feel it incumbent to express any opinion on the question, whether the said States by their rebellion ceased to be such, or are still to be regarded as States, notwithstanding the treasonable conduct of their population, it nevertheless desires to record its protest against the exclusion from the ballot-box of that long oppressed portion of the American people, whose loyalty and fidelity are reliable to any extent, whose claims are as sacred as those of the most favored of the human race, whose services to the government and nation in the crisis now happily terminated have been essential to the restoration of the Union and the suppression of the rebellion, and who are therefore eminently entitled to the elective franchise as AMERICAN CITIZENS.
II.—THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN. 
We believe that all class legislation, or the granting by law to one part of the community privileges denied to another, must result in evil to the unprivileged, and through them to the community at large; and as there never was a time so auspicious as the NOW for righting a wrong, we ask that strict justice, or equality before the law, without regard to sex, should be urged as the culmination of the great struggle for freedom which has engrossed the energies of the American people for the last four years. Now, while our wisest and best philanthropists and statesmen declare that justice demands that the ballot be put into the hands of the Freedmen of the South as the only sure means of securing to them the privileges and immunities of society, and protecting them against class legislation, we would most earnestly urge it upon the friends of equal rights that they apply the same rule to sex as to color, and see to it that in this grand overturning of the oppressive institutions of the past, the claims of woman be neither ignored nor forgotten. As all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed, we demand that woman be forthwith recognized in her right to assist in the administrations of the governments under which she lives, and to which, in common with the other sex, she is held amenable.
<c03>
IV.—MEMORIALS FOR EQUAL SUFFRAGE.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Pennsylvania:
The Religious Society of Progressive Friends, in session at Longwood, Chester Co., from the 8th to the l0th of Sixth month, 1865, inclusive, deeply concerned for the honor and welfare of this beloved Commonwealth, and wishing that it may be an example to all the world of justice, righteousness and peace, is constrained to utter its solemn protest against that provision of the State Constitution which denies to women and people of color the right of suffrage; and we ask you to take the necessary steps for changing the Constitution in this particular, so that all those who are taxed for the support of the government may share equally in its administration.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The Religious Society of Progressive Friends, in session at Longwood, Chester Co., Pa., from the 8th to the l0th of the 6th month, 1865, inclusive, under a deep conviction that the safety and welfare of the country are imperilled by any departure in practice from the principles of justice and equality, and believing that there should be one rule for the exercise of the right of suffrage in all the States, respectfully asks you to present to the Legislatures of the several States for their adoption an Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, depriving any State of the power to make any distinction among its citizens as to civil and political rights, on account of race, or complexion or sex.
To ANDREW JOHNSON, President of the United States: 
The Religious Society of Progressive Friends, in Yearly Meeting assembled at Longwood, Chester Co., Pa., from the 8th to the 10th of the 6th month, 1865, under a solemn sense of the perils and responsibilities inseparably connected with a reconstruction of the revolted States, deems it right to suggest, for the consideration of President Johnson, that the "natural and inalienable rights" of the colored population should be secured to them, including the elective franchise; not only as a matter of justice and right, but also of sound policy. The colored citizens have, throughout all the trials of the nation, proved themselves loyal and trustworthy, and in the Southern States we believe will prove a fitting offset to counterbalance the element of disloyalty still lurking among a portion of the white aristocracy that has escaped the retributive justice of the Government. We fully believe the elevation of the colored people to equality of rights and privileges essential to the tranquility, safety and prosperity of those Southern States, and of the whole country. And we respectfully ask the cooperative influence of the Executive in consummating 
so desirable a reconstruction.
V.—THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
To the foul and murderous spirit of slavery, which, for more than half a century, was the ruling power throughout the Republic of America; which held in chattel bondage millions of the native-born children of the American soil; which established the reign Barbarism over half the territory of the Union; which, in its institutions and laws, systematically outraged every principle of humanity and justice; which conceived and organized a traitorous rebellion for the overthrow of the Government and the foundation of a Slave-Empire; which, for four years, maintained a bloody and inhuman war for the accomplishment of that object; which, not content with taking the lives of Unionists and lovers of liberty in the field of battle, subjected thousands of them to a lingering death by starvation while held as prisoners of war; which set on fire northern hotels, filled with unoffending women and children; which plotted the wholesale destruction of life by the spread of infection, small pox and yellow-fever; which did not scruple to men-ace and recommend assassination among the means to be employed for the removal of the more eminent and influential among the champions of Union and Emancipation;—to this same foul and murderous spirit we would ascribe the act by which our late President, Abraham Lincoln, was struck down, and this nation deprived of a virtuous and estimable citizen—a wise, enlightened and patriotic Chief Magistrate; and, as the best tribute to his memory, we would renew our pledge of hostility to slavery in every form, and to every attempt to perpetuate distinctions based upon the complexion of the skin.
Our notice of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln would be incomplete, if we did not refer to some of the measures of his administration which have made his name illustrious throughout the world, and have placed it among the foremost of the benefactors of the human race:
Slavery and the Black Laws abolished in the District of Columbia:
Slavery interdicted in all the National Territories: 
Hayti and Liberia recognized as Independent Republics:
The Foreign Slave-Trade placed under the National ban:
The Coastwise Slave-Trade prohibited for ever:
The slaves set free in all the rebel States:
All Fugitive Slave Laws for ever repealed:
The admission of the testimony of colored persons in all the National Courts:
The enrolment of colored persons as soldiers in the United States army:
The abolition of slavery as a condition of readmission into the Union; and the passage by Congress of a bill for the amendment of the Constitution, abolishing slavery and prohibiting it for ever throughout the United States.
In common with the citizens of this country, and the friends of freedom throughout the world, we mourn the loss humanity has sustained in the removal of our late President, and feel that to us are committed the guardianship and advocacy of the great principles to his support of which he fell a martyr.
VI—TEMPERANCE.
This Meeting deems it a matter of the deepest solicitude, that while the moderate use of intoxicating drinks is the downhill road to drunkenness, and, therefore, the source of all the sufferings, woes and horrors to which intemperance is ever giving birth, it is increasingly resorted to by those whose character, example and position in society give them a commanding influence over the actions of others; and what is more deplorable, by many who were formerly interested in the cause of temperance, who gave the pledge to total abstinence, but who are now in the habit of using and proffering wines and other stimulants at their tables, or partaking of them in the social circle or on public festive occasions.
This backsliding is the more to be deplored, not only as it indicates a loss of moral energy and self-control, but because of the certain spread of intemperance through the land, like an overwhelming flood, unless actively opposed by counteracting influences, in consequence of that demoralization which war inevitably engenders 
The value of the temperance cause, as based on total abstinence, to the peace, health, virtue and prosperity of the country, cannot be computed; and a renewed and vigorous prosecution of that cause is called for by every consideration of patriotism, every principle of morality, every claim of suffering humanity, and by all the evils and perils to the social habits of the people, to which the late long-protracted civil war in our land has given birth.
Among other devices calculated to lead to the formation of a diseased appetite for intoxicating drinks, there is none, perhaps, more plausible or more seductive than the prevailing practice of administering alcoholic preparations as medicines,-such as "Tonic Bitters," "Cordials," "Invigorators," &c, under the specious pretence of possessing rare curative properties; which preparations are made rather with reference to pecuniary gain and the gratification of an ap
<c04>
petite for stimulants than to give relief in sickness and distress.
VII-—PEACE.
As in the midst of the distresses, tumults, divisions and convulsions of the awful civil war which, during the last four years, has caused our country to bleed at every pore, the advocacy of peace principles could not be successfully pursued until the passing away of the earthquake, the whirlwind and the fire, and until there might be the conditions necessary to hearing the "still, small voice," which says, "Come up higher;" so, now that the strife of blood is ended, and the nation becoming reconciled and tranquil, the friends of peace should improve their earliest opportunity to inculcate upon the minds of the people the solemn truth, that peace without justice is impossible; that there can be no peace without the right conditions; that, in order to avoid, war, we must "study the things that make for peace;" that the late war was not the product of obedience to the higher law, but of our wickedness in enslaving millions of unoffending fellow-creatures; and that alone by the prevalence of that spirit which was exemplified by Jesus of Nazareth upon the cross can the occasion or the consequences of war be prevented.
VIII—IN MEMORIAM.
Our beloved and venerated friend, THOMAS WHITSON, having been taken from us by death since our last Yearly Meeting, we deem it a sacred privilege as well as duty to record our appreciation of his rare simplicity and integrity as a man, and his single-hearted and self-sacrificing devotion, through a long and active life, to the cause of Freedom and Progress. He was identified with this Society from its formation to the day of his death, and his presence in our meetings, and words of wise counsel enforced by a pure example, were ever welcome to us. His memory will always be precious in our hearts; and we desire to express to his bereaved family the sympathy we so sincerely feel for them in view of the great loss they have sustained in his death.
"Peace be with thee, O our brother,
In the spirit land!
Vainly look we for another
In thy place to stand,
Unto Truth and Freedom giving
All thy noble powers!
Be thy virtues with the living,
And thy spirit ours!" 
This Meeting would also tenderly and affectionately record the early departure to a higher sphere of life of JENNIE KNIGHT SMITH, (formerly one of the clerks of this Meeting,) whose mortal body was yesterday consigned to the grave in the Longwood Cemetery. At our gathering last year, she was with us in the flush of health and the beauty of well-developed womanhood, taking the deepest interest in all its divine principles, progressive measures, and reformatory objects. By all who knew her personal worth, rare moral maturity, exalted purity and loving nature, she will long be held in remembrance as one whose character and example were worthy of close imitation.
IX.—THE FREEDMEN.
Desiring and intending to do our part in the great work of educating and improving the moral and social condition of the millions of emancipated bondmen of the South, we hereby appoint a Committee to collect funds in their respective neighborhoods for that object; the funds to be placed by the members of the Committee in "the hands of Isaac Mendenhall, Treasurer of this Yearly Meeting, and to be by him paid over, in its name, to the Treasury of the Pennsylvania 
Freedman's Relief Association, 424 Walnut street, Philadelphia.
NOT MINT, ANISE, AND CUMMIN, BUT JUDGMENT, MERCY, AND FAITH. 
The controversy which is going on between Dr. Huntington and Dr. Sturtevant as yet has scarcely passed beyond mere personalities. They are involved in preliminaries, and have not really grappled with the questions at issue. We confess to a disappointment that the president of Illinois College should have allowed himself to fritter away three columns of the Traveller in as many letters without scarcely touching the fundamental points at issue. The manner in which this discussion is carried on is another proof of the wide divergence between the spirit of Jesus, as exemplified in his teachings and the church religion. The Sermon on the Mount deals with great principles. The discourses of Jesus are seed-thoughts, containing the germs of great moral and religious movements. He aimed at a direct and simple end—the spiritual regeneration of men. Observant, indeed, of prevailing religious customs when they did not war with principles or conflict with truth, he, nevertheless, taught the religion of practical personal righteousness. Te love God and man was the foundation upon which rested the law and the prophets. God is a spirit to be worshipped with the free and loving heart. What matters whether the prayer be uttered on Mount Gerazim or in Jerusalem, if it be true and sincere? The divine life of humanity is worth all outward sufferings. To illustrate the parable of the good Samaritan, to follow the lesson of the prodigal son, to learn from the miracles that service to our fellows is the most devout worship; to be stirred by the sublime self-sacrifice of the cross; thus to enter into the deeper meaning of religion is to follow Jesus. As we read the controversy of these doctors of the church, and week after week go over the columns of the religious press, we feel more and more how large a space ecclesiastical religion still occupies the thought of Christians. Instead of taking the profound principles of the gospel, and applying them to the actual lives of men, we see the greatest force of thought and effort directed towards building up some form of ecclesiasticism. Jesus aimed primarily to establish in the hearts of men and the world the kingdom of God. It was a moral and spiritual work. The teats of discipleship were also of this character "Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of these, ye did it unto me." "These do," i. e., the commandments of love to God and man," and ye shall live."" By this ye may know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one for another." Discussions about surplice, bodily posture in prayer, of the peculiar mode of church organization, concerned the Jew far more than they did him. He was intent on lifting men and the world into a higher level of goodness and piety. And it is this kind of" primitive Christianity" which the hour and the times demand.
Of one thing we may be sure: doctors of divinity and churches will lose their hold on the world, unless they grapple with the great moral and intellectual problems of the age. How shall the vital principles of Christianity be applied in the reconstruction of the nation, and in diminishing crime, which now stalks abroad with such bold effrontery? How shall the pulpit roll back the tide of intemperance which now has so gained in volume as to threaten to burst over the whole land? What shall we do to establish a higher mercantile integrity, and just relations between different classes of men? How can we stop the dark foul flood of licentiousness, which pours its pollutions over our cities and degrades womanhood? These great moral problems are the questions of the hour. They confront Dr. Huntington at every step as he goes through Boston. They cast their shadow over the prairies, and follow the student as he enters Illinois College. Are the words of Jesus always to be a prophecy? Will not his prayer that the kingdom of God may come on earth—the reign of truth, justice, love and piety—become a fact?
To labor for these grand and sublime results is the duty of Christians. We must strive to lift men and women out of the actual hells in which they live, and which exist in them. Leave the blur-eyed owl to prowl at night.
An ecclesiastical religion may do for those whose ideal is in the middle ages. But living men, filled with the present inspiration of God's spirit, should go forth to apply Christianity to life. We need not so much an improved Sunday-service as a new life on Monday. We need not so much the incense on the altar as the consecration of manly hearts and lives to justice, freedom and humanity. We need not so much a reformed church as a regenerated nation, in which the living spirit of Jesus shall create society anew, and baptize its business, politics, social customs, literature, arts, poetry and philosophy into a liberal, spiritual Christianity.—Christian Register.
<c05>
COLORPHOBIA AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.
Homicide by a Negro Woman—Her Discharge— 
Singular Advice of a Connecticut Grand Juror. 
Ludlam Chard, a returned soldier, was shot at Rocky Neck, Greenwich, Connecticut, on Saturday night", while heading a riotous crowd of young fellows who had undertaken to inflict summary punishment upon a negro who was living near that town, very peaceably, and minding his own business. This negro is named Wm. Henry Davenport (but nick-named Jackson), a fine, able-bodied man, possessing considerable intelligence, who some two years ago wooed and won an Irish girl who, despite the opposition of her people and their threatening, joined her lot to his. "Jackson" after his marriage lived with his father, and set up an ice cream and oyster saloon. The family were considered peaceable and industrious, although, judging from, the remarks of one of the jurors, there was a tendency to quarrelsomeness in "Jackson," probably originating, however, in being constantly set upon and worried by certain men of the town to whom the fact of miscegenation gave great umbrage. They could not admit of Ellen Louisa enjoying her peculiar love of color unmolested. The natural antagonism between the Irish and the negro, aggravated during the last Presidential campaign by highly wrought political harangues, found its legitimate culmination in the attack of Saturday night. A party of some sixteen or eighteen, headed by the unfortunate deceased, who had served in the Tenth Connecticut Regiment, and who, with his companions, had made too free with the whisky bottle, sallied forth about ten o'clock, with the declared intention of "whipping the nigger, and sending the white wench out of the State;" or, as one of the gang expressed it," giving her some advice." The family of Davenport had been warned, and "Jackson" had already, some three weeks ago, got a foretaste of their intentions by a party—supposed to be some of the same—breaking into his ice cream saloon, and destroying the contents. They were therefore on their guard, so far as to keep a pistol and a dilapidated double-barreled gun—one nipple broken—on the premises. When the party reached the house, all the inmates were in bed except the old woman, aged between fifty and sixty. She met their demands for "Jackson" and his wife by threatening to shoot any one who attacked the house, and fired a warning shot over their heads. Scared by the reception, they retired, but, urged by Chard and some others, again returned, throwing stones, and threatening to kill" Jackson." Another harmless shot was fired—whether by "Jackson" or his mother, the testimony is contradictory. Again the assailants fell back; but a third time some of them renewed the attack, and then the old mother, who, in the meanwhile, had been struck with a stone, fired into their midst, shooting Ludlam Chard, the oldest, and apparently the leader of the gang. A slug penetrated over the left ear, going through the base of the brain, and out on the opposite side. He fell into a hole near the house, never spoke, and expired in about fifteen minutes. The party dispersed. The constable came upon the scene in about half an hour, found the colored family all in the house, and took them into custody, no resistance being offered. The deceased was a single man, aged about 30. 
The parties were examined by a coroner's jury, but the case being plain, a verdict of justifiable homicide was found, and the prisoners were ordered to be discharged; but nothing was done concerning the detention of the young fellows who testified that they were of the party, and went on purpose to play the mischief with the negroes. All was now over, but there seems to have been an amusing episode in the form of a volunteer address to the chief negro by, Mr. Button, one of the jurors. He said:
"While the jury justify you and your mother in this matter, I deem it proper to state that we feel that your conduct in this community has been very improper; that you have done an act, in marrying a white woman, and living with her in a house with others of your own color, that tends to excite the strong disapprobation of citizens; we feel that, although there is no law against it, it is a very great impropriety, and we feel that your conduct in other respects among the community is such as to expose you to injury; that you are in imminent danger in Greenwich, notwithstanding all the care and protection which the substantial men of the town— such as are on this jury—can afford, and will continue to afford, to the best of our ability, to every man, in the enjoyment of his liberty and property. Still, you are exposed to imminent danger by your course of conduct—the fact of your carrying a pistol, and your keeping a house where persons of both colors resort. If you consult your own safety and the good of the community, you will change your course of conduct. If I were you, I would go away from here. I do not ask you to leave your wife 5; that is a contract we cannot interfere with; only the laws of the land can divorce you. But, for your personal safety, and the personal safety of your wife, you should be very careful in what you say and do. We feel that you have been doing great wrongs in the community. We know some of them; and while we discharge you and your mother 
from all blame in this act, we wish you distinctly to understand that for some of your proceedings you deserve severe censure; and you had better change entirely your whole course of conduct, and be careful hereafter not to provoke any one or have any quarrel. My advice to you, as a friend, would be to leave Greenwich. Yet I wish it understood that while you live in Greenwich, I shall do everything in my power to protect you, as every other man, in the possession of your house; and any one who comes from outside to assault you must take the penalty. What a fearful and sudden penalty it has been in this case we all see, and it should be a warning to the young men of Greenwich. Be sure that you take these remarks from us in the spirit of kindness."
Dr. Hoyt—another of the jurors—said he had nothing to add, but to fully coincide with the remarks of Mr. Button. He hoped the prisoner would avoid quarreling.
Jackson- "Why, sir, I never had any quarrel with any of them till they attacked me."
Dr. Hoyt- "I was sorry to see the demonstration I did at your house after the shooting. You seemed rather to glory in the act, and did not contemplate it as a horrid one, which, although perhaps necessary for your protection, as you conceived, is yet one that must prove a dread and terror to you while you live. The idea of taking the life of a human being, even under circumstances of self-defence, is no light or trifling thing. You have, by the merest accident, been saved from results that might place you beyond the pale of society. You see, by the action of this jury, that if we disapprove of your life, as we must by the usages of society and the laws of decency, yet we want to do you full justice."
Commenting upon this most extraordinary case, the New York Tribune well remarks:—
Such proceedings will be read in any civilized country or community with amazement. Here has been a gross, perilous, and utterly inexcusable breach of the peace—a conspiracy to commit burglary and felonious assault on a peaceful, inoffensive family, who are certified to have violated no law whatever. Fifteen or twenty reckless young men are known to have been partners in the crime. Yet not a whisper of rebuke or remonstrance is addressed to them by these "substantial men of the town;" on the contrary, everything uttered tends to excuse the criminals, and inculpate only their innocent victims! Was there ever a more atrocious incitement to outrage and felony?
Mr. Button's doctrines are worse, if possible, than his exhortations. The State of Connecticut has been by turns under the rule of every party known to our country—Federal, Democratic, Adams, Jackson, American, Republican, &c.—and not one of them all has seen fit to make the intermarriage of persons of different colors a legal offence. This is a fact of the gravest moment. In this age of bulky statute-books, and legislation on all manner of habits, he who obeys all the laws that can be trumped up ought to be commended as a model of loyal, exemplary behavior. But Dogberry—we should say, Button—gravely informs the assailed that, though they have broken no law, they have committed an "impropriety"—that they are exposed to "imminent danger"-that they have "been doing great wrongs" in getting married—and that, as the fit penalty thereof, they—not the rowdies who so lawlessly, wickedly assailed them—ought to "leave Greenwich." This, we infer, is by way of" warning to the young men of Greenwich," one whom has been guilty of getting shot, though none of them is charged by D. Button, Esq., with doing any wrong
<c06>
whatever, though he suggests that, if they attempt to break into a peaceable man's house with infect to abuse and outrage his wife, they must "take the penalty."
Dr. James H. Hoyt—who runs the New Haven Railroad and the Connecticut Democracy —of course felt constrained to say ditto to Button, adding his warning that Davenport should "avoid quarreling." Considering all the circumstances, Shake spare never put into the mouth of a remark so preposterous as that. If he had, Button's "spirit of kindness," counseled William Henry to stop being a nigger, and henceforth to be White, his exhortation would not have been more exquisitely absurd. We defy the production of his parallel.
The Tribune adds the following statement:—
"Mrs. Davenport (‘Jackson's' wife) informed our reporter that if they hung her husband, she would marry the blackest man in the State of Connecticut that would have her.
Last winter a negro was shot dead by a white man with far less provocation than was given Davenport, and the white man was fined the enormous sum of seven dollars.
The town of Greenwich is intensely ‘Copperhead.' and much virulence has been shown toward colored people by the inhabitants of that vicinity. No longer than nine weeks ago, a gentleman of this city, visiting the village, was threatened with personal chastisement for advocating negro suffrage. The most bitter feeling exists in the county (Fairfield) against Africans, and those who are their advocates and friends, and colored persons have frequently suffered insult and outrage at the hands of their political enemies.
Last week the same party entered a house belonging to a colored man, a mile outside the village, and beat him and his family nigh unto death. The next day they beat severely two colored coachmen of a gentleman residing in that neighborhood; and the day before the attempted outrage upon Davenport and family, they’ floored’ one of the employees of the Americus Boat Club, entirely destroying the sight of one eye, and partially destroying the other.
It was currently reported that the real cause of the bitter animosity shown toward Davenport and wife was jealousy. Mrs. Davenport, who is a young and very comely female, was courted by several of the lovelorn swains of the village, but refusing all, married a negro."
PETROLEUM V. NASBY ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION
SAINTS REST (which is the Stait uv Noo Gersey), July 12, 1865.
I hev bin to Washington, and while thur I was interdoost to Gineral Marion Fitzhoo Gusher, of Mississippy. I waz ankshus 2 meet with a representive dimekrat uv the South, 2 exchange vews, 2 hev soothin confidencis, 2 unbuzzum, becos for the parst 4 yeres the dimekratik party’s bin truly seeksnal, and the seckshun it hes okkerpied is not the identikal seckshun onto which the orfises is lokatid, and only by a perfeck union with our wunst loved brethren uv the South kin we ever git onto trooly Nashunal ground.
Gineral Gusher is a troo gentleman of the real Southern skool. He puts C. S. A. arter his name, onto the hotel register, and his buzzum pins, rings, and the head of his kane is awl made uv the bones uv miserable Yanky sojers, who fel at Bull run-he ses by his own hand, and it must be so, for who ever knode a Southerner to boast vaingloriously? We met & embrast, weepin perfoosly:
"Alars!" sobbed the gineral, "wut a nitemare hes obskured our respective vishuns for the parst 4 years! I waz allus a Unun man, allus, Allus, Allus!! The old flag I luvd with more nor parental affekshun—2 me it was more nor life!"
"Why, then, my ajacks," sobbed I, "did you raise your parryside hand agin it?"
"Why? my belovid. Becos my stait secesht, and I waz karid along bi a torrunt of publik opinyun which I kood not stem, and I went with her. But it is all over. We hev awoke, and I'm here in the capitel of my belovid country, under the shader of that glorious flag which is the pride of Americans and the terror ov awl week nashuns which has territoris contigou;'s, reddy to take an and oath, and resoom the citizenship I lade off, and again run the government for its honor and glory."
"Hev you a pardin?" ses I. "Methinks wunst a paper recht my humble village, wich is unanymously dimekaratik—(it cum around a pakage of goods from Noo York) and in that paper I saw your name ez won of the ossifiers who killed the niggers at Fort Piller. Am I rite?"
"You air. I'm a gushin child ov nachar—I'm enthoosiastick. Labrin under the same delushun that secesht us, I bleved at that time that I wuz doin a good thing in killin them property ov ours that Linken hed shoved blu kotes onto. I hev no apologys to offur —I am now writin a justficashen.
"I, and I speek for thousands uv the shivelrous suns uv the South, who would like a good square meal wunst more, am willing to be consiliatid. The oppertunity is now offered the guverment to consiliate us. We are returning prodygle suns—kill your fatid veal and bring out your gold rings, and purple robes and sich. We ask condishins—we shel insist on terms, but we are disposed to be reasonable. We air willing to acknowledge the soopremacy uv the guvernemtn, but there mostmust be no humiliashen. A proud, high-spireted peeple like us uns, won't stand it,—no sir, we cannot. Ther must be no hangin, no confiscashen, no disfranchisin. We air willin to step back just as we stept out, resoomin our old status, trustin to engineerin to getsech uther pints ez air not here enoomeratid. Without them condishuns the union would not be wun uv hart—twood be holler mockery. Wat we air goin for is union founded on luv, which is strongerer and more solider than muskits Harts is trumps —let the platform be harts and all is well."
"But Ginral," sez I, "in all this wat do yoo perposse for us norther dimocrats?"
"Towards them our bowels melt with luv. We forgive yoo. If you kin take the old attitoode, well and good—ef not-"
"Hold," sez I "don't threat. A ginooine northern dimekrat wants but little here below, but wants that little long. Give him a small post orfis, a nigger driver to look up to and a nigger to look down to, and he is soopremely happy. Ef a angle in glory wuz two offer 2 trade places with him, harp, golden crown and all, he would ask odds."
"Uv course them positions you kin hev—we don't want’em. All we ask is to make the platforms, and hev sich offisis ez hawty, high-toned men kin afford 2 take, and you uns kin hev the rest.
But wun thing must be understood. The scenes of the Charleston convenshun must never be re-enacted-there must be no more Dugliss's Under the new dispensashen you dance when we fiddle, askin no questions. The Suthern hart must never again be fired—it would consume itself.
Ez soon ez I hev took the oath, I shel immeditly go hum and run for Congris—see to it that ye hev enuff dimecrats there, that we jintly kin contol things. Uv course, in a Union, by luv, there must be equality. Linkin's war debt must never be pade, onless ourn is—his hirelins must never be penshuned unless our patriots is. Wat a deliteful spectacle! Men who yesterday waz a gougin each other onto the field of battle, to-day a drawin penshuns amikably from the same treasury! The eagle would flop his wings with joy, and angles would exclame,’Bully!’ I am disabled from wounds received on the feeld, and rejoice that our penshun laws is so liberl.
Go home, my friend, and marshel fer the conflict. Tell yoor central committis to collect expense munny, and I, and General Ferris, and Kernal Moseby, and Champ Ferguson, and Dick Turner, and Boregard, and that noble old hero (take orf your hat while I pronounce his name) General Robert E. Lee, will cum up and stump the North fer yer tickets hev dun."
"Noble man," I thot I, ez he stalkt majestically away, takin, in an abstractin manner, takin my new hat and umbreller, leavin his old wuns; "who coodent foller the, and sich ez the, forever and ever."
PETROLEUM V. NASBY,
Lait Paster uv the Church uv the Noo Dispensashun.
HIGHLY IMPORTANT
AND
INTENSELY, INTERESTING!
SPIRITUALISM AS IT IS! Facts, Fancies and Follies! A New Explanation. The result of Scientists Investigation.
Send 25 cents to WM. BAILEY POTTER, New York. June 23.

