THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittance are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1,00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILERICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Country are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 17. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1531.
REFURGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
A CONSERVATIVE STAND.
The New York Conference of the Metbodist Episcopal Church have safely emerged form the distracting slavery discussion which has occupied most of its time for several days. The exciting debate went over the whole ground of the slavery question, in its religious, moral, social and political bearings, from the earliest Biblical mention of domestic servitude, down to the present time. Everybody who could talk had an ample opportunity to present his particular views, and everybody who could not, or who wisely concluded that there was nothing new to offer on such a threadbare topic, had plenty of time for reflection. The action of the Conference was therefore deliberate, and was the result of a very liberal and thorough interchange of views. And it was as follows:
The resolutions from the Erie Conference, asking the New York Conference to recommend the several Conference to change the slavery rule so as to exclude all slaveholders without distinction from the Church, was lost by the overwhelming vote of 123 to 43. A substitute, designed to catch the votes of compromisers, limited the excommunication to those who hold slaves' for mercenary or selfish purposes'; but even this was defeated by a vote of 91 to 89. Had the substitute been offered as an original resolution, and not as a compromise, it would probably have received a much smaller vote. But, small as the majority was against this insidious resolution, it was enough to defeat it, and to secure the vote of New York in the next General Conference (to be held in Buffalo on the 1st of May) for the Colservative side.
On Tuesday, a number of delegates who were absent the day previous, when the vote was taken on the Erie resolutions, or preferred not to vote at that time, recorded their votes as follows: Nays 21, years 2; making the entire expression of sentiment against abolitionizing the Church more than three to one.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
A BOGUS SET OF MARTYRS.
The Black Republicans just now have several incipient martyrs who are anxious, in a small way, for somebody to hurt them. They are too arrant cowards to walk up to martyrdom as old John Brown did, so that their necks will be endangered, but they are nevertheless endeavoring to make people believe that they are terrible suffers in the cause of freedom.
The first of these is Hyatt, who is now luxuriating in the Washington jail, because the Senate of the United States will not back down and acknowledge that he is right. The Senate, including nearly all the Black Republicans, think it easier for the contumacious Hyatt to come to them, than for them to go to him, and so he is left to vegetate within the four stone walls of the prison. 
The next is Sanborn, of Massachusetts, who furnished old Brown with money and means with which to invade a State of the Union, and commit murder and treason. The Senate wished him to tell what he knew about the affair, and accordingly despatched an officer to serve the summons. Sanborn was frightened out of his five senses, and shouted fire and murder until a mob was collected, who rescued him from the hands of the officials. He alleges that he fears for his personal safety; and well he may, if his full connection with old Brown should come to the light, and the law be allowed to take its course.
The third is Cassius M. Clay, who is lately out with a statement that his neighbors contemplated assassinating him because he was a Black Republican. The Committee who were to do this fearful deed publish a statement, in which they state that 'Mr. Clay has been most cruelly hoaxed. So far from any such design, his name has never been mentioned in a meeting of that Committee, except incidentally.' So he cannot be accommodated to martyrdom just now.
The last is Booth of Wisconsin, who, like Hyatt, is luxuriating in jail, serving out a term for violation of law. This martyr has just settled another little matter which has given him some trouble, and was likely to give him a good deal more. 
These are the set of men who are endeavoring to foist themselves upon the public as sufferers and martyrs for Freedom's sake.-Detroit Free Press.
MR. SUMNER-MUCH THE SAME.
The colloquy between our Senator and Mr. Mason shows the former in no creditable light. In order to understand the matter fully, it is necessary to recur to the character of the memorial of Mr. Sanborn, presented to the Senate by Mr. Sumner, on the 10th inst. This memorial complained of what Mr. Sanborn called-as the telegraph reported it-'a gross attempt to kidnap him, by persons claiming to act under the authority of the United States Senate.' The claim of these persons was a just one, and the attempt was to arrest Mr. Sanborn for refusing to obey the summons of the Senate,-he having notoriously evaded the officers and kept school by proxy, for some time, in order to escape their efforts. He proceeds to allege that he rightfully resisted the summons of the Senate, complains of what he terms his unwarranted arrest, and modestly asks redress at the hands of the Senate.
This memorial was laid upon the table. upon the recent reference of the warrant, with its return, and other documents in the same case, to the judiciary Committee, Mr. Sumner moved that this memorial be also so referred, and Mr. Mason moved that it be rejected. There upon Mr. Sumner used the offensive and insulting language already reported, and unfit to be employed by any person worthy of such a place. We need not argue that Mr. Sanborn's memorial was impertinent, considering his condition as a recusant witness, and that its preparation and presentation both show an obliquity of mind common only to the general abolition set. They always make a stir about their own so-called rights, which they consider infringed, whenever they come in conflict with the laws of the land. The contempt with which Mr. Mason was disposed to treat the document, was justly due to its insolence, or ignorance of the common principles of propriety, and the same comment is equally applicable to the conduct of Mr. Sumner in presenting such a paper. His language upon the question of reference needs no comment whatever, except that those who chose him have good reason to blush for his want of manners and want of sense.
Mr. Mason, however, is mistaken in his remark that no arrest can be made in this case, owing to the judicial proceedings of the State of Massachusetts. The real question has not been tried. Sanborn was discharged by the Court, upon a point, in which it substantially adjudged that the warrant of the Senate, or the action of its officer, was defective. We should regret very much to believe that Massachusetts had become, like White Friars of old, in London, an asylum and place of refuge for all such as defied the law, or had reason to evade it,-nor do we believe that any serious difficulty could ensue, upon a proper effort to make any arrest in the state.-Boston Courier.
<c02>
THE MASK THROWN OFF.
THE MASSACHUSETTS REPUBLICANS MAKE COMMON CAUSE
WITH THE BROWN DISORGANIZERS.
From the Republican press of Massachusetts, we have all along had the most vehement disavowals of sympathy with the leaders of the Harper's Ferry expedition, coupled with expressions of virtuous indignation that the Republican party should be even suspected of complicity with the revolutionary a schemes of John Brown, or of extending to the' poor lunatic' any sort of aid or encouragement. But, at the same time these innocent and artful dodgers have affected the utmost horror of the treason and massacre perpetrated in the midst of a peaceful community, they zealously opposed the punishment of the traitors, as well as every means taken to detect and expose their confederates, who instigated the bloody drama, and acted their part in it be0hind the scenes. While firmly insisting that old Osawatomie Brown had no abettors in his treason, except such as took the field and actively co-operated with him, they have manifested the greatest reluctance to any investigation of the affair which might tend to throw light upon its origin and history; and, though pretending to ridicule the inquiry instituted by the U. S. Senate, as a bootless and frivolous undertaking, they have been industriously engaged in throwing obstacles in the way at every step of its progress. Indeed, their solicitude in avoiding a full expose of the plot in all its ramifications was totally inconsistent with the theory of their innocence, and plainly indicated that they were either active participants in or endorsers of it. Besides, at an early stage of that inquiry, the fact was established, from the mouth of their own partisans, that Brown's band of disorganizers had long been pensioners and hireling, emissaries of the Republican party, and its willing instruments in enacting scenes equally bloody and, revolutionary upon another field. 
At last a crisis arrives which, in the face and eyes, of the world, affords an unerring test of Republican sincerity in this matter, and shows, beyond the possibility of a doubt, where that party stands, and what are its real sympathies in regard to the Virginia outrage. A leading member of its organization, who is known to have held a secret correspondence with John Brown at the time he was preparing for his descent upon Harper's Ferry, is summoned to appear before the Investigating Committee, and refuses compliance. The United States Senate, adopting the usual and only judicial alternative in such cases, sends its officers, with a requisition under the hand and seal of its President, to compel the attendance of the contumacious witness, and they are violently resisted in the discharge of their duty. The Constitutional authority of the Federal Government is set at nought in Massachusetts, and the higher law of nullification reigns supreme. And while the champions of this higher law are exulting in their triumph over the Constitution, and making the welkin ring with their shouts of defiance to the authority of Congress, who but the Republican; party press and members of the Legislature, spontaneously catch up and re-echo the jubilant strain? Let the patriotic Union men of the country note well the fact, that it is the so-called moderate Republicans of Massachusetts who heartily endorse the action of the Concord mob in resisting the execution of a legal process to obtain information in regard to the Virginia massacre; that they enthusiastically applaud the determination of these abolition rioters, as expressed in their printed resolutions, to resist the exercise of federal authority in compelling the attendance of Mr. Sanborn, in every form and shape, and to the last extremity; and that they are evidently quite as much pleased at the perpetration of this outrage, and the discomfiture of the Investigating Committee, as the most radical of their Garrisonian allies. 
Thus the real connection of the Republican party with the revolutionary movement at Harper's Ferry stands self-exposed in all the blackness of its hypocrisy. While professing to deplore and condemn this movement, and calling on heaven, and earth to witness that their skirts are pure and their hands unsullied from the blood of its victims, when challenged to the proof, they will have no witness; but seek, utterly to stifle investigation, and are not at all scrupulous as to the means. They no longer stand aloof, or affect disinterestedness in the struggle between Union conservatism and disunion fanaticism; their active sympathies are rapidly developing themselves on the side of the latter, which is their natural affinity; and, so far as the matter before the Senate Investigating Committee is concerned, they will, never again, in the face of recent events in Concord, be able to say,' Let the galled jade wince; our withers are unwrung '-Boston Post. 
MB. LOVEJOY'S TIRADE. 
We have read with great disgust the speech delivered by Mr. Lovejoy of Illinois, in the House o Representatives, April 5th, on the wearisome and interminable Slavery Question. Disgust itself, however, is an emotion that has distinctions and degrees. There is an active disgust and a passive disgust; a quick disgust and a dead disgust; a disgust that stirs and a disgust that paralyzed. The disgust that Mr. Lovejoy inspires is of the latter kind; for his speech is as stupid as it is brutal Mr. Lovejoy is first a blockhead and then a ruffian. Reading his speech is like sitting through a play which is so bitter bad that the desire to yawn and the desire to hiss keep up an' irrepressible conflict' in the muscles of one's face. The staple consists o the dreary, jaw-dislocating trash-the inane commonplaces-the obvious moral truisms-the sentimental half-truths-which form the basis of pretty much every anti-slavery speech it was ever our bad fortune to read; embellished with fustian declamation and tawdry rhetoric, such as it would be an insult to any sophomore to call sophomoric. There is in the whole speech no one token or sign of the statesman; no recognition of the essential difficulties of the question; no intimation of any practical solution of the tremendous problems involve in the subject of slavery; there is no knowledge, no grasp, no moral thoughtfulness; it is, in short, from beginning to end, an eructation of bad manners, bad taste, and bad temper.
And Mr. Lovejoy's purpose and aim in making the speech were as bad as the speech itself. He had no other intent than to exasperate and inflame the Southern members, to arouse their evil passions, to provoke ill blood, to sow strife between the North and the South. And in this Christian, humane and patriotic object he appears, naturally enough to have succeeded. In the course of his speech he was constantly interrupted; and the interruptions were expressed in language as intemperate and offensive as his own; and by the time he had got through, the hall of the House of Representatives was the scene of passions not higher in dignity and decorum than those awakened by a drunken brawl in a grog-shop or a brothel.
Are not such things humiliating? Are they not degrading? Shall we never live to see the end of them? Will the North never cease to send to Washington such shallow, vulgar brawlers as Mr. Lovejoy? Will the South never learn the true way of dealing with them, in case they should be sent? These men would be nothing, it the South would
<c03>
but lay aside their unwise sensitiveness and irascibility. All their prosperity lies in the storm of recrimination they awaken. Assail them with silent contempt, and they will go out like a tallow dip in an exhausted receiver.-Boston Courier. 
TRIAL OF REV. DANIEL WORTH.
A correspondent of the Raleigh (N. C.) Standard gives an account of the trial of Rev. Daniel Worth for circulating' Helper's Crisis,' from which we extract the following passage:-
'The court-room was densely crowded, and as Mr. Scott proceeded to read the bill of indictment in a clear and solemn tone of voice, indignation began to grow upon the sea of human faces, and eyes ever and anon turning upon the prisoner, who cowered, cast his eyes to the floor, and hung his head. Mr. Scott remarked to the jury, if they failed to convict, and thus encourage these abolition emissaries, it would not be long until our fair land would be deluged in blood. The darkness of midnight would be lighted up with our burning buildings to see the massacred bodies of our wives and children, and the sun would rise, era long, upon the dead bodies of slaveholders with their throats cut. This eloquent touch electrified the court-room, and brought down upon the prisoner such a torrent of indignant looks that he seemed to sink.' 
A friend who so attention was called to this paragraph remarked, 'That trying a man accused of such an offence before a jury of citizens of a slave State, was like empanelling a dozen rats to try a terrier dog'; and he thinks that the chances of 'acquittal in such cases' would be about equal for the man and the dog.' But the hardship is one which the 'circulator' brings upon himself. Quediable allaitil faire dans cette galere? If a man will go strangers and transgress their laws, he must not expect any better measure than that which 'twelve sad men' from the vicinage will mete to him.-Boston Courier. 
SELECTIONS. 
BOSTON CONSERVATISM.
Boston conservatism is of the' hard shell' order, and belongs in the 14th rather than the 19th century. For example, look at our' Union meeting, 'made up of ancient fossils, animated petrifications, dryrotted fogies, and a right smart sprinkling of Custom House Democrats, with some few poor forgotten Whigs, who had staid out in the cold so long that they were nearly frozen, and who were warmed into feeble life by being made Vice Presidents and Secretaries of the meeting,-a polite way of shelving used-up politicians. What came of this vaunted' Union' affair? It was pitied by the free-hearted North, viewed with utter contempt by the slave-drivers of the South, and finally became the laughing-stock and by-word of the whole country. It has had no more influence on public affairs than a mimic thunder storm in some flash theatre. It afforded Caleb Cushing an opportunity to ventilate his knowledge of big words, and his art in constructing long, tedious sentences, He showed all his rare agility in turning political summersetts, and the governing principles of his life' stuck out' in every paragraph. What a career he has led, from the famous shirt-tail letter until his last splurge in Connecticut! How he has doubled on his own track, changed front, boxed the compass, sworn that what was white one day was black the next, and dodged and whiffled incessantly, as his political interests dictated! Caleb, with all his scholastic attainments, his general knowledge of public men and affairs, his splendid gifts of oratory and powers of eloquence, and his commanding physique, fails to impress the minds or touch the hearts or rouse the enthusiasm of any of his audiences. They know and they feel that it is the cold, selfish, calculating head, and not the warm, full heart, which is speaking; consequently, his rounded periods and his glowing imagery fall lifeless. Whenever be speaks, the people, knowing his former slimy and serpentine course, are analyzing all he says, and estimating what forces of ambition, or spite, or sordid desire are prompting his utterances. So apparent are his hollowness and heartlessness, that all his speeches lack that magnetism, that subtle influence, which enables great orators to sway the masses. Hence his brilliant efforts slide off from men like water from the roof of a house. Caleb is now on an electioneering tour in Connecticut; and though he draws crowded houses, yet he kindles no patriotic earnestness or noble feeling in the masses. His speeches abound in dazzling rhetoric and metaphor, yet they are levelled at the pocket, they breathe the close, stifling air of the counting-room, they smell of trade and barter, they are fuzzy with cotton all through, and they are fairly musty with grovelling self-interest.-Boston corr of the Adams Transcript. 
MANNERS AT WASHINGTON. 
In London, the other day, it was announced on the best pugilistic authority, that' the true British' pugilist is the soul of manliness and honor.' A similar claim is set up in behalf of the Southern duelling bullies, of whose ill manners, in and out of Congress, we hear so much. It is difficult to decide in which case the claim has most warrant. We think there is a better chance of fair play among the pugilists; and they appear to have the advantage in other respects.
We are all likely to get a very accurate notion of the duelling bully in Congress. He is always there, and always anxious to show his quality. It is usually supposed that a gentleman abounds in civility, courtesy, forbearance, and fair play. But the duelling civility, hold another view of the matter. Their gentleman is s coarse blackguard, who can sit in his seat and wantonly insult gentlemen by calling them' liars,' 'scoundrels,' and other vile names, and who studies to provoke quarrels, with men whose culture and character do not allow them to imitate his brutal coarseness, and whose social relationships make it impossible for them to meet him on equal terms, if they chose to become duellists. We do not believe the s code' of the most brutal pugilism has ever tolerated such unmanly and cowardly meanness »e as this.
The bully of the duello is usually very shy of any quarrel which really looks dangerous. He knows very well bow to behave with civility in the presence of such a danger. He strikes only at those who, in his judgment, will not strike back. His cowardly and ruffianly meanness comes out distinctly in his attempt to force his barbarous 'code of honor' upon men who cannot adopt it without involving themselves in social and political ruin. Be could not do this if he were a gentleman. He would not do it if he were not a bully, a blackguard, and a poltroon. The Southern member of Congress gains popularity at home, by professing to be a duellist, insulting his of opponent, sending a challenge, and seeming eager to kill somebody. And the art of the duellist usually consists in contriving to do all this, without getting hurt. Northern men in Congress cannot adopt the same line of conduct with any hope of a re-election. Their constituents would not sanction it. Hence
<c04>
the duelling bullies deem it perfectly safe to insult. them on all occasions, and seek a reputation for bravery by challenging them to fight duels. Southern chivalry indeed! Faugh! take it away! 
How to meet properly this annoying insolence has been a serious question among Northern men. Some long to chastise it with its own weapons; and, if the sentiments of their constituents would tolerate them in doing so, they would give their challengers not mock duels, but hostile encounters of the bloodiest kind. But those who feel in this way have hot blood and swift anger. There is nothing to be gained by sinking to the level of insolent blackguardism. A little reflection will convince any reasonable man that it is not worth while for him to become a savage and barbarian, because some bully's 'code of honor' requires it. These attacks have seldom been met so nobly and successfully as by Senator Wilson, who has raised himself so far above the men who make them, that they cannot now touch him. He has set an example which others might follow with advantage. And, during the present session, it has given us pleasure to see Mr. Hickman silence such assailants by a brave and dignified declaration of scorn and contempt for their 'code.' That effective declaration took him out of their reach, and made their bullying utterly powerless.
Southern men should see the propriety of keeping all their peculiar institutions at home, especially those which are disgraceful to civilized men, and therefore unfit for national use. But, if they will not do so, if they will insist on making their own customs and manners the rule for all other men, their arrogant pretensions should be treated as they deserve,-as self-respecting manhood will know how to treat them,-and when this is done faithfully, we shall hear much less of bad manners in Congress, and much more of that dignity and courtesy of behavior which ought to prevail there.-Worcester Spy. 
A GENEROUS AND TIMEL DEED. 
WASHINGTON, April 10th, 1860. 
Editors of the Boston Traveller: 
We have just had a case brought to our knowledge which shows how nearly we are affected by the peculiar institution, in which slavery is brought home to us. This morning Hon. T. D. Eliot sent a negro to New Bedford in charge of his brother (who happened here very opportunely) whom he had just rescued from jail, and almost certain slavery for life. The following are the details: 
A short time ago, Mr. Eliot received a letter from a New Bedford friend, enclosing a letter from an Annapolis (Ml.) lawyer, in which it was stated that negro namel Alexander Scarborough was imprisoned in the jail of that place, on suspicion of being a runaway slave, and that unless the contrary was proved, he would before long be sold to pay his jail fees and fines. The letter was directed to a brother of the prisoner, a negro of some property who has long resided in New Bedford, and by him was put in train to come to the official notice of his representative in Congress. On the receipt of this letter, Mr. Eliot took the first opportunity to visit Annapolis, and at the jail he found him, in the most forlorn, ragged, and wretched condition, imprisoned in a small cell, destitute of clothes, and reduced to a most pitiable plight in body and mind also. He seemed suffering under a nervous affection, doubtless brought on by the horrid prospect before him. In fact, he seemed to have the St. Vitua's dance. Mr. Eliot saw the magistrate on whose order Scarborough had been committed, the sheriff and other officers, and after posting himself thoroughly on the facts and the law, returned to his post here. The result of the matter was, that he found that the law was against the poor fellow, and that all that could be done must be done by conciliation and by money. So he sent a gentleman to Annapolis, who, by proper representation, procured the remission of the fines, and at last procured the prisoner's release on the payment of $60 in hard cash, which included a fee of one-third of the amount to the lawyer who had written the letter above referred to, and who had done other things of moment. The man was then clothed and brought up to this city, where he remained until Tuesday morning, when, as I said before, he was sent home to New Bedford in charge of Mr. Eliot's brother.
Scarborough got into the jail in a singular way. He is a seafaring man, and took leave of his vessel at Baltimore, and determined to walk from thence to Washington, a distance of some forty miles When near Annapolis, he was arrested on charge of being a runaway slave, and on examination imprisoned, to stay in jail until claimed by his owner or some powerful friends, or till the time should elapse after which he could be legally sold to pay his jai fees. Of course, he made every effort to obtain his liberty. He procured counsel, and bad his brother and sister, both of whom are living comfortably in New Bedford, written to, begging their assistance. The result of the letter was a demand from a British Consul for Scarborough's release, on the ground that his father was a British subject, and that the prisoner was also. This was evidently a ruse on the part of the prisoner's friends, they preferring to trust their brother to the paws of the British Lion than to the talons of the American Eagle. And the ruse was nearly successful; for the sheriff had determine to release his prisoner, and told him so, when Scarborough declared he was an American citizen, and that he was born and brought up in New Bedford so, of course, that plan for his enlargement failed The next plan, the application to Mr. Eliot, was successful. 
How many poor fellows are dragged into slavery through such means, it is impossible to tell. No doubt the number is large. Now in this ease, the fines, &c., were remitted on the application of an M. C. Had no such powerful friend appeared, the fees and fines would have amounted to at least $200 and would have increased in geometrical progression till he would have been sold to have paid them, So it was with the negro whom poor Hyatt released. When the case was first inquired into, it was evident that to satisfy all the demands would require between $200 and $300; but when it was found what powerful influences were at work to release the boy, first the marshal gave up his fees, then the sheriff his fees, then the magistrate remitted the fines, and the jailor his fees, till finally the boy was released by the payment by Mr. Hyatt of $45-less than a fifth of what be had expected. 
It will cost Mr. Eliot at least $100 to reimburse him for his expenditure in freeing this negro. I have heard it intimated that he would be partially reimbursed. This I hope will be the case. It is not right to place men in a position where they must either suffer in pocket or else in conscience-must either leave such acts of benevolence undone, or do them at the expense of taking so much from the family comforts. In the present case, Mr. Eliot followed the dictates of his own kind heart, without counting the cost. But should he be suffered to bear the whole cost, he will be apt in future, like many others, to say when such cases are brought to their knowledge-I am deeply pained by such things,-but I can't help them, so I am sorry to know of them. 
<c05>
If it were known at home how much suffering of this kind could be relieved by placing a small sum at the disposal of our M, C's, or it were was any fund they could draw upon, or any society to which they could report, I verily believe that immediate action would be-taken by our benevolent liberty-loving citizens to enable our Congressmen, in whom they could trust, to relieve such cases otherwise than at their own expense.  ALPHA.
From the Syracuse (N. Y.) Standard.
LETTER TO REV. J. W. LOGUEN, FROM
HIS OLD MISTRESS.
The following letter was received a day or two since by Rev. Mr. Loguen, of this city, from his old mistress' way down in Tennessee.' The old lady is evidently 'hard up,' financially, and attempts to frighten her former servant into the payment of $1,000 as' hush money.' We imagine she sent to the wrong man, as Mr. Loguen needs no' bill of sale' to secure himself from capture in this section of the State. Besides his own stalwart arm, he has hosts of friends who would make this region too hot to hold the man-hunters who would venture on such an errand as the old lady hints at in her somewhat singular epistle. Her lamentations about the old mare are decidedly funny, (we may add womanly,)' and all the misfortunes of the family are traced directly to the escape of 'Jarm' But here is her letter:
MAURY COUNTY, State of Tennessee, Feb. 20, 1860. 
To JARM:-I now take my pen to write yon a few lines, to let you know how we all are. I am a cripple, but I am still able to get about. The rest of the family are all well. Cherry is as well as common. I write you these lines to let you know the situation we are in,-partly in consequence of your running away and stealing Old Rock, our fine mare. Though we got the mare back, she never was worth much after you took her;-and, as I now stand in need of some funds, I have determined to sell you, and I have had an offer for you, but did not see fit to take it. If you will send me one thousand dollars, and pay for the old mare, I will give up all claim I have to you Write to me as soon as yon get these lines, and let me know if you will accept my proposition. In consequence of your running away, we had to sell Abe and Ann and twelve acres of land; and I want you to send me the money, that I may be able to redeem the land that you was the cause of our selling, and on receipt of the above-named sum of money, I will send you your bill of sale. If you do not comply with my request, I will sell you to some one else, and you may rest assured that the time is not far distant when things will be changed with you. Write to me as soon as you get these lines. Direct your letter to Bigbyville, Maury County, Tennessee. Yon had better comply with my request.
I understand that you are a preacher. As the Southern people are so bad, you had better come and preach to your old acquaintances. I would like to know if you read your Bible. If so, can you tell what will become of the thief if be does not repent? and, if the blind lead the blind, what will the consequence be? I deem it unnecessary to say much more at present A word to the wise is sufficient. You know where the liar has his part. You know that we reared you as we reared our own children; that you was never abused, and that shortly before you ran away, when your master asked you; if you would like to be sold, you said you would not leave him to go with any body.
SARAH LOGUE. 
MR. LOGUEN'S REPLY. 

SYRACAUSE, (N. Y.) March 28, 1860. 
MRS. SARAH LOGUE: Yours of the 20th of February is duly raceived, and I thank you for it. It is a long time since I heard from my poor old mother, and I am glad to know that she is yet alive, and, as you say, 'as well as common.' What that means, I don't know. I wish you had said more about her. 
You are a woman; but, had you a woman's heart, you never could have insulted a brother by telling him you sold his only remaining brother and sister, because he put himself beyond your power to convert him into money. 
You sold my brother and sister, Abe and Ann, and twelve acres of land, you say, because I ran away. Now you have the unutterable meanness to | ask me to return and be your miserable chattel, or, in lien thereof, send you $1000 to enable you to redeem the land, but not to redeem my poor brother and sister! If I were to send you money, it would be to get my brother and sister, and not that you should get land. You say you are a cripple, and doubtless you say it to stir my pity, for you knew I was susceptible in that direction. I do pity you is from the bottom of my heart. Nevertheless, I am indignant beyond the power of words to express, that you should be so sunken and cruel as to tear the hearts I love so much all in pieces; that you should be willing to impale and crucify us all, out t of compassion for your poor foot or leg. Wretched woman! Be it known to you that I value my freedom, to say nothing of my mother, brothers and a sisters, more than your whole body; more, indeed, than my own life; more than all the lives of all. the slaveholders and tyrants under heaven.
You say you have offers to buy me, and that you shall sell me if I do not send you $1000, and in the same breath and almost in the same sentence, you a say,' You know we raised you as we did our own children.' Woman, did you raise your men children for the market? Did you raise them for the whipping-post? Did you raise them to be driven off, bound e to a come in chains? Where are my poor bleeding n brothers and sisters? Can you tell? Who was it that sent them off into sugar and cotton fields, to be kicked and cuffed, and whipped, and to groan and n die; and where no kin can bear their groans, or attend and sympathize at their dying bed, or follow in their funeral? Wretched woman! Do you say you did not do it? Then I reply, your husband did, and you approved the deed-and the very letter you sent me shows that your heart approves it all. Shame on you!
But, by the way, where your husband? You d don't speak of him. I infer, therefore, that he is dead; that he has gone to his great account, with » all his sins against my poor family upon his bead. Poor man! gone to meet the spirits of my poor, outraged and murdered people, in a world where I Liberty and Justice are Matters. 
But you say I am a thief, because I took the old mare along with me. Have you got to learn that I had a better right to this old man, as you call at her, than Mannasseth Logue had to me? Is it a Io greater sin for me to steal his horse, than it was for him to rob my mother's cradle, and steal met If he and you infer that I forfeit all my rights to you, shall net I infer that you forfeit all your rights to me? Have you got to learn that human rights are mutual and reciprocal, and if you take my liberty and life, you forfeit year own liberty and life? Before God and high heaven, is then a law for one man which is not a law for every other man? 
If you or any other speculator on my body and
<c06>
rights, wish to know how I regard my rights, they need but come here, and lay their hands on me to enslave me. Did you think to terrify me by presenting the alternative to give my money to you, or give my body to slavery? Then let me say to you, that I meet the proposition with unutterable scorn and contempt. The proposition is an outrage and an insult. I will not budge one hair s breadth. I will not breathe a shorter breath, even to save me from your persecutions. I stand among a free people, who, I thank God, sympathize with my rights, and the rights of mankind; and if your emissaries and venders come here to re-enslave me, and escape the unshrinking vigor of my own right arm. I trust my strong and brave friends, in this city and State, will be my <illegible> avengers. 
Yours, &c., J. W. LOGUEN.
THE INHERENT INIQUITY OF SLAVERY.
Extract from a very able and cogent speech delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, March 26, by the Hon. CHARLES B. SEDGWICK, of New York. 
Slavery stands wholly upon the law of violence and superior force. It finds no support in equity, injustice, in right, in Christianity. It begins by inciting to cruel war by the basest means; proceeds, through bloodshed and rapine, to the sale of captives to brutal traders and pirates; through the horrors of the slave ship and the middle passage, to sales to Christian masters. Every step is marked with ferocity and blood. Slavery is at war with every sentiment of justice and humanity, and with every principle of that higher law 'whose seat is the bosom of God, and whose voice is the harmony of the world.' 
I speak deliberately, Mr. Chairman, when I say, for myself, that no forms of constitution or law, however solemnly agreed upon, or whatever high claims they may have to authority, intended to recognize, or authorize, or guarantee, any such system of outrage and violence upon human rights, has any the least efficacy to bind the conscience or control the action of any citizen of any Government under heaven. It is clear usurpation and tyranny, and not law. It stands. I say, wholly upon the law of force. Its most eloquent and able advocate upon this floor admitted in debate, the other day, that there was not even the form of law in any of the slave States upon which it could repose. It is wholly without support, except upon the tyrannous doctrine of superior force. By and by, some Annus or Spartacus will rise up in their midst, and contest with the masters this question of superior force. 
Now, sir, this controversy arose between the colonizationists and the emancipationists. So long as emancipation was sought by colonization, discussion was lawful and proper-the church doors flew open, and the public peace was not endangered; but when it was sought to be proved that colonization meant further guaranties for eternal bondage, and was the deadliest foe to emancipation-the end pretended to be sought-and that immediate freedom was the right of the slave, discussion became all at once criminal; the church stood aghast, and feared it as the devil does holy water. Commerce, sir, was shocked, and went down upon its knees to this throned monarch, cotton. The attempt everywhere, North and South, was to suppress discussion of the question by violence and unlawful measures. In the North, freedom of speech and of the press was put down by mobs. Garrison was assailed, and dragged about the streets of Boston with a halter about his neck. In Utica, New York, a convention. was driven out of the city by a mob, headed by judges, and lawyers, and merchants, and the first citizens. In Alton, Lovejoy's press was destroyed, and he was cruelly murdered. Violent denunciatory meetings were held in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and in all our commercial cities. The Governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Everett, recommended proceedings by indictment against Abolitionists at common law, as disturbers of the public peace. Governor Marcy, of my own State, recommended a special statute to meet the case. Wm. Sullivan, a noted lawyer of Boston, published a tract in Massachusetts, recommending the same enactment there. Dr. Beecher-a name which may have been heard by my friends upon the other side-and his associates, in Lane Seminary, Ohio, peremptorily forbade discussion there, and eighty young men were driven from that institution, to spread free sentiments in the North. 
In the South, the same violence was exhibited. The Georgia Legislature offered a reward of $5,000 for the arrest and delivery of Garrison for trial in that State. In New Orleans, $20,000 was offered for Tappan. Birney was expelled by violence from Kentucky, and his presses were destroyed in Cincinnati. The mails were violated by the seizure and destruction of incendiary documents. We have seen recently the extraordinary spectacle of a Postmaster-General officially advising his deputies in reference to the construction of a State law for robbing the mails-that they should not do it by wholesale, but they should call a jury of the neighbors, if they could read, and try, or rather should themselves pass upon, each individual paper by itself. In a word, the same system of violence and terror was then established. North and South, which is now attempted to be revived at the South. It will have the same effect upon the North, which they mean to terrify by threats, and upon the non-slave-holding whites of the South, whom they mean to keep down by ignorance. Southern presses and statesmen talk of non-intercourse and Southern direct trade. They forget that several elements are necessary for prosperous commercial cities: among which are, healthy locations, established courses of trade, following which are accumulations of capital with banks and insurance offices, and expensive structures in docks and warehouses; that safety is indispensable, of life, liberty, and property, and freedom of opinion; and that merchants are not apt to congregate where without trial an irresponsible mob may confiscate their property, drive them. without notice from their homes and business, and even take their lives for non-conformity to established faith on the subject of slavery. They forget that trade cannot prosper when the mercantile traveller cannot exhibit his samples, unless he goes under a passport, and his soundness in the faith is endorsed by members of Congress. 
The despotism which utterly excludes any freedom of opinion or speech; the dishonesty which violates, without compunction, contracts with teachers in schools, with public lecturers, because of their birthplace, or a chance liberty connection with a prescribed newspaper, is not friendly to commercial prosperity and independence.
Great ingenuity was exerted to make the fugitive slave bill as had and as villainous as possible. Men who would cheerfully acquiesce in it might be relied upon to buy and sell-nay, they would sell the issue of their own loins, or send their mothers into the cotton-field, for gold.
Very few disputed the right of reclaiming slaves under the Constitution, or would have resisted any decently humane law for their rendition, although no law could ever be of any practical value. But no law can be found upon the statute books of any civilized nation, having so many cruel and dis-
<c0B>
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution.... There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.... No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrates that it can only continue through the free States are tending.'
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
<illegible> features as this. In its general tone and its general tone and <illegible> , it makes charity a crime, and puts out the <illegible> upon the hearth of hospitality. It strikes <illegible> own every safeguard of the liberty of the citizen <illegible> has been extorted from tyranny through centuries of blood, from the time the victorious barons.
Runnymede extorted Magna Charta from King <illegible> where more than life and property is concerned. It prohibits the habeas corpus- the writ of <illegible>. It prevents the confronting of the <illegible> with the accused, and deprives him of the <illegible> of an open and fair cross-examination. It <illegible> a direct and open bribe to the judge to decide <illegible> favor of the rich, against the poor and friendless <illegible>small, indeed, but sufficient, for no one will hold a office where he may be an executioner of this in <illegible> law, whose integrity would be proof against <illegible> of five dollars. Treating persons as proper<illegible>, and the claimants of this species of property as privileged above others, it provides for the return of <illegible> upon the mere suggestion of apprehended danger, at the expense of public Treasury.
In my judgment, it is unconstitutional in this: <illegible>, that it is not within the power of legislation <illegible> to congress; second, it creates judicial officers, courts, not in compliance with the requirements of the constitution. I know it is contended that the commissioners referred to in this act have to right to try, do not act as judges; but that they <illegible> only ministerial officers, and their only office is <illegible> return persons to the place from which they fled, <illegible> trial there; and we are gravely assured that justice always prevails in Southern tribunals. The proceedings under this act are likened to those for the return of persons accused of crime. But the manifest distinction between them is overlooked- that the alleged criminal is formally demanded by the Executive of one State from the Executive of another; that he will neither be demanded nor surrendered; by such magistrates, unless responsibly charged by indictment found, or on a case otherwise satisfactory established, with a crime generally acknowledged as a felony; and when surrendered, he is put into the charge and keeping of the law and its officers for trial only, and is to be taken to the particular State and country where charged with crime, to be tried by jury, and in an open, fair, and legal mode, before punishment can be inflicted; while, in the other case, a citizen may be claimed by some base speculator, who has brought a Negro running , and may prove a general description by deposition of straw-heeled witnesses whom nobody has ever seen, before some obscure judge whom nobody has ever heard of, and make an unimpeachable record under this law, which would not be a respectable record for a justiceï¿½s court; and the man seized under such proceedings is beyond and relief of habeas corpus, and is given up- not, as in the other case, to the officers, and put under the protection of the law as an accused citizen, with an acknowledged right to a public trial, but surrendered as property to a master, who, instead of returning where either are known, may sell him to hopeless bondage in the nearest slave mart. The trial, or mockery or trial, before the commissioner, is therefore final, and his judgment conclusive, and subject to no appeal or review. Is he not, then, to all intents a judge, exercising most important judicial functions?
We do not propose the repeal of this law; let it stand, a fit monument of the folly and madness of the times; but is it not enough to try the temper as well as the faith of the believer in human progress, that such a law could be passed by an enlightened Republic, in the nineteenth century, and that it must have been expected- I believe it was intended that such a law should produce counter legislation in the free States-that personal liberty bills would be passed as they have been-though nor half as stringent as they ought to beï¿½to discharge the duty which every independent State owes to each of its citizens, however humbleï¿½I mean protection to their personal liberty.
It must have been expected that so infamous a law would have been evaded by underground railroads, and by all other honorable methods. And let me assure gentleman that they deceive themselves if they suppose that there is any real difference in sentiment among Northern people in relation to this law. All parties wink at its evasion, and all sympathy is with the fugitive who proves, by a successful flight, that there is enough man in him to make an earnest effort for freedom. He who can suppress such sympathy, and on the requisition of the marshal, under the fifth section, attempts to show that he is a good citizen by ï¿½aiding and assisting in the prompt and efficient execution of this law whenever his services are required, ï¿½ought himself to be a slave.
I am not, sir, a believer in the doctrine that a bad, infamous, and unconstitutional enactment-I cannot call it law-should be obeyed until it is replaced. I have not so learned the true spirit and theory of free and democratic government. No citizen would ever be sustained in any factious resistance to just and equal laws, upon any light and trivial ground of inconvenience, or even unavoidable and unintentional hardship; but where a real question of personal and civil right and liberty is involved, or the rights of conscience are invaded, it is the duty of the citizen to resist. In a question of right and conscience, the individual citizen is the final judge, and not the Government, or any branch thereof, Executive, Judicial, or Legislative. If the encroachments of the Government are generally tyrannous and oppressive, so that they become intolerable, there is the well-established remedy in the people-the right of revolution. If the tyranny does not reach the State, nor call for that last resort of an oppressed people, but only is directed at a sect, a class, or even an individual, there is the equally clear and indisputable right of peaceful resistance short of revolution. So the Friend resists the law compelling him to bear arms, and the Catholic the test oaths. By suffering the penalties of an unjust and wicked law, public attention is called to its injustice, and the wholesome lesson is taught, that
ï¿½Firm endurance wins at last 
More than the sword.ï¿½
And so I contend that no citizen in Republic discharges his duty, who fails to bring an infamous law into public odium and disgrace, and steadfastly to resist its encroachments. So old Eleazer taught, when he refused to eat the flesh abhorred by his conscience and his religion, or even to seem to eat it; and rather than submit to the law which demanded it, went manfully to the torment, lest he should bring reproach upon his gray hairs and the excellency of his ancient and honorable years; and so he died, leaving a notable example of courage, not to young men only, but to all generation. This was the teaching of Milton, and Hampden, and Sidney; and in our own age and land, of Otis, and Adams, and the patriots and martyrs of the Revolution. And I regard it as the a sign of the degeneracy of the times, that the test of good citizenship in a free Government has come to be blind and unresisting submission to judicial or legislative, any more than to executive tyranny; and ï¿½if this be treason, make the most of it.ï¿½

SENATORS MASON AND SUMNER
We copy from the Congressional Globe a verbatim report of that portion of the discussion on the reception of the Sanborn petition, which passed between Senators Sumner and Masonï¿½as follows:-
After reading the papers connected with the attempt to arrest Mr. Sanborn, including the return of officer Carleton, who was deputized by Mr. Mc. Nair, the Sergeant-at-Arms, to make the arrest, and the judgment of the Supreme Court, Mr. Mason said:-
Mr. Mason. I move to refer these two warrants, with the papers connected with them, to the committee on the Judiciary, with instructions to inquire and report whether any, and what, further proceeding may be necessary to vindicate the authority of the Senate, and to effect the arrest of the witnesses named in the warrants,
The motion was agreed to.
Mr. Sumner I move that the memorial of Mr. Sanborn, and accompanying papers that are already on the table, be take up and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary also.
Mr. Mason. I ask that that motion may be divided, and the question first put on taking up. I have no objection to taking up the paper, as I told the Senator.
The Vice President. The question is susceptible of division. The Chair will first put the question on taking up the memorial and papers.
The motion was agreed to
The Vice President. The question now is on the second branch of the motion, to refer the papers to the Committee on the Judiciary.

<C02>
Mr. Mason. I would suggest to the Senate, what I did not know until since this question was 1ast before the Senate, that there is another memorial from the same man, which was presented here some Considerable time since, and laid upon the table. I presume I was absent from the Senate at the time when it was presented. I did not know there was such a memorial until it was brought to my notice a few days ago. I suggest to the Senate that both papers be taken up at the same time.
Mr. Sumner. I have no objection.
Mr. Mason. It will be understood, then, that both memorials are now before the Senate.
Mr. Sumner. The first memorial was not presented by me, and I have no distinct recollection of it. I remember that there was a memorial from Mr. Sanborn, but the precise purport of it is not in my mind.
Mr. Mason. I did not examine who presented it; nor is it a matter of moment, I presume. I did not know such a memorial was presented, nor was it brought to my notice, until since the subject was last up. Now, Mr. President, only for the purpose of determining what the precedent of the Senate shall be in a like case, I shall object to the reference, or if it be in order as the superior motion, which the Chair will decide, I shall move that both memorials be rejected, upon the ground that the memorialist, by the statements contained in them, shows, in both instances, that be is in contempt of the authority of the Senate, and refuses to obey it; and by analogy (and I think a very proper analogy) to proceedings in a court of law, where a witness is in contempt, as it is calledï¿½usually a technical contemptï¿½where he denies or disobeys contumaciously the authority of the judiciary, as in this caseï¿½I suggest this person has denied and disobeyed the authority of the Senateï¿½he is not allowed to come before the tribunal, except for the purpose of purging himself from the contempt. I move, therefore, that both memorials be rejected, if that be the superior motion. 
The Vice Presidentï¿½The Chair will state to the Senator from Virginia that these memorials have been received, and ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Mason. I am perfectly aware that I cannot move that the memorials be not received, because they have already been received; but they have only been received as a presentation, a pending question before the Senate; and the question would then be: 'What disposition is to be made of the papers?ï¿½ In my judgment, a motion to reject is by no means an equivalent motion to a motion not to receive. We cannot know the contents of a paper until it is presented; and it is on the presentation of these memorials that I move to reject them both. Perhaps it is necessary that the memorials be read, that we may know what their contents are. I ask, therefore, that they may be read.
The Vice President. If there be no objection, the memorials will be read.
Mr. Mason. I will suggest, and I suppose the Senator from Massachusetts will concur, that, as both are before the Senate, the one first offered be the first read in continuity.
Mr. Sumner. I know nothing about the one first offered.
Mr. Mason. As you please, sir.
Mr. Sumner. My own motion was, that the memorial offered by myself, in which Mr. Sanborn complains of an outrage perpetrated upon him by certain persons pretending to act in the name of the Senate, be taken up and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
The Vice President. This is the only memorial before the Senate at this time.
Mr. Mason. Let it be read.
Mr. Hale. I thought the Senator from Virginia moved that the first memorial be taken up.
The Vice President. The Chair has no recollection of that motion.
Mr. Mason, 1 will not press it. I did move that it also be taken up, and understood it to meet the assent of the Senator from Massachusetts that they should be considered together; but I do not press the motion. Let the last one be taken up.
The Vice President. Does the Senator ask for the reading of the memorial presented by the Senator from Massachusetts?
Mr. Mason. Yes, sir.
The Vice President. The Secretary will read it.
After the memorial bad been read, Mr. Mason proceeded:ï¿½
Mr. Mason. I did not hear whether the Chair had finally decided that a motion to reject took precedence of a motion to refer.
The Vice President. The Chair thinks not.
Mr. Mason. With all respect to the Chair, I presume that the decision is founded upon the fact that the petition has already been received and laid upon the table as a pending question, and that a motion to reject would be equivalent to a motion not to receive. I do not mean to appeal at all from the decision of the Chair, or to express any opinion adverse to it; but my desire was only to maintain a proper precedent before the Senate, and that decision would show that the petition had advanced too far to make the objection. I therefore withdraw any opposition to the reference.
The Vice President. The Senator from Massachusetts moves that this memorial, with the accompanying papers, be referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. Somner. Mr. President, I think that I ought not to listen to such a proposition as has been made by the Senator from Virginia, with reference to this petition, without one word in reply. Here is a petition from a gentleman of perfect respectability, charged with no crime, presumed to be innocent, complaining of a gross outrage at the hands of certain persons pretending to act in the name of the Senate. The facts are set forth in his petition. They are authenticated also by documents now of record. The Senator movesï¿½without any reference to a committee, without giving the petitioner the decency of a hearing, according to the ordinary forms of this bodyï¿½that it be 'rejected;' and he does this with a view to establish a precedent in such a case. I feel it my duty to establish a precedent also in this case, by entering my open, unequivocal protest against such a suggestion. Sir, it was said in antiquity of one of the judges of hell, that he punished first, and heard afterwardsï¿½castigatque auditqueï¿½and permit me to say, the Senator from Virginia, on this occasion, takes a precedent from that court.
Mr. Mason. The Senator from Massachusetts, it seems to me, makes an opportunity to use language in the Senate Chamber which, so far as my intercourse with the world goes, is not usual out of the Senate Chamber. There is nothing in it that I have a right to take as personally offensive to myself. The Senate is the proper judge and arbiter of the decorum of its own proceedings. I have said that the Senator makes occasion, because he chose to reply in the language which he had used, to a motion which, for the reasons I statedï¿½reasons purely of the regularity of proceedingsï¿½I had withdrawn. Sir, I can have no personal feeling in this matter, and, if I were to attempt, I could not work myself into any personal feeling connected with itï¿½ I mean, in the arrest of this man.
My motion was simply, not that I would establish the precedent of the Senate, but to submit to the Senate what precedent should be established. I acquiesced very cheerfully in the decision of the Chair, that it could not be done now, because of the preceding decision of the Chair that the paper had been received, and that therefore the motion to reject would not be in order. My design was not to prejudge in the slightest degree anything connected with it; but the petitioner here alleges that he has received injury, insult, and oppression at the hands of those who were deputed by the Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate, and asks the Senate to inquire into it, and to redress his grievance, so far as I comprehend the petition, and declares that he had disobeyed the mandate of the Senate, so that he might try the question in a different tribunal. Thus he was certainly, within the legal meaning of the term, in contempt for the authority of the Senate. He had appealed to other tribunals; and to those tribunals it would seem to me be should be left for redress, and not to the Senate. When the report comes from the Committee on the Judiciary, it will be full time to ascertain whether the authority was properly deputed, and, if there be an occasion for it, whether it was properly exercised, and what was done.
Mr. Sumner. Only one word. I presented a petition to this body, setting forth an outrage. The Senator from Virginia moved its rejection. I characterized that rejection as I thought I was authorized to do, and I referred to a precedent in antiquity, and that was all; and that is the occasion for a lecture from the Senator to me as to the manner in which one should conduct on this floor. Prom the heights of his serf-confidence, be addresses me. Sir, I wish to say simply in reply, that when an outrage comes before this body, I shall denounce it in plain terms; and if a precedent from a very

<c03>
bad place should seem to be in point, I shall not hesitate to quote it.
Mr. Mason. Mr. President, I am not going to continue such a discussion as this. The Senator aid that Rhadamanthus, the judge of bell, bad handed himself down to posterity as the judge who first punished, and then heardï¿½castigatique auditque; ï¿½and,' said be, 'the Senator from Virginia has taken that precedent.' I did not undertake to lecture that Senator, of all others, upon the subject of manners or propriety. I do not mean it offensively, but, for my own convenience, I should consider it time thrown away. All that I was, that I was not accustomed, in my intercourse with the world outside of this Chamber, to hear language of that sort in the circles in which I move.
The consideration of the memorial was still pending at this point, when the orders of the day were taken up. On Tuesday, both of the memorials of Mr. Sanborn were referred to the Judiciary Committee without further discussion.

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, APRIL 27, 1860. 
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
The Twenty-Seventh Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, at the Cooper Institute, on TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, May 8th and 9th, commencing each day at 10 o'clock, A. M.
Independent of all religious and political organizations, and dealing impartially with them all, this Society continues to pursue its grand distinctive object,
THE IMMEDIATE AND TOTAL ABOLITION OF AMERICAN SLAVERY, without regard to geographical boundaries, by moral instrumentalities aloneï¿½animated by a spirit which seeks the safety, happiness and prosperity of every section of our widely-extended country, ï¿½knowing no East, no West, no North, no South,' as such. Its treason' is embodied in the Declaration of Independence, and its 'fanaticism' in the Golden Rule. Declaring that man cannot be the property of man, it measures men, parties and institutions by this simple and unerring test, and will not yield to any compromise, or consent to any postponement of the claims of justice and humanity.
We trust it is needless to remind the members and friends of the Society, that never were greater vigilance and activity demanded on their part than at the present time. The nation is just entering into another Presidential election, which will probably be unparalleled on the score of popular excitement, and which will present a powerful temptation to many to swerve from the strict line of rectitude, by lowering the Anti-Slavery standard for the sake of party success. 'Let the dead bury their dead.' Let us eschew all compromises and compromises, and be faithful to our rallying-cry, 'No UNION WITH SLAVE-HOLDERS!
Among those who are relied upon to be among the speakers at this anniversary are the following:ï¿½ 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, WM. LLOTD GARRISON, Rev. Dr. CHEEVER, Rev. BERIAH GREEN, EDMUND QUINCY, Mrs. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, ROBERT PURVIS, Esq., Rev. Dr. FURNESS, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, of Ohio, Rev. S. J. MAY, Rev. G. F. NOYES, of New York, Rev. A. B. BRADFORD, of Pennsylvania, WM. WELLS BROWN, and others.
In behalf of the Executive Committee, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
C. C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
THE RIGHT WAY THE SAFE WAYï¿½proved by Emancipation in the British West Indies, and elsewhere. By L. MARIA CHILD. New York: Published and for sale at 5 Beekman Street. 1860.
To the immense service which Mrs. Child long since rendered to the Anti-Slavery, cause by her valuable writings, she has recently added much by her Correspondence with Gov. Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia, and now by this elaborate and reliable work, triumphantly refuting the malicious statements of a pro-slavery press respecting the results of West India Emancipation, and demonstrating that those results are, in view of all the circumstances, in the highest degree encouraging. It makes a neat pamphlet of 95 pages, divided into the following chapters:ï¿½
Chapt. I. The West Indies before the abolition of slavery. 
Chapt. II. Antigua, after immediate, unconditional emancipationï¿½Testimony of Planters, Magistrates, Teachers, Clergymen, Missionaries, and Emancipated Slaves.
Chapt. III. The Windward Islands during the Apprenticeshipï¿½Testimony of Planter!-, c, &c.
Chapt. IV. Testimony concerning the West Indies from 1840 to 1859. 
Chapt. V. Jamaica. [The population of Jamaica, at the time of emancipation, was 37,000 whites; 311,692 slaves; 55,000 free colored people.]
Mrs. Child has chosen for her motto the words of Dr. Davyï¿½ï¿½ The world is beginning to understand that injuring one class, for the immediate benefit of another, is ultimately injurious to that other; and that to secure prosperity to a community, all interests must be consulted.' This is most clearly proved by this admirable compilation of facts and testimonies, which deserves the widest circulation and the most thorough perusal.

AFRICAN CIVILIZATION.
On Thursday evening, 11th inst., a mass meeting of the colored citizens of New York was held in Zion's Church, for the purpose of discussing the merits of the African Civilization Society. The church was closely packed by a large audience. Revs. H. H. Garnet and J. Sella Martin defended the Society, while George T. Downing, Wm. H. Leonard, and others, opposed it. The debate was very exciting between Messrs. Garnet and Downing, and the confusion so great that the lights were put out, in order to bring the meeting to a close. Next week we shall try to find room for an extended report of the proceedings, as published in the Anglo-African. 

BASE AND UNNATURAL PROSCRIPTION. Frederick Douglass having been refused a passport to enable him to visit Paris, by Mr. Dallas, the American minister at London, on the ground that they do not recognize persons of color as citizens, the required permission was furnished by the French consul at Newcastle !ï¿½ A fresh cause for European jeers at American Democracy. 

SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES B. SBDOWICK. One of the ablest speeches yet made in Congress, in opposition to the claims of the Slave Power, was recently delivered by Hon. Charles B. Sedgwick, of Syracuse, N. Y., who stands in the forefront of his profession as a lawyer. The extract we have made from it in another column is a specimen of its force and directness. In the course of his speech, -Mr. Sedgwick made honorable mention of our humble labors for the abolition of slaveryï¿½the first instance, we believe, daring a period of thirty yean, of any member of Congress having had the courage and justice to allude to us by name in commendatory terms. He may be sure that we duly appreciate his act.

NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION. That desperate conclave, the National Democratic, alias Satanic Convention, assembled at Charleston, S. C. on Monday last, to nominate a Presidential ticketï¿½Caleb Cushing, of Massachusetts, with admirable fitness being chosen to preside over its fiendish deliberations. No nomination has yet been made.

<c04>
MORE DECEIT IN THE INDEPENDENT. 
Since, with advancing time, the purity of Mr. Garrison's life, the excellence of the principles he inculcates, and the superior efficacy of his method of assailing slavery impress themselves on a constantly increasing number of people, the policy of the independent demands, from time to time, of repetition of s the old falsehood that he is ' an Infidel, of a most de- graded class.' The simple lie would answer the purpose as it has in tens of thousands of cases already) with people who place implicit trust in the Independent, and who do not see, hear or read Mr. Garrison, But since those who do hear him lecture, or read his, writings in the Liberator, of pass an hour in conversation with him, find that they have been grossly deceived by the above representation, the Independent finds it necessary to add sophistry to its calumny, to divert the attention of its readers from the unadorned , lie by a show of reasoning, and to make its present statements seem more plausible by a crafty intermixture of truth with the falsehood. I propose now to untwist some of the deceptive windings (there is not' room for all) in its last week's comment upon my criticism in the previous week's Liberator.
The Independent quotes from my article, actually giving to its readers a fragment from the beginning and a fragment from the end! Both these passages are strictly fragmentary, being not only pieces detached from the building, but pieces broken off from two separate bricks, and laid side by side, as if giving so much of a continuous statement by me. In reality, its readers get about as much of the meaning of j my Article as one would of the meaning of the Bible who should bear the following read from it:
And Judas departed, and went and hanged himself.'
'Go thon, and do likewise.'
So much for the Independent's honesty in quotation. Let us now look at its ingenuity in the suggestion of falsehood. Here is one of its paragraphs:ï¿½
'Larroque, in his recent work, De L' Esclavage chez let Nations Chretiennes, disowns the divine origin of Christianity, because, as he alleges, the Bible does not condemn slavery, which is contrary to the law of nature. Larroque charges the Evangelists with contradictions, and the Mosaic code with immoralities. But he frankly avows that he is not a Christian, nor a believer in any religion, past or present. Yet he asserts that he believes in God, in the immortality of the soul, and in the glorious destiny of the soul of our entire humanity, however this has been degraded and disinherited in the present life. He acknowledges also the general purity and elevation of the teachings of Jesus, but believes in a 'religion of the future,' yet to be evoked. Does Mr. Garrison go any farther, than this? But Mons. Larroque says of him sell that he is no Christian.'
What villany could be greater than the putting of these two names together thus? Yet the Editors of the Independent know (since that paper exchanges with the Liberator) that which every reader of the latter of course knows, that such a parallel is grossly calumnious to Mr. Garrison, alike upon the positive and the negative side. The Reverend gentlemen of whom we are speaking mean to misrepresent him. This is the necessary pre-requisite of vilifying him. 
So, again, after I had stated certain opinions of my own, respecting some portions of some of the thirty-nine books of the Hebrew Scriptures, and had pointed out certain resemblances between these portions and the Koran, (which, as the Independent acutely remarks, was written long afterwards,) that paper makes the following ingenious interrogative suggestions:ï¿½ 
Does Mr. Garrison then believe,' &c. &c.
If Mr. Garrison is willing to accept this as the statement of his views,' &c. &c. 
Every reader of my article would see that these views had no more to do with Mr. Garrison than with Rev. Dr. Joseph P. Thompson. But it suited the Independent's purpose to misstate me, and its quotations from my article were so carefully selected as to throw no light upon the misrepresentation.
The following double-barreled falsehood from the Independent's reply to me shall be my last quotation :
'Our criticism had no reference to Mr. Garrison's personal character; nor to the opinion that the rights of man do not rest upon the Bible alone.'
To show that the latter of these two statements is directly and absolutely false, I need only repeat the quotation from Mr. Garrison, on which the Independent's- whole article, asserting his Infidelity, is founded. It is this, forming part of a notice of Dr. Cheever's last book:ï¿½ 
'Dr. Cheever has here met the pro-slavery argument drawn from the Bible with consummate logical acumen, scholarly ability and irresistible power. We commend this work to all who profess to revere the Scriptures; at the same lime protesting against making the rights of man to depend upon any parchment whatever.'
As to the former declaration, that this charge against Mr. Garrison had no reference to his 'personal character,' let us look at it. When we remember that the policy of the Independent has always been to make the term Infidel as opprobrious as the term Pickpocket, and to cause men to fear, avoid and detest the former of these quite as much as the latterï¿½when we remember that the Reverend Editors of that paper have tried to deepen even this stigma, by calling Mr. Garrison an Infidel of a most degraded class,' and that, though repeatedly urged to retract this slander by friends of their own, solicitous for the credit of their paper, they have never done itï¿½and when we remember that, from that time to the present, they have been constantly making occasions to hoot at that gentleman 'Infidel! Infidel!'ï¿½he, mean while, quietly going on with his work of calling upon them, and the churches, and the nation, to take their feet off the neck of the slaveï¿½it will plainly appear that they might as well say of one after whom they had been shouting Pickpocket! Stop thief!'ï¿½that they had ' no reference to his personal character'!ï¿½c. K. W. 

MEETING AT WORCESTER
The Annual Meeting of the Worcester County South Division Anti-Slavery Society was held in Washburn Hall, Worcester, on Sunday, April 2d, 1860. The meeting was called to order by JOSIAH HENSHAW, of West Brookfield, one of the Vice Presidents, who spoke in feeling terms of the loss the Society had met with in the death of its late President, EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON. Prayer was offered by a colored friend, whose name we failed to learn. SAMUEL MAY, Jr., read an appropriate passage of Scripture from the 23d chapter of Jeremiah.
A committee of seven was nominated by the chair to report a list of officers for the ensuing year, viz.: Samuel May, Jr., James A. Whipple, Sarah E. Wall, Adams Foster, Alfred Wyman, Ezek Pitts, and Isaac Mason.
Mr. May offered the following resolutions for the consideration of the meeting:ï¿½
1. Resolved, That we renew our protest against those men and associations, untruly called Christian ministers and Christian churches, who, in this city, this county, this State, and this nation, take upon themselves the name of Christ, and, under cover of that name, claim large powers and privileges, and the most sacred rights, for themselves, while they refuse to bear his cross, reject the claims of his most needy and oppressed brethren, and prove themselves recreant to his spirit and commandments by their indifference and hostility to the subject of American slavery.
2. Resolved, That, on the eve of another contest between the political parties for the possession of the Presidential office and the control of the National Government, we feel bound to declare our conviction that no one of the men who has been proposed or is likely to be nominated for the next Presidency is worthy of the confidence or support of those who have, from principle, arrayed themselves on the side of freedom, and of equal and impartial justice to all men, and especially of such as mean to be true to the great work of the overthrow of American slavery.

<Col 5>
3. Resolved, That as the time approaches nearer and nearer when the final straggle for liberty in this land shall be made, and when the forces of Liberty and the forces of Slavery shall be arrayed openly sad without disguise, each on its own side, it becomes more and more important that the anti-slavery men and women of the land keep themselves rigidly and in all respects from participation in, or corruption by, those things which are offered to the bloody idol of Slaveryï¿½that they shall refuse all manner of compromise with slavery, and all support, political, moral r ecclesiastical, to pro-slavery men and Compromisers. The resolutions were spoken to by Mr. May, who urged the Abolitionists to maintain their ground without any concession or compromise, and especially, in the coming Presidential contest, to give no heed to the delusion of choosing the least of two moral evils, by either of which we consent to wrong, though (as we may suppose) in different degrees;ï¿½and by Mrs. Abby Kelley Foster, who spoke of the complicity of the churches with slavery, and criticised s sermon lately preached in the Church of the Unity, in Worcester, by a former minister of that Society, who had eulogized the liberties of America, and extolled this country as immeasurably superior, in that respect, to any foreign country.
Mr. ADDISOM P. BROWN offered the following resolution:ï¿½
Resolved, That the exigencies of the cause of Liberty demand the formation of a Brotherhood, with the avowed object of securing to every person in the Union, and especially in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, those inalienable rights of personal liberty which the American Government hypocritically boasts of securing, but does not; a Brotherhood bound to protect the rights of man against all decisions of all courts, State or Federal, by such means as each feels at liberty to use in his own defence.
Adjourned to the afternoon.
AFTERNOON. The Society re-assembled, with increased numbers, at Washburn Hall.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., from the Committee to nominate officers of the Society, reported the following list:ï¿½
Presidentï¿½JOSIAH HENSHAW, of West Brookfield. 
Vice Presidentsï¿½Adin Ballou, Milford; Moses Sawin, Southboro'; Adeline H. Howland, Worcester ;Clark Aldrich, Upton ; Moses Buffum, Oxford ; Adams Foster, Holden; James A. Whipple, Worcester.
Treasurerï¿½Sarah E. Wall, Worcester. 
Auditorï¿½Alfred Wyman, Worcester;
Secretaryï¿½Joseph A. Howland, Worcester.
Executive Committeeï¿½Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah F. Earle, Sarah M. Whipple, Isaac Mason, Worcester ;Abijah Allen, Esek Pitts, Millbury ;E. D. Draper, Milford; Samuel May, Jr., Leicester; Maria P. Fair banks, Millville; Nancy B. Hill, Blackstone ; Sylvester C. Fay, Southboro'; William Doane, Charlton. 
The report was accepted, and the officers named were declared elected. 
Mr. Henshaw thanked the Society for their confidence in him, and the honor conferred upon him, but felt that because of his age, he ought not to accept it. Being urged, however, not to decline the post, but to ' accept in compliance with the unanimous wishes of the Society, he forbore to press the point. 
PARKER PILLSBURY addressed the meetingï¿½bearing; testimony to the high character and long and faithful; services of the late E. L. Capron. 'When I last saw; him presiding here,' said Mr. P., 'he seemed young; and I believe he is young now, for the like of him never die and never grow old.' He spoke of the preacher of the discourse, upon which Mrs. Foster had commented in the morning, as one who had never been known as an anti-slavery man. George Fox once said a true Quaker would shake the earth for twenty miles around; so, said Mr. P., would a faithful Christian minister do
I believe, said Mr. P., in the perseverance of the saints, and do not think much of those abolitionists who are such for a few yean, and then fall. It is the hour of temptation that tries the true abolitionist. Any bark can sail a fair sea, but it is the tempest and, storm that try the strength of the ship. Some one said to-day that this meeting is small. An Anti-Slavery meeting is never small to me; it is the representative of truth, and cannot be small. Anti-Slavery is not counted, but weighed. Of any hundred men, let me make sure of ten, whom I could select, and I am sure of the other ninety. 
A. P. BROWN, at Mr. Foster's request, explained the object of his resolution. He said he had no definite plan, but felt that an organization, to protect the liberties of both free men and slaves, was needed. 
Mr. HIGGINSON also thought such an organization needed, and spoke of several places where, as he understood, such organizations already existed. Mr. Sanborn's safety, in Concord, was not, however, he admitted, secured by such an organization. Mr. H. gave a very interesting account of the manner in which Mr. Sanborn was saved from his kidnappers,ï¿½for they were nothing better in action or purpose.
S. S. FOSTER thought the time for talking was ended: now we must act, and not on the defensive only, but on the aggressive.
Adjourned to 7, P. M.
EVENING. The resolutions having been read again, Mr. May said he had not been convinced by the afternoon's remarks that any new organization was needed for the protection of our liberties. Wherever the spirit of freedom truly lived, there would be men, yes, and women too, ready to act whenever freedom is assailed. In that new and greater revolution, towards which we are rapidly moving, as in the Revolution of 1775, it will be found that the ' minute men' will spring up on every hand, provided the friends of liberty now continue true to their principles, and faithful to their testimonies.
CHARLES L. REMOND agreed in the view, just expressed, concerning the proposed organization. He looked to the Anti-Slavery Society as a sufficient organization. He did not think, with Mr. Foster, that the time for preaching the truth was past. Such preaching was never more needed than now. 
Mr. Remond made a stirring and able speech. 
PARKER PILLSBURY next occupied the platform, in a speech of great power and interest. He liked, he said, the tone and temper of the meeting. He went into a candid, and critical examination of Reward's last speech, comparing it with the Buffalo Platform, the Declaration of Independence, &c. 
The meeting was well attended, and great interest was manifested by the audience, 
JOSIAH HENSHAW. President. WM. A. WILSON, Sec'y. 

NEW SERIES OF ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.
The new Series now consists of Four Tracts, to which we would again call the attention of our readers and of all friends of Anti-Slavery Reform, as just the publications which the times and the cause now require. Call for themï¿½send for themï¿½circulate them:
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. 28 pp.
No. 2. Victor Huge on American Slavery, with letters, of other distinguished individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. 24 pp. 
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. 36 pp. 
No. 4. The Sew Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1859-60. 144 pp. 
Price of the first three of the above, five cents single ; 50 cts. the dozen: $3 50 the hundred. Of No. 4, ten cts, single; $1 the dozen; $8 the hundred. 

<Col 6>
THE INFLUENCE OF SLAVERY ON NORTHERN YOUNG MEN
MR.EDITOR:
Our minds have recently been turned to this subject by seeing a letter from an old school- mate, since a graduate of Williams College, and now a teacher in one of the Southern States. A few extracts from his letter will serve as a fitting introduction to a brief train of thoughts which it has suggested. He says:-
ï¿½The great source of trouble between North and South (setting aside the ambition of political men) is that the people do not understand each other, do not become acquainted with each other. If Northerners and Southerners, instead of going to Europe, would make a tour of their own country, their influence would be in favor of conciliation. The system of slavery goes by a bad name at the North, but I have seen but little but that could be called slavery. What better could be done with the slaves? I do not know. If you can do better by them, and by the whites too, then do it. Bat if freedom is to put the negro in the same position as the free negro of the north, or even to land him, where he ought always to have been kept in Africa, I would not lift my finger to free all the negro slaves I have seen since I think the most cruel and inhuman act would be to deprive them of the protection of their masters, and send them forth to take care of themselves. I honestly believe that the negroes are the happiest class of human beings, on earth. They have no ambition to rise, and are contented; they have no care for themselves but are well taken care of, if sick.
Very many of the slaves are pious, truly so, I think at least they are very happy in thinking themselves so. They have just as good opportunities to attend church as the whites, and you may be assured they avail themselves of the privilege. "Sunday is nigger's day." The mass of slaves are better off than they would be if free; they are not in need of the sympathy of the pious, misguided fanatics of the North. They despise an abolitionist.'
After reading these passages, and some others of a like nature, our first instinctive exclamation was, Who is it that writes this? Is it some young aristocrat, who was reared on a princely estate, surrounded by vassals to do his bidding, taught from infancy that the blood in his veins was of a superior quality, that the negro was only fit to occupy the subordinate position of a servant, having no rights he was bound to respect, and that labor was disgraceful to the white man. Such a person we could pity; for him there might be the semblance of an excuse; his habits of life, his social condition, his religious training his education, all would have tended to blur his moral sense, and make him dead to these great crimes. But such is not the case. The above monstrous sentiments were indicted by one who was born and educated in New England. They are the utterances of both a traitorous and a rotten heart. After having enjoyed the benefits of freedom, its free school, its colleges, its social equality and refinement, its diffusive intelligence, this young recreant impudently tells us that the reason why we do not love the tyrant is because we do not know him; that the 'great source of trouble, between North and South, in, that the people do not understand each other." If we, poor deluded New Englanders, only knew the blessings of slavery, we should say no more against it. Verily, our young friend illustrates the truth of his own words.
But his condition is not peculiar. It is almost invariably the case with young men who go South to engage in business. They leave home, believing that freedom is right and slavery wrong. But, on reaching the land of sunshine, they are met with the allurements of unbounded wealth ; they see the splendor of a lordly estate; the planter and his family living in idleness, luxury, and exercising unlimited power; they know that such means will secure them good situations, if the favors of their possessors can be won ; selfishness begins to look on the bright side, and seek for excuses, and all at once they discover that the slave is the happiest being on earth; that the planter is the most benevolent man living, and that all our prejudice against the 'peculiar institution ' results from our ignorance of it. But, young man, is it possible that you think you can thus deceive people Ah! is it possible that you think you can thus deceive yourself: You cannot. You know better, and you insult us by sending back such false, such demoralizing representations of the most accursed system of bondage which ever existed under the sun. You tell us that the main cause of discord between North and South is ignorance of each other. But, we ask you, can opposites agree: Can the man who believes that all men are by nature free and equal, that the rights of every human being are sacred, inviolable, inalienable, live in friendship and union with the man who crushes that freedom, and violently takes away those rights? Will not the thought of an oppressive institution arouse the indignation of his soul? Do not tell us that slavery needs but to be seen to be loved. The more we see of it, the more we hate it. Whenever its features are portrayed to our view, an ' irrepressible conflict' rises between them and every liberty-loving soul. And had your soul drunk in the spirit of freedom; had it not been tainted with selfishness and avarice and pride, you would never thus disgrace the homes of your childhood.
But again, you tell us that you know of no better way to treat the slave than to keep him where he is in bondage. Young man, the better instincts of your soul set the seal of eternal falsehood upon that declaration the moment it is uttered. You know it would be treating him better to acknowledge his manhood, to give him power over his own soul and body, to compensate him for his labors, to educate and enlighten him, to teach him a lesson of conjugal fidelity by preventing the sundering of family ties, and by laying upon him duties and obligations, setting before him hopes and motives which would call into action and strengthen his native faculties, and fit him for a higher sphere of life. You say, 'The slaves are happy; that you would not set them free if you could ; that it would be cruel to deprive them of the protection of their masters.' But are their enjoyments such as properly pertain to human beings or to brutes? If theirs is so blessed a condition, why do you not plunge into it? Why do you not send for your mother and sisters, and introduce them to its delights? Would you love to see them upon the auction-stand? torn from your embrace prostituted to the unbridled lust of gross and unprincipled men? doomed to servile toil, to be whipped and hunted like beasts of burden and prey ? Stop and think, young man, before you talk to free and intelligent minds of the happiness of slaves! Think how you are commending ignorance, sensuality, and the lowest form of life! Think how you are- taking sides with the enemies of mankind, and throwing hindrances in the way of human progress! 
And do you realize that you are casting contempt upon all religion, when yon talk of the piety of slaves? In what does their piety consist? Does not every female slave live in a state of perpetual coneubinage? Are not husbands and wives made and separated at the masters will? Do not slaves steal and lie and drink? Are they not the creatures of passion blind credulity? Can they be otherwise while slaves? And are such people pious? Yes, after the fashion of the slave system, but not in the Christian, the true sense. Nine tenths of all the religious instructions they received is addressed to them in the form of exhortations to obedience to their masters and of appeals to their fear; and yet you would make us believe that beings who are governed by such low motives are piousï¿½truly so! 
No intelligent mind can be duped with such pretensions, and those young men who think to deceive people in this way make themselves objects of contempt. Let the young man who wishes to maintain his integrity, and a: the same time to succeed in business, seek a more promising field than the slave States. If he goes into them, he must either be a slave himself to their popular opinions, or be driven away in disgrace. 'What will it profit a man if he gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?' 
F. S. BLISS
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
TRIBUTE TO MRS. FOLLEN.
The following heartfelt tribute to the memory of <illegible>LEE FOLLEN, from one who was bound to her <illegible> by the most sacred spiritual ties, and by a de <illegible> to the cause of the slave kindred with hers, <illegible> welcome to our readers as a touching expressed of their own sentiments and feelings.
RED RIDGE HOUSE, Bristol, Eng.,
March 9, 1860.
 <illegible> MRS. CHAPMAN,-I cannot allow another <illegible> to go without expressing to you, and through <illegible> to all your fellow-workers in the great cause, my <illegible> sympathy in the loss you have sustained in the <illegible> of our beloved and revered Mrs. FOLLEN. Carefully do we bid farewell to one after another of small but faithful band who have fought the good <illegible> here, as they are summoned away to the <illegible> where there are no more wars of fightings, and <illegible> Perfect Love subdues all things to itself <illegible> bereaved do we feel as they leave us in the <illegible> of our warfare, bereft of their loved presence, encouragement, and help, and animating spirit, wise counsel. But the Lord of Hosts knows <illegible> of the tried soldiers of Christ He wants here, <illegible> whom he will summon there to join the cloud of <illegible> who surround us. We must not murmur, <illegible> still thank God and take courage, filling her place the battle as well as our own. Those who are we often do more for us than those who are below. <illegible> will be the first to meet the martyred Brown, <illegible> to tell him how his very failure and his death <illegible> already kindled a spirit throughout the land of <illegible> very, and will bear more fruit than any apparent <illegible> could have done.
But yet, while viewing her removal from a distant <illegible> high stand-point we may even rejoice at it, still, <illegible> in the flesh, we cannot but deeply grieve to be <illegible> parted from those to who, we are bound by no <illegible> ties, who have shared with us a friendship most holy, because sealed with the blood of <illegible> millions; and so I would beg you to express <illegible> my warm friendly sympathy to your sis <illegible> to Mr. Garrison, Mr. May, and to others whom, <illegible> not personally known to me, I greatly honor; <illegible> especially will you convey it to her son, for I <illegible> how deep and tender a tie bound them <illegible>:
<illegible> myself had the privilege of knowing and loving <illegible> from personal intercourse under the same roof, <illegible> I had learned to esteem and honor her from her <illegible> and from correspondence. She was university esteemed and respected in England, both for her <illegible> sake and as the biographer of her noble husband. <illegible> were inseparably connected in our minds, as <illegible> desired they should be. Almost at the very time <illegible> she was so bereaved of the partner of her life, <illegible> guide of mine was called away from us, leaving <illegible> in my soul which will never be filled on earth. <illegible> there was an especially deep feeling of sympathy <illegible> us, for she revered my father, as I did her <illegible>. Thus, when I heard of her death, <illegible> as we have been for many years by the ocean, <illegible> prevented as I have been by my own very <illegible> work from interchanging written <illegible> it almost seemed as if she were nearer to me, <illegible> I rejoiced with her freed spirit, now joined for <illegible>, after the long separation, to him she loved, and, <illegible> the immediate presence of the Father and the Son, <illegible> by the blessed ones who have gone before- <illegible> beloved parents, Channing, Tuckerman, the Wares, <illegible> others too numerous to mention.
They bear me up, O Father, unto Thee,
That blessed angel band;
They hear me up, till I shall come to Thee,
In Thine own Better Land!
They bear me up, O Father! Bright I see
Those much-loved, long-loved forms,
Though hid from mortal view, full clear to me,
To guard me midst life's storms.
It is because their life is hid with Thee,
And Thou art in my soul,
That thus their angel-presence is with me,
While sorrows round me roll.'
Farewell, dear Mrs. Chapman! May each removal <illegible> our faith and ardor, and may you ever feel <illegible> from on high in your great work.
Believe me always yours, truly,
MARY CARPENTER.
HARRIET MARTINEAU, in one of her admirable Letters to the Anti-Slavery Standard, pays the following tribute to the memory of Mrs. FOLLEN, and that <illegible> her lamented husband, Dr. FOLLEN:-
To all Mrs. Follen's many friends in England, the <illegible> of her death was not the less sad for not being <illegible> surprising. At her years, we knew we should not <illegible> her again; and I especially, who was intimate with her a quarter of a century ago, was aware that <illegible> course must be nearly run; but her fidelity and <illegible> in regard to the Anti-Slavery cause were so <illegible> complete and so glowing, that the sense of your loss <illegible> as vivid as if she had been in the prime of life. The event is the more touching as it revives the sense of our former loss, in the death of her husband. We still feel it an almost unendurable calamity-the loss of such a man, in such a way, at such a period of your country's history. The pair will henceforth be remembered together in the immortal sense in which patriots and confessors are remembered in the history of their country and time. Their fidelity and devotedness never were and never can be exceeded, on any occasion and in any cause. They did all that it was possible for them to do. They sacrificed whatever the cause required; and they would have sacrificed all, to their very lives, if so called upon by the duty to which they had dedicated themselves. There has been, as was natural, a strongly marked individuality in each prominent member of the abolition body, and in none more conspicuously than in the Follens. His thorough German cast of mind and manners, and her American characteristics, seemed to work together for the good of the cause, as for the happiness of their home; but those qualities were not the less distinctive for being harmonious. Of the many good men and true whom I saw stand up in the day of danger, to contend for the right and suffer wrong, no two resembled each other in their mode of asserting their common question, in public or in private; and no one of them will be remembered longer or more vividly than Dr. Follen, with his holy serenity and cheerfulness, his clear convictions, and earnest and simple way of presenting them, both to willing and unwilling hearers. Of Course, there must have been a high spirit, under this serenity, to sustain his unflinching perseverance; and that spirit came flashing out now and then with excellent effect as regarded insolent and cowardly foes. I am thinking at this moment particularly of the pleadings of the Abolitionists against Southern requisitions, in March, 1836, before a Committee of the Massachusetts Legislature, when the Chairman of that Committee acted like no other public functionary whom I or perhaps any other English person of our century ever saw. I seem to hear again Dr. Follen's gentle and musical utterance, and to see his flushed face as one insolent interruption followed another; and I well remember the comfort of finding that he was amused in the midst of it all. When he was showing how mobs had come to pass, and was rudely, desired to be respectfully to the Committee, he archly inquired, 'Am I, then, to understand that in speaking ill of mobs, I am disrespectful to the Committee?' and the delight of the audience at this question was the most signal of many mortifications which the day produced to the ruffian chairman. These are old stories-familiar for a quarter of a century; but they have a new spirit and meaning now that they have became sanctified as history by the death of more and more of those who spoke and wrought in the Cause. For all the rest of her long life, Mrs. Follen spoken and wrought unflinchingly, unremittingly, and with a steadiness of purpose and composed ardor of manner which testified to the depth and soundness of her convictions. Impetuous in character, and un-
<c02>
reserved in the manifestation of her keen sensibilities, she was on this subject calm, patient, reasonable, as if her husband's spirit had passed into her. When some wondering pleasure was in those days expressed by some friend that she bore so cheerfully and patiently with ignorant gabble and saucy contradiction about some anti-slavery matter, she replied, 'It is because I feel it so deeply that on this subject I am calm'; and this was precisely the truth. She brought her eloquence to the cause, because she brought to it all her gifts: but it never became of lower quality from its abundance, or from the stimulus which instigated it. It was always worthy of the great occasion-for she felt that every occasion of pleading such a cause was great. Dr. Follen saw by faith that the right would triumph: his wife lived to see the opening of more than one seal, and to obtain glimpses of the new earth that our country will be whenever slavery is abolished-a new earth wherein righteousness will dwell-or a state of morals righteous in comparison with what you have now. Those who survive to work out the change have sorely missed, and long will sorely miss, such fellow-workers as the Follens; but it will be forever a cause for joy and thankfulness that such comrades were in the midst of them, in the hardest days of the cause. I saw with pleasure the remarks made on the appearance of the name of William Lloyd Garrison, Junior. It is a comfort to remember that you have also a Charles Follen, to sustain the tradition of the devotion of the Follens to freedom. 

JOHN BROWN MEETING IN ALBANY RESPONSE TO HAYTI. 
A public meeting to respond to the address of the people of Hayti to the citizens of Albany, in token of approbation for their demonstrations of respect to the memory of John Brown, on the 2d of December, 1859, prominent among which were those 'one hundred guns' was held on Tuesday evening, April 3, 1850, in the Bethel A. M. E. Church, Hamilton street. Elihu Smith, Esq., was appointed Chairman, and Rev. T. Doughty Miller, Secretary. The Chairman, in taking his seat, made a few appropriate remarks, reviewing the progress of the cause, and the favorable signs of the times. The address of the people of Hayti was then read, as follows:- 
'CITIZENS OF ALBANY-The cannon you fired to commemorate the death of John Brown has re-echoed in the hearts of the Haytians and of the strangers of our land, and reverberates through our fields and cities. Your energetic protest against an act of barbarity dues you the greatest honor, as it evidently proves that there exist in the American Republic courageous men devoted to the holy cause of freedom of the blacks. Receive, then, the sincere thanks of the citizens of the Republic of Hayti, a Republic that its enemies on another continent represent as always in ruin. Albanians, the Haytians are without prejudice; they receive without hesitation all who come to join them. It is by our conduct, and by that alone, that you can find arguments capable of refuting the assertions of those enemies, of humanity who decry us.' 
Then followed the reading of an address in response to the people of Hayti, from the citizens of Albany, as follows:- 
TO THE PEOPLE OF HAYTI,-Your address has been read by the people of Albany. Its words are eloquent-its sentiments are true. John Brown still lives in our hearts. His spirit animates our souls. The day of his death will long be remembered. It was a gloomy hour in Albany when the solemn echoes of the minute guns, reverberating among our adjacent hills, announced that the spirit of Brown was; winging its way to God. The sun refused to shine, and the clouds dropped tears of sympathy for the fate of the sainted martyr. The people assembled in the, churches to express their sorrow, and the streets were vocal with the cry of 'Give me liberty or give me, death.' Our rich men and our poor men, those in high public station and those in humble life, joined, solemnly but heartily in the demonstrations of respect for the noble life that was going out on the gallows in Virginia. 
This in the capital city of the greatest State in America. Here the first Congress of the Colonies met in devotion to Liberty. It was fitting that this ancient city should take notice of an event so significant as that of the death of John Brown-a martyr to the cause for which our fathers suffered so much.
We rejoice that the fires of Liberty burn so brightly on your beautiful island. We hear with unfeigned pleasure of your prosperity and steady progress in improvement and civilization. Humanity is one. We need your sympathies. The enemies of Freedom in our country are strongly entrenched, and the battle for freedom we know will be long, but not uncertain.
Free citizens of Hayti! accept our hearty thanks; for your remembrance of the widows and the fatherless. Remember also those in bonds, and the spirit of the great Hero we unitedly commemorate shall watch over you. 
Able and impressive addresses were then delivered by Parker Pillsbury, Esq., of New Hampshire, and Aaron M. Powell, Esq., of New York. On call, Rev. Mr. Miller made a short address, followed by a fervid and telling speech from Mr. Lekins, (who escaped some two years since from slavery, and who said, in concluding, with intense warmness, 'He would lose his arm-yea, the last drop of his blood, rather than be a slave,') and Stephen Myers.
On motion, the address was then adopted as the voice of the people of Albany, the whole audience rising, en masse, in its favor, without a single exception.
Oh motion, it was resolved that a copy of the proceedings of this meeting, signed by its officers, with the address, be forwarded to La Progress, Hayti, for publication. A vote of thanks was then tendered Messrs. Powell and Pillsbury, when the meeting adjourned. ELIHU SMITH, Chairman.
THEO. DOUGHTY MILLER, Secretary.
Albany, April 5, 1860. 

CAPTURE OF THE MEXICAN VESSELS.
I have felt too deeply for expression the late act of unprincipled and audacious aggression committed by our squadron in the harbor of Vera Cruz. My sentiments on that subject have that depth that nothing but action, nothing but the execution of stern retributive justice can express or appeese them. But then I reflect, that if one suffers his spirit to be perturbed, by every high-handed violence or villanous fraud committed by the wretched tools of the slave oligarchy, he must needs be in a perpetual and wasting fever of indignation. Depend upon it, this outrage, and the concentration of troops on the Rio Grande, and above all, the order issued, without reference to the constitutional war-making power, for our forces to enter Mexican territory in pretended, but if real, unlawful, pursuit of Cortinas, are designed to Polk us into another war of robbery against poor weak and distracted Mexico. That is the sort of antagonist which the slave bullies delight to engage. Light combats and heavy booty is their motto. The veteran in Machiavelism and all conceivable and all conceivable corruption, who now acts as their agent at the White House, wishes to memorize his agency by new robberies, as Polk did. But he has another object, quite as dear, and a good deal more urgent, which is to merge in the paramount interest and excitement of foreign massacre, pillage and plunder, the contempt, the discontent, and the scrutiny of committees at home! 
'Be it thy course to busy giddy minds
With foreign quarrels.'
But I have departed from the purpose that I sat down for, which was to bring before your readers a precedent, demonstrative of the law of nations on a point which never before caused a difficulty, and could not now cause a moment's hesitation in the mind of any honest man; viz., whether the circumstance of the Spanish or Mexican steamers not showing their colon is a justification of our keeping possession of them, imprisoning their officers and crews and sending the whole to the United States for adjudication as prize pirates and what not!
The precedent to which I refer is recorded in Hildreth's excellent History of the United States, second series, vol. 2, p. 399. Date of the transaction described, November, 1800:-
'Lt. Charles Stewart, in the schooner Experiment
<c03>
of 12 guns, being chased by a French brig and schooner, the one of 18 and the other of 14 guns, had the address to separate the hostile vessels, after which he engaged and carried the schooner.... Later in the season, Stewart engaged and captured a British Letter of Marque, which on being chased and brought to action had refused to show her colors, or to answer repeated hails. Of course, on discovering her national character, she was immediately set at liberty. Fortunately, no lives had been lost, except one on board of the Experiment.
'
DECISION OF THE LEMMON CASE. The New York Court of Appeals, at the term just concluded at Albany, affirmed the decision of the Supreme Court of tie State in the celebrated Lemmon case. The decision is an important one to the Free States. This Mr. Lemmon brought a number of slaves from Virginia to New York city for the purpose of embarking hem for Texas; but upon the slaves being brought before the late Judge Payne on habeas corpus, he pronounced them free, on the ground that the owner ad voluntarily brought them into the State of New York. To appease the wounded sensibilities of their Southern customers, says the Tribune, a number of few York merchants subscribed and paid over to Mr. Lemmon a sum larger than the value of his liberated slaves. But the State of Virginia took up the case and caused the present suit to be instituted, in hopes by a decision in Lemmon's favor, to establish tie principle that a Southern slaveholder has a right o hold slaves in this State, if brought here not for he purpose of remaining here, but of passing on to another slave State. The Supreme Court first, and now the Court of Appeals, has denied any such right. The case, however, is to go up to the Supreme Court at Washington, and there are grounds of apprehension as to what the decision there may be. Since the Dred Scott case, there is hardly any extravagance in favor of slavery not to be expected from that court. Should the approaching Presidential election result in he choice of the Sham-Democratic Pro-Slavery candidate, we shall expect to see gangs of slaves, male and female, on their way to a Southern market, driven hand-cuffed and with whips cracking about their ears, through the streets of this city under the authority of he new decision of Judge Taney and his Pro-Slavery associates. This would be the next thing to the fulfilment of the anticipation ascribed to Mr. Toombs, of some day calling the roll of his slaves under the shadow of Bunker Hill. Indeed, after such a decision, Mr. Toombs might easily do that by passing Bunker Hill on his way to New Orleans and a market.-N. Y. paper.
NOVEL RESCUE CASE IN NEW BEDFORD. On Thursday of last week the ship Sylvia, Capt. Swasey, arrived at New Bedford from the Sandwich Islands, the captain having with him a girl, ten or twelve years of age, a native of the islands, and as described, says he Mercury, 'a perfect Congo negro.' The captain rent to the Parker House to stay until he should eave town, taking the girl with him. Some of the colored people saw the girl, and supposing from her looks that she was a slave, and that Capt. Swasey vas her master, they determined to keep a look-out and prevent her return to slavery. The matter was fully discussed in the social circles of the colored people, and the result was that Thursday afternoon, when Capt. Swasey went to the depot with his sister, who was to set out for their home in Newport, R. I., intending to take the girl with her, a crowd of excited negroes gathered around, and a number of females pounced upon the girl, and succeeded in obtaining possession of her, despite the efforts of Capt. Swasey and his sister to prevent it. The girl was subsequently removed out of town, where she will probably remain till she begins her journey to Canada, or the question of her guardianship is settled.
Capt. Swasey, says the Mercury, has resorted to legal consultation, and he is informed that under the Personal Liberty Act, this is a clear case of kidnapping. He says the girl was given to him by her mother at the Sandwich Islands, and he did not care to take her, she being a wild, harum-scarum thing, but he was persuaded to do so, and her mother gave him the necessary papers by which he became her legal guardian. He does not much care for her loss, but as she was taken from him in such a way, he shall resent it. Had he not been suffering from rheumatism in his shoulder, the act would not have been consummated and the girl taken from him, if his resistance would have been of any avail. He is determined to bring the law to bear upon a certain white gentleman who interfered at the time, and vociferously commanded him to regard the 'peace of the Common wealth!'
HORRIBLE FATE OF A CARGO OF SLAVES. The New fork Herald has a letter from Loando, west coast of Africa, dated Feb. 15, giving the following horrible details:-
'The principal bit of news I have to offer this time is the loss of one of our Baltimore slavers-as fine looking a clipper-built hermaphrodite brig as ever was seen about these waters. On the 10th of this month, as her Majesty's steamer Gloucester was cruising to he southward of Cape Lopez, they made a sail to leeward. They immediately put her before the wind to give chase, which maneuver the fellow observing, he immediately followed suit, with a view of rounding Cape Lopez, and probably escaping after nightfall, by running into some of the small rivers inside of the Bight of Biatra. He proved himself a match, however, for his vessel sailed like a witch, and gained on the steamer nearly the whole day, when, at about five o'clock in the afternoon, the Portuguese steamer Tagus hove in sight on the weather bow, thus cutting off the fellow's chance of rounding the Cape. Seeing his chance thus lost, he stood her directly on to the rocks of the Cape.
Just before sundown, the Portuguese gave him the contents of several thirty-two pounders, which brought his foretopmast down, and, as it was blowing almost a gale of wind, his jibboom followed directly after. However, the fellow stopped for nothing, and, just as night set in, drove her high on the rocks off Cape Lopez, the Portuguese steamer by that time being in close range, but the Gloucester was far behind. Those on board the other steamer, however, describe the scene as truly heart-rending. As the brig struck, and was overwhelmed by the breakers, the poor miserable creatures on board, probably to the number of five hundred, set up a howl of despair that could be heard even above the roaring of the hungry sea. But it was too dark, by that time, to see much, and beyond human skill or power to aid the drowning wretches, so that they soon must have met their doom, for on the next morning the beach inside of the rocks was strewn with corpses and the fragments of the wreck. Nothing was found, however, to reveal the name of the slaver, or any other information concerning her, save that to the practised seaman she proved of Baltimore build. The monsters who manned the vessel are supposed to have escaped in their boat before she struck, and must have gained the shore, as a boat somewhat stove was discovered on the beach with the oars near by. A good prize was thus lost and, what is worse, probably five hundred human beings were launched into eternity.
A NEGRO IN A BAD BOX-ABORTIVE ATTEMPT.- The Chief of Police, on Saturday, received a dispatch from Newton McClure, of Nashville, Tenn., stating that his slave Alex, had absconded, and was probably on the evening train of cars. Search was made for the fugitive, but he was not found, and hence it was concluded that he didn't come on that train-but he did.
Yesterday morning, the darkey arrived at the Louisville jail, in custody of an officer from Seymour Indiana, where he was literally ' caught in a bad box. Alex says he met a white man in Nashville, on Monday last, who proposed to assist him to escape into free State. The slave acceded, and on Saturday the white man nailed him up in an ordinary sized dry goods box, and had it shipped, per express, to Mr. Johnson, Cincinnati, Ohio.' It was put through to this city in nine hours, and immediately taken over to the cars at Jeffersonville, with other packages, in charge of the usual messenger. At Seymour, the box was deposited on the platform at the depot for reshipment to Cincinnati. It was standing on end, when a man threw it over for the purpose of lying down on it. The concussion burst off a plank, and some sharp-eyed individual detected the white of the negro's eyes, which expanded to the size of a common plate-almost. He was hauled out from his place of concealment amidst the laughter and jeers of the crowd which assembled, returned to this city, and is now in jail. 
Alexander says he had a very bad time of it, and that it was a mighty rough way to travel. Sometime a he was on his heels, and part of the time of the trail sit he was standing on his head. He was badly cramped, and was without food or water for fourteen hours. The scoundrel who assisted him in his flight, he says, was on the train, which may or may not be for the slave is, evidently, from the cut of his jib, great rascal; doubtless a big liar. We think it highly probable, from the prevarication of the slave, that the Nashvillians have now an abolitionist 'among them.'-Louisville Courier. 
Young Brownlow, son of the bellowing Bull of Bashan, who is called ' Reverend,' has been acquitted in Abington, Va. He only killed one of his fellow-students, and for this he was seized, imprisoned and tried for murder! Where are the liberties of t country, if men who are so unfortunate as to do murder are to be thus treated:-Traveller. 
<c04>
A FUGITIVE SLAVE. A fugitive slave from Virginia was in this town on the 1st inst. on his way to the land of freedom. He went from Virginia to Boston, where the U. S. officers were put on his track, and came here via Worcester. At Worcester, the officers lost track of him, and were supposed to be watching for him on the railroads north of here, as he was trying to make his way to Canada East, where he had friends who had before left the home of the slave for the land of freedom. He was sent to Canada West via Syracuse, and is probably safe now from his pursuers. He was an intelligent young man, about 19 years old, and worth from $1200 to $1500, according to the value of the article. He said he was treated kindly by his master, but his master had lost so many slaves by running away, lately, that he was making preparations to sell him and others South, and he thought it best to travel towards the North star.-Greenfield Gaz.

'THE NEW REIGN OF TERROR.' We have received from the Anti-Slavery office, New York, a pamphlet of 144 pages, giving a reprint in tract form of the multiplied newspaper accounts of lynchings, murders, and mob raids of the Black Power of the Slave States within the past year. We are persuaded the history of the Reign of Terror in Paris during the first French Revolution would compare favorably with it. It is a book that ought to be in the hands of every 'national' man at least. No one who has a grain of soul or conscience could read it half through, without inwardly groaning in spirit at the diabolism of Slavery: it is just the tract for the times. It is stitched cheaply together, and no doubt can be furnished by mail on the receipt of two dimes or a quarter. Address Anti-Slavery Office, New York.-Norristown Republican.
We have received a copy of the above-named work, and think it much needed at, this time when our party leaders seem determined to lower the tone of anti- slavery feeling in our country.
This constant disavowal on the part of Northern men of any intention to interfere with slavery in the Slave States, while the slaveholders entirely disregard their constitutional obligations and seem determined to abolish the last vestiges of freedom, so far as Northern men are concerned, we look upon as absolutely cowardly, and unworthy a true manhood. Till the South take a different course, they are not entitled to any such consideration. On the other hand, let the North boldly avow the doctrine of reprisals-tell the South plainly that this is a game two could play at, and our word for it, there will soon be an end to such outrages.
Let our friends raise money and send for this work by hundreds. May be they can 'create a soul under the dead ribs' of some of our Congressmen.-Syracuse State League.
A DOUGH-FACE'S MIRROR. The meaning of the cry of Disunion at the South is well illustrated in the following little extract from the speech of Mr. Wigfall, of Texas. We specially commend the last few lines to the members of the ' Constitutional Union party.'
'These Northern people, of all parties, are a mean, despicable set of starvelings, unable to see beyond a dollar, and caring for no consideration except money. Threaten them, and they will crouch at your feet like so many hounds. Only swear that you are going to dissolve the Union, and the timid creatures trill get down on all fours, bite the dust, and kiss the rod raised to chasten them.' 
'THE RULING PASSION,' &C. A large crowd of Democrats assembled on Central wharf in this city to see the delegates off by the steamer S. R. Spaulding. Speeches were made by several-among others by Sidney Webster, who was Pierce's Private Secretary. In the conclusion, he hoped they would conduct themselves with propriety, and 'assure the Charleston people that we do not extend our liquors at home.' He then gave this toast:-The New England Democracy-No matter who they nominate, and no matter what the platform, may they support it with alacrity, as we are sure they will.-Boston Traveller.
The steamer S. R. Spaulding will sail from here on Friday next 'with a valuable cargo,' bound to Charleston via Baltimore.-Post.
Assorted cargo for the Southern market, with the prospect of being 'sold' easily.-Journal. 
Mr. Sumner's comparison of Mr. Mason to the classical infernal judge is said by some persons to be unfair. It was rather hard upon the classical judge, we admit, and we hope Mr. Sumner will hereafter regard the feelings of that judge's whining friends. They are thinking of Satan, but the Senator was thinking of Rhadamanthus.-Traveller.
The congressional account of Mr. Lovejoy's speech concludes thus: 'Here the hammer fell.' We should say it had been falling throughout the whole speech.-Ibid. 
The difference between the two Pacific Railroads talked of is this: the one is to be the Railroad South, and the other the Railroad further South. 
The Washington, (Ga.) Independent learns that a man by the name of Wood, who was taken up at Abbeville, (S. C,) last fall, for using unpalatable language to slavery men, and who received the sentence of thirty-nine lashes at the recent Spring Term of the Court at that place, suffered the penalty of the law, in the public square, on the 24th ult. The punishment was inflicted by Sheriff Moore with seven switches. He was then immediately placed on the cars, and sent out of town. 
A slave woman belonging to a planter near Columbus, Miss., has in the last twenty months given birth to five full-sized and healthy children-two at one, and three at the other birth. This is prolific and profitable. 
The New York Republicans held a State Convention at Syracuse, on the 18th, and elected delegates-at-large to the Chicago Convention. A resolution presenting the name of Mr. Seward to the Chicago Convention, as a candidate for the Presidency, was reported, warmly received, and unanimously adopted.
The State of Alabama is the only State in the Union without a telegraph; she has not a foot of line within her borders. 
The New York Herald is informed that no less than six vessels have left that port for the African coast within the past fortnight, all of which expect to have negroes for their return cargoes Among these was a fine clipper ship and a fast-sailing brig.
The bill to prevent Americans from engaging in the Coolie trade, which many regard as a sort of Asiatic slave trade, was reported to the House of Representatives, on the 16th, by Mr. Eliot, of Massachusetts. An interesting report, giving a full and lucid history of the trade, accompanies the bill.
During the quarter ending March 31, the number of slaves that arrived in Texas was about 27,000, one-tenth of whom went to Galveston by sea. These figures do not favor the views of those hopeful persons who expect to see Texas become a free-labor State.
A runaway negro at Montgomery, Ala., a few days since, made a gallant resistance to his pursuers, wounding one of them badly by a pistol shot, and, refusing to be taken alive, was shot dead at a loss of $1800 to the afflicted patriarch to whom his 'labor or service was due.'
Negro Sam, supposed to be 140 years old, died a short time since in Jones Co., Ga. He was 45 years old when stolen from Africa, and remained a slave until his death. 
Two Virginia negroes were lately landed from an American ship, in Jeddo, the capital city of Japan. They were objects of intense curiosity. The people thought them japanned, and endeavored to rub off the coloring, but couldn't manage it.
Mr. Irvin Scott, a colored gentleman, has been recently elected Supervisor of the road district adjoining Bellefontaine, Ohio. 
There is a young woman living in Alstead, N. H., who weighs over 700 pounds, and who requires 20 yards of calico for a dress.
A Terrible Bereavement.-At Lextonville, (Wis.) on the night of the 2d inst., the house of a Mrs. Rogan, while she was absent over night at a neighbor's, was burned to the ground, and six children perished in the flames. The eldest was eleven years of age. They were all the children she had. Mrs. R. lost her husband about two months ago.
A large number of the volumes of Helper's Impending Crisis were recently publicly burned at Greenville, S. C, and a young man named Harold, Wyllys has been sentenced to one year's imprisonment for putting them in circulation.
In the Maryland Senate, recently, Dr. Lynch, of Baltimore county, offered an order appropriate $500 to the Colonization Society, to send Henry Winter Davis to Liberia. He prefaced the order with a few remarks, to the effect that Mr. Davis' loss would not be felt, and that he might find a wide field of labor, immortalize his name, and live honored and rejected in the colony. 
Darby Lenihan died on the 8th inst., at Coolnagower, Waterford, Ireland, at the extraordinary age of 112 years. He possessed all his faculties to within a few days of his death. 
<c05>
DR. WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERY.
The unequalled success that has attended the application of this medicine in Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchial Affection, Diseases of the Throat and Lungs, Incipient Consumption, has induced many physicians of high standing to employ it in their practice, many of whom advise us of the fact under their own signature:
DR. WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY RECOMMENDED BY PHYSICIANS.
AUBURN, Sept. 6, 1858.
S. W. FOWLE & Co: SIRS-I most cheerfully add my testimony in favor of the Balsam. We have used it in our family in Pulmonary affections, Coughs and Colds, and esteem it a most valuable remedy, and have recommended it in various complaints of this nature with invariably happy results.
W. B. LYNCH, M. D.
MANSFIELD, Tioga Co., Pa., Aug., 1858.
GENTLEMEN- Having used in my practice, the last four years, Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry, with great success, I most cheerfully recommend it to those afflicted with obstinate Coughs, Colds, Asthma, &c.
H. D. MARTIB, M. D.
CAPE VINCENT, N. Y., July 17, 1858.
GENTLEMEN-After using Dr. Wistar's Balsam for long time, I can say, from repeated observation, that regard it as one of the best kind of Cough medicines, and take great pleasure in recommending it to the afflicted. W. H. WEBB, M. D. 
BROWNVILLE. N. Y., July 18, 1858.
GENTS-Having sold Wistar's for two years past, and having used the same myself with great success, I cheerfully recommend it to all who are suffering with Asthma or Consumption.
A. A. GIBBS. 
Prepared by S. W. FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by druggists and dealers everywhere.
April 20.

TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
The TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION will be held in COOPER UNION, New York, on Thursday and Friday, May 10th and 11th. Sessions at half-past 10, A. M., and half-past 7, evening.
Wendell Phillips, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Ernestine L. Rose, J. Elizabeth Jones, Rev. Antoinette Brown Black well and others will address the Contention, 
On behalf of the Central Committee, 
E. CADY STANTON, President. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Sec'y. 

MAY DAY.
The subscribers propose to throw open their rooms, over Boylston Market, Boylston street, on May Day. Breakfast will be served from 7 to 9 in the morning. In the afternoon, an Exhibition of Paintings will be given for Sabbath Schools. In the evening, there will be a Social Gathering of the friends of the cause. A fine opportunity will thus be given to aid the Mission for the Poor and Criminal classes.
CHARLES SPEAR.
MRS. CHARLES SPEAR. 

ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, expects to speak in the Free Church, in CUMMINGTON, Mass., on Sunday, April 29. He will probably remain in that vicinity several weeks, and will attend Anti-Slavery meetings in the neighboring towns, as the way opens. His Post-office address will be Cummington.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will lecture at
Milford, N. H., Sunday, April 29.
Amherst, N. H., Tuesday, May 1.
Manchester, N. H., Sunday, May 6. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Essex, Sunday, April 29, forenoon and afternoon. 
CHARLES SPEAR and wife will preach in the Methodist Church in Somerville, next Sunday morning and evening. They will also give an exhibition of their Paintings with their original trioptric apparatus in the Vestry of the same Church, on Saturday evening previous. 

OBITUARY. 
In Salem, very suddenly, March 27, Miss MARY WATSON, daughter of the late Nathaniel Watson.
In the exaltation of this excellent woman to a higher world, a numerous circle of sorrowing relatives and friends mourn beneath the weight of bereavement which they feel to be very heavy.
The privilege is sweet and great, of recurring at once for consolation, as they do, not only to that heaven, now her home, where tears are unknown, and sorrows past, but to memory, that 'gratitude of the heart,' which brings her back and enables them at will to picture her as she was wont to be in those various relations of Daughter, Sister, Teacher of the young, Friend, Messenger of Mercy to the Sick and to the Children of Misfortune, the duties of each and all of which she fulfilled in a manner which never failed to bring tears of love and admiration to the eyes of those whose joy it was, and privilege, to be acquainted with the cheerful character of her mind and the beautiful habits of her life.
If there were some traits which distinguished the departed more than others, they were her love of all forms of beauty in nature, and her hatred of American Slavery. Her life was spent in perfect sympathy with everything lovely in the Natural World. Hence her opposition to injustice and oppression, with her as the opposition of light to darkness, of right to wrong. For many happy years as school teacher, Miss Watson exerted the highest order of influence and example in this city. She was always beloved and honored by her pupils. With her other friends, they, with melancholy pleasure, will often call to mind her ability and loving labors in their behalf, her marvellous skill with needle and pen-her love of flowers-her exquisite taste in arranging the many colored weeds floating to her feet in her favorite walks, by old Ocean-and, above all, her charming habit of always opening to the brightest pages in the great volume of suffering humanity. Her departure was as sudden as when a bright light is instantly quenched in darkness. She had a very severe sickness a few months ago, when it seemed a hard and doubtful struggle between life and death, but the conquest was given to her, and she was thought by many to be well. In gladness she visited her friends, and unconsciously arranged her affairs for the solemn and awful suddenness of her exit to ' sweet fields beyond the swelling flood.' Arranging her dress for a walk, cheerful in mind, and, as it was supposed, in usual health, she was called, and in a moment, without a struggle, she went forth-the disunion of her clay and spirit thus unwarned. She has gone-leaving a venerable mother, brothers, sisters, and friends, looking through their tears very sorrowfully after her flight, overwhelmed with a grief which they may not blush to confess to God, from whose glorious promise to the bereaved they must derive their chief and only adequate consolation-the promise of future re-union in the heavenly world. 

HOPEALE
HOME SCHOOL. 
THE next (Summer) Term of this Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 2, 1860, and continue Ten weeks. Applications for admission should be made at as early a date as practicable. For particulars, address
WM. S. HAYWOOD, Principals 
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD, Principals
Hopedale, (Milford, Mass.) April 3, 1860. 

WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School. 
THE Summer quarter will begin on Wednesday, 25th inst.
For particulars, inquire of the Principal,
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN,
April 20. West Newton, Mass.

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS.
Hygienic Establishment. 
Nos. 63 and 65, COLOMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L. I
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any 'Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.
<c06>
IN PRESS,
AND
TO BE ISSUED IMMEDIATELY,
ECHOES OF
HARPER'S FERRY.
'By the rude bridge that arched the flood,
Their flag to April's breeze unfurled;
Here once the embattled farmers stood,
And fired the shot heard round the world.'
R. W. EMERSON.
COMPRISING the best Speeches, Sermons, Letters, Poems, and other utterances of leading minds in Europe and America, called forth by JOHN BROWN'S INVASION OF VIRGINIA; embracing the productions of Rev. George B. Cheever. Wendell Phillips, Rev. Gilbert Haven. Theodore Parker, Henry Ward Beecher, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Charles O'Connor, Rev. E. M. Wheelock, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Edward Everett, John G. Whittier, Victor Hugo, Henry D. Thoreau, and others, revised by the authors, with their autographs annexed. With an appendix containing a valuable article on
'The Value of the Union to the North.' 
THE WHOLE COLLECTED AND ARRANGED
BY JAMES REDPATH.
In 1 vol. 12 mo. 514 pages. Price, $1.25. 
No Library is complete without this remarkable collection of ' thoughts that breathe sad words that burn' from the best minds in America and Europe. It is also valuable for circulation as a 
Presidential Campaign Document. 

NOW READY,
THE LIFE OF
Capt. John Brown, 
BY JAMES REDPATH. 
Of which nearly 40,000 Copies have been sold.
1 vol. 12 mo., illustrated with steel Portrait, 408 pp.
PRICE, ONE DOLLAR. 

JUST PUBLISHED,
A NEW EDITION OF THE Thrilling Narrative 
- OF -
DR. JOHN DOY,
OF KANSAS, 
OR, SLAVERY AS IT IS-INSIDE AND OUT.
A handsome Illustrated Pamphlet, 130 pp. 
Price, 25 Cents.

IN PREPARATION, 
A NEW WORK BY JAMES REDPATH. 
ENTITLED 
Talks with the Slaves 
IN THE SOUTHERN STATES, 
During several journeys through the slaveholding section of the Union. An intensely interesting work. To comprise about 400 pages, 12 mo. Illustrated.
Price, One Dollar. 

THAYER & ELDRIDGE, 
PUBLISHERS,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON STREET,
A20 1w BOSTON. 

DR. CHEEVER'S GREAT WORK. 
The Guilt of Slavery, 
AND THE 
CRIME OF SLAVEHOLDING, 
DEMONSTRATED FROM THE HEBREW AND GREEK SCRIPTURES. 
BY REV. GEO. B. CHEEVER, D. D. 
THIS work embraces an examination of all the passages in the Bible on the subject of Slavery and Slaveholding as a sin against God and man. It contains a thorough analysis of the Mosaic laws of domestic service, as well as of tributary subjection; and of the national history in illustration of the laws The learned author has spent years of research upon this work, and it is without doubt the ablest effort of his life, and the most thorough demolition of mil pro-slavery arguments, based upon the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments.
PRICE, $1 25.
JOHN P. JEWETT AND COMPANY,
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
March 9. 6wis 

Mrs. Lydia Maria Child's 
LIFE OF
ISAAC T. HOPPER, 
THE DISTINGUISHED QUAKER PHILANTHROPIST, 
IS one of the most intensely interesting and useful biographies of MODERN TIMES.
His was emphatically 
'A TRUE LIFE,
A NEW EDITION.
THE TWELFTH THOUSAND 
Is just published. No library is complete without the record of this TRUE LIFE-a life spent in deeds of the most active philanthropy and benevolence. 
Price, $1 25.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
PUBLISHERS, 
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
March 9. imis

The Herald of Progress 
EDITED BY 
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS. 
THIS new Journal of Practical and Spiritual Reform is commended to the favorable notice of all interested in any of the progressive movements of the day. Its columns are open to well written articles upon any and all Reform questions. Unlike most Spiritual papers heretofore published, its circulation at the South is limited by the sentiment there which declares it among 'incendiary documents.'
Its tolerant spirit towards every question of human interest, should commend it to all 'who love their fellow-men.'
Terms-$2 per year. To be had of all news agents.
A. J. DAVIS & CO., Publishers,
M30 3t 274 Canal Street, New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE SLAVE'S SONG.
To Canada, to Canada,
To Canada the free,
Where Slavery's sighs taint not the air-
From whips and chains we flee!
Though, Canada, between us lie
The river, swamp and brake,
With cheerful hearts we'll face them all,
For Liberty's dear sake.
Father! who made both black and white,
Oh give us strength to flee!
Give friends, to aid us on our way
To Canada, the free!
Oh Canada! fair Canada!
When our feet tread thy soil,
Safe from the bloodhound's bay we sleep,
And wake to willing toil.
In Canada, dear Canada,
Where only freemen dwell,
Our chains drop off, our limbs are free,
Broken is slavery's spell.
Upon thy soil, free Canada,
The poor slave's promised land,
With frames, with limbs, with souls our own,
Our own, and God's, we'll stand.
In Canada, free Canada,
The worship of the free,
A grateful heart, toil-willing hands,
Father! Well offer thee.
Tenterden, (Eng.) JANE ASHBY.

For the Liberator.
H.R. HELPER.
AN ACROSTIC.
Helper! thou comest in a time of need,
Rebuking sinners for a damining deed;
Howeer unwilling they may be to hear,
Entrenched in facts, their guilt thou makest clear.
Loud, and more loud, doth Freedom's clarion sound;
Pressed hard by truth, the foe is losing ground;
Each blow is telling with unwonted power,-
Rejoice, rejoice!-draws near the final hour.
Boston, April 14, 1860. JUSTITIA.
See 'The Impending Crisis.'

From the Worcester Spy.
ON THE SCAFFOLD.
BY ALBERT SUTLIFFE.
Arthur Maltravers, is this the end?
A year ago this very day,
Adown the lawn to the waving woods 
'Twixt the buds and blossoms of May,
We walked together; but where are you now?
And why does the multitude gaze at you,
Who shrink or leer, as befits their mood?
Are you good man and true?
Then you told me a tale of happy love;
And the buds and blossoms heard either side;
You thought the roses less fair than your pearl;
The stars, than the eyes of your bride.
What! are you on the scaffold now?
How thin and pale! and would you speak?
My eyes are dim, and I cannot see-
I cannot hear, for your voice is weak.
You married a beautiful cousin of mine;
They say they found her white and cold,
Under the maple, before the door,
But you were haughty and bold.
Her tangled hair was across her face,
And her bosom was stained with blood and dust:
She was your wife, to love and protect, 
She was given in holy trust.
What! murmuring yet! and the crowd is still,
To hear each word that you will say:
Beyond you I see the deep blue sky,
And the clouds that fade and fade away.
Your mother died of grief that night,
And you father went mad ere Christmas tide,
And all the country-side, man and maid,
Wailed for your murdered bride.
Now the parson kneels down to pray;
May God have mercy on your soul!
Arthur Maltravers, I loved you well,
And what return but this life-long dole!
See, they adjust the cap and cord,
One last look at the earth and sky:
Arthur Maltravers, I shall go mad
If I wait to see you die!

GRIEF FOR THE DEAD.
O, bearts that never cease to yearn!
O, brimming tears that ne'er are dried!
The dead, though they depart, return 
As if they had not died!
The living are the only dead;
The dead live-nevermore to die;
And often when we mourn them fled,
They never were so nigh!
And though they lie beneath the waves,
Or sleep within the churchyard dim-
(Ah! through how many different graves
God's children go to him!)
Yet every grave gives up its dead
Ere it is overgrown with grass!
Then why should hopeless tears be shed,
Or need we cry, alas!
Or why should memory, veiled with gloom,
And like a sorrowing mourner craped,
Sit weeping o'er an empty tomb,
Whose captives have escaped!
'Tis but a mound-and will be mossed
Wheneer the summer grass appears:-
The loved, though wept, are never lost;
We only lose our tears.
Nay, hope may whisper with the dead,
By bending forward where they are;
But Memory, with a backward tread,
Communes with them afar!
The joys we lose are but forecast,
And we shall find them all once more:-
We look behind us for the Past,
But, lo! 'tis all before!

BROTHERHOOD
Even now a radiant angel goeth forth,
A spirit that hath healing in its wings-
And flieth east and west, and south and north,
To do the bidding of the King of kings;
Stirring men's hearts to compass better things,
And teaching brotherhood as that sweet source 
Which holdeth in itself all blessed springs;
And showeth how to guide its silver course,
When it shall flood the world with deep, exulting force.
MRS. NORTON.

A BIRD'S NEST.
Bright Spring ere long will braid the leafless vines
With gem-like flowers, and write her magic name
In golden daisies on the emerald turf;
And you now naked oak shall gaily toss
Its green and fragrant tresses in the breeze;
And feathered misers, in the clustered leaves,
Will hide their jewel-baskets, brimmed with pearls,
Each round, white pearl filled with a little heart,
That shall awake to life, to joy and song,
When April sheds her last, sweet childish tear.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR,
TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
At a meeting of the Ohio State Anti-Slavery Society, held in Xenia, January 3d, 1860, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:-
Whereas, the cause of the slave, the cause of God, and the cause of Humanity, have lost a friend, an able and active advocate, and a faithful laborer by the death of our much lamented friend and brother, JOHN I. GAINES; therefore,
Resolved, That we, the Ohio State Anti-Slavery Society, do mourn his death; that the Society has lost a faithful and efficient member; and that we do, therefore, appoint JOHN M. LANGSTON to deliver a eulogy on his life and character, to be published with the proceedings of this meeting.
Resolved, That a copy of the eulogy be forwarded to the widow of our departed friend.
W. SHELTON, Chairman.

EULOGY ON THE LIFE AND CHARACTER OF JOHN I. GAINES.
Delivered at the first Annual Meeting of the Ohio State Anti-Slavery Society, by JOHN M. LANGSTON, at Xenia, Ohio, January 3d, 1860.
MY FRIENDS:-It is proper that we mourn the death of the great and good; not complaining at the decrees of an all-wise Providence, as indicated in their decease, but in an humble and docile spirit-remembering that, in the death of a great and good man, humanity itself sustains a serious loss. It is also appropriate and profitable that we read with becoming teachableness the lesson which we find in their life-record. As every mountain, every landscape, every water-course, is marked by natural features that stamp it with a distinct peculiarity and characteristic beauty; so, every man comes from the plastic hand of his Creator, bearing an appropriate individuality; and if true to the convictions of his own nature, his life and conduct will furnish the world a record distinguished for its originality and freshness. Thus, while Shakspeare, Milton and Byron were all poets, the poetry of each bears the individuality of its author; and thus, too, while Washington, Bonaparte and Toussaint were all great military leaders, the conduct of each is distinguished by his peculiar genius. And herein is to be found the true secret of greatness. A great man is always himself. It was this quality of character, which, in an eminent degree, distinguished the life of the man, whose manly virtues are the subject of my eulogy.
JOHN ISOM GAINES was born in the city of Cincinnati, on the 6th day of November, 1821, and died on the 28th day of November, 1859, being at the time of his death 38 years of age. He was the oldest child of Isom and Elizabeth Gaines. His father and mother were distinguished for their energy of character and practical common sense, their Christian deportment and honesty of purpose. When he was but a boy, he was called to mourn the loss of his father. This stroke of Providence placed him at once at the head of his father's family, and from that time he was compelled to act the threefold part of father, son, and brother. In each character, he played his part well.
His boyhood was spent, for the most part, in efforts to gain for his father's family a competent support, and as far as he had the opportunity, to fit himself by a rigid, intellectual and moral culture for the duties that awaited him in after life. Without the advantages afford by a well-ordered common school, academy, or college, he pursued that course of mental discipline, so well known to men who are called 'self-made men.' Schooled in this manner-having to meet and surmount difficulties at a very early age, he soon learned self-reliance, the secret of success. His boyhood was particularly distinguished for his industry and perseverance, his keen insight into life and its responsibilities, his determination not to exist merely, but to live, and to act a manly part in life. So it was that, at an early period in his life, we find him standing up in the midst of men who were greatly his superiors in age, experience and wisdom, in the first colored men's convention held in Ohio, and bearing his part in the deliberations of that body with remarkable propriety and success.
On the 19th day of June, 1846, John I. Gaines was married to Miss Louisa Martin, who this night, as his widow, unites with us in mourning the great loss we have sustained in the death of her husband, and to whom we would offer the most tender words of sympathy and condolence. As the fruit of their marriage, Mr. and Mrs. Gaines had four children. John I. Gaines, Jr., a dear little son, was early called by his Heavenly Father from the bosom of his earthly home to another and more glorious home in heaven. This dispensation of Providence Mr. Gaines bore with Christian resignation. Three children are still left, to bless and gladden the heart of their widowed mother. 
I need not tell you that, as a husband and a father, our deceased brother was ever anxious for the happiness and welfare of his family. Indeed, I would hold him up as a model, in this respect. His wife could never complain of neglect, and his children could never do otherwise than praise the behavior of their father.
As a man of business, Mr. Gaines was distinguished for his integrity, enterprise and promptness. His engagements were always met and fulfilled according to appointment. I would commend his example, in this particular, to the imitation of all colored persons engaged in business. 
As a citizen, he always exhibited a deep, active, self-sacrificing interest in the welfare of the community in which he lived, and in the well-being of the State of which he was an inhabitant. Most conspicuous among hit achievements for the public good stands the common school system of Cincinnati, whose benefits and advantages the colored children are now enjoying. It is conceded, I believe, on all hands, that the honor of securing this great good belongs to our departed brother more than to any other individual. His conduct in behalf of the colored youth of Cincinnati distinguishes him as a benefactor whose deeds should be recorded in granite, that posterity may know of his benevolent endeavors, and the glorious success which crowned them.
As an orator, his style was natural, perspicuous, animated, and powerful. No training could have made him any other than an exponent of his own views, his own mental experience.
His productions are distinguished for their originality, profoundness of thought, and accuracy of expression. I need not speak of the great good he accomplished for mankind in the use of his oratorical powers, nor of the enviable distinction which he won whenever he spoke. I may be allowed to refer in this connection, however, to the able and powerful speech which he delivered in Cleveland, on the 1st of Aug., 1856. Though greatly disabled by the disease then preying upon his body, and of which he afterwards died, he stood up and presented one of the most effective arguments in favor of freedom, to which it has ever been our good fortune to listen. He seemed determined to spend his last energies in behalf of his greatly outraged race.
He had an abiding faith in the living and true God, and held fast to the belief that we are accountable to Him as our moral Governor. He was a staunch believer in the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man. He held with all the tenacity of faith the Christian sentiment, Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them,' and reduced it to practice.
As a reformer, the life of our co-laborer was most interesting and beautiful. Ever active, laborious, and consistent, he was distinguished for his broad philanthropy, his catholicity of spirit, his manly toleration of differences of opinion, his unyielding devotion to
<c03>
the right and the true, and his deep insight into the necessity and importance, the dignity and mission of the great moral enterprises of the world. Never fanatical nor over-enthusiastic, he was quick to respond to the demands of truth-to march to the very verge of duty. Hence, he was opposed to that stupendous system of wrong which denies a portion of the human family their natural and inherent rights; which makes merchandise of the souls and bodies of God's own children. It was in advocating the claims of the slave to freedom and its blessings, that he made his most powerful speeches, his most heart stirring appeals.
As an abolitionist, he demanded the immediate and unconditional abolition of slavery, denying that any constitution or statute could sanction such enormous wrong. Opposed to all schemes for expatriating the colored people of this land, he regarded the American Colonization Society as the enemy of his people; and all Civilization and Emigration Societies, whose aim is essentially the same, as impracticable, and of injurious tendency. And in this he represented the almost unanimous sentiment of the colored people of this country.
Of course, he was opposed to all caste. While he demanded freedom for the slave, he demanded social and legal equality for the half-free colored man of the North. Among the very last of his public efforts is his able and truthful address to the people of Ohio, on the legal condition of the colored inhabitants of the State. 
But John I. Gaines was not only an anti-slavery reformer, he was an ardent defender of the temperance cause. He would have liquor used for no other than mechanical or medicinal purposes. It is related of him that, a few years ago, when Cassius M. Clay and he were invited to dine with Mr. Samuel Wilcox of Cincinnati, he bore a manly testimony in favor of his temperance principles. Mr. Gaines sat opposite Mr. Clay at the table. In due season Mr. Wilcox, as was his custom on such occasions, brought on his sparkling Catawba. He offered Mr. Clay a glass, but did not offer one to Mr. Gaines. Mr. Clay demanded an explanation. Mr. Wilcox replied, that ' Mr. Gaines never drinks.' Then, Mr. Clay taking a glass, filled it, and handing it to Mr. Gaines, said, 'I know, sir, you will take it from me, a pledged friend of your people.' But Mr. Gaines drew himself back, and said, ' I abstain from principle.' 
The world is better that John I. Gaines has lived His voice and his example have encouraged many a faltering heart. Although dying before he reached his fortieth year, he was not called before he had accomplished numerous and arduous labors. Not only do the citizens of Cincinnati mourn his loss, but al the colored people of Ohio. But how shall this void be filled? Upon whom has, fallen the mantle of our departed brother?
Let us, my friends, one and all, emulate the example set us in the life and character of John I. Gaines, remembering the truthful and beautiful words of the poet:
'Lives of great men all remind us,
We may make our lives sublime,
And, departing, leave behind us
Footprints on the sands of time;
Footprints, which, perhaps, another,
Sailing o'er life's solemn main,
A forlorn and shipwrecked brother,
Seeing, shall take heart again.
Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor, and to wait.'

NON-RESISTANCE.
The reply of CHARLES K. WHIPPLE to the questions of Dr. MANN upon Non-Resistance, in the Liberator, has been anticipated with interest and expectation, and is worthy of most profound consideration. Granting the premises he assumes, and they are virtually granted by all who make profession of the Christian religion, his conclusions would seem to be natural and irresistible. It seems scarcely possible to doubt that the practice, universally, of what he inculcates as human duty, would work that change in society, which, imagined and prefigured ages ago, is anticipated as a coming Millennium. 
He assumes as his 'rule,' - by which he is understood to mean the standard by which the rightfulness or wrongfulness of an act is to be judged, - what he terms ' Christianity.' There are objections to this assumption in the case, both special and general; special, because Dr. Mann, in the article replied to, expressly excepts to any attempt to prove Non-Resistance true by arguments derived from Scripture; general, because, first, a standard of morality, to be true, must be adapted to influence the actual condition and conduct of the whole human race, which 'Christianity' manifestly is not, being unknown to and unheard of by the larger proportion of mankind. Secondly, because among those by whom ' Christianity' is known to be the professed rule of faith of a portion of mankind, with a large, if not the larger proportion, the questions remain unsettled:-'If so, why is it so?' 'How do you demonstrate the teachings of Christ are more authoritative than any other opinions?' And a still further objection to the assumption is to be found in the fact, that, with very few exceptions, those who profess to receive ' Christianity' as their rule, understand and teach that it guides into exactly the reverse of Non-Resistance.
History teems with examples of the ease with which men may be induced to give verbal assent to a  'rule,' or standard of right, presented to them in the form of a command by an authority for whom they profess reverence, and afterwards utterly refuse to conform to it in their lives. Moses gave to the people, who accepted his assertions for authority, the rule, 'Thou shalt not kill.' Diligent search through the annals of the world will be needed to find the record of a more sanguinary race than the people who professedly accepted this as their rule. It is true, Moses nullified the effect of his general rule by licensing his followers, in the name of the same Deity from whom the command was said to emanate, to kill their fellows in certain specified cases. Christ not only taught the same rule without this inconsistency, but more: 'Love your neighbor as yourself,' 'Love even your enemies,' 'Overcome evil with good,' are quoted by Mr. Whipple as his commands. But what effect have these injunctions had, or what have they now, in controlling the action of his professed followers? The practices of Christendom render highly pertinent and natural the objection of Dr. Mann to the efforts to prove scripturally the truths of Non-Resistance.
When Mr. Whipple says, 'I choose as my role Christianity'-I choose this rule because it is the best I can find or conceive of-and offers no demonstration of authority inherent in the standard chosen, after having said that ' each man must necessarily decide for himself the point, what shall be his rule,' I submit that he leaves the subject, so far as the reply to Dr. Mann's questions is concerned, just where he found it. His liberality in not demanding that the acts of others shall be measured by his rule, unless they choose to adopt it, is admirably consistent, but his logic leaves the question submitted to him an open one. If Non-Resistance be a principle which should govern the conduct of Charles K. Whipple, it should also control that of all other men; and this for reasons independent of verbal or written authority, which one may accept, while another innocently, nay, necessarily rejects it, because the evidence which satisfies the first of its validity, from the constitution of his mind, is not evidence to him. The effort to bring men into the adoption of a universal standard of morals, by inculcating that such is shown by written revelation to be the Divine Will, has proved utterly futile heretofore. There is reason to believe it will be equally fruitless in future. Unsuccess so signal in that direction instructs us that we need the knowledge of a standard of morals, susceptible of a universal demon-
<c04>
stration to the reason of individuals, by proofs addressed neither to their veneration nor their fears, but  drawn from their own observation of facts which they cannot deny, and whose teachings they cannot pervert, however unwilling, through vitiated education, injurious associations, and the force of habit, they may  be to square their conduct with it. Let us examine what evidence there may be that such a standard has been afforded us.
Taught by observation and experience, all intelligent persons are agreed that certain immutable properties inhere in matter, and pertain to mind, constituting unchangeable, yet perpetually active relations between them. These relations are designated the; laws of matter and of mind, and their existence is perceived and acknowledged equally by those who deny the existence of an Author or Creator of them, and by those who believe in Him, and esteem these to be a manifestation of His will. For example-that relation between different portions of matter which is termed the law of gravitation, and the consequences produced by its operation, are as apparent to him who says there is no God, and its requirements as carefully conformed with, as by one who conceives that it and they ,are immediate results of the will of a Supreme Intelligence. Human existence, through the whole of its duration, is perpetually being influenced and modified by these relations, which, for convenience in description, are termed Natural or Divine laws. Obedience to the fulfilment of these laws, it may be perceived by all, is productive of health and enjoyment to the human being, considered both as a physical and mental existence. Violations of these relations, or laws, as invariably produce suffering, graduated in proportion to the extent of their infraction. The inference is unavoidable, that, whether these laws be accidental, or exist through the design of a Superior Intelligence, they are actually guides and instructors to those who comprehend and obey them, into whatever amount of physical and mental health the individual enjoys. This portion of the subject is so well understood in general, there is no need to amplify by illustrations and examples, as the position assumed will doubtless be conceded. 
Towards an investigation of the relations which the human creature sustains to physical matter, great attention has been given, through ages, yet with scarcely a dim perception in the minds of such inquirers, to the fact, that in his relations with his fellows, he has been subjected to a social law, as inexorable in its requirements as are those which control his physical nature. In this direction, Veneration has been exalted into Superstition, and men generally have consented to accept the dictation of Moses, Jesus, Mahomet, or some other supposed authority, as having fixed their true social relations by a spoken or written command, and therefore have failed to discover that these were arranged as fixedly and determinately as were the physical laws, from the beginning of human existence. They have not perceived that those teachings of Jesus, ' Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself'- 'Love your enemies,' &c., are obligatory upon us, not because they were spoken by him, but simply because they inculcate obedience to the preexisting true social law. When Newton demonstrated the existence of the law of gravitation, had he proclaimed it to be the duty of all men to yield obedience to it, and had his disciples taught the duty of obedience because of this command, we should have had a case analogous to the one under consideration. In, either instance, the law existed, and influenced human conditions as powerfully before Jesus gave his opinion of what were the requirements of the one, and Newton taught what phenomena were produced by the other, as they have done since.
These and similar considerations appear to indicate, with some degree of clearness, the direction in which we may expect to discover a ' rule,' or standard, for testing the rectitude of our social action. The physical portion of man has but a transient existence, whilst his mental and social nature is to endure eternally. The condition of the former, except as it influences the latter, has scarcely any importance, relatively. It is not therefore to be supposed that the one has been subjected to the operation of laws, the nature and scope of which his intellect can discover, so that he can shape his life in accordance with them, and, as a consequence, enjoy, whilst the other, and infinitely most important part, has been left without any such guide, and allowed only the chance of receiving, comprehending and accepting an arbitrary revelation of duty.
When we study the relations which men have been created to sustain to each other, it becomes apparent that the interests of the whole race have been made one and indivisible. In the fact that no one can act in any direction, or omit action that is possible to him, and find the consequences of such action or omission confined to himself alone, we possess the demonstration of what is the true social law, and that it makes the interests of mankind a unit, inseparable and indivisible. Every attempt to have an interest selfish and exclusive to the individual is a violation of the law, and brings into operation immediately the penalty. By those who comprehend this, the wisdom is highly apparent which taught, 'Thou shalt love thy neighbor us thyself'-' Love your enemies'- 'Do good to them that hate you,' because it teaches conformity to natural law. While to such it is evident that all which is inharmonious in our social relations, all that is unequal in human condition, all that is apparently antagonistic in the interests of individuals, all that is injurious and violent in the conduct of one towards another, are but the consequences, or penalties, for deviations from obedience to the law ; so also to them it is evident that any attempt to better ourselves by still further violations of it, by resisting wrong and violence by the same, is a mistaken effort which cannot possibly lead back into harmony. Whatever may be the conduct of others, obedience to the laws of our being is the best and wisest policy for us. We cannot violate the natural rights of another, whatever may be the character of his conduct towards us, without working to ourselves incomparably more mischief than that other can possibly inflict. Behold the immense influence wrought upon human society by a single exhibition of this philosophy in the life and death of Jesus Christ!
I have already intimated agreement with the conclusions of C K. W. in respect to the duty of living out the principles of Non-Resistance. Briefly and imperfectly, I have attempted to show the pathway by which I have reached them. Thankful for the light cast upon the subject by the teachings and life of Jesus. I would still desire not to make the mistake of placing effects for cause. I would not teach men to pursue a course out of deference to authority, which they should adopt through the promptings of their own enlightened reason. A. BROOKE.
Marlboro', (Ohio,) April 16.

BREACH OF PROMISE.
EFFIE C. CARSTANG VS.HENRY SHAW.
Common Pleas, St. Louis County, February Term, 1860.
This case is decided. It has been prosecuted with a zeal never surpassed, and with a courage that never yielded. It was an adventure which could be undertaken by none but a dauntless spirit,-one that knew no fear, and whose self-reliance no danger could disturb. The unexampled success of the first trial inspired counsel and client with a confidence that augured success; and  it was only the omnipotence of wealth, and the talent that wealth commands, that baffled their efforts. There are few women living who would not have abandoned their suit long before half of the defendant's depositions were taken for the last trial, or at least have personally withdrawn from witnessing the damaging testimony which every day seemed to accumulate against her. Yet she never faltered. Like an experienced tactician, she viewed the whole ground, and rightly judged that if such
<c05>
testimony could be given in her presence, it would be overwhelming in her absence. But her resolution and sprit were equal to the emergency, and she followed the defence with a determination which would do credit even to her old friend and associate, Mrs. Burdell Cunningham. Miss Effie had evidently studied the case well, before she commenced it. She had duly weighed the character of her male friends, and justly calculated their testimony. Between telling what they knew and perjury, she rightly judged where they could be found. She had lawyers, priests and merchants, of the Key and Sickles school of respectability, besides a motley host of others, on her side, earnest, active, and resolved to see her through. There was but little sympathy for the venerable defendant. It would hardly do to subject his deportment to the, test of strict examination. But the evident object of the suit no one could mistake, and no right-thinking person could approve. Every one admired the enterprise and spirit which prompted and carried it on, but all felt indifferent to its result, except as it should affect the public morals. It has cost the aged defendant a fortune amply sufficient to rear and educate a numerous family, to disengage himself from the toils which had been deliberately set for him, and in which he was so deeply entangled. It is hardly probable that the world will ever hear much more of the brave and spirited plaintiff. Her case is extinguished, and she will disappear with her case. she has passed the summit of life, and her satellites will depart wits her attractions. Her case will not won be forgotten, not  because there was any new principle involved in it, but because the two verdicts rendered in it, so widely different from each other, will confirm, beyond any future controversy, that everlasting truism-' the glorious uncertainty of the aw.' The first jury gave her one hundred thousand dollars-the second gave her nothing. L.

EXTRACT OF A LETTER.
For the last week, one has needed to read no books of history or romance-for the newspapers have told of heroism and daring adventure, of noble self-sacrifice and of Christian endurance, that are unsurpassed in the world's history. Read Mr. Hinton's account of Stevens and Hazlett; read the grave, tender, manly letters of Oliver and Watson Brown, and you will confess that never before was the world so rich in heroic natures. In one of Watson Brown's last letters to his wife, there are the following remarkable words:-' I can but commend you to yourself and your friends, if I should never see you again.' Think of the tried strength and trust of the manly heart from which the words came! think how noble the woman must be, to whom such words could be spoken ! Truly might Whittier have said of them,
'Life hath its regal natures yet,
True, tender, brave and sweet.'
Then, too, the daily papers have given us Wendell Phillips's magnificent speech at Brooklyn. It is good to read it so soon after Mr. Seward's great speech, good to compare the clear crystallization of Seward's intellect with the glow and fire of Phillips's, and strange to see how unlike they are ; with what different weapons they meet their common foe. Years ago, the great men who launched ' The Republic,' took Satan on board as a passenger, with the agreement that he should stay in his narrow berth, and an understanding that he should have only a short sail, and then leave the ship. They forgot his craftiness, or underrated his weight. He was a dangerous passenger; now he has possessed himself of all the state-rooms; he has bribed the captain, he himself furnishes a large portion of the crew, and has so loaded the ship with his retinue and his personal property that she is in danger of sinking. Mr. Seward and Mr. Phillips both want to save her; but how? Mr. Seward proposes to urge Satan back again into narrow limits; to share power with him, until he can be persuaded to resign entirely, or to yield without violence to overwhelming force. Mr. Phillips sees no hope of that good time coming; sees that the Past does not promise such a Future; and so proposes to throw Satan overboard at once. What matter if he does rend and tear in going out! He rends and tears continually while he stays in. What matter if the struggle is fierce; if all the timbers strain, and there seems to be danger of parting amid-ships! The ship is built in compartments; there can be no wreck, and when the struggle is over, when the ship is clean from stem to stern, from the upper deck to the hold, when there is no crevice where oppression can lurk, then those on board will stand silent in their deep sadness, seeing before them the noble peace which will follow purity, while a shout of triumph goes up from every true heart the world over, and the murmur of bell is heard against them like the winding of a shell on the far off sea-shore.'- Worcester Spy.

HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Henry Ward Beecher finds his speech to his church in general, and trustees in particular, was not quite correct in all particulars. He therefore qualifies, explains, retracts. In some remarks Sunday, before the morning sermon, he said:
'I thought at that time, from information derived both from the papers and from gentlemen that I presumed knew the facts in the case, that there had been, through timidity, a disposition on the part of the Trustees of this church to prevent any trouble and unpopularity that might seem to accrue from yielding this room to Mr. Phillips. I thought there had been a disposition on their part, through prudence, to withdraw the church from any peril and risk. And I need not tell you that any such considerations as that would have a peculiar tendency to stir me up to the very bottom of my life. For if there is any thing that I greatly admire, it is that courage which enables any man, or any body of men, to take all the proper risks that belong to right doing; and if there is anything which exceedingly arouses my indignation, it is to see those who are nearest and dearest to me refusing to uphold the right, because they are afraid of the consequences.
Now, I desire so far to retract the remarks of last Sunday evening, as they bear upon the action of the Trustees of this church. I take back nothing I said of the sacredness of free speech, nor anything that I said about the cowardice of a church that is afraid of exposing itself to unpopularity for the sake of asserting the truth. And if I now supposed that the Trustees of this church had, in a spirit of worldly prudence, sacrificed that great principle that underlies all rights, and which is first and before all rights, I should not hesitate to reaffirm every word that I formerly uttered.
I need scarcely say that, while I cheerfully and gladly make this retraction in behalf of those members of the Board of Trustees concerned, I would not, in any other respect, weaken a word that I said. But one word more. It is my constant endeavor among you to be fearlessly faithful, both in the encouragement of good and in the rebuke of evil. The more I love you, and in proportion as you are near to me in personal friendship, shall I always deal, decisively and faithfully with wrong-doing; and if I should ever think that there was any wavering or instability of principle among you, I would not hesitate to hew it as with an axe. But if in doing this I ever do it in haste, or under misapprehension, or in any way by mistake, may my right hand forget her cunning, and may my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, if I fait instantly, as soon as I am apprised that I am mistaken, to make a rectification just as openly, and if anything more vehemently, than I made the mistake. For that is Christian-that is right. Now, then, I will preach.'
According to Beecher, his very dear friend, Wendell Phillips, although a disunionist and an infidel, is one of the most moral and upright men in the Union, because he has the moral courage to proclaim what he thinks to be true. Now this is another dangerous doctrine taught by this class of levellers. If a man only thinks he is right, and believes a falsehood, he is worthy of the highest consideration, and should be allowed the largest liberty. We do not see how any man's belief can altar or modify truth. Error is not converted into truth, or truth into error, because any man thinks it is; and a man has no particular claim on public attention because he believes a lie. It only shows the perversion of his mind and heart, and, therefore, makes him a more dangerous teacher. Ministers and congregations are not called upon to open their churches and pulpits to every sincere infidel, or to vindicate the freedom of speech by listening admiringly to any man who advocates dissolution of the Union and insurrection in polished language, with chaste classical illustrations.-Harrisburg Patriot and Union.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE.
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.
'IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S.A. Allen's Hair Restorative?
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.
St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S.A ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
'MRS. S.A ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.' N.Y. Evangelist.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S.S. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N. Y. Independent.
'MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.' Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S.' Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATIONAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye-Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U.S Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent articles is Mrs. S.A ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.' Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S.A ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft, It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURING QUALITIES OF A DYE.' Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S.A ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.' Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that 'Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORER' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register.
Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER, The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N.Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that 'Mrs. S.A ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless wasted of time and money, it is just what is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.' St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.- As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had a luxurious even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other member of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S.A ALLEN'S World's Hair Restorer.' Providence Daily Tribune.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit 'Mrs. S.A ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor  by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, had led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.' Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing power of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest hairs. The effect is sure is every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS.S.A ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript.
It is just what purports to be.' Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States. 
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S., Cube, or Canada.
DEPOT, 355 BROOME STREET, N.Y.
where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine <Illegible> Mrs. S.A. Allen, written in ink. Bev are of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for more information or send to Depot for Circulars.
FOR SALE EVERYWHERE. 
