THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be erected, (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line: less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, are;-WENDELL PHILLIOS, EDMUND QUINCY, ED-MR JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
Wm. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, out Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 10. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1726.
THE LIBERATOR
<C01>
LETTERS FROM ENGLAND. NO. IV.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF GEO. THOMPSON. 
BT WILLIAM FARMER, ESQ. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Upon Mr. Thompson's return to this country, he did not intermit his anti-slavery labors. He landed at Liverpool in January, 1836, and from that period until the autumn of 1837, he was incessantly and exclusively engaged in lecturing upon American slavery, and in organizing auxiliary societies to the great American centre. He succeeded in arousing the religious denominations of this country to the guilty pro-slavery action of their brethren in America. This led to a large number of memorials and remonstrances being sent to the Transatlantic churches, setting forth the heinous sin of abetting the crime of slavery. In Scotland, Mr. Thompson was allowed to address the annual assembly of the Congregational Union, the United Secession Synod, and the Baptist Association of Ministers, upon the same subject
His attention was then, after a lapse of upwards of three years, recalled to the condition of the miscalled emancipated slaves in our own colonies. Evidence was adduced to show that, notwithstanding the supposed perfection of the legislative provisions by which they were protected, their condition was no better than it had been in slavery. An agitation was thereupon commenced for the remission of the remainder of the term of apprenticeship, which had then two years and a half to run. This movement, however, was opposed by the most distinguished leaders of the Anti-Slavery body in this country, including Lord Brougham, Zachary Macaulay, Thomas Fowell Buxton, and Sir George Stephen. The grounds of their opposition to the movement were more technical than real, viz.: the implied compact entered into by them to accept the provisions of the Act of 1833. But the answer to this objection was obvious, viz.: the substantial evasion of the law by the planters; their illegal conversion of the system of apprenticeship into an absolute condition of slavery, which, on the 1st of August 1834, it was supposed had forever ceased in our colonies. The apprenticeship contract had been rendered void by their non-performance of it. The reagitation of the movement was initiated by two gentlemen, to whom it is right that the honor of the movement should be attributed-Mr. Joseph Sturge and Mr. John Thomas Barry, the latter being a member of the well known firm of William Allen, Hanbury & Co., of Plough Court, Lombard street.
Mr. Thompson now found himself placed in an advantageous position as regards this question. He had never seen reason to recede from the position he had originally adopted, which was that the apprenticeship system was not only wrong in principle, but that in practice it would prove even more cruel than the undisguised slavery it superseded. He had warned the country of the failure of that system, and predicted that the friends would have to embark in another struggle for its overthrow. Mr. Sturge and Mr. Burry guaranteed the expenses o Mr. Thompson's tour through the United Kingdom, to arouse the public indignation against a system which, under the delusive name of ”indentured service", had perpetuated and intensified the horrors of that slavery which the British people were led to believe was totally abolished It is due to the opponents of the reagitation to state that they, in common with Mr. Thompson, denounced the imposition which had been practised upon the world with regard to the real character of the apprenticeship system: but, from a punctilious sense of honor they held themselves bound by the supposed compact which had been entered into with the pro-slavery party to accept the measure, with all its defects, as a final settlement of the question. They did, however, call upon the government to pass measures for the mitigation of the evils which to them had unexpectedly developed themselves.
Mr. Thompson now found opponents in those who had formerly been his co-laborers; but, ere long, many of those who had most strongly censured his conduct were the most zealous in seconding his efforts. Amongst others, Lord Brougham, in February, 1836, in the House of Lords and at Exeter Hall, warmly advocated Mr. Thompson's plan for the immediate termination of the apprenticeship; and Mr. Buxton also openly withdrew his opposition to the measure, at a great meeting held in St. Andrews Hall, Norwich. The agitation so far aroused public indignation, and the pressure from without became so great, that the Ministers were compelled to issue instructions to the Governors o all the colonies, to introduce bills into their respective legislatures for the immediate abolition of the residue of the term of apprenticeship; and in accordance with the directions of the home government, the colonial legislatures decreed the extinction of the apprenticeship system on the day originally named, the 1st of August,1838. The labors which were thus brought to such a triumphant issue were the most severe and exhausting of any Mr. Thompson had undergone.
In 1834, the Congregational body in England sent a deputation, comprising the Rev. John Matheson of Durham, and the Rev. Andrew Reed, of Stepney, London, with fraternal greetings to their congregational brethren in America. Beyond the interchange of denominational civilities, little practical benefit resulted from these some what pretentious proceedings. The idea was good; but its execution was rather prejudicial than otherwise to the cause of the slave, which by tacit consent, was treated as a tabooed question. Such a mode of treating it had the virtual effect of taking slavery out of the category even of venial much less of mortal sins. It was not to be supposed that, if slavery was a malum in se, such faithful prophets as Reed and Matheson would have held their peace concerning it. Neither was it likely that, if slavery was”the sum of all villanies, “such high standing divines would have accepted the honors and hospitalities tendered to them by the President of a pro-slavery government. A second deputation, consisting of Drs, Cox and Hobey, was sent in 1835 from the Baptists of Great Britain to their brethren in America. The same guilty reticence on the subject of slavery was again practised. It amounted to a virtual endorsement of slavery.
Upon his return to England, Dr. Cox published a work in connection with his visit, in which he treated the characters of the American Abolitionists. Mr. Thompson immediately denounced the book, and challenged its author to t public discussion concerning the veracity of its statements. This invitation was prudently declined and the libellous matter was struck out of the second edition of the work; but not before Mr. Thompson had held two crowded and enthusiastic meetings, at which the conduct of the Doctor was unanimously censured, and not until Mr. Thompson’s scathing addresses upon the subject had 
<C02>
received a large circulation in the columns of the Patriot newspaper, the organ of the Evangelical Dissenters.
In the same year, 1836, the Rev. R. J. Breckinridge, of Kentucky, came to this country, and sought to divert attention from his own pro-slavery proclivities by the customary red-herring attempts to blacken the reputation of Mr. Garrison and his co-laborers. Mr. Thompson immediately challenged the libeller in a public discussion as to the truth of his statements, which challenge was accepted; and the contest, which took place in the chapel of the Rev. Dr. Wardlaw at Glasgow, had a most beneficial influence in drawing a greater amount of public attention to the noble cause of the American Abolitionists than it had ever received before. The audience pronounced almost unanimously, that Mr. Thompson had successfully refuted the Kentucky divine's accusations against the American Anti-Slavery Society Thanks were also voted to Mr. Thompson for his masterly exposure of the enormous wickedness and abounding evils of American slavery. The lectures published and widely circulated at the time contained the most terrible revelations, proved by authentic documents, of the guilty complicity of the churches of America in the sin of Southern slavery, which had ever been given to the world.
From the middle of 1838 until 1844-5, Mr. Thompson's exertions on behalf of the American Anti-Slavery Society became less systematic, and more intermittent, than they had been during the previous five years: but he never swerved in his allegiance to the cause, and never omitted a legitimate, opportunity of rendering it service. 
In the year 1839, his fidelity to principle was subjected to another severe test. He had now been laboring in the cause of the slave for eight years; and yet, with the utmost frugality, his remuneration barely sufficed to enable him to live what is called” from hand to mouth." Those who know him intimately are aware that one of the elements of his character, which has enabled him to maintain an unshaken adherence to principle, is his utter indifference to pecuniary considerations, and his happy constitutional ability' to comply with the Apostolic injunction—” Having food and raiment, let us therewith be content." Indeed, there are many of his friends who consider that he carries this indifference to a fault. But, nevertheless, the most stoical parent must be painfully conscious that with an increasing family comes an augmented expenditure for the support of the household; and, however ethical philosophers may discourse, with Platonic indifference, about a state of dependence being a condition of happiness, there is no getting over the hard fact that a settled income relieves a man from a load of painful anxiety concerning his loved ones, however terrestrial and faithless the notion may be. 
Mr. Thompson was now without any engagement, or visible means for the future subsistence of himself and family. In this critical juncture, as though selected for his special temptation, be was sent for by some of the most influential personages in the realm, by whom the offer was made to him of an income of no less than £1,000 a year in perpetuity, secured either upon freehold estate or the funds, and an immediate seat in Parliament, if he would consent to advocate the cause of what was called” Protection to native industry;" that is to say, divesting the proposition of its plausible disguise, if he would devote his powers to the support of the corn-laws, and to counteracting the influence of the free trade organization, of which Cobden and Bright were at the head, and which had not long been established. At that time the subject was new to the general public mind, and a man might readily have been beguiled by the seeming patriotism of protecting native industry into a wrong course of action. Mr. Thompson asked for time to investigate the subject, which he had not done previously; and at the appointed period returned to his would-be retainers with the answer, that, having examined the subject in all its bearings, he had come to the conclusion that the existing bread tax was opposed alike to the laws of God and the welfare of his countrymen, and ought, therefore, to be repealed. Thus a second time in his life although a comparatively poor man in temporal circumstances, he rejected fortune and legislative honors rather than sacrifice principle; and yet his labors for the Anti-Corn-Law League, to which reference will hereafter be made, were entirely gratuitous. Such is the man whom some of his mendacious enemies have represented as a sordid worshipper of Mammon. 
In the same year, be consented to lecture for the Aborigines Protection Society, founded for the purpose of resisting the aggressions of so-called Christian settlers upon the native populations in the vicinity of our colonies. This association, which is in fact an anti-slavery society in another form, has been productive of a large amount of good, especially to the tribes on the continent of Africa. Its present Secretary is Mr. Thompson's son-in-law, Mr. F. W. Chesson, who married Miss Amelia Thompson. 
Mr. Thompson found the Indian branch of the aborigines question so absorbing, that he determined for a time to apply himself exclusively to it. In six lectures most valuable, on British India, which he delivered at Manchester shortly afterwards, he pointed out the immense resources of that country for cotton cultivation especially, and the reflex influence which! the development of those resources would have upon the abolition of American slavery. These lectures created a considerable sensation in Lancashire; but, unhappily, it ended in sensation. Had the suggestions which Mr. Thompson then made, regarding the development of the cotton-growing resources of India, been wisely acted upon, our mills would not now have been closed, and our industrious laborers in the north of England would not have been, as they are now, half-starved. 
In 1840, an important anti-slavery gathering took place in London, under the title of “The World's Convention." This assembly was attended by delegates from all parts of the civilized globe, and amongst others by Mr. Garrison, as representative of the American Anti-Slavery Society. The general proceedings were of the usual character; bat a peculiar feature of interest arose in the claim of certain female delegates, also sent by that Society, to sit and vote in the Convention, on equal terms with the men. Mr. Garrison and Mr. Thompson, who was a delegate from Edinburgh, of which city he was then a resident strenuously supported the claims of the ladies; which, however, were voted down by a large majority of the meeting. 
Upon the occasion of this second visit to Great Britain. Mr. Garrison, in company with Mr. Thompson. Mr. Charles Lenox Remond, and the late Mr. Nathaniel P. Rogers, held meetings in various parts of the kingdom, laying before the public the that position of the Abolition question. The speeches delivered upon that occasion did much to enlighten the minds of the community upon various points and especially the sinful position of the churches in relation to the cause of the slave. So pleased were the people of Edinburgh with the speeches of Mr. Garrison, that they presented his with a handsome service of silver plate. 
(To be continued.)
<C03>
RECEPTION MEETING 
IN HONOR OF 
GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ. 
[Phonographically reported by JAS. M. W. YERRINTON.] 
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., the distinguished British orator and philanthropist, having again visited America, after an absence of thirteen years, a number of the prominent citizens of Boston and its immediate neighborhood tendered him a Public Reception, in grateful acknowledgment of his disinterested, zealous and most efficient labors in counteracting the malignant influences of secession agents in England, and is bringing the minds of the people of that country to an appreciation of the real nature of the momentous struggle in which the North is now engaged. The invitation was accepted, and the evening of Tuesday, February 23, designated as the time of the meeting, and Music Hall as the place. Notice having been given in the public prints, with the announcement that His Excellency, the Governor, would preside on the occasion, a very general desire was felt by the public to take part in this demonstration of respect and honor; and the result was, that long before the hour announced for the opening of the meeting, the great hall was crowded to overflowing. Every inch of space was occupied, and hundreds turned away from the doors, unable to find even standing room. In point of numbers, intelligence, and high character, the audience which thus spontaneously assembled to pay their tribute of admiration and gratitude to Mr. Thompson has seldom been equalled in this city, and never, we are safe in saying, excelled. The first balcony and the platform (which had been, reserved) were crowded with gentlemen and ladies distinguished in the community for eminent talents, ability and philanthropy. Among them were many officials of the State and General Governments, and several prominent clergymen. 
At twenty minutes before eight o'clock, the Governor with Mr. Thompson, and the Committee of Arrangements, appeared upon the platform, and were received with vociferous cheers, the waving of handkerchiefs, and every demonstration of welcome and delight. As His Excellency rose to make the opening address, the applause was renewed, with equal heartiness, and it was some time before his voice could be heard. At length quiet was restored, and he proceeded to speak as follows:—
SPEECH OF GOV. ANDREW.
FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CITIZENS:
I esteem it an agreeable service, and in the direct line of my public duty, to attempt the Chairmanship of this great meeting of the patriotic and loyal People of Massachusetts to accord an honorable welcome to GEORGE THOMPSON-(Loud and prolonged applause.) 
The advocate of the extension of suffrage; the most eloquent popular champion of British emancipation; the associate of Cobden an' Bright in the repeal of the corn laws, enlarging the market abroad for American grain, in the interest of cheap food for the million; in Parliament the defender of British India against the oppressions of the East India Company; the enemy of monopolies; the fearless and untiring advocate of public liberty; fee was faithful in the darkest hours to the cause of justice for the American slave. (Applause.) He has lived to see American Slavery declare itself in arms against the law, against constitutional government, against democracy, and against mankind, and to strike its own death-wound by the violence of the assault. And when, with the cupidity of a miser and the ferocity of a pirate, it demanded its wicked will, wading through blood at home, and poisoning public opinion abroad, he remounted-the rostrum, once more revisited the scenes of his earlier forensic triumphs, appealed to the heart and the intelligence of the British people themselves, and in the name of our treaties, of international amity, of republican government, of the American Union, of the freedom, the progress and the rights of all mankind, he demanded justice and fair play from Ministers and Parliament in behalf of the Government and the people of the United States of America. (Great applause.) It was a task well befitting a man of whom it is declared in England that, during a public career of four and thirty years,” he never j set his hand to a bad cause, and never turned his back upon a good one." (Enthusiastic applause.) 
I may not detain this audience, nor anticipate what 11 trust we may hear described by our friend himself, I by assuming to portray the struggles and triumphs of those who embarked in the defence of liberal principles and the Union cause.
Our meeting to-night is a just recognition of the character and the services of Mr. THOMPSON, and of those illustrious Englishmen who, in Parliament and in private life, by voice and pen and social influence have maintained the American name abroad, opposing the emissaries of secession, slavery, and armed rebel lion against the Union Government While it speak our welcome to this distinguished guest, let it speak also our gratitude as well to Bright and Cobden (cheers.) Mill and Cairnes, (renewed cheers,) and to all the shining roll of brilliant names, all the thou sand of leas conspicuous names of men who have stood up on British ground to compel neutrality to maintain peace, and to establish sound doctrine in the English mind. Let it waft across the seas a voice of grateful honor to that Sovereign Lady, whose reign, in spite of whatever evil influence, has bee illustrated by the constant fidelity of the Throne to a stainless public morality, a veil at to the principles of domestic virtue. (Loud applause.) Let it declare oar high appreciation of that great middle class in England, whose intelligence is accustomed to be guided by the wise and healing counsels of the great, leaders of progressive and liberal opinion. Let express the homage of our sympathy with the humble ) poor of England; with those who, in narrow fortunes often penury, and not seldom in grinding want, enduring the cotton famine, have still held fast to the grand integrity, courageous as heroes, faithful as martyrs, bearing a testimony by their simple, manly an invincible No, to all menaces and all seductions o the enemy—worth more than argosies, more than victories on the field, because it is the prophecy of good breathing out of the uncorrupted heart of Humanity itself. 
<C04>
For the sake of these innumerable friends of the American Union, supporters of that cause in which are involved the fortunes of mankind, we can forget and forgive the vagaries of some of those, who, by prescription, are reckoned among the great. We hail the coming day when England and America, America and England,—both in peace,—viewing with each other in offices of mutual good will, shall pursue in concord their grand careers of beneficence and glory, their peoples both happy, prosperous, free and honored of all the nations. (Loud applause.) 
Mr. THOMPSON, as the friend of popular rights in your own country, as the enlightened and eloquent advocate of liberal principles and equal rights, as the friend of our republican institutions and universal liberty, as a tireless, fearless and powerful defender before the British public of the rights, the honor of our nationality, and of our Union cause, and for all the good and noble service you have rendered them, with he hearty gratitude of sincere men to an honest friend, we give you a warm right hand, and bid you welcome. Enthusiastic applause.)
By the blessing of Heaven, supported by a consciousness of the right, consoled by the hope of our opening future, comforted by the opinion of mankind, returning now to balance, where once was disturbed the equity of the scale, we mean by justice and our own right arms to restore the American Union, rebuilding the Temple of our Liberty on foundations as everlasting at the law of God, fitted to withstand the shocks and the decays of time. (Great applause.) 
Mr. THOMPSON, I propose now to present you and his audience each to the other. (Loud cheers.) Speak —for their hearts wait for the eloquence of your lips! Speak—speak now—for today is fulfilled before our eyes the prophecy of the seer-poet of New England,— 
"Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again, 
The eternal years of God are hers;
While Error, wounded, writhes in pain,
And dies amid her worshippers." 
The appropriateness of these familiar lines was at once recognized by the vast audience, and as His Excellency delivered the first line, they emphasized it with the most enthusiastic cheering, which was renewed, and intensified, if possible, as the Governor concluded. 
Mr. THOMPSON, on rising in response to the address of the Governor, was received with three times three hearty cheers, the great company standing as they cheered; the ladies expressing their welcome with radiant smiles and the waving of handkerchiefs, and thus heightening the joyful enthusiasm. These demonstrations of welcome having at last ceased, Mr. Thompson proceeded to address the audience as follows:— 
SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ. 
May it please your Excellency,—Citizens of Boston,—Ladies and Gentlemen: 
When, in my own country, I have been called, in the discharge of a solemn duty, to contend with those who have misrepresented or traduced the institutions and people of this country, in whatever else I may have been wanting, I have always felt both courage and confidence;—courage, because I knew that the cause I had to plead was just; and confidence, because I knew that my facts and arguments were incontrovertible. But how different is my position to-night!—called upon to acknowledge a reception far beyond my deserts, and to express my acknowledgments in the presence of this magnificent assembly, composed of approving and partial friends, instead of, as heretofore, ignorant, interested, or prejudiced opponents. Through all my life, so far as it has been a public one, I have been used to warfare. I have lived continually in the atmosphere of contention. I have bad to contend continually with great abuses and with great ignorance, the result of those abuses. How, then, shall I, however deeply penetrated with gratitude for the address to which you have listened, and for the reception by which it has been followed,—how shall I in suitable terms express the feelings of my heart? I might use the language of Othello, (slightly altered,) when he stood before the Venitian Senate— 
"Rude am I in my speech,
And little blessed with the set phrase of peace;
For I have used my dearest action in the tented field; 
And therefore little shall I grace my cause
By speaking for myself.”
But, sir, let me say, in one word, that I accept this welcome, not only with gratitude as a compliment to myself personally, but because I believe I may interpret it to be an expression of your kindly feelings towards thousands of fellow-laborers in Great Britain, and an act of homage, not so much to the man as to the great principle of which be has had the honor to be the humble but earnest exponent. (Applause.) 
Pardon me if I confess to some feeling of pride on finding myself to-day the guest of Massachusetts, and that in showing kindness to me, you recognize the sacredness of the cause which first brought me to your shores. To-day Massachusetts stands by the principles of 1776—those principles which it was” the head and front of my offending” to declare in 1831. (Applause.) Massachusetts is herself again; and in the cause of human rights, without respect of color, is sending her heroes to the field, her statesmen to the Senate, and her martyrs to their bloody graves. Massachusetts has to-day her Sumner and her Wilson in Washington, (enthusiastic applause,) her Garrison and her Phillips in Boston, (renewed applause,) and her John A. Andrew in the State House, (continued applause,) supported by the moral and political power, combined with the utmost material resources, of the Commonwealth. I learn from your official records that since treason commenced is foul and wicked work to overthrow the Union, with all of blessings, and establish slavery with all its guilt and horrors upon in ruins, seventy-five thousand six hundred of the sons of Massachusetts have gone forth to crush the execrable and black-hearted rebellion, and to restore the Union to more than its pristine majesty strength and beauty. To-day I am the guest of the noble State—of Massachusetts, who, amongst the gal Ian t corps she has enlisted and equipped for the war, had done honor to herself by enrolling two regiment composed of men, of that race whose wrongs are about to redressed in the processes of that chastise men which the enemies of human freedom and their country have justly brought upon themselves. (Loud at please.) And here I will ask your permission (and crave forgiveness of your Chairman for doing so) to make reference to an event which created the deep interest in England, and won at once for your Gov-
<C05>
ernor, and for your Common wealth, the admiration and the gratitude of my country. I refer to the speech delivered by His Excellency, Governor Andrew, on the 20th of May, 1863, in presenting the Massachusetts State colors to the 64th regiment, then about to depart for the South. (Applause.) I repeat his words because they are emphatic, because they are historical, because they are prophetic; because, also, they reflect honor alike upon your Chief Magistrate, and upon the people by whom he is so worthily supported. Gov. Andrew, in that remarkable address, used the following language:— 
"One circumstance pertaining to the composition of the 54th regiment, exceptional in  character when compared with anything we have yet seen before, gives to this hour an interest and importance, solemn and yet grand, because the occasion marks an era in the history of the war, of the Commonwealth, of the country, and of humanity. I need not dwell upon the met that the enlisted men constituting the rank and file of the 54th regiment of Massachusetts volunteers are drawn from a race not hitherto connected with the fortunes of the war. And yet I cannot forbear to allude to the circumstance, because I can but contemplate it for a brief moment, since it is uppermost in your thoughts, and since this regiment, which for many months has been the desire of my own heart, is present now before this vast assembly of friendly citizens of Massachusetts, prepared to vindicate by its future. as it has already begun to do by its brief history of camp-life here, to vindicate in own person, and in the presence, I trust, of all who belong to it, the character, the manly character, the seal, the manly seal of the colored citizens of Massachusetts, and of those other State which have ca«t their lot with ours. (Applause.) 
I owe to you, Mr. Commander, and to the officers who, associated with you, have assisted in the formation of this noble corps, composed of men selected from among their fellows for fine qualities of manhood; I owe to you, sir, and to those of your associates who united with me in the original organization of this body, the heartiest and most emphatic expression of my cordial thanks. I shall follow you, Mr. Commander, four officers and your men, with a friendly and per-zonal solicitude, to say nothing of official care, which can hardly be said of any other corps which has marched from Massachusetts. My own personal honor, if I have any, is identified with yours. I stand or ill as a man and a magistrate with the rise or fall in the history of the 51st Massachusetts regiment. (Applause.) I pledge not only in behalf of myself, but of ill those whom I have the honor to represent to-day, he utmost generosity, the utmost kindness, the utmost devotion of hearty love, not only for the cause, )but for you that represent it.. We will follow your fortunes in the camp and in the field, with the anxious yes of brethren and the proud hearts of citizens. 
Whatever may be said, Mr. Commander, of any other flag which has ever kissed the sunlight, or been borne on any field, I have the pride and honor to be able to declare before you, your regiment and these witnesses, that, from the beginning up till now, the State colors of Massachusetts have never been surrendered to any foe. (Cheers.) The 54th now holds in possession this sacred charge in the performance of heir duties as citizen soldiers. You will never part with that flag so long as a splinter of the staff or a thread of its web remains within your grasp." (Applause.)"
These were brave words; solemn words; prophetic words; words full of hope, and confidence, and faith. They have been justified; His Excellency's pledges have been redeemed. (Prolonged applause.) Need I refer to the character, and conduct, and death of that gallant man into whose hand, on that day, he placed those colors? Need I refer to the daring and devotion of the troops who were then sent forth, or remind you how they have distinguished themselves, in common with another regiment of a similar character that soon followed them, on the shores of South Carolina and the peninsula of Florida? I need not. To the honor and glory of Massachusetts will it be said that she was the first State to set the example, with His Excellency the Governor, now presiding here, at her head, of making the injured race the redeemers of those with whom they were identified. (Prolonged applause.) Now, the negro is not only a man but a citizen; and not only a man and a citizen, but a patriotic soldier. (Applause.) 
"Now the stern victim spurns his iron load, 
And claims the image back his God bestowed;
Bright in his eye the fire of freedom burns.
And as the slave departs, the man returns." 
(Loud applause.) This noble act of your Governor (and equally your act, for it has received your sanction and applause) has excited the admiration and won the thanks of the people of the country I represent, and will be recorded to his and your lasting honor. 
Your Excellency, and ladies and gentlemen, if time permitted, there are some things that I would like to say on behalf of the dear land that gave roe birth. I would like to express, in justice to millions of my countrymen, their sense of the obligations under which they have been laid to America to confess, in their name, some errors and mistakes, even faults, it may be, into which they have been betrayed during the last three years. I would like to deliver the messages with which I am charged to the people of America—messages of good will, of friendship, and of love. I would, if I might, tell you how deeply they would deplore, and how earnestly they, are seeking to avert, any collision between the two kindred nations—whatever might prevent their harmonious action for the good of mankind at large. (Cheers.) Believe me, sir, we are grateful to America. We are conscious that we owe America a mighty debt for benefits received at your hands. You have been the chief source of the greatness of our commercial transactions; to your shores we exported, for many years previous to the war, more than half the surplus manufactures we produced. We thank you for that. We thank you still more that you have afforded a home, employment, and competence to nations of our poor, who have come hither (applause) that you have thrown open your broad lands to them and that you have recently made a munificent offer to mankind at urge, that if they will come here and till the soil, a homestead shall be give them, free of cost. (Applause.) We thank you, sir, and ladies and gentlemen, for the relief which once and again and again you have sent to the shores of our country, when particular portions of our people have been in a suffering, famishing condition. We cannot forget, we never shall never forget what you did who Ireland was suffering under a visitation that deprived a majority of her people of the means of life. We shall never forget that when our country, through the mouths of many of her public men and through the columns of many of our more influential journals, was misrepresenting and aspersing you, you nevertheless freighted noble and majestic vessels with food, and sent
<C06>
them across the Atlantic, to keep alive those who were suffering in consequence of the stoppage of our supply of cotton. We thank you for sending us the ”Griswold," for although that vessel sailed from New York, I am sure it was freighted with the blessings and good wishes of the people of all the loyal States In America; and I bring the thanks of the people of Great Britain for that seasonable and liberal donation. (Applause.) We are not insensible, either, to the kindness and hospitality with which our countrymen of any distinction are ever treated on these shores. We have followed our public men and men of letters across the Atlantic, sod have witnessed the cordiality with which in every instance they have been received. This appreciation of those whom we appreciate is most gratifying, and demands our grateful acknowledgments. To the people of America we owe our thanks for the respect and affectionate regard in which the gracious lady who fills the throne of England is held by the universal people of the Republic. (Loud cheers.) I beg your Excellency, and you, ladies and gentlemen, to allow me—one of her Majesty's most attached subjects—to express my gratitude for the reference to Queen Victoria which was made in the opening address, and so warmly and enthusiastically received. In my own name, and in that of the British people, I would express the gratitude so deeply felt, for the loving reception you gave to the Heir Apparent on his visit to your shores—a reception every where the same, save in that part of the country blighted and corrupted by the pestilence of slavery. (Cheers.)
While I would not withhold the acknowledgments that are due to America for the many and large benefits which England has derived from the connection, so neither would I hesitate to admit that, in some respects, we have done you wrong; but I would venture to ask that the errors we have committed be laid to the charge of those who are the guilty parties, and not be imputed to those of my countrymen who are blameless. Bear in mind that the great mass of the people of Great Britain are unrepresented; that six millions of adult males—the source of our wealth, strength and greatness—are destitute of the franchise, and are without representation, either in the parliament or in the press. I speak of that portion of the press read in this country. To know the sentiments of the great body of our people, it is necessary that you should read their own organs, or that you should visit us, and know us as we are. The true British people are not the enemies of America, but admire, respect and love America. (Cheers.) If you would see the proof, behold it in the steadfastness with which they have stood by the North through all its trials and vicissitudes, in spite of all efforts to alienate and pervert them. (Cheers.) See the evidence of their fidelity in the heroic conduct of our Lancashire operatives, who, in the midst of their idleness and starvation,—caused by the blockade of the Southern ports,—said, ”We are willing to suffer, we are willing to wait, if through our privations and pangs may be wrought out the restoration of the Union and the freedom of the slave." (Loud cheers.) Instead of desiring the downfall of this Republic, the true people of England desire nothing more fervently than the maintenance of your form of government, the preservation of your free institutions, and your fidelity, inviolate, to the great cardinal democratic principle upon which your independence was established. (Applause.) 
There are papers circulating throughout Great Britain, varying in their weekly circulation from 260,000 copies to 10,000 or 5000, which have, during the whole of the last three years, nobly and ably advocated the cause of Union and Freedom in Ibis country. (Applause.) But, unfortunately, you see public opinion reflected in papers that really do not represent the people of England. High priced papers, like the Times, the Post, and the Herald, not only do not represent the people, but are notoriously the enemies of the elevation and progress of the people. Take the leading journal, so-called—the Times. That paper has been the systematic opponent of every reform, during the last half century. It never advocated any reform until it became popular. It opposed the abolition of the slave trade; opposed the abolition of the Test and Corporation Acts; opposed the emancipation of the Catholics; opposed the reform of the Hone of Commons; opposed the abolition of the East India Company's monopoly; opposed the emancipation of the slaves of the West India Colonies; opposed the abolition of the earn laws. It has systematically opposed every reform in its infancy and early stages; but has as invariably advocated every reform when it became popular. (Laughter.) Before the outbreak of the rebellion, nothing could more correctly describe the state of things in the North than the articles which appeared from time to time in the Times newspaper. When South Carolina seceded from the Union, which she did about the 20th of December, 1860, the Times came out with an article which gave the clearest and most truthful exhibition of the whole question, as between the, North and the South.” The North," it said.” is fighting for freedom and free discussion. The South is fighting for slavery, and represses free discussion by the tar-barrel and the pine-forgot" A little while, and it changed its tone, and commenced pouring forth daily torrents of vituperation upon the people of the North. It sent correspondents here, who, with an ingenious malignity I have seen exceeded, and rarely equalled, wholly misrepresented the true state of things here take a recent proof of this. The Times, during the election in Ohio, when Vallandigham and Brough were the candidates for Governor in that State, had two correspondents in this country-one in New York, and another in Cincinnati. Just on the eve of that election, the Times correspondent in New York wrote a letter to his employers in London, saying that he knew the Government of the United States intended to exercise all the influences in its power to return the Republican candidate; that it would use means the most unscrupulous; that it would have recourse to bribery and intimidation, and, if necessary, violence; and that the people would be compelled, by the Government to vote for the Government candidate. That letters came over to England and was published. Three days after, another letter came, which was from the correspondent in <illegible>; a gentleman who, though not cordially with the North, has, I am bound to say, upon the whole, given
”Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it to be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and; by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MATERIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies are have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
a fair representation of things, as they came under his eye- though I do not agree with him in the opinions he expresses. He stated that he had been staying in Cincinnati for three weeks, in order that he might make himself thoroughly acquainted with the state of things, and be present when the election took place; that he had employed the whole day of election is going about Cincinnati and its neighborhood; that nothing could exceed the quietness, decorum and order that distinguished the election proceedings; that, had he not known it, he should never have been aware that a contested election was going on; and that no influence of an exceptional character was exerted, no violence, and no corruption. In a word, be described that election as having been conducted in a most unexceptionable manner. And yet, three days before, there had been dispatched from New York a letter of the character I have described! 
I will mention another instance of the unfairness of the Times. On a particular morning I received two daily papers. One was the “leading journal”; the other was a newspaper which I cannot allude to without saying that, throughout the present great struggle, has taken the most enlightened views of the American question, has displayed the most accurate and intimate acquaintance with the affairs has been the boldest and most uncompromising advocate of emancipation, and has been the most able exponent and generous defender of the measures of Mr. Lincoln, and the object sought by the people of the North in the prosecution of the war. That paper is the Star. (Load applause.) A mail had arrived from America; and, as was my wont, I read very carefully and anxiously the news which it brought. I found by the Star newspaper that the Federal armies in the South had gained, in several places, a number of very decided advantages. I then turned to the Times, which, in addition to the telegrams that come to the associated press in London, has a correspondent of its own, who always sends special telegrams to that paper. I found that the Times had substituted the telegrams of its own correspondent for those sent to the press generally, and that, in the report of what had transpired in America, it had suppressed in seven instances the advantages that had accrued to the Federal party in the South. I am here prepared to say, and in presence of the Times correspondents to prove my assertion, that there has been, throughout this war, as far as the correspondents of the Times are concerned, systematic suppression of the truth, and a misrepresentation of the state of things in this country calculated greatly to mislead the people of England. You will bear in mind, therefore, that that paper, as well as many others, neither gives you correct information of the state of mind of the people of England, nor gives to us in England a correct idea of the state of things with you. 
If you want a proof of the dishonesty of the Times, you have only to turn to the very interesting correspondence which has recently taken place between that paper and a gentleman whose name has been mentioned with honor by the Governor, and received with applause by you. Mr. Cobden, (applause,) generously, on behalf of Mr. Bright, (loud cheers,) called on the editor of the Times to substantiate an assertion which he had made to the disadvantage of Mr. Bright. In the course of that correspondence, you will find the proof furnished that the Times is capable, not only of misrepresenting and maligning America, but of holding up to odium and attempting the ruin of the best and most patriotic of our public men in England.
Again, I would ask you to judge leniently of the people of England, in consequence of the vast efforts that have been made by the confederate party there to mislead them, and represent the state of things in this country otherwise than it is. The Federal party; in England, or at least such Americans as have been in England during this war, have taken scarcely any measures to dispel the delusion prevailing, to a great extent, in the English mind. They have left it to the friends of America, who were Englishmen, to do that work, deeming it more discreet and fitting to remain passive. But it has not been so with the secession party in England. Their agents have traversed every part of our land. They have employed wealth with out stint, for the purpose of influencing the press, and securing the cooperation of such as were likely to serve their cause. I have here with me to night a pamphlet which has been scattered broadcast throughout the country, and which contains as great a number of false statements as were ever compressed within the same number of pages. Let me give you a specimen of the sort of information which the secessionists have furnished to the people of England. My extracts shall be very brief indeed. They describe the Republican party as anti-English and anti-Catholic, and as aiming, through a strong central government, at the subjugation of the States. “The South knew,” they say, “that if the Republican party gained power, free trade, State rights, and everything like a just and right constitutional policy would be out of the question. The Republicans meant to get the South into their power, and dispose of them as they might find convenient. They were bent on sacrificing the South and West to their own manufacturing and trading interests. The only security of the South against absolute enslavement was in secession. They had no choice but either to allow themselves to be plundered by high protective tariffs, insulted by hostile legislation, ruined by fanatical invasions, and deprived of their constitutional rights, or take themselves quickly away, and form a government and commonwealth. The Northerners were anxious to extend their power over Mexico, Cuba, and, in fact, over the whole two American continents. They had also an eye to Canada. They had threatened to take it, and they meant in time to execute their threat. The Southerners have done right in rebuking and resisting the arrogant dictation and outrageous injustice of the North, and have done no more than they had a right to do, and no more, in fact, than it was their duty to do.”
Now, these are but samples of the statements made and scattered throughout the whole of our country by the confederates, or by those laboring in their behalf; and with these, and a multitude of similar statements, we have had to deal. As I observed in this place a few nights ago, it has been my chief business, and equally my delight as it was my duty, to go through England and refute these statements, and at the same time to challenge those who had made them to meet me on the public platform, and, if they could, support them.(Applause.) This I have done of my own motion, voluntarily, unsustained by any society, without any conference with any party, either in that country or in this; for I have held no connection with any association whatever, save such as I have myself had some share in forming. Applause.) 
Well, sir, this is the work I and others have had to do; and can you wonder that, the secessionists being in possession of the field,-having, even before South Carolina took herself out of the Union, already secured, to a large extent, the cooperation of the public writers in our journals, can you wonder, I say, that the people were in a state of uncertainty as to what was the real policy and what were the real objects of the people of the North? But how stands the case now, sir? I will venture to say that no confederate agent can obtain a peaceful hearing in any part of England. (Loud and long-continued applause.) Just before I left England, the Southern Independence Association, in Manchester, supported by a few rich men, and employing several agents, determined upon risking a public meeting, and they accordingly engaged the Free Trade Hall-a building larger than this-making a deposit of twenty guineas, or about one hundred dollars of your money. To ascertain the probabilities of success, it sent out several pilot balloons, in the shape of small sectionl meetings, but (although the Union and Emancipation Society took no measures of a hostile character) every one was a failure, nor were the agents they sent to these meetings able to obtain a hearing. The consequence was, they forfeited their deposit, and have yet to hold their first successful great public meeting in England. (Loud applause.)

<c02>
Among the good effects which have resulted to England from this unhappy disruption of your States is the greater knowledge which has been obtained by the people there of the state of affairs in this country; for, during the past two years, there has been no part of the United Kingdom which has not been penetrated by those who have employed themselves spontaneously, on behalf of the Northern States of the Union. Do not let it be imagined, sir, that, in showing kindness to me, you recognize a solitary instance of generous devotion to your cause in the hour of your nation’s calamity. No, sir, 1 reckon myself among the humblest laborers in the field. We have, in every part of our kingdom, gentlemen endowed with powers of eloquence and of argument, who are indefatigably engaged in informing and directing the winds of the people of our country in regard to the condition of things in America. We have, too, a Union and Emancipation literature of the most varied and extensive, kind. I exhibited in this hall, a week ago, nearly a score of large placards, which we have been in the habit of posting upon the walls. Those were but specimens. And in addition to such means of informing the people, we have scattered tracts, and pamphlets, and bound volumes, by the hundreds and the thousands. The consequence is that our people now are informed upon this question. And what is their present state of mind? They are, ladies and gentlemen, with you-with you! (Great applause.) They are with you, because they believe that the objects at which you are now aiming are not simply political, but also philanthropic. They believe now, (what they doubted before,) that UNION means EMANCIPATION. (Prolonged applause.)
Let me give you a short extract from a speech delivered on the first of this month by the respected President of the Manchester Union and Emancipation Society, Thomas Bayley Potter, Esq., a gentleman of the noblest sentiments, and of very considerable influence in that large city. A few days before the meeting at which he spoke was held, the confederates had had a tea party in Manchester, and this meeting to which I allude was called for the purpose of answering such speeches as might be made at that soiree. Mr. Potter said.-
“The members of the association had reason to congratulate themselves on the change which had taken place in public opinion during the last twelve, months, in both the daily and periodical press. This was owing to the labors of the societies in London and Manchester. A marvelous change, too, had taken place in the tone of the gentlemen connected with the Southern Independence Association. Formerly, they did not care much about the negro; but now, they were full of sympathy with him in his bonds. The Southern sympathizers in England now acknowledged that slavery was a foul blot upon the face of the South, which must be removed, but that independence was the only method of eradicating it. The friends of the North must stand by their motto-‘Union and Emancipation’-and union as the way to emancipation. The war waging in America was one between labor and privilege, between aristocratic and democratic principles; it involved the security of constitutional governments, the progress of civilization, and the extension of popular rights all the world over. Such was the view taken of the question by the working classes of Great Britain, and the most reflecting minds in the country. The maintenance of the Union and the abolition of slavery would give dignity to labor, and secure its rights throughout the world.”
These were the words of Mr. Potter, President of the Society.
 I need not tell you that one great source of satisfaction which the people of England have in contemplating what they believe to be your certain victory over your rebellious fellow-citizens at the South, is that the people of the North are now generally convinced, as many in England have long been, that you have been cherishing amongst you that which cannot coexist with the extension of those great principles upon which your independence was founded. In a word, the people of England now recognize, as among the objects sought by this war, the utter extermination of the institution of slavery. (Loud applause.) Sir, when I first came to your country, it was as an humble missionary, to contribute, in however small a degree, towards the creation of a public sentiment that, in its progress, development and triumph, should banish that institution from your land. Ever since then, I have read your history, and have studied with care the course your country has taken. I have always been persuaded that slavery was the great, the only cause of the serious disagreements between the various sections. I have seen how it marred even your Declaration itself; that the spirit of slavery, in the Convention that adopted that Declaration, prevented the appearance in it of that earnest and solemn disapproval of the slave trade which was inserted by Thomas Jefferson in his original draft. 
I have seen with regret that slavery had entrenched itself even in your Constitution; and that when your Union was formed-a Union intended by those who formed it to be indissoluble-it contained within itself contrary and irreconcilable elements. I have also seen that a time must come when either slavery would banish freedom, or freedom would utterly annihilate slavery. (Applause.) I have seen from year to year, the evil entailed by slavery upon your country; how it debauched your politics; how it poisoned your literature; how it corrupted your commerce; how at last it threatened to become universal and everlasting;- and now, when, by a suicidal act on the part of the South, they have made this institution your enemy, a public enemy, the enemy of the life of your country, with all the interests that you prize most, I see that this mighty people is gathering up its strength, is feeling like Samson of old for the pillars of this blood-stained temple of oppression, and I believe they will presently bring it tumbling and crashing to the earth. (Loud applause.) In this great work, be assured, we in England wish you God-speed; but we ask, we implore you, for your own sake, and for the sake of the world, to make thorough work. (Enthusiastic applause.) Leave not a fibre in the soil! Follow the advice of a distinguished New York Democrat, and “drive the ploughshare deep, and drive it through.” Applause.) 
We trust, too, that in the midst of this straggle you will not forget, nor fail to uphold, the great distinguishing principle of your nation-the grand, the distinguishing principle of Democracy. (Applause.) There have been many prognostications and many prophecies, (the wish being father to the thought,) respecting the issue of this greatstruggle. I have myself no fear of the result; but if there were any possibility that you might be induced, during this conflict, to depart from that great and vital principle on which your government has hitherto been based, I should deeply deplore the possibility, and would urge you, with all the emphasis I could employ, to stand true to that principle. I believe you will, and I also believe that not only will your Union be restored, but that you will hereafter form a Union and a Government far stronger and more glorious, and far more permanent than any that could have existed so long as slavery remained a tolerated evil among you. (Applause.) 
While I remain in this country, I shall watch with the deepest interest the progress of events. If, with the strength that I am able to command, and the humble ability which has been given to me, I can in any way promote the great objects in which you are engaged, I shall cheerfully pot my best energies at your disposal (load applause); and shall feel amply rewarded by the consciousness that I have done anything here to serve the cause of the American Union and the emancipation of the American slave. (Renewed applause.) 
I feel, sir, that my strength will not allow me to address this magnificent assembly at any further length. I will therefore merely relate an incident that occurred some nineteen years ago, and then sit down. In 1846, our country was visited by a band of New England minstrels-“a nest of brothers with a sister in it,” (laughter,) as one of your poets said. At that time, a dark cloud was upon the western horizon. There was a controversy between the nations respecting the Oregon boundary; and when this band of minstrels were about to commence their performances in London, in Her Majesty’s Concert Room in Hano-
<c03>
ver Square, they asked me to write them a couple of verses which should breathe a spirit of friendship and kindness between the two peoples, that they might sing them at their concert. All unaccustomed as I was to the work of writing verses, I cheerfully undertook the task; and with the words which I wrote for them, and which they sang through England-and which I believe they brought to America, and sang here also-I will conclude my address. One of these verses was to be sung to the tune of “God save the Queen,” and the other to one of your own national airs, which you will presently recognize. With the alteration of a single word, I would apply them to the circumstances of the present time, and would devoutly pray that they may soon be fulfilled. The lines were these;-
Oh, may the human race
Heaven’s message soon embrace-
Good will to man!
Hushed be the battle’s sound,
And o’er the earth around
May love and peace abound
Through ev’ry land!
Oh then shall come the glorious day,
When swords and spears shall perish,
And brothers John and Jonathan
The kindest thoughts shall cherish;.
When Slavery no more shall fill 
With angry darts our quiver, 
But Englishmen with Yankees dwell 
On the great Columbia river! 
Then let us haste these bonds to knit, 
And in the work be handy, 
That we may blend, GOD SAVE THE QUEEN,
With YANKEE DOODLE DANDY!
Mr. Thompson took his seat amid the most vociferous cheering, which continued for some considerable time. When silence was again restored, the President introduced as the next speaker, Hon. N. B. BRYANT of Boston, formerly of New Hampshire, and tor two years Speaker of the House of Representatives of that State. 
SPEECH OF HON. N. B. BRYANT. 
May it please your Excellency, Ladies and Gentlemen, and Fellow-Citizens of Boston:
During the early months of our great national calamity, when all eyes were turned anxiously toward the East; and especially toward the people of Great Britain, we watched with a pain too deep to find expression the malign influences that were at work in that country, in sympathy with those who had attempted to strike a fatal blow at the flag of our Union. We read, with feelings approaching horror, the mendacious libels of the London Times. We looked anxiously, but in vain, for some expression of sympathy from the aristocracy of the realm. We failed to find any friends, in our perilous position, among the crowned heads and despotic rulers of Europe; and we saw cherished, even on British soil, the emissaries of the South, who were busy in instilling the poison of their libels into English ears. This was the state of things that we mourned, with all the feelings of offended and sundered friend ship. We felt that the two nations were drifting from each other; that more than one Atlantic rolled between our shores; but we patiently waited, and we soon learned that beneath the surging waves of this surface ocean that divided us, which was tempest-tossed and storm-driven without, were the still currents of life, and that between the two nations themselves the electric spark of union and sympathy was constantly passing and repassing. (Loud applause.) We learned, in a brief time, that there was an England, and an English people, for whom the London Times never spoke (renewed applause); who had no voice in Parliament, no place near the throne, but which was a great people-great in their majesty, their principles, their proud humanity, their intelligence, and their patriotism. (Applause.) With the people of England, from whom we are proud to claim our origin, with whom we are proud to claim kindred and sympathy,-the people of England, who with us derive their religion from a common source, and bow with us at a common shrine, -who have drunk with us from the same fountains of philosophy, and science, and art-a people who believe with us on the great radical questions of human privilege, human rights, and human progress,-a people for whom Richard Cobden and John Bright have uttered their voices, (applause,) with such a people, having with us the same general destiny, pursuing with us the same grand mission in the world, full of the same enterprise, the same inventive genius, the same indomitable energy and proud. Anglo-Saxon pluck-with such a people, America never can be at enmity. (Loud applause.) We may be disturbed by the intrigues of cabinets and by the false issues which politicians and pretended statesmen may raise between us; but the people of England and America are essentially like two drops, that together form the rivulet; and it is to me the proudest moment of my life that I am permitted to witness this auspicious occasion, when between the distinguished representative of that same English nation and our own eminent and beloved Executive of the Old Bay State, the hand of a cordial sympathy and friendship has been extended, that brings the two countries together, and cements them in a friendship that shall be eternal. (Loud applause.) You know that while our distinguished guest has been first and foremost among all the noblemen of England in presenting to that country, and to the world, the great questions of human liberty and human rights, it is a source of profound satisfaction that the statesmanlike, sagacious and patriotic Executive of the Old Bay State, true to his office and true to his mission, has kept our proud old Commonwealth still far in the van of all the other States in the march of freedom and honor. (Loud applause.) You know with what alacrity he seized upon every means at the command of the State in forwarding supplies, arms, munitions and troops to repel the threatened invasion, at the outbreak of this foul rebellion. (Applause.) You know that, with a humanity as broad as his statesmanship was sagacious, he apprehended from the outset the depth, and length, and breadth of the great issue, and saw that it was a contest, not between different sections of our country, not merely between the men in arms, but between slavery and freedom, (applause;) and his humanity, his philosophy, and his statesmanship alike taught him that in the nineteenth century, such a contest could only be doubtful when the people proved recreant to their trust and to their duty. (Applause.) 
We have survived, representative of England, the mendacity of the London Times (laughter and applause); we have extracted the virus of that poison that was instilled into some classes in England by the emissaries of the South. We have survived all the calumnies and evil auguries that have been uttered against us on the other side of the water by our enemies, and have realized the hopes of our friends. (Applause.) We have outlived the predictions of our enemies on our own soil, that we were to become speedily a bankrupt nation; that we were to see England and France enjoying a monopoly of the cotton trade, while our manufactories were to stop, and the hum of industry no longer to be heard; our mechanics to be out of work, our ships to rot at our wharves, our commerce to be driven from the ocean; and while grass grew in our streets, bread riots were to prevail all over the land. Well, our bankruptcy is witnessed in the fact that our national securities have never sought by market, but are sought by every market, at a high premium; our spindles are as busy as ever; our mechanics are rewarded by higher prices than they have heretofore received; our agriculture was never more flourishing; our people were never more prosperous, happy, or contented in their have condition; and if there have been bread riots, any little school-boy can tell whether they were North or South of Mason and Dixon’s line. (Applause.) If there has been bankruptcy, let those answer who attempt to pay for the necessaries of life in confederate shin-plasters. Grass has not grown in our streets, but grass would have grown in the streets of the South, but for the fact that the Union armies have been there, and prevented it. (Applause.) 
Sir, the people have willed the Union of the States 
<c04>
A people that, two centuries ago, sloughed off the decayed civilization of the old world, and subsequently founded an empire upon the basis of a written constitution and inalienable right,-a people that, to say the least, have kept pace with every other nation on the globe in all that relates to civilization, population, wealth, intelligence and invention, -who have., I might say, out-run every nation upon the land and out-sailed them on the sea, and have met them without dishonor every land and every sea where their progress has been impeded or their rights contested-this people to be conquered! And by whom? By inferior numbers, inferior intelligence, inferior wealth, inferior right! I should not say by inferior right, your Excellency, but by infernal wrong against everlasting right. A people, a free Republic, with man’s immutable rights now glittering in every star that forms,-the galaxy of its flag, will not go down at the bidding of a mob, who attempt to reverse the world’s most cherished maxims by founding a despotism, with slavery for its corner-stone. I appeal to the sacred pen of History to refute this daring profanation! I ask, amid all the nations, for an example of this impious achievement. I find in the records of the buried past, the evidence that mankind has been constantly growing towards the sun; that the people have been gradually elevated, by the gradual development of government; that liberty and right have become more general, slavery and wrong more exceptional, until, in this day of the nineteenth century, which I might call the millennial day of government, Universal Emancipation has become the watchword of the nations-alike among the valleys of Italy, amid the snows of Russia, and in this, the land of Washington. (Applause.)
I know, your Excellency, we all know, that on one great question our country was painfully divided at one time; that there was great doubt entertained by even good men, who styled themselves conservatives, as to the policy of a certain grand and overshadowing measure of the administration. I refer, of course, to the President's Emancipation Proclamation. But that doubt has long since been dispelled. It was said that it stood in the way of a restored Union. Events have proved that it was the pillar of fire by night that led to a restored Union. Events have demonstrated that on no other possible basis, by no other conceivable theory known to statesmen, could this Union be permanently restored, except by removing from the nation itself the cause of the rebellion, so as, by the very restoration of the Union, to prevent the possibility of its recurrence. Any other line of policy would have proved a hollow truce; ' any other peace would have been a fatal snare; any other conclusion of this controversy would have been a disgrace-a disgrace, not only to America, but to the civilization of the nineteenth century; a disgrace that would have fastened itself upon the American name, and rendered it a fit subject to be gibbeted forever in the annals of infamy. Happily, Mr. President and fellow-citizens, this policy has at last vindicated itself to the patriotic intelligence of the entire American nation. I appeal this night to the voice of the loyal people of Maryland; to the patriotic action of the statesmen of Missouri, of Kentucky and Tennessee; to the voice of the loyal people of Louisiana, uttered yesterday, in solemn conclave, and not yet published in Boston, but of which we shall learn to-morrow. All these States, with others that might be named, have come forward, and with one acclaim admit the glorious fact, which should silence the last cavil among Northern men, that the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation to the slaves forms the only just, humane, statesman-like and patriotic basis for a restored Union that shall outlive the predictions of every foe, and realize the hopes of every friend of humanity the world over. (Applause.)
I have not alluded, and I do not propose to allude, at any length, to the humanitarian aspect of this great issue; but inasmuch as it was referred to by our distinguished guest, I may be pardoned for briefly referring to it. 
It is true that our fathers tolerated the institution of slavery. It is true that the Constitution of the American Union, by inference, protects and recognizes it; but it is also true, as our honored friend well knows, that it was only for the purpose of regulating, for the time being, an institution which it. was thought was perishing from its own inherent weakness and corrupt source. This was the reason why it found a place in the Constitution at all. This is the only reason why such men as Washington, Hamilton, Jay and Madison, ever tolerated its presence in that sacred and immortal instrument. But, fellow-citizens, I may be Pardoned for saying, that when the hour arrives, which is now rapidly approaching, when this Proclamation shall have effect over every inch of American soil, we may then proudly point to the American Declaration of Independence, as well as to the Constitution, as containing the noblest expression of the rights of a great people I that was ever penned by the wisdom of man. No longer will the sentiments contained in our immortal Declaration be proclaimed by any man, claiming to be a statesman,” as “glittering generalities,” as “the exaggerations of a generous but weak enthusiasm”; but they will become, in all their length, breadth, and significance, living, vital truths, as all-pervading as the air we breathe, as extensive as the soil we tread upon; and then shall we realize the full significance of the immortal lines of the poet Cowper-
“Slaves cannot breathe in England; if their lungs 
Inhale our air, that moment they are free; 
They touch our country, and their shackles fall”- 
for they will be truer of this country than they ever were of England, though no truer than I hope they may be; for I trust the day is soon coming when not only shall no I hope they be found within the limits of the American Confederacy, but when there shall be no spot of English ground where man shall be deprived of any one of his immortal rights, or of a full and free representation in all legislative and executive bodies. (Applause.) This, my friends, will be the crowning glory of the American Union, and to this we are fast hastening. 
I thank you, Mr. President, and ladies and gentlemen. I have detained you too long, and I will relieve you from any further remarks. 
A general call was then made for Mr. Phillips, who, on stepping to the front of the platform, was received with enthusiastic applause. 
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ. 
Mr. Chairman, and Ladies and Gentlemen-It is with profound gratitude that I accept your permission to take even the slightest part in this movement of the State to do justice to our distinguished guest and to ourselves. You can well appreciate,-those of you, at least, who know me,-how perfectly inexpressible in words must be the gratitude of such an hour as this-to see that friend, whose hand we, a hated minority, clasped so often in the dark hours gone by, welcomed officially to the dear old Commonwealth; and, still more, that the hand of that official welcome should be one of those who welcomed him years ago!(load applause)-that Massachusetts is not only ready to say, “Welcome and God-speed to GEORGE THOMPSON,”-but utters it also by the voice of one who shared alike his unpopularity and his labors for many a weary year. (Renewed applause.) Thank God for living to see such an hour in this city of Boston! We could tell our guest how chilling was the first news from across the Atlantic; how like a death-damp it fell on hearts that had loved and trusted the mother country. But we recognized, as he has told us, is indeed so slight an insight as D’Iraeli’s discovered, that there were two nations in England; as there are, or have been here; as much two nations in the “fast-anchored isle” as in these thirty States,-both contending, there as here, for the mastery. We knew our mother land too well to expect the instinctive common sense of Englishmen, in the cold heights of the privileged orders, would not know each thrill of Northern success to be a volcano under their own feet. But we knew that the Bible and Shakespeare, and Hampden and Chatham, and Hancock and Warren and Washington, had made us, the Saxon masses, one people, incapable of division. (Applause.) We did proudly hope that hat elder brother nation in England, when the first 
<c05>
gun sounded from Sumter, by instinct would have felt that our cause was theirs. And was it not written in the books of their own history, that the Roundhead, from whose root we, a slip, were taken, in cormwell’s day, though foiled for a moment, is never beaten? Could they not trust their own blood? It was indeed a sad hour. But the greater our gratitude! We knew that the last nation for an Englishman to understand is ours-—near of kin, like brothers under the same roof. The last men we know are our brothers. We stand too near to measure their proportions. The atmosphere, alike of jealousy or love, distorts the great outlines. The hardest nation for an Englishman to know is America. Among the few who knew us there was one whose experience, in two visits, had made him profoundly acquainted with the nature of our institutions, and the great undercurrent of the mind of the people;-one man fortunate above all other Englishmen, for he had lived among us in that best of all positions to know a country-outside of its parties, surrounded by a straggling minority. He had looked, from that experience, into the mechanism of American institutions, as the rare philosophic acumen of Tocqueville had enabled him to do; but, of all Englishmen, this man had the greatest wrongs to remember. There was one whose lips might have, been pardoned, even by Americans, if, recalling the details of his double visit, he had said to his countrymen, “I have reason to think that the North will never rise to the level of inaugurating justice, and founding a Union upon Liberty.” But instead of that, with magnanimous faith, he trod his own experience under his feet, and flung down the gauntlet to all Englishmen; and I do no injustice to others if I say, his lance was the first to touch every shield in the list, and defy all comers in the name of a North, victorious and just. (Prolonged and enthusiastic cheers.) That gratitude we owe to the guest of this evening. (Applause.) He tells us that, if there were time, speaking for the millions of Great Britain, he should have some sins to confess. Close that record, my friend! We have some also (applause); and if you can agree that bygones shall be bygones, we accept gladly the decision. (Applause.) 
Yes, we know almost as well as he has told us, the malicious power and energetic mendacity of the Times. We never feared it; because this very idea which brings you here to-night, which has made the Union redden a path from Boston to, New Orleans with the best blood of the nation, has fought its way to the national arena, spite of every great name and every great journal in the land. When, therefore, the quarterlies and mammoth journals of London hasted, with glad malice, to record their false verdict, we remembered that long, victorious struggle of a quarter of a century against statesmen and journalists, and wrote “Ichabod” on the Times itself. (Loud applause.)
But this meeting, vast and unanimous and authoritative as it is, is not our method of converting the London Times. The two great branches of the Saxon race clasp hands together to-night. Yes-but the two great branches of the Saxon race, with an obstinate instinct, respect nothing but success; neither we, nor our brothers on the other side the Atlantic. Our friend, born in Liverpool, bears a Scotch name. We have a Scotch name, too, at the head of a hundred thousand men. He will convert the London Times, and compel it to confess its sins, and grant absolution, in the name of GRAND, dating from Richmond. (Loud applause.) And when- this is done, all England will find something to say on our side. 
But, Mr. Chairman, we recognize that their struggle is exactly like ours,-not ended. Though it began in 1630 in the battle-field, by the ill-favor of aristocratic institutions, to-day, two centuries later, JOHN BRIGHT is struggling to do in England what our armies are fighting to do here. (Applause.) Bright knows that there is no path to the supremacy of the English people but by setting free the land, and destroying the primogeniture of England, and planting our democracy in the rights and property of the masses. That effort culminates now, after the English mind has groped its way to it in two hundred years; here it culminates to-day. (Applause.) Massachusetts Is Democratic, and leads this controversy-the dominant community of the continent. Why? Because Massachusetts, cut up into giblets, holds a man on every acre, with his right hand full of brains; and Boston harbor crowded with Jeff. Davises could not make her anything but a Democracy. Now, what Bright does in England, Grant, at the head of cannon, does here to-day-both eloquent utterances. Grant battles down the landed aristocracy of that section of the Union in order to duplicate Massachusetts-to plant on every acre of American soil a man with a school-house behind him, and a ballot in his right hand. (Loud applause.)
We have a long struggle before us-a hated race to be vindicated. The thunderbolt of the war power makes us as omnipotent in Charleston as in Washington, and to-day we have the power to plant Democracy in the Palmetto State so deep that a thousand years shall only develop it. The Norman, a thousand years ago, anchored his conquest by dividing the land among his soldiers. Massachusetts, the North, goes forth to divide among her nobles-the white men and the black men that bear up her banner-the land of which the stars and stripes take possession. (Great applause.) To-day she has the right-parcere dejectis et debellare superbos to protect the weak, to tread down tyrants. To-day, she has ROBERT SMALL as close to her banner as Gov. AIKEN; and for one, before I let the line of South Carolina sovereignty be drawn betwixt me and them, I mean to have Small and Aiken side by side, each on an acre, a school-house behind him, a ballot in his right hand, and God save the bravest! (Great applause.) Bright is engaged in the same struggle, under other names. With other silken banners, he fights the same dread battle. But, my brother, the Union which is to grow out of this epoch, indissoluble as you painted it, is not to be a Union of thirty-four States, only -he South and the North-—which God is to bind with the indissoluble tie of mutual love and respect. No; when this epoch ends, when we call home our cannon and furl our banners, the Union is to be one of all the millions that speak the English of Shakespeare, and revere the name of Hampden, and pray in the language of the common version of the Bible. The Union is to be of all who love the English tongue-that wherever over the earth it is spoken, there shall neither be tyrant nor slave. (Long continued applause.) 
Mr. GARRISON was now loudly called for, from all parts of the house, and was greeted with three cheers as he came forward. 
SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
May it please your Excellency, and Ladies and Gentlemen: 
I was not down in the programmer for this evening. Indeed, I expressly stipulated that I should be left out, in order to give place to others. It is impossible for me to find any words which would adequately express the feelings of my heart on this occasion, in view of the handsome, generous and just reception which you have given to our distinguished friend, GEORGE THOMPSON, of England. (Loud applause.) I have known him intimately for more than thirty years; known him only to love and admire him; known him as one thoroughly disinterested in the cause of humanity and freedom-one who never yet conferred with flesh and blood in the performance of his duty-who has given his life to promote the welfare of our common humanity-whose heart is as large as the whole world-and who knows nothing of nationality, or race, or caste, in competition with the principles of justice and eternal right. (Applause.)
This evening, sir, Boston places herself right on the record of history. (Applause.) This evening, Massachusetts stands redeemed from the errors of the past. (Renewed applause.) I will not, for a moment, accept the assertion, as uttered in a “respectable daily” while endeavoring <illegible> a compliment upon Mr. Thompson, that the masses of the people entertain the same views, in regard to Mr. Thompson’s earlier visits to this country, as they did at the time of those visits. I do not believe it. (Applause, and cries of “No!”) There has been no change or variableness. 
<c06>
on his part; he is the same man that he was when he first landed in Boston, in the year 1834 (applause); and if he is the 
friend of our country now, (and who that has one drop of loyal blood running in his Venus doubts it?) then I say that, thirty years ago, he was as warm, and true, and disinterested a friend of our country as he is to-night.(Applause.) The truth is that, at that time, there was great darkness upon the minds of the people in regard to slavery. They had become insensibly corrupted by its influence; their vision was obscured; some cases, their hearts were made hard as adamant. Thank God, sir, for the wonderful change that has taken place! Shall I not call it a regeneration? Shall I not say, that whereas the people of Massachusetts were blind thirty years ago, now they see! (Applause) They see that slavery is a thing to be abhorred and detested as “" the sum of all villanies, (applause,) and that out of it has grown this terrible rebellion; so that whoever is now in favour of prolonging its in existence, and restoring its power, deserves to be put into the category of the Southern traitors. (Renewed applause,). For are not "loyalty" and "liberty" synonymous and identical terms, in the present fearful struggle?
Mr. Thompson has been our firm and fast friend from the beginning: but I looked upon him with even more admiration, thirty years ago, when hunted for his life, than I can at this time, under these pleasing circumstances; for it is in fiery trials that the soul best shows its true temper. I am unspeakably glad there has been this marvelous change in the right direction, and that pro-slavery malignity has lost its power. But when I invited George Thompson to America, thirty years ago, what-had I to offer him? He had just completed his labors in the glorious cause of West India Emancipation;-his reputation has a popular orator had spread through kingdom; there were splendid prospects-opening before him in various directions. It was in these circumstances I invited him, on my own responsibility, to turn his back upon fame and popularity, and come to America to be jeered at, and sneered at, and calumniated, for humanely attempting to deliver our land from its deadliest curse and its greatest crime. He came in the spirit of a noble self-sacrifice, as a friend, and not as an intermeddler. Forthwith he was maliciously charged with being a British emissary with "his pockets lined with British gold, for the purpose of destroying our glorious Union." British gold! He came with empty pockets and clean hands! (Loud applause.) And he came for the sole purpose of saving our country, and to enable us to have free institutions from sea to sea, and to prevent the present terrible and bloody rebellion in the land by the speedy abolition of slavery. O that his solemn warnings, his faithful rebukes, and his thrilling appeals had then been heeded by our guilty nation! We should not now be sitting in sackcloth and ashes, mourning for our dead and smarting under the rod of Divine retribution.
Sir, it has been the custom of those who have occupied the Executive chair in this State, to close their Fast day and Thanksgiving proclamations with the exclamation— "God save the Commonwealth of Massachusetts!" Now, sir, in view of the altered state of things among us, in view of this glorious meeting, justly and fairly representing the people of Massachusetts, and in view of the fact that your Excellency is here to preside on this occasion, I have to say that, at last:, I believe Massachusetts is saved from her old pro-slavery subserviency and degradation-saved from her blind, selfish, calculating slaveholding complicity with the South-saved to honor, justice, humanity and impartial freedom. (Loud applause.)
In conclusion, I will say to those who, as Democrats, under the guise and mask of a loyal regard for the Constitution and the Union, are yet endeavoring to get control of the Government, in order to give success to the rebellion

"Month not to me your Union rant, 
Nor gloze my ears with loyal cant;
Who treads the weeds of slavery flat, 
He is my loyal Democrat; 
Who sows good seed in Freedom's span, 
He only is my Union man." (Applause.) 
A gentleman on the platform called for “three cheers for Gov. Andrew," which were given with great heartiness and unanimity. 
THE PRESIDENT. Ladies and Gentlemen,-I am very glad that the audience is in such cheerful mood (laughter); but cheers belong not to any Massachusetts man to-night. Our cheers, our hearts,-and all our applause are due to him who is our honored guest to-night” the cynosure of every eye." It becomes us,-ladies and gentlemen, not merely to lay the gifts of eloquence and philanthropic devotion upon this altar, but also to pluck at least a single leaf from the tree of science, to add to the chaplet with which we adorn the brow of the our distinguished friend; and I must beg you to pause, as I know you will gladly do, to listen for a moment to the warm words of the eloquent heart, as well as eloquent lips, of my friend, Prof. WM. B. ROGERS. (Applause.)
SPEECH OF PROF. WM. B. ROGERS. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen I feel that I have no right to be here on this stand speaking to you,-at the close of this most interesting occasion, market by such distinguished argument and eloquent pleading, on any other plea than this-that the strong excitement and intense exhilaration which must have pervaded all hearts here, cannot, in a sanitary point of view, faver sound repose to-night; and I trust some few sedative remarks of mine may contribute to that result. (Laughter and applause.)
I thank you from my heart, Mr. Thompson, -from my own personal heart, who have myself felt what it is to be the recipient of English hospitality, and to be nursed by the kind sympathy and care of an English home. I have felt, that notwithstanding the dark cloud that seemed to hang between us and the fatherland in the earlier period of this contest, which sent out from our view the light of sympathy that would else have gleamed across the waters from the warm, noble British heard,-I have 
felt, I say, that notwithstanding that cloud, that heart was in truth, throughout the length and breadth of the land, pulsating for the cause of human freedom, all the world over; and I knew, that so soon as it should be clearly recognized, throughout that blessed land, that this our contest was for human freedom, the strong pulsations of that heart would be heard in the thunder rolling through the hemisphere around. It seems as if it were to the hemisphere around. It seems as if it as token, prophetic of the times, that just before this contest assumed its first formidable proportions, that was drous miracle of mechanism and science, that kind the continents together, and brought heart and mind in full and instant sympathy from England to our-land, should have been should have been suddenly broken as under. But look now at the symptoms and prophecies that present themselves! And do we not see, that under the wise regulation of scientific study and experiment, the Atlantic cable is again to be laid;, and now it will be so laid, on the basis of the immutable truths of science, that the aspirations, the hopes, the affections, the devotion of happiness, the loves, the affections, the devotions of back continents shall-be a common joy! (Loud applause.)
But I can say no more, except to thank you, sir, who have stood in the midst of opposition, surrounded by misrepresentation, by perverted facts, by mendacious misconstructions and falsehoods, and nobly served out sacred cause among your countryment. To say that you deserve our thanks, were indeed to use poor language to convey our gratitude. It is not our thanks, merely, that you merit; it is the thanks of the world now, and of all the generations of the world that are to follow. ( Loud applause.)
Let me thank you, Mr. President, as the organ of this most magnificent reception, for the part you have taken in it; and in doing so let me, as one of the citizens of Massachusetts, say from my heart, how-profoundly I thank you for the patriotic devotion, for the wise sagacity, for the continued and unflinching perseverance, and the untiring toil with which you have carried forward the great purpose of our government (Loud applause.)
Judge RUSSELL was now vociferously called for, and came forward amid great applause.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SPEECH OF HON. THOMAS RUSSELL.
I resemble William Lloyd Garrison in one thing, (“Would I were equalled with him in renown!") and that is in this—that no speech from me was on the programme. But yet, that call was not without precedent; for when the grand organ was first revealed, in all its magnificent proportions, to the public eye; when ”from all its golden mouths" it had pealed forth its Hymns of Praise—just then a boy in the corridor, the happy owner of a penny whistle, applied it to his mouth, and gave the world to know that he, too, was vocal.(Great merriment)
It seems to me that the varied emotions of this hour have been fitly uttered to-night. Let me add now one appropriate piece of good news, which has come to us to-day, and which aids to make this a fir evening for such a reception. It is that there has just come, by a swift Boston barque from the Cape of Good Hope, the report—which we will believe while we can—that the rebel pirate Tuscaloosa has been seized by the British Government, and is now in the iron grasp of the law. (Loud applause.) Let us hope that such echoes of the brave, honest words that you, sir, and your friends have spoken for the right may come to us from many a cape, and port, and headland. It is indeed, an omen of Good Hope for the friendship of nations, for the peace of the world! (Applause.) 
It is for the work our friend has done in that direction that we thank him. We know his other merits. We know that he has given more than thirty years of crowded life to the work of humanity. We know that, in many lands, there is to-day less crime, less misery, less oppression, because George Thompson has lived.(Applause.) We know that, to swell the number of his friends, in the language of Dr.Watts—
"Either India adds her sons."
But we thank GEORGE THOMPSON to-night because, in a dark and perilous hour—perilous for the honor of his country as for the peace of ours—at a time when England seemed to be swinging from her ancient allegiance to the right; when, for a moment, even Lord John Russell forgot the blood in his veins; when Kingsley recanted his noble sentiments in behalf of freedom; when Carlyle went over to the camp of the enemies of God and man, but forgot to take with him the weapons of his genius or his wit—when every morning the London Times ”waked to ecstacy its living lyre"(laughter and applause) —when Brougham—what shall I say of him, but what you [to Mr.Thompson] have said: that he died? for I will not ad-mit that the Lord Brougham of to-day is the Henry Brougham, who thrilled the world, and stamped the character of slavery forever, by denouncing ”the wild and guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man"—it was then that the man whose whole life had fitted him for the work stood forward to maintain the cause of America, and to prevent a misunderstanding, which, whether it arises between individuals or nations, is the saddest word that was ever penned. 
As you have heard to-night, it is not GEORGE THOMPSON alone, it is the millions he represents, that we thank. I think the world has never seen a more noble sight than the position taken by the working men of England during this contest. (Loud applause.) They have recognized the fact, that ours is not the cause of the North, nor of America alone, but the cause of labor and of liberty all the world over.(Applause) No matter whether they lived in England, Scotland or Ireland, they knew it was their cause, because, in the noble words of our noble President, (whom God forever bless, and hold in the hollow of his hand!) they knew it was a contest to decide whether government of the people from the earth; and therefore they have come together in London, in Liverpool,—even in famine-stricken Lan-cashire, whee a dearth of cotton is a dearth of work, of wages, of bread —even there the toiling thousands have met, and, with their pale lips, they have said to the President—"God speed you for the right!" Their hands are thin with famine; but they have lift-ed them towards Heaven, and prayed to”Him who is of purer eyes than to behold such vast iniquity," that He would avert from Grat Britain the crime of striking hands in a contest waged against the rights of labor and the rights of man.(Applause.)
Again, as your Excellency has fitly said, it is not the working men of England alone who have furnished us with friends. I honor that illustrious Lady of whom you have spoken; and the noble Prince Albert was, throughout his life, the friend of America, as he was the friend of America, of workingmen everywhere.(Applause.) They tell us that the very last official act of his life was to take a pen, and strike from the manifesto in regard to the Trnt one unfriendly and insulting word towards America.(Applause.) And we love to believe that now he knows the full meaning of the promise—"Blessed are the peacemakers!"(Applause.) Blessed are all peacemakers! And God grant that the voice of him who is with us to-night may join in that final shout of joy that shall be raised not only over a restored and peaceful Union, but over Freedom maintained, and made forever to be Law.(Loud applause.)
Bear with me one minute more, while I relate an incident that has just come to my ear. A chaplain recently returned from the Libby prison says that the first news from Gettysburg was, that the Federal army had been taken; and the Richmond Examiner even begged the people to abstain from insulting such a vast body of men. All that night, he says, he could not sleep, but counted the weary hours that would bring daylight, and with the confirmation or contradiction of the news. By and by the news came—borne most appropriately by a man of color, who brought the early newspapers; and this was his announcement, shouted through the galleries of the prison—"Great Federal victory—Retreat of Gen.Lee—The Potomac is rising—The pontoons are swept away!" The chaplain said he could in no other way express his feelings than by shouting, at the top of his voice, that grand ”Battle-Hymn," in which a poet of our own has forever ”married to immortal verse" the noble rhythm in which a nation's heart has beaten for freedom. And as he sung the hymn, it was taken up in every cell, and through every corridor, and hundreds of Federal prisoners hailed the glad tidings of victory by singing every word of that grand anthem, and proclaiming that Freedom was triumphant;”For God is marching on." (Applause.) In the prison houses of the South, the slave has long counted the weary hours, and it has sometimes seemed the day would never come. But now the day does break:
"And you gray lines that fret the clouds 
Are messengers of day." 
Soon we shall all join in the chorus that proclaims, throughout the land, that slavery has forever ceased; ”For God is marching on" (applause); and long as the annals of this war are written,(and that will be as long as the nation endures; and that shall be as long as the world stands,) so long shall affectionate remembrances of our guest dwell in all grateful American hearts. (Prolonged applause.)

CLOSING REMARKS OF THE GOVERNOR.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I think one duty remains unperformed; and it is a duty in which we can all units, each one speaking for himself with his own voice. And yet perhaps you will first indulge me in a single word of remark, somewhat in the nature of a reminiscence—recurring not only to a memory in the past, but to the experience of a life-time, now ripened into a glorious fulfilment and fruition. I remember now thirty years gone by, when a boy at college in a neighboring State, I listened for the first time to the lofty, stirring and commanding eloquence of George Thompson, when he was mounted upon the glorious war-horse of his earliest day. I remember a single sentence which fell from his lips and has adhered to my memory, and will last there while memory itself endures. Speaking of himself and of those associated with him in the work both of British and American emancipation, he declared—"I do not like to stand in
<cO2>
the perpetual attitude of apology. I cannot bear to say, ’Why, friends, we are not pickpockets, we are not villains, we are not assassins; we make an open, fair expression of our opinions, and let the world take it as they may' (Applause.) And, sirs, I hesitate not to say, that in Christian America, the land of Sabbath schools, of religious privileges, of temperance societies and revivals, there exists the worst institution in the world. There is not an institution which the sun in the heaven shines upon, so fraught with woe to man as American slavery." These were the words of George Thompson thirty years ago. (Applause.) I remembered that I was an American; that all my destiny, humble though it might be, and the destiny of all my own posterity, was bound up in the destiny of that America; that I and they, and all of us, were linked indissolubly, by eternal bonds, to that” worst institution in the world," so long as it should exist; and I dreamed by night, and mused in leisure hours, and read and thought by day, and wondered if the” worst institution in the world” would forever last, and if it would cleave like the dead carcase to the living body, to the name and fame, and fortunes, and future of my country. But now, thank God, I have lived to see the day when the sun in the heavens shines no longer on American slavery; (great applause,) and the generation of men with whom Mr. Thompson began his public career have lived to see that the” worst institution in the world," powerful as it was, bedded deep in the interests and prejudices of millions of men, has gone down before the invincible blows of the aroused power of the strongest and best government mankind has ever seen. (Tremendous applause.)
I think we have all some confessions to make and something to forget. American slavery, for the destruction of which, some of the friends of liberty have aimed their keenest lances and delivered their strongest blows against the Union of the American States, has tried its infernal power against that Union, and slavery has gone down forever in the conflict. (Loud applause.) And now, my friends, it is one of the gratifications of the hour, one of the blessings which no tongue can utter, and no heart can adequately feel, that it is given to us, if we will continue our fidelity to the work of the present, to save our country, to save her cause, to save her Union, and to immortalize forever her starry flag, while still destroying the” worst institution in the world." (Applause.) Now, my friends, to perform the grateful.duty which becomes us at this time. We are an audience of Americans, receiving a representative Englishman. I call upon you all, friends, fellow-citizens, ladies and gentlemen, to unite with me in giving three hearty cheers for Her Majesty, the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland. 
The audience responded warmly to this call, and then the Governor called for three cheers for the President of the United States, which were given with great unanimity and enthusiasm. The meeting then, at quarter past ten o'clock, adjourned.

RECEPTTON OF MR. THOMPSON IN NEW YORK AT THE COOPER INSTITUTE.
On Monday evening last, a public reception was given to GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., at the Cooper Institute in New York, under the auspices of the Young Men's Republican Union. A large and highly respectable audience assembled on the occasion to give him a hearty greeting—General JOHN C. FREMONT (to his honor) in the chair. The report of the proceedings occupies more than four closely printed columns of the Tribune of Tuesday morning, in fine type. The speech of Mr. Thompson was substantially the same as the one he delivered here. It was very warmly applauded throughout. Gen. Fremont, on taking the chair, said:
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—I am glad to see that you are in a temper of mind which promises a very cordial welcome to our guest of the evening. I thank you very sincerely for your friendly reception of myself, and thank you warmly for him—under the circumstances, it will be especially grateful to him. Coming here, after an interval of years, he cannot be expected immediately to realize the change which has been worked in the country, and impressions from very different scenes which he witnessed here cannot yet be effaced from his memory. When he was last here, the country was at peace, and men do not readily hazard its blessings. The people were unwilling to enter upon the discussion of a question which threatened to disturb great interests. They were not willing to inflict upon themselves or the Southern people the penalties which attend a great reform. Then, discussions upon slavery were held to involve disunion, and it required the direct and flagrant aggressions of an institution essentially at war with the principles of our Government to bring men to consider it, and to rouse them into action against it. He has yet to real-ize the change, and until he does, every such expression of friendly feeling must give him peculiar satis -faction. It may not seem to you entirely appropriate that I should preside over this meeting. It might seem more fitting that some one of older date in the Anti-Slavery struggle—some one of those who also had incurred the censorious criticisms and social martyrdom to which his life has been much exposed should stand at his side to-night to receive and to share in your generous recognition. But in giving him this welcome back to the country, we desire to bring distinctly before him the new phase through which it is passing; slavery, now held to be incompatible with Union; liberty, then denied speech, now holding the sword; the nation in arms for the principle he advocated, hostile to compromises, impatient of delays; its old tolerance changed into settled hatred against the cause of this war, and deeply resolved so to deal with it that the places which knew it shall know it no more. As one belonging to the body of the people to whom conviction has been brought by the logic of events which forced their consideration upon every man, and with the object of aiding our guest to realize the unanimity with which the nation is moving to the accomplishment of its object, I am I honored with a request to preside here this evening. To our guest it must be more agreeable to realize the present than to remember the past. He comes now among us to witness the triumph of the principles for which he labored, and we are glad to have an occasion which we can use to express our obligations to him and his friends on the other side of the water fo the services they have rendered us; to thank him individually, and as one of a class which in England represents the public conscience, loving justice, ant intolerant of oppression, and to whom we are indebted for a tenacious adherence to our cause from the beginning of this war. Their sympathies for us reached from the starving Manchester operatives refusing to petition Parliament lo our injury, up to the throne it-self which it touched and influenced. Indications during the past year have led us to infer a disposition toward friendliness on the part of England. This may come in part from an opposition to French policy, and more recently from that necessity for an ally which England begins to feel. But we believe it mainly due to the efforts of this class that she is still in a position to render an alliance between us possible. We recognize this influence in the check it has given to Southern sympathizers among them, and we take pleasure in believing that it has been under pressure of the same influence that England withdrew from all aliiance with the attempt to place an Austrian throne upon the ruins of a sister Republic—an attempt which shocks the public sentiment of this country, and is eminently hostile to the stability of its institutions. And while we are making this recognition of the generous am consistent support we have received from the liberal party abroad, whose labor for us is a part only of their great works in the general interests of humanity, we cannot silently pass over the services rendered by their fellow-laborers on our soil—services which have been only indirectly recognized, and in most scanty measure. What, to-day, is the position of the men who for the past thirty years have worked to bring our practice into conformity with the principles of the Government? And who, in the struggle against established and powerful interests, have accepted political disability and humiliated lives? Have any of these been put in governing places where their proved fidelity would guarantee the direct execution of what is to-day the nearly unanimous will of the people? Certainly not yet.
So far, the virtue of the Reformers is its own reward. While they are yet living, their mantles have fallen upon the shoulders of others to whom you have given high position, but they are still laboring in narrow paths—broadening, to be sure, and brightening—for the rough ground is passed, and their sun of victory is already rising. We give deep sympathy and honor to the men who, in the interests of civilization, separated themselves from mankind to penetrate the chill solitudes of the Arctic regions. Their names remain an added constellation in polar skies. But, we know that bitter skies and winter winds are not so unkind a man's ingratitude. And why, then, do we withhold sympathy and honor from these men who have so unflinchingly trod their isolated paths of self-appointed duty, accepting political and social excommunication—these heroes of the moral solitudes? But, even as it is, our Reformers have a better lot than history usually
<cO3>
records for such; they have the satisfaction not only to see but to enter, with the people whom they led, into the promised land. And perhaps are they well satisfied to repose, and to rest upon their finished work, feeling surely that they have been faithful servants and that their country will yet say to them,” Well done” Sometimes in unfamiliar countries, the traveller finds himself shrouded in fog, and the way so hidden, the features of the country so singularly changed from the reality that he cannot safely move. But if some friendly mountain side lets him ascend a few hundred feet above, he finds himself suddenly in a clear atmosphere with a blue sky and a shining sun. Below him, the smaller objects that misled and bewildered him lie hidden; before him stand out, salient and clear, the leading ridges and great outlines of the country which point out to him the right way, and show him where he may reach a place of security and repose for the night, and he goes on his journey confidently. And so it is with those men who devote their lives unflinchingly and singly to the public good—to the maintenance of principles and the advocacy of great reforms. They live in a pure atmosphere. And such ought also to be the character of the men whom we elevate to our high places. Raised into that upper air, and charged with the general safety, they are expected to be impersonal; they are expected to see over and beyond the personal ambitions and individual interests which of necessity influence men acting individually; their horizon is universal, and they see broadly defined the great principles which lead a nation continuously on to a settled prosperity and a sure glory. And as a condition of our material safety, we should see to it that only such men are put in such places—men capable of receiving a conviction and realizing a necessity—men able to comprehend the spirit of the age and the country in which we live, and fearless in working up to it. I have made these few remarks, partly because they flow from my subject, and partly to suggest such ideas as may be an introduction to what our guest will have today. I did not dwell upon acts that are necessarily familiar to you, but I desired merely to revive in your minds recollections of the character and services of the men whom he represents, and with permission I will now present him to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honor to introduce a representative of the liberal Democracy of England, and a tried friend of America, Mr. George Thompson.
The audience here arose, and loud and hearty cheers, and waving of hats, welcomed the distinguished speaker, who, in the course of his speech, made the following felicitous reference to General Fremont:—
"And now, Sir, with your permission, I will refer to the satisfaction it gives me to see you presiding over this assembly, and to be by you introduced to this assembly. [Applause.] Let me tell you, Sir, that your name is a household word among all the friends of liberty and humanity in England. [Great cheering.] We know you, Sir, as a daring explorer, as a gallant soldier, and as a devoted patriot. There were millions of hearts in England who would have been glad to see you lifted by the suffrages of your fellow-citizens into the seat of the chief magistracy of his Republic. [Renewed cheering.] You did not reach that elevation; but you received the free, spontaneous suffrages of 1,800,000 of the people of America. If you had reached the summit of your honorable ambition, it would have been well for America [Applause.] There would have been no traitors in the Cabinet. [Cheering.] There would have been no felonious abstraction of Indian bonds; no transportation of arms from the arsenals of the Northern States to be placed in the hands of Southern traitors. There would have been no dispersion of the navy to the four quarters of the earth, so that when the nation's salvation was at-stake, but one vessel could be found.There would have been no plotting for the annexation of Texas and Central America. There would have been no subserviency to the slave power. I believe you would have worked a miracle as great as that of St. Patrick in Ireland. [Laughter.] You would have banished all kinds of snakes from the country, whether they be rattlesnakes or copperheads. [Laughter and applause.] But, Sir, in England we know you, not as the President of the United States, but as the daring Pathfinder. [ Applause.] Once and again, amid the snows of the Rocky Mountains, you found a path to the region of Gold; and then, amid the rockier mountains of Rebellion in Missouri, you found a path there. [Enthusiastic applause and cheering.] It was the right path. It was the safe path. It was the necessary path. It was the plain path. It was the path of justice, humanity, right, duty, and would have been the path of glory. I shall not say why you did not pursue it. [Laughter.] But you have your reward. The Chief Executive of this mighty Republic has followed the Pathfinder. [Cheering.] You would have emancipated a few thousands. He has proclaimed liberty to three millions. [Applause.] Whatever may be the term of years during which he may occupy the chair of Chief Magistrate of this country, the greatest glory of his Administration, the highest lustre of his name, will be that he issued a proclamation saying that on the 1st of January, 1863, all the slaves in the Rebel districts of the South should be thenceforward and forever free. [Applause.] The path commenced in Missouri culminated there. [Applause.] Honor to him who pursued it so far and so well; honor to the man who discovered it for himself. [Applause.] Yes, my friends, as it was said of Napoleon, that he would go down to posterity with the code which bears his name in his hand, so it may be said of Abraham Lincoln, that he will descend to future ages holding in his right hand that immortal proclamation. Be it yours to make it sure. Be it yours to give it effect. Be it yours to convert it into a reality.”Rest not, pause not, until every negro is made legally and constitutionally free by that instrument, stands erect, his shackles gone, invested with the dignity of a man, and clothed with the privileges of a citizen. [Applause.]"
In a private letter—referring to the meeting—our friend Oliver Johnson writes as follows:—
"It was a grand occasion. The audience was of the very best sort—full of enthusiasm. Fremont's speech, as you will see, was excellent, and contained a fine tribute to the Abolitionists of this country. He was cheered throughout, and at this point especially. Mr. Thompson was warmly welcomed, and his speech was very fine, giving great satisfaction and delight to the audience. You know I did not even see him on his first visit to this country, and that in 1850,1 saw without hearing him. I cannot, therefore, compare his effort last night with his speeches in former years; but I will say that he more than met my highest anticipations. I have not for twenty years been so charmed and delighted by any speaker. In matter and manner the speech seemed to me perfect, and it won the perfect sympathy and kindled the highest enthusiasm of the audience. Dr. Tyng came out splendidly at the close, and Theodore Tilton uttered a few fit words."
After the adjournment of the meeting, a very large number of people pressed upon the platform to tender their personal congratulations to Mr. Thompson.

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. No.II
NEW YORK, Feb. 25, 1864.
 To the Editor of the Liberator: 
The mass of material, accumulated within the fortnight, of which I must try to extract the pith for you, reminds me that not only Le Siecle marche—the Century is afoot—but that the very hours are shod with winged sandals. As the President's plan of reconstruction approaches realization with alarming rapidity, the opposition of those who have discovered its perilous weakness (after a quarter of a year!) is developing itself. The presentation to the House of Representatives of the credential of a would-be member from Arkansas was promptly met by Winter Davis and your own Boutwell with the question, whether a representative from the Sandwich Islands might not as well claim the consideration of the House as one from a seceded State. The debate which ensued was interesting enough, though the ability was wholly upon the side adverse to recognition. Mr. Bout well's argument has not been surpassed for clearness and force. It was an irresistible defence of the territorial theory with which Senator Sumner stands identified. The points were briefly these: A State cannot be created except by the voluntary impulse of the people who are to constitute it, coupled with the sanction of Congress; once in the Union, it has no Constitutional right to annul its existence as a State, but its people have the power—as a fact—to declare whether they will exist or not, and so the people of Arkansas have done, in common with! the other rebellious communities.
" By the voice of the people of Arkansas, their State organization has ceased to exist What remains? The jurisdiction of the General Government under the Con-stitution over the territory of Arkansas exists unini-paired, exactly as it was before the so-called ordinance? of secession was passed. What more remains? Jurisdiction and sovereignty over the people of the State of Arkansas, neither more nor less than it was before the act of secession was passed. What is the condition of the people of Arkansas? Speaking legally, and also as a matter of fact, they have just those rights which they can enjoy without a State organization, Of what, then, are they deprived? Of those privileges under the Constitution of the United States which can be enjoyed only through a State organization."
Mr. Boutwell accompanied his remarks with a care-
<cO4>
fully prepared, statesmanlike Declaration of Opinion, which, in his view, ought to be made by the House in regard to the seceded States. I am sorry to record, that Mr. Schenck's motion to instruct the Committee of Elections to inquire into the existence of the State of Arkansas was rejected by a two-thirds vote, and that by referring the credentials, the House either shirked the question at issue, or condemned the only theory which enables the nation to remodel Southern society upon a republican basis. The Freedom Convention which met on the 22d at Louisville, condemned the Amnesty Proclamation as having been injurious in its effects, and” humiliating and unjust to loyal men, by placing them upon the same footing with rebels," and called for its retraction or suspension till the rebellion be wholly crushed. The delegates to the Virginia State Convention, which organized on the 13th, were divided upon the subject of the status of rebels who lay down their arms. The reeling was unanimous in favor of disfranchising Confederate office-holders, but less so concerning the soldiers, whose punishment was generally regarded to be sufficient if it embraced loss of citizenship for five years. 
The party split in New Orleans continues to widen. The question which I asked in my last, as to whether he rights of colored citizens were involved in the difference, has been partly answered. The advocates of Mr. Hahn accuse their opponent, Mr. Flanders, of having advocated the admission of colored delegates to a former loyal convention, and of now favoring the bestowal of the right of suffrage upon free-born colored natives. They further declare that the election will hinge on this. Meanwhile Gen. Banks is lending his influence to those who bring these charges; and it is more than believed by the well-informed, that his preference for this political, over a military campaign, is the reason why he refused to co-operate with Farragut against Mobile, and forced Sherman to deflect from his proper course eastward, and thus lose time in capturing that city. 
Slavery has received some severe blows these two weeks past. Kentucky,—whose position amid the general progress of the Border States is well illustrated by one of its religions newspapers, in which I have found not mentioned the words” war” or” rebel," but two columns in defence of the divine origin of slavery!—Kentucky has at last felt the pry of the abolition lever. I might mention, as indicative of a revolution against slavery, the message of Gen. Bram-lette, of the 13th, which asks the legislature what is to be done with those fugitives from rebel States and masters, who,.in defiance of the laws of Congress and the President's Proclamation, are thrust into Kentucky jails, and from time to time sold. Or I might recur to the meeting of the Freedom Convention at Louisville without obstruction other than the impotent remonstrance of Prentice and his Journal, and the calling of a State Convention by the Kentucky delegates, in order for a representation in the Baltimore Presidential Convention. But the great event which announces the disruption of the slave-system in Kentucky is the passage of the Enrollment Bill,—let the President not hesitate to make it a law!—which subjects the slave to the draft no less than the master or the poor white, and makes his enlistment his manumission forever. Thus the State which has most stubbornly and successfully resisted the entrance of the liberal idea into its bosom, is at length invaded; the spell of the slave-oligarchs is broken, and” the nightmare" of John J. Crittenden dissipated. A last adieu to Kentucky” as it was”:
“Still wield thy bent and wrinkled empery, 
And shake thine idle chains!"
Tennessee gives many signs of a growth of anti-slavery sentiment. Three newspapers, all advocates of emancipation, are shortly to be established—the Daily Times at Nashville, the Daily Tribune at Murfreesboro', and the Gazette at Chattanooga. Memphis is pronounced to be in advance of Nashville in political harmony on the subject of emancipation. The Bulletin of that city publishes a card from three hundred of the first citizens, desirous of reuniting the State with the Union who” recommend immediate and unconditional emancipation as the truest policy and only alternative." Remembering the cries ot ”incendiary,"“ revolutionary,"“ San Dominican,"“ impossible," raised of old against this familiar shibboleth of the Abolitionists, how ought some of us to rub our eyes and pinch ourselves, when such a voice emerges from slavedom! Maryland still marches on. Her legislature is preparing to rescind the laws which forbid the manumission of slaves. Her Union State Convention, in which the abolitionists largely preponderate, has expressed itself” in favor of the entire and immediate abolition of slavery” in the rebellious and Border States alike, and opposed to any reorganization which does not recognize ”the immediate abolishment of slavery as a condition precedent." The Convention regrets the influences from the Cabinet which have depressed the efforts of the radical emancipation is its in Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee, Louisiana, and Maryland; but entertains a far more exalted idea o f the Amnesty Proclamation than was expressed by the Freedom Convention at Louisville. Let me close this review of the States with the remark of Mr. Smithers in the House of Representatives:”There would be nothing more welcome to Delaware than to take her slaves away from her."
The Presidential canvass is fairly opened. Much confusion is foreshadowed as to the choice of a new leader and the distinctions of party at the ensuing election. There is, perhaps, a deep significance in recent utterances of the Democratic chiefs and press—Brooks, Bright and Cox, for the one, and the Herald World, Boston Port and Courier, for the other. Goot rebel prints, like the Daily News, do not tolerate the apostacy which is manifested by admissions that slavery in effect is dead, and that the Democratic party was never pro-slavery—no, indeed! it will even rejoice over the removal of the evil. If these concerted professions mean anything, it is that the Democratic party intends to carry the next election on a high anti slavery platform. Such is the explicit recommendation of the Herald, which would make the party-test the abolition of slavery by a constitutional amendment,” with Grant, or some such hero," for a candidate. Whether this will actually be tried, one cannot predict. There may be some whom the spider might entice with such bait into his den, even when Mr Brooks has written conspicuously over the door:” Th anxiety I feel is for the white man—I care nothing for the negro." 
Spite of the frequent and wide-spread expressions of a desire to have Mr. Lincoln for a second term, I am sure they are but superficial, allowing them all due weight. The most eminent Congressmen have been ominously silent, or if forced to speak, like Mr. Colfax, have avoided committing themselves to the present incumbent. The Tribune has openly discarded him, and apparently adopted Mr. Chase. The Independent's article is generally construed to look in the same direction. Wilkes's Spirit vigorously demand a change of head. These are but the first murmur of the opposition. The Pomeroy circular indicates the existence of an organization for Chase, perhaps prematurely uncovered. Fremont has his friends, though they may be unorganized as yet. Surveying the whole field, I am inclined to think that Mr. Lincoln has thrown away the opportunity of re-election and the moment was when he issued his Proclamation of Amnesty. That measure lent no strength to the loyal people. It made the position of the rebels still more inexcusable, if possible,—as did the compromises proposed by the North just before the assault on Sumter,—but, like them, it added no vigor to the Union cause. It was received with no enthusiasm, but effects were watched with a sort of stupid expectancy, and its effects have swamped the Administration Men now regard it as an electioneering movement in favor of its author, who seems so far to have grown used to the burdens under which he once labored with the sympathy of the nation, that he to filled with the craving to remain an Atlas. If his shoulders were broad enough, we might keep him; but, I fancy, the men who have had to urge him on to his plainest duty and who have really borne the burden and beat of
<cO5>
the day during the present term, are disposed to look for a respite in the next There will be a weighty conflict between the radical and conservative forces which meet in convention at Baltimore on the 7th of June. The mischievous circular, which, in virtue of the Amnesty, allows a bar to be placed on judicial proceedings under the Confiscation Act, may carry a few votes from rebel quarters, but it will hardly forward Mr. Lincoln's prospects of renomination. The policy which plays with the half tamed tiger is not that which is to save as from disaster in the coming time of reconstruction. We want a man whose hand as prompt to execute as his brain to devise; who cannot be wheedled, cozened or bullied by rebels North or South, in arms or repentant; who is a Cabinet in himself, but who, when he selects advisers, admits neither a Seward, a Blair, nor a Bates. We want a man who is in earnest concerning emancipation, and who, however much he is hated, cannot be despised. In my opinion, we want Butler. M. DU PAYS. 
THE FRATERNITY LECTURES. The closing lecture of the supplementary course, given by the Parker Fraternity, was delivered by Wendell Phillips, on Tuesday evening last, at Music Hall. It was justly severe upon Gen.Banks for his oppressive regulations in regard to the negro laborers within his jurisdiction, —and adverse to the re-election of Abraham Lincoln, on the ground that a more radical man is needed in the Presidential chair at such a crisis, and with such dangers of a fatal compromise looming up in the distance. We cannot find room even for a brief synopsis of the sentiments Mr. P. advanced. An immense audience was present, at times somewhat divided in its manner of receiving his views. The entire course has been very successful.
HARPER'S MAGAZINE for March is received from A.Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street. Contents:- Scenes in the War of 1812—VIII. Washington and Baltimore; Alas; The Norwich Armories; John Heathburn's Title, concluded; The Small House at Allington; Mental Health; Ralph Farnham's Romance; Women in Comedy; The Stomach and Civilization; Netty's Touchstone; Mrs. Brandon's Home; In Memoriam, W. M. Thackeray, with Portrait; Historical Contrast; Bracken Hollow; By the Seashore; With a Flag of Truce; Kitty Dayton; Part of the Price; Monthly Record; Editor's Easy Chair; Editor's Drawer; Fashions for March.
See the programme of the Attacks Celebration, among the Notices, to be held at the Meionaon on Monday evening next. It should call out a full house. Let the occasion not be forgotten.

A SERIOUS REVERSE IN FLORIDA. 
NEW YORK, Feb. 27. The Times says the steamer Fulton brought information of a sad reverse to our expedition under Gen. Seymour in Florida. We are unable to give details, because after the Fulton had put out into the bay, she was boarded by the Provost Marshal and Quartermaster, with orders from Gen. Gilmore to deprive the passengers of all private letters in their possession. 
To a passenger by the Fulton we are indebted for the following facts of the battle: 
On the afternoon of the 20th, our troops under Gen. Seymour met the enemy 15,000 strong, 55 miles beyond Jacksonville, and 8 miles beyond Sanderson, on the line of the Jacksonville and Tallahaase railroad. 
The battle was desperately fought during three hours, and at sunset our forces, overpowered by numbers, retired to Sanderson, taking with them the greater part of the wounded. The 7th Conn., 7th N.H., 40th Mass., 48th and 150th N.Y., and 8th U. S. regiments were engaged. Col. Sibley of the 8th U.S. was left dead on the field. Col. Reed, a Hungarian officer, was mortally wounded. 
All the officers of Hamilton's Battery were wounded. Capt. Hamilton was wounded in the arm and Lieut. Myrick in the foot. Both are at Gen. Gilmore's headquarters at Hilton Head. 
Col. Guy  Henry of the 40th Mass, had three horses shot under him, but escaped unhurt. 
The Cosmopolitan arrived at Beaufort on Monday evening with 240 of the wounded. Col. Reed is among them, and was alive when the Fulton left on Wednesday. The enemy's loss is not known. 
They captured 5 guns. It is supposed that the troops were from Bragg's army. Gen. Hardee himself was on the field, having come to Florida to visit his family, and also to form a second marriage. Our loss is estimated at 1300. 
Some 78 rebel prisoners were brought by the Fulton. 
Before going into battle, the 54th was double-quicked for a mile, and as they went in, Gen. Seymour said to Col. Hallowell, ”The day is lost; you most go in and save the corps." He did go in and did save it, checked the enemy, held the field, and were the very last to leave—and covered the retreat. 
A private letter from Jacksonville, dated 23d, states, on the authority of Dr. Green of the 24th Mass. regiment, that 600 wounded men had already been brought in, and more were yet to come.
THE COLORED TROOPS IN TENNESSEE. Captain R. D. Mussey, commissioner for the organization of colored troops in East and Middle Tennessee, issued a circular from Nashville on the 15th ultimo, the concluding section of which is as follows: 
"X. No person is wanted as an officer in a colored regiment who ’feels that he is making a sacrifice in accepting a position in a colored regiment,' or who desires the place simply for higher rank and pay. It is the aim of those having this organization in charge to make colored troops equal, if not superior, to the best of white troops in drill, discipline and officers. It is more than possible that colored troops will hereafter form no inconsiderable portion of the permanent army of the United States, and it should be the aim of every officer of colored troops to make himself and his men fit for such an honorable position. 
"It can be no ’sacrifice' to any man to command in a service which gives liberty to slaves, and manhood to chattels, as well as soldiers to the Union." 
Another passage in this circular declares that ”should incompetent or bad men find their way accidentally into one of these regiments, they will be weeded out immediately."
ANOTHER GROUND FOR AN ATTACK ON GEN.BUTLER. Gen. Butler has given rebels and copperheads another ground for attack, and denunciations of him will, no doubt, henceforth ring louder than ever. It is announced that he has ”commenced the establishment of a common school system at Norfolk and Fortress Monroe, precisely like that of Massachusetts," and that ”it will insure the education of hundreds of children." If his vigorous mode of dealing with the rebels at New Orleans won for him from Southern traitors and their Northern sympathizers the name of” Beast Butler," this last act of his is even worse. Who does not know that education makes” Abolitionists?" And then to adopt the Massachusetts system, too!—"‘tis too horrible."
THURLOW  WEED'S  SCHEME. Thurlow Weed has written another of his crazy fool letters in favor of repealing the poor man's law, the Homestead Act. He might just as well spend his time in a blowing match against the West wind, as in trying to get that Western measure annulled. In the first place, the Senate will not pass a repealing bill; Second, The House dart not; Third, The President would veto it if passed, quicker than a streak of lightning; Fourth, The people would veto both President and Congress, if they committed such an act of suicidal folly.—Chicago Tribune.
COLORED PEOPLE ADMITTED TO THE FOURTH AVENUE CARS. The Board of Directors of the Fourth Avenue Line of City Railroad cars have rescinded their order excluding colored persons from the cars, so that, hereafter, white and black will be allowed equal privileges on this road. It is to be hoped that other companies who have made this distinction in regard to persons of color will follow the good example set by the Fourth Avenue line.—N. Y. Tribune.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, Feb. 26. About 63 out of the Union members of the. Legislature met in caucus, and passed a resolution saying that the people of Ohio and soldiers in the army demand the re-election of Abraham Lincoln. Before the adoption of the resolution, nearly all the Chase men had left the hall, and there were not at the time a majority of Union members present.
WRECK, OF ANOTHER OCEAN STEAMER. The steamship Bohemian, Capt. Borland, from Liverpool 4th, for Portland, struck on Alden's Rock. Feb. 22d, 4 miles outside of Cape Elizabeth, at about 9 P.M., heeled over, turned her head toward shore, and sunk in about an hour and a half, about 2 miles from shore outside of Richmond Island, having stove a hole in the engine compartment. The cabin passengers were saved, but one boat crowded with steerage passengers swamped along-side, and all on board perished. The cargo was valued at £200,000, mostly on Canadian account.
<c06>
CRISPUS ATTUCKS,
The Colored American Patristic Leader and Martyr,
MARCH 5, 1770
"The day which History selects as the dawn of the American Revolution” 
The Ninety-fourth Anniversary will be commemorated on Monday Evening next, March 7, (postponed from the 5th because occurring Saturday,) at the Meionaon, Tremont Temple, by exercises consisting old of declamations and dramatic selections, blended with choice vocal and instrumental music. The Histrionic department will be augmented by the first appearance here of Mr. James S. Spelman of New York, musical artists.. Mrs. Amanda, Scott Dutton, Mr. Frederick B. E. Lewis, and another favorite amateur, unless an imperative call out of the city prevents.
Doors open at 7. Exercises to commence at half-past 7. Tickets, 25 cents each, may be obtained at Oliver Dotson’s Music Store, 277 Washington Street; of R.V. F. Wall cut, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, and at the door. 
The patronage of the friends of freedom is respectfully solicited by WM. C .NELL. 
March 4, 1844.
1864.

LIBERTY AND UNION.-.—Rev. WM.S.HEYWOOD, of Mass., and AARON M. POWELL will address meetings in behalf of General Emancipation and a prohibitory Constitutional Amendment, at
Port Byron,  N. Y.,  Saturday,  March 5
““ Sunday,   March ,” 6
Weedsport,” Monday,    March,” 7.
Palmyra,  “  ,” Tuesday,   March,” 8. 
Macedon,” Wednesday,” 9.
“ Centre,” Thursday,” 10.
Waterloo,  “  ,” Saturday,  March,” 12
““ Sunday March,” 13.
Geneva,   “  ,” Tuesday, March” 15.
Seneca Falls,  “  ,” Wednesday, March” 16.
Auburn,  “   ,” Thursday,  March,” 17.
WM. A. JACKSON, (Jeff. Davis’s Coachman,) will speak in 
Quincy, Monday,  March 7.
Biddeford,   Wednesday.   “  ,” 9.
Lewiston,  Thursday,   “,” 10.
Augusta,   Friday,   “ ,” 11.
Bangor,   on the following week.
HENRY C .WRIGHT will speak in Florence on Sunday, March 6, all day and evening; in North Easton, Sunday, March 13, all day and evening.

MEDALLION OF JOHN BROWN.—The subscriber invites the attention of her friends and the public to a number of Medallions of JOHN BROWN, just completed by her, and which may be seen at rooms No. 89, Studio Building, Tremont Street. 
M. KDMONIAEDMONIA LEWIS
Boston, Jan. 29, 1864.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David  Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

THE BOSTON HBMPHEMP MANUFACTURING COMPANY hereby give notice, that their Capital Stock is seventeen thousand dollars, the whole of which has been actually assessed and paid in, and the whole amount of all existing debts, on the 1st of January., 1864, was eleven hundred and eleven 28-100 dollars, (1,111 28.)
 
ALBERT OG. BROWNE, President. 
WM. V. VINCENT, ,  }
ALBERT G. BROWNE, JR } Directors. 
ALBERT G. BROWNE,  }
Boston, January 30, 1864.

MASON & HAMLIN’S HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost-$—$85, $100, $110, $135., $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.

THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with successes, unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession on and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase, as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches,. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are: 
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2.It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments.
This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice necesssary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it is in an hour or two.
4 .It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music. 
5 .No instrument is a less liable to get out of order.
6 .It will remain in tune ten times as long as a plane forte. 
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem to them, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are web. such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.,.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher’s Church, Bran, Wels, Wileox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottachalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakoach, etc:.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be seat safely to any part of the country. 
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address. 
WAREOOMS, } 274 Washington Street, Boston,
, 7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26-—6m
 
THEODORE PARKER’SPARKER'S MEMOIRS, 
JUST PUBLISHED BY
S.R.URBINO, 
13 School Street, 
FOREIGN BOOK-STORE. 
Boston, Feb. 24, .1864. 

M.H. HARDY, 
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS, 
No. 10, Oliver Place, 
Out of Essex Street, between } BOSTON.
Oxford and Edinboro’ Sts 
40 THE LIBERATOR MARCH 4
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO THE NATIONS OVER THE SEA.
BY AUGUSTA COOPER KIMBALL.
What is the cause of the strife?” thought the nations over the sea;
The North and the South are children, that quarrel over their tea;
The South, with her fiery spirit, is only getting the crosser
At hearing the North protest that the cup belongs with the saucer.
“What is the cause of the strife?" thought the nations over the sea:
"They war in lack of wisdom, not agreeing to disagree:
Always at antipodes, after years of picking and hunting,
They go to battle at last over a simple piece of bunting.
“Or some other trivial thing’s at the bottom of this parade,
This glitter and glance of steel, and this roaring of cannonade;
Perhaps ‘tis a Southern pen, that across the one word ‘Union'
Indites a political creed abrogating close communion.
"Or, rather, a feud arising from vaunts of the civic month; The shovelry' of the North ‘gainst the’ chivalry’ of the South;
Or a schism that starts its line from municipal institution;
Or different interpretations of the letter of Constitution.
“If these are the points of strife," said the nations over the sea,
“We have a lot in the matter-for elder children are we; The duty becomes incumbent to shorten the long contention;
Our part assigned in the drama is the business of intervention.”
Have you guessed the cause of the strife, sister nations over the sea?
Have you caught a glimpse of Jehovah, and His lightning-written decree,
Glaring clear in the cloudy dun,-from the battle-smoke out-flashing?
Have you heard the voice of the Judge, over all the cannon’s crashing?
We're fighting to make them real-mock-excellencies of the past;
Heart-sick of hypocrisy’s badge, we are goaded to battle at last;
Here's one of our virtuous tokens-our starred tri-color; we take it,
And rather than live as it was, we will die for what we can make it.
In the easy days and the peaceful, could we wave that flag in the face
Of a single nation on earth, without feeling a pang of disgrace?
Oh, give us the pain and the loss, and the carnage that convulses,
With sincerity at the core, throbbing deep in Northern pulses!
Whatever the monarchies write, of the strife’s incipient stage,
Of the tinder that struck the fire of our soul's sublimest rage;
Whatever the cavillings are of our elders or our betters,
The arm of the North was nerved by the clanking of Southern fetters.
Our bickerings for a trifle the world may over-state;
Our patriot love at the centre may suffer under-rate;
Not patriotism cheap, that stops with one’s own nation,
But patriotism grand, that spheres a world’s salvation.
Is it the people’s doubt,-an idea too grand for the hour,
That our Northern sons are heroes for principle, not for power?
Was the thought too large for a man, or even too great for a nation,
To flash oat sabre and gun in the cause of emancipation?
FEEMONT, the truest and quickest, sprang out on Liberty’s track,
And LIKCOLN, slow but firmly, and never faltering back;
And his tardy hand reached forward,-dear hand,-to relieve the lowly,
And we love his lips for the words, that seemed to come too slowly.
Could you see our sable brother take his place in the battle’s van,
Not willing to live as a chattel, but ready to die as a man;
Could you see our Africa bare her scarred breast to the sword and rifle,
Wouldn't you say at the root of the matter there was something more than a trifle?
Would n't you say that the federal blood mirrored Jesus in every drop,
When it rose in a throb of passion, that the bondman’s woe might stop?
Would n't you say that the federal hand touched the nail-pierced hand of another,
When it dripped its generous crimson to redeem an outraged brother?
The histories coming after will not reckon the price too dear,
When this crushed and weakened sister in development shall appear;
When Africa-Prima Donna-moves along political stages,
A single queen, whose glory is the promise of future ages
In the noon of the dawning cycles, when the sword shall leave the sheath 
To be changed to a pruning-hook,-when God shall braid his national wreath,-
America, Europe, Asia, all as leaves and twigs, must enter;
But Africa as the glorious flower whose rich bloom crowns the centre.
Or she shall sit as a star, with a light that is all her own,
With beam magnetic attracting the compass of State and Throne;
While every kin, descendant, and tribe of the power that bound her,
Each at a limit respectful, in awe shall circle ‘round her.
And she, the bruised and the smitten, borne down with fetter and thong,
She shall be the Corypheus leading on the world’s grand song;
And the nations shall wait dumbly, their separate voices hushing,
To hear Earth’s new soprano in a river of music gushing.
Have we nothing noble to die for, ye nations over the sea?
Will ye call it inglorious venture, when Afric shall be free?
Ah, no! ye will give us place ever green in heroic story,
And strain to attain the summit of a like unselfish glory.
For the Liberator.

ALL ABOUT DE PRESIDENT.
No matter what dem fellers say,
Dem politishun gent,
I guess de peoples hab dere way
About de President!
Ole Fader Linkum take de lead,
In spite ob traitor din;
He ob dat creber kind ob breed
Dat allers bound to win.
He is, and be hab eber ben,
All dat a man should be;
And derefore all de loyal men
Will gib dere votes for he.
Some say dey vote for Genral Grant,
Because he fight so nice;
And Genral Banks, our garde avant
In Texas, for dere Vice;
Dat nonsense all! de Genral Grant
Hab work in Tennessee;
And Genral Banks de people want
For duty where he be.
Some nudder time de Genrals Grant
And Banks be is de van;
But now de tried man what we want-
Old Fader Abe’s de man.
I make my mind some time ago,
And neber hab repent,

<c02>
Best way to punish rebel foe,
STAND BY DE PRESIDENT!
When all de Traitors curse him hard,
And call him wicked name,
He just de man to be on guard-
Dat Butler, too, de same.
Between dem boff de rebels lose
All hopes to win de day,
And hab no udder way to choose
But hang, or run away.
Not hang dem poor white suddern boys-
Most on um know no more
Dan little chile dat play wid toys,
What dey be fighting for.
But hang dere guilty leaders-dose
Who drag dem out to fight;
And gib dere carcass to de crows-
Den ebry ting go right. 
Dis my opinion-spose I err,
I'se right to speak for one-
De Darkie and Ferlosifer
Knows more dan one alone.
 OLE CUFF.

The Libtrator. 
[Entered according to the act of Congress, in the year 1864, by CHARLES H. PEARSON, in the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.]
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of "Cousin Frank’s Household."
CHAPTER XXIII.
LELIA IN THE CONVENT.
When the imposing walls of the Convent rose before Lelia, it was as if she had been dreaming. Could it be that she, oft to light-hearted and happy, was now to be a recluse? How would she like this self-denying life? how bear the various mortifications and penances to which she must inevitably be subject? These and other kin-like questions filled her mind with forebodings as the high gates swung open, and the carriage drove up to a flight of side-steps. In the dim twilight the large edifice was magnified, and wore a more sombre grandeur, and she shrank from entering its precincts: it seemed to her so spectral and tomblike. The.Superioress noticed her depression, and, rightly interpreting the cause, kindly told her that she might have her room assigned her directly, before the evening meal, as no duty would be required of her that night. Lelia felt relieved when the ceremony of introduction was gone through with. There were sister Rose, and sister Mary, and sister Sophia, and so on, until thirty were enumerated. Lelia was presented as sister Ruth.
Everything was so new and strange, so unlike aught she had seen, that Lelia gave her eyes more license than was seemly. She thought mayhap the sisters might deem it sinful, for they walked demure and grave, with down-cast eyes. ”How can I ever learn to he a nun?" rose involuntarily, as she saw their studied repose of manner. And their dress,-black, cumbersome and forbidding,-she could not at once get reconciled to it. The Lady Superior’s was quite a study, as she had never seen their religious costume. A quaker like bonnet was covered with a black bombazine shawl, neatly fitted in front, and hanging loosely over the shoulders. A band of snowy linen passed under the chin, being fastened within the bonnet, and entirely hiding the hair. Beneath the shawl was a circular cape and wide linen collar, which added to the antique effect. The dress was of the same material as the shawl-full and flowing, with belt instead of bodice, and distinguished from the common nun’s attire by a sweeping train. A costly cross was suspended from her neck.
The Abbess exhibited much interest in the new comer. From the first, struck with her intelligence and beauty, she sought to make her early impressions of the nunnary as prepossessing as possible. While Leila’s room was preparing, she directed sister Sophia to show her some parts of her new home. She first took her to the chapel, occupying one of the wings. The vestal lamp was burning, and in the shadowy light everything looked magical and weird. Lelia started back as she entered. On a “kneeler” near the door was what seemed to be the statue of a nun. Prayer-book in hand, with no motion or semblance of life, it was some moments ere Lelia could divine if indeed it were a living, breathing being. It was one of the sisters at prayer, doing penance. A solemn awe filled the place. As they passed the altar, sister Sophia kneeled reverently, and kissed the crucifix. Elegantly framed pictures of saints looked down from the walls, their eyes fixed and glassy, and they appeared to follow the worshippers about, as if to guard their ways. Lelia felt constrained in their presence, so life-like did they seem. She instinctively rendered them the homage of a profound veneration. Venerable men and women there were among them, pilgrims who came late to their graves, like the shock of corn fully ripe.
“Oh, what a place to pray!" whispered Lelia to her new friend. The unbroken stillness, the shaded light, the gorgeously furnished altar, the “cloud of witnesses” all conspired to arouse devotion. The stranger felt her prejudices giving way. Tears flowed freely as she thought of the religious tone of the institution that had befriended her.
They lingered some time in the chapel, and when they turned to go, there kneeled the motionless nun, still holding the prayer-book before her eyes, as statuesque as when they entered. She was pale and wan, and the new guest felt like putting her arm about her, and coaxing her to some warm room, and persuading her to eat. All that night the vision of this religious haunted her; she wondered if she spent the night thus, and if she would not perish before the dawn.
As they returned to the sitting-room, they found the family of sisters ranged by the long work-table that extended through it. Each one sat in her appointed place, and before her was the neat work-box that held her embroidery. The Superioress sat at the head, and Lelia observed that her box was more elegant than the rest. As the sisters plied their needles, the Mother instructed them in their faith. She was an interesting speaker, often eloquent; and if any of the nuns were ignorant on points essential, it certainly was not her fault.
The hour for prayer came, and in procession, slow and measured, they went to the chapel to engage in the evening devotions.
Sister Sophia begged the Lady Superior to allow Lelia to share her room. This she graciously granted, and the two retired arm in arm, discoursing in low tones of the wondrous themes that inspired the conversation of the Abbess, whose mind, like the mainspring, moved all subject to its influence.
Months passed, and Lelia had become far better acquainted with the nunnery. In addition to the religious instructions of the Lady Superior, she had listened to the instructions of father Pierre. Her health had suffered from her sedentary habits as well as from her late trials, and she had lost in freshness of color and vivacity of manner; and often there would come irrepressible longings for a different life. She grew gloomy and depressed. In vain she regarded her desires for liberty as sinful temptations-in vain her fasting, and doing various other penances, to overcome them-they would rally, and return with reinforcements. The conflict was terrible, and her soul was torn with conflicting emotions.
She had been introduced to the little community under an assumed name; and as she was not allowed the privilege granted some of the sisters, of visiting the sick and instructing in the orphan school connected with the establishment, she was never seen by visitors.
With so much leisure for thought, Leila’s brain became morbidly busy. At times, dark fancies came

<c03>
over her, and in the depths of the gloom the longed for death. It was even whispered in her soul-dreadful deed!-to put an end to her own life! Then came up the loved image of little Willie, and life was sweet for his sake. She then had recourse to prayer, and aroused herself to more diligence in her avocations. Music was her only amusement, and she still made great proficiency in this noble science. Sometimes of an evening, as the nuns were ranged by the worktable, engaged in making garments, Dorcas-like, the Abbess would invite her to play. She had the strange power of speaking the plaintive imaginings, the high poetical conceptions of her heart, through the instrument; and seldom did she rise from the piano till all who had souls to listen were suffused with tears.
A gross and sinister looking priest, the very opposite of father Pierre, sometimes took his place in officiating at the convent. Lelia being most remarkable for beauty soon attracted his attention; and he often fixed his serpent-like eye on her, in undisguised admiration. She had now, if not before, real cause of unhappiness. It became her study how to avoid him. All the horrible things she had ever read or heard of “wolves” in “sheep’s clothing” came vividly to mind, and she dared not meet him alone at the confessional. 
She had ever some earnest excuse; and, finally, father O’Brian getting very angry, complained to the Mother Superior, who blandly assured him that he must be mistaken; that sister Ruth, she doubted not, would as soon confess to him as to father Pierre. At all events, she added, the sister should confess next morning. Lelia was informed of this arrangement, but when the time came was really unable to leave her room. A shuddering fear of evil, a sickening terror, working on her sensitive nature, had made her quite ill. She was excused from necessity, but informed authoritatively that she must attend confession as soon as possible. Father Pierre was absent on a journey, and she must not neglect duty, and lose the blessing on that account.
In a few days Lelia was better, but just as averse to obedience as ever. The Lady Superior reprimanded her severely, and imposed a painful penance, -telling her that she should increase it every day until she returned to her senses, and confessed to father O’Brian. “And why do you object?” asked the Abbess. Lelia weepingly expressed her aversion to the priest. 
“What a silly fancy is this!” exclaimed the Lady. “What nonsense fills your head? But you cannot be excused”-and the uniformly calm and self-possessed Lady became tempestuous with anger. Lelia shrank away from her, like the delicate flower before the tempest; but, alas! the storm was not soon to abate. “The young sister had resisted authority-had trampled on things held sacred-was a subject for discipline -must be made to yield!” So said the priest. A succession of mortifications and penances was imposed, designed to “crush her pride,” and make subservient that troublesome thing, the will-but to little seeming purpose. She went through with the prescribed forms, endured the penalties, but still dreaded the confessional. She spent hours and hours kneeling on the cold stone-pavement of the chapel; she was up before the dawn, industriously saying her accumulated quota of prayers; but it was of no avail-she was unwilling to confess until the return of father Pierre. Meanwhile, the frowns that clouded the Superior’s brow were terrific; it required no little moral courage to brave them; and what added not a little to poor Leila’s trial was that most of the sisters likewise frowned on her. She was quite sure the black-veil nuns were shocked at her course; but good sister Sophia, a novitiate like herself, pitied her, and said she did just right-low whispering in her ears, lest the walls betray her.
The stern ordeal was too much, and again she was ill-so ill that the Lady Superior relaxed her discipline, and not only allowed her the comfort of her room, but the attendance of sister Sophia, which was a great relief. As the invalid began to convalesee, the two exchanged thoughts more freely than they had ventured before.
Their chamber overlooked the garden, and it was pleasant to gaze on the neatly kept shrubbery, -the walks so well laid out and bordered with box, -the flowers and trees. But the garden was small comparted with Powhatan, and did not boast a solitary arbor.
Lelia made this unfavorable comparison soon after her arrival, and at once the regular airings she took with her companions, walking in staid procession, were tedious; and returning to her apartment, she would longingly look from her window on the green glades and groves, and wonder if she would visit them again. If discontented then, how much more so now!
Sister Sophia was deeply grieved and shocked when she found she was unhappy; yet her heart beat responsively. Gradually, and in the most guarded manner, they opened their hearts to each other.
“I am so glad I am plain,” Sophia on one occasion whispered, with her arms about Lelia’s neck; “it is your fatal beauty that has maddened father O’Brian. I am afraid he is n’t good, sister Ruth; and I’d do just as you do about meeting him at confession, if I died for it.”
“Oh,” replied Lelia, with a shudder, “did you ever see such eyes? I dread them more than the Lady Superior’s dark brow. Oh, what shall I do? what shall I do?”-and the wrong her hands in the agony of her distress.
“Indeed, I do not know,” rejoined Sophia, bursting into tears, “but do not mourn so, dear sister Ruth! We will pray to God, directly to God, and he will deliver you. It seems as if the saints would be in the way; I must pray to God for you.”
“Oh, that He would indeed interpose for us!” fervently said Lelia; “oh, that we might make Him our refuge in this evil time!”
“That dreadful Maynooth priest!” exclaimed Sophia. 
“I would never confess to him. How I wish father Pierre would come.”
“It was a favor I did not expect for the Superior to abate my penances for a time,” said Lelia.
“She acted wisely,” replied Sophia. “She is anxious to have us take the black veil, which we shall not be likely to do voluntarily, if treated too severely.”
“Yes,” said Lelia, “she has often urged me to take the step of a full consecration, as she terms it. But once, when she was eloquently descanting on the blessedness of a life devoted to acts of mercy and self-denial. 
I caught sister Rose-one of the black-veil sisters- looking earnestly on me. And, oh, such a look! it follows me yet. It seemed to say, Beware! beware! take not the irrevocable vow!”
“Poor sister Rose!” said Sophia, “how pale and sad she looks! And the Lady Superior always commends her prolonged fastings and self-imposed penances, when they are killing her. She grows weaker every day; she can scarcely mount the stairs. How dreadful to see her dying so young!”
“Do you think she wishes to live?” asked Lelia. 
“I do not see how she can,” replied Sophia, mournfully; 
“I have good reasons for knowing that she abhors her convent life, much as she punishes herself for this sinfulness. Her horrified, ghastly looks at times scare me.”
“But,” said Lelia, “the term of our novitiate is fast drawing to its close. I see nothing before us, as events move, but the dreaded veil-the pall of death!”
The two were silent for some time, as if overcome by the thought.
“Is there no help for us-no help?” at length asked Sophia. Must we spend our lives within these walls, shut out from all that is bright and beautiful? Look, sister Ruth, see how glorious the fields and groves are! Oh, for one more ramble among them!” 
“Are not such longings wicked?” asked Lelia, doubtingly. “The instructions of father Pierre, respecting the sanctity of the religious life, seem right; and I am not quite sure that we do not commit sin in turning again to the world.”
“I love good father Pierre,” replied Sophia, “and I believe his teachings are mainly correct. But he said it was designed that some persons, not all, should seclude themselves from the world, and give their attention to the duties of religion. But what right would he have to say that it is a duty required of you and

<c04>
me? It seems to me we should judge for ourselves on go important a point.”
“But how dreadful the maledictions of the church,” said Lelia,“ if, as the Lady Superior expresses it, we ‘ turn from the holy commandment delivered to us,’ to the ‘ beggarly elements ‘ I We shall be blighted with curses! Oh, I would not think of it, were it not that I so much dread father O’Brian! “
“ I have heard the Abbess talk much longer than yourself.” rejoined Sophia, “ and have become hardened to tome of her sayings, knowing that they are in the regular course of training novitiates. The process is to coax and frighten by turns. I’ve struggled with such doubts as yours, and I’ve prayed. Oh, sister Ruth, I do trust I hare prayed through the ‘ one Mediator,’ Jesus, and from him alone I get peace”— and tears of happy emotions glistened on her cheeks. “ My mother trusted in him,” she added at length; “ and although she died when I was an infant, I feel that her prayers follow me. Her grave is among the Blue Ridge mountains, sister Ruth, where I used to live. I often visited her resting-place—a holy spot to me, with the vine-clad trees bent mournfully over it, and the sweetest flowers loved best to bloom there. I used to take my work, and sit, and muse, and sing in low tones for hours. Oh, how I long to see my mother’s grave once more I “
“ I wish you could,” said Lelia.
“ My father died abroad,” continued Sophia, “ and I never could visit his burial-place; —this made my mother’s more dear. Oh, how I have clung to it! I was left an orphan very young, in the care of my mother’s brother, who was my guardian. The scenery about his place was lonely and grand, and I lived out of doors in the sunny hours. I learned skill in the Use of the bow and arrows; and never did Indian girl climb those mountains or thread the wild forests more lightly than I. O, the strange joy I felt in the dim old woods, hoary with the moss of centuries! The memory of it thrills me, like the voice of one I love. You wonder that I am here. At length, uncle decided that I must be educated. It was quite time I quit breaking colts, he said; and he doubted if I could be tamed and civilized in any place so well as in a nunnery. In vain were my objections; I was obliged to yield to his wishes, but I tell you, sister Ruth much as I loved my old haunts by the brooks, and the quiet garden nooks studded with sweet briar, I left them all with less regret than my mother’s grave. Oh it seems as if it were undutiful to forsake it! I ought to have my dwelling near that sacred place.”
The roommates were congenial, and often fount moments to sympathize and advise with each other Lelia gradually recovered, and the matter of confessing to father O’Brian was dropped for the present. Her studies, as well as Sophia’s, were laid out on the assumption that she was soon to take the black-veil; and although agonized at the thought of such a fate, yet they carefully suppressed their feelings, and the Lady Superior flattered herself they were “ free-will offerings.”
Lelia’s Bufferings were intense. If she remained in the convent, she must inevitably take the black-veil; if she left it, she might be seized as a slave. Day am night she pondered what to do. Oh, if she could only apply to Mrs. Brownlee for direction! But she was entirely shut out from all confidential communication with her. She found, on inquiring of the Lady Superior, that her dear instructress-had indeed written several times; but as there was nothing of interest to Lelia, she had not deemed it advisable to mention the reception of the letters. If Lelia wrote Mrs. Brownlee, it must first be read by the Lady Superior, and not a breath could she breathe of her troubles. She begged the Lady to allow her to see and kiss the dear handwriting, but she was repulsed with the assertion that she had her heart drawn towards earthly works. It was her duty to forget Mrs. Brownlee, and she was forbidden to mention her name.
“Do you ever write your friends? “ asked Lelia of Sophia.”Very seldom,” replied Sophia; “ I have but few, to tell the truth, and my uncle, who claims to be my best friend, would not receive one word of complaint from me. And why should he, if, as I suppose, he made me a nun that he might take possession of my fortune?”
“Is it possible! “ exclaimed Lelia; “ bow could he do such a deed? “
“Oh, this is a convenient mode of disposing of me, and avoiding the charge of murder. But it seems to me a perpetual murder. It is literally being buried alive,” said Sophia, bitterly.
As time went on, they were plied with religious tasks and observances perfectly Herculean. They went through them mechanically and guardedly, for they had finally decided to attempt escape. It mattered not what their employment—their thoughts were full of this great undertaking. If once free, they hoped to maintain themselves by teaching.
But escape was no trifling achievement. The convent buildings were enclosed by a wall, high and massive, and the front door was ever locked. For long weeks they labored in vain to devise some method of flight that promised the least hope of success. At length, however, the examination week came, and the first day of this season father Pierre and other divines arrived, and were to dine in the convent hall. Lelia and Sophia were aware that the front-door would be unlocked during dinner. The former feigned illness, and the latter begged permission to be absent from the table to attend her, which request was readily granted.
As soon as the household were seated, and the din of dinner had commenced, the two friends, taking the light ladder that led to the scuttle, noiselessly stole down stairs, out the street door, and scaling the wall were quickly in the highway. They now ran for dear life, scarce knowing whither, but had proceeded only half a mile when they were appalled by hearing the rumbling of wheels behind them.
“ Oh, we are discovered! What shall we do?” exclaimed Sophia, sinking to the earth in terror. Lelia, more self-possessed, stopped beside her, and, turning to see who the pursuer was, to her great joy found it was only a common hackman. She hailed him, and the two stepping into his vehicle, Sophia bade the driver take them to No. —, Street —, Washington, where lived her cousin. She had agreed will Lelia to spend the night there, and take the cars for Philadelphia the next day.
There was something in the runaway air of the young ladies that aroused the curiosity of the driver. He knew from their dress that they were nuns, but this only served as an incentive to comply with their bidding, and drive furiously. They had already two miles to go, when a gentleman stopped the hack, to be taken to Gadsby’s Hotel, Washington. In a short time, the carriage drew up before the establishment, and the gentleman said to the driver,—
“ Just step in, driver, before I get out, and inquire if Hon. Hugh Nelson is stopping here.”
“ He is now going in to dinner,” replied the hackman.
A dimness came over Lelia’s eyes as she felt that all hope of escape was lost.
The driver let down the steps, and at the same time spoke to Mr. Nelson, informing him that some one in the back wished to see him. Mr. Nelson stopped and looked in. The stranger had arisen to get out, but the keen eyes of the former met the averted face of Lelia, and he exclaimed, —
“Bless my soul! How’s this? Do my eyes deceive me? No, it is, it is my lost Lelia! “ —and he was almost wild with joy.
Quickly recovering himself, he turned to the astonished gentleman, and told him that he would see him another time; and directing a servant to bring his trunk from his room, stepped into the coach, saying kindly to Lelia, who was weeping, that he would accompany her directly home to Powhatan. He then ordered the driver to take them to the steamer lying in the Potomac, shortly to leave for Alexandria. On the way to the boat, the hack roan left Sophia, as directed, at her relative’s door.
Mr. Nelson was touched as he saw Lelia still weep-

<C05>
ing, and tenderly sought to soothe her, assuring her that no harm should befal her—she should be mistress of Powhatan, and do as she pleased. Nevertheless, the spirit-crushing thought, that she was in very deed a slave, came over her in ail its bitterness. How dread the prospect before her! She almost longed to be safely back in the convent.

REMINISCENCE OF GEORGE THOMPSON'S FIRST VISIT TO THE UNITED STATES.
LETTER FROM MRS. CHILD.
To the Editor of The National Anti-Slavery Standard:
The return of George Thompson to our shores wakens a host of slumbering recollections within me. I wish I could hope to be ever again so much excited and lifted up with grand emotions, as I was by his spirit stirring eloquence, thirty years ago. But that cannot be. Even if Mr. Thompson’s power is undiminished by time, something has gone from myself in the course of those thirty years of hope long deferred. A man cannot read the Arabian Nights, or Robinson Crusoe, with the  same zest with which he devoured them as a boy; and I can testify, from experience, that a heart which has been cut, and bruised, and trampled on, by the experiences of sixty years, cannot thrill over the pages of Waverly and Ivanhoe as it did when only a score of winters had  engraved their memories there.
I count it a glorious privilege to have lived, and been in my prime, when George Thompson went ”lecturizing about the country” as an admiring farmer expressed it. I never till then heard anything which came up to my idea of genuine eloquence. I heard Webster and Wirt in a great controversy, when it was said they both put forth their best powers. Webster made magnificent points, and impressed me as an intellectual giant, not over scrupulous how he used his strength. Wirt attracted me greatly by the gracefulness of his language, and the richness of allusion which showed how the waves of literature had flowed over and fertilized his mind. Everett I also heard in my youth, years before he elicited that keen sarcasm from John Randolph for defending Slavery in the Hall of Congress. It was years before I had thought anything about that vexed question,” and to so tar from having his name unpleasantly associated in my mind, I went with eager expectation to hear the man who was reputed the greatest orator of the day. He has since been called “" the king of rhetoric,”," and the phrase precisely describes the impression he then made upon me. The smooth gliding of the words was pleasant to the ear, but not one of them reached my heart, or stirred my mind. I went away with the feeling that I had been entertained with garlands nicely carved in marble, not composed of the fragrant and variously -tinted flowers of field and garden. Very long afterward. I chanced to hear Theodore Parker describe this same rhetoric. Alluding to the approaching festival on Bunker Hill, where Mr. Everett and Mr. Mason of Virginia, author of the Fugitive Slave Bill, were to declaim their pieces in praise of liberty., Mr. Parker said: “" Next week, there will be beard upon Bunker Hill that most foolish of all noises, —the human voice when it means nothing, comes from nowhere, and goes to the place it came from.”."
Not so with George Thompson. His. unstudied utterance welled up from the depths of his large, warm heart, and therefore went directly to the hearts of those he addressed. His power was perhaps even greater, though in a different way, over those who were prejudiced against his principles, than it was over those who sympathized with him. He went electrifying round the country, while be he was” "lecturizing;”;" and as he rubbed the fur the wrong way on the domesticated wild-cat, which our public speakers were accustomed to pat and stroke so tenderly, be made the sparks fly in a remarkable manner.
I was present in Julian Hall, Boston, on the 1st of August, 1835, when he delivered an address in commemoration of the first anniversary of British Emancipation. There were usually many Southerners in the city at that season of the year; and rumors were afloat that they were drilling a mob to seize Mr. Thompson, and carry him to the South, where they could lynch him more thoroughly than they could venture to do even in the city of Boston, then so loyal to the slaveholding interest. I had been in the Hall but a short time when it began to be filled rapidly with haughty looking men in fine broadcloth, accompanied by a retinue of truck men, with shirt sleeves rolled above the elbow, and hands armed with clubs and large horsewhips. Mr. Thompson showed no sign of being intimidated. On the contrary, he poured forth a lava-torrent of eloquence more scorching than I ever heard, before or since. He spoke of Slavery as a system of brute force, disgraceful to an enlightened age and to nations professing Christianity; a system, which betrayed its weakness by resorting to, bludgeons as its only weapons against rational arguments.
 I watched the slaveholders who were present, and never have I seen countenances so expressive of rage. Their teeth were firmly set, and their hands clenched. Now and then, signals passed between them and their attendant truckmen, and not a few muttered oaths were heard. “" Damn you!”!" exclaimed one,”, " if we had you down South, we’d cut off your ears.”." Mr. Thompson paused, looked calmly toward the place whence the voice proceeded, and replied,”," If you did, sir, I would still call out, He that hath ears to bear, let him hear!”? Perhaps they respected the brave man in their hearts, for they sat and listened as if spell-bound, though with clenched fists and occasional ejaculations of “" Damn the Englishmen!”!" Mr. Thompson took the passionate oath for a text, whence he derived the lesson that it was salutary for nations to rebuke and exhort each other; inasmuch as both individuals and communities were apt to go on heedlessly in the commission of wickedness or folly, blinded by the force of habit and tradition, so that they could not see their own errors so plainly as those who were unconnected with them. He invited them to go England, and freely point out whatever they deemed faulty in Church or State. One of the audience called out, “" England introduced slavery into this country.” “." "I know it,”," replied Mr. Thompson, “" and I am sorry for it. But it was done in a less enlightened age, and you have since chosen to pot away many other things which England introduced. You have copied her in her sin; copy her repentance!”!" He then went on to state how well the emancipated slaves behaved, that life and property were perfectly safe, and that a new era of general prosperity was already beginning to dawn on the islands which had been almost beggared by Slavery. The pro-slavery portion of the audience occasionally broke in with audible mutterings, of which the most frequent were, “It’s all a lie!” “It’s!" "It's all a damned lie!”!" But he went calmly on with his chain of reasoning and his exposition of facts. “" These things are true,”," said he. “" They are published throughout Great Britain, and proved by official documents. But who republishes them in this country? Do the newspapers of Richmond publish them? No! Of Philadelphia? No! Of New York? No! Of Boston? No! There is a systematic misrepresentation and suppression of the truth on this important subject by the press North and South." He concluded with a scathing description of the utter meanness of Slavery, and stripped all to rags the decorations of a chivalry that scourged women and sold babies. An uproar arose, and increased so much as he be went on that he be was obliged to raise his voice to the utmost to make himself heard. But his mouth could pour forth an immense volume of sound, and it rushed then like the waves of Niagara. When he ceased, there was a great whispering and quick motions among the slaveholders and the truckmen in their employ. The Abolitionists, having been previously warned of danger, had made arrangements to avoid it. Some twenty or thirty women, of whom I was one, went upon the platform to shake hands with Mr. Thompson, and t hank him for his eloquent and courageous outpouring of truth. Some have of the mob approached, as if to reconnoiter; but I heard them saying, “" Let him alone till the women are out of the way.”."
Julian Hall had two doors. The public one opened on Milk street. But there was another, which communicated with a warehouse that opened, I think, on Federal street. This door, having been long unused, was concealed by a large curtain, in front of which was the speaker’s desk. Few persons were aware of the existence of a door behind the curtain. On this occasion it was unlocked, and a friendly sentinel was stationed on the outer side. In Federal street, near the door of the warehouse, was a carriage with swift horses, and a driver who could be trusted. The object of the women was to keep Mr. Thompson apparently engaged in lively conversation, and to follow him as he moved along gradually, till he came to the place where he could slip behind the curtain. Pres- 

<c06>
ently he disappeared; but the slave holders and their rabble, supposing there was no possible egress there, stood watching for his re-appearance; and the women remained huddled together, as if they also were waiting for him. My heart, meanwhile, throbbed so violently, that I felt as if I should sink upon the floor. But we did not sink, any of us. Suspicious were soon awakened, and there was a violent rush down stairs and out into the street. We remained waiting for news, in an agony of anxiety. At last, our excellent and well-beloved friend, Samuel J. May, returned to the Hall. He was very pale, and his voice trembled, as he said to us, in a low tone, “"Thank God, he is safe!”!"
Our mission being accomplished, we passed down the stairs, which were lined on either side by truck men brandishing their whips. We were greeted by divers maledictions on the Abolitionists and the “niggers,”" couched in the usual elegant phraseology of pro-slavery. A carriage stood at the door, with the step down, and surrounded by the slave holders I had seen gnashing their teeth in the Hall. Some Bostonians were there also. But they would be rather ashamed to have their names mentioned now. In these days, “the extinguishers" themselves are on fire.”." So, “ "let bygones be bygones.” We were informed that the slaveholders had the carriage in readiness to convey Mr. Thompson to a boat, which was to take him to a vessel about to sail immediately to South Carolina.
The Boston papers, the next day, took part with the slaveholders, called Thompson a coward, and made themselves merry at the expense of the “"female militia,”, " as they styled them. Pro-slavery has always shown itself wonderfully manly and witty in its sayings and doings. The day was a painful one to me, not only on account of my extreme anxiety for the safety of Mr. Thompson, but because I felt deeply grieved and ashamed to see old Massachusetts so basely subservient to the vilest despotism that ever disgraced the earth. But it was one of the most exciting experiences of my life, and the slight services I rendered is one of my pleasantest reminiscences.
Mr. Thompson has done more perhaps than any other man to turn the tide of public opinion it in England in favor of the United States, since the blood geons of slaveholders have been turned against the too-conciliating government of their own country. God bless him for his efforts! and God bless the honest, kindly, freedom-loving common people of England!
I have written these recollections of our old times with the hope that it may stimulate others to record theirs.
Yours for truth, freedom, and progress, in all directions,
L. MARIA CHILD.

GEORGE THOMPSON—---OUR CAUSE IN ENGLAND.
We had the pleasure, last week, of listening to an address by George Thompson, of England, the famous advocate of freedom in this country, and the true exponent of the American struggle among his own people. As we had never seen him before, we were interested in hearing what one would say, who had been reported to us as a violent and bitter satirist of the American government on account of its toleration of slavery. Having heard him., we can only wonder at the infatuation and intolerance of those persons who, on his former visits, greeted him with mob violence, and even desired his annihilation. Nor was there that lordly pomposity about the distinguished M. P. we had been led to expect. And besides, he showed what can be found in very few Englishmen, a thorough knowledge of the workings of all our governmental machinery, and a clear idea of all the processes by which the great rebellion had been nourished into life, and of the animus of the policy and the practice of both contending parties. And rarely have we found a more magnanimous critic. With the profound hatred of human oppression, he yet acknowledged the great difficulties our government had been obliged toot contend with to secure the practical emancipation of the slave; and no man, English or American, ever entertained a more just appreciation of the character of Abraham Lincoln. He extolled our President for being what he was, coming up from the honest craftsman, rail-splitter, and lawyer’s clerk, to the Chief Magistracy of this great and glorious nation:; and he honored him in the highest for his successive and successful measures by which he had endorsed the entire freedom of the District of Columbia, the freedom of the territories, and the prospective freedom of all the slaves in the Republic.
Mr. Thompson’s manners are earnest and sincere. He is now in his 60th year, with a rather delicate frame. His utterance is simple, candid and unaffected, and in all his denunciation there is not a particle of bitterness. The audience that greeted him at Music Hall, Boston, was very large, brilliant and enthusiastic. The hearty and prolonged applause that greeted him on taking the platform evidently affected him. For some moments he stood as if unable to proceed; and then his first sentence was, “,"I thank God that I have lived to see this day!”!" In these few words he revealed his character to us, and the marvellous changes that have been wrought among us since his first and his later visit to this country.
But Mr. Thompson's best work, as we conceive, has been wrought in our behalf in England. With his accurate knowledge of our affairs, he has been enabled to meet the champions of the “"Southern Confederacy,”," and expose all their schemes and their false logic. Indeed, the favorable attitude which England has now assumed towards this country is due, in no small degree, to the timely discussions and explanations of the American question by George Thompson and his compeers, who have followed the minions of Jeff. Davis from the start; and by enlightening the people in relation to the true state of our public affairs, have kept the mass of them true to the sentiments of the North, and alive to the utter recklessness and hypocrisy of the Southern leaders. It was true, Mr. T. said, that the modern monarchists and aristocrats were on the side of the South, because they wish tote see our Government humbled and crushed; but the great mass of honest, thinking and working men were always with us; and even among the men of letters and statesmen we had most worthy champions, such as the talented John Stuart Mill, and the eloquent and glorious John Bright Our cause lost much at first he said, because it was everywhere represented that we were fighting only for empire, with no thought of justice or liberty:; the Southern agents and the London Times, which they had early gained to their service, zealously striving to give this impression. But, since President Lincoln’s glorious proclamations under the war power had revealed clearly the nature of the contest, the rebel cause could no longer be popular in England; and be he doubted not we should have the sympathy of her people to the end.
Such, briefly, are our impressions of Hon. George Thompson, and of his good services for us in his Motherland; an«l d it is therefore meet that he should receive, as he does, a hearty welcome from our people; for it is not only as a sentimentalist and as agitator that he has shown himself, but as a hearty and efficient worker to overcome our enemies, and a thorough appreciator of the difficulties that best this nation in its great struggle for Human Rights. He has worked and waited long, and now fails not to see how all things and parties have contributed to the ultimate good. If there were a few scores of such statesmen at the head of affairs in the Old World, Injustice and Wrong could not prevail in its counsels, and Wars would thus become impossible. But it is through Evil that we must often travel to Good, and through desolating Wars to blessed Peace. Let us work, and have faith.—Cape Cod Republican.

THE PROBLEM SOLVED!
AN intensely interesting work, arguing the inevitable and only just solution of the relations of the White and Negro races on this continent. It may be starting to some, but it is TRUE, and is being demonstrated by every day’s events. Wendell Phillips said, “"I have no hope for the future, as this country has no past and Europe has no past, but in that sub lines mingling of races which is God’s own method of civilizing and elevating the world.” It" Its is entitled 

“MISCEGENATION.”."
It unfolds a Future for this country hardly dreamed of as yet by its people, as the result of the recognition of the brotherhood and social and political rights of the Negro. It treats of the relations of the Irish and Negro, <illegible> Ideal of Beauty in Woman, Secret of Southern Superiority, The Type Man a <illegible>, The Future NO White, No Black, &c.
Address AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, 121 <illegible> Street, New York, successors to Tousey & Dexter Ham<illegible> ilton. Price, 25 cts.
New York, Feb. 3.
