THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concern of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five events per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Country are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.50. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1863. WHOLE NO.1714.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
In our advertising, columns this morning will be found a notice of the Third Decade Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, to be held in Philadelphia, on Thursday and Friday of next week. The occasion must needs be one of great interest, not only to the members of the society, but to an immensely large class of persons who for the last two years have been, by the force of events, compelled to consider that great system which has so absorbed the attention and the persistent efforts at its removal of the early abolitionists. The time has not yet come, perhaps, for a candid and truthful history of the movement of these reformers, for even their name is yet a by-word and a reproach, an ever ready shibboleth wherewith to arouse the prejudices of the unthinking and the ignorant. But that they have played an important part in the events of the past thirty years, that they have been governed by very pure and noble motives, that they have been gifted by a clear insight into the future, and that among them have always been men and women of the highest order of character and commanding intellect, are truths which the blindest begin to see. That their organization has held together under the most trying circumstances, never forgetting its original design-the abolition of slavery by appeals to the moral instincts and the religious principles of the nation-is certainly a remarkable fact in the political and social history of this people for the last third of a century. Their third Decade Meeting, therefore, is an event which it is impossible to look upon with in-difference, or to pass by as an insignificant event.-Tribune.
The members of the abolition society propose a jubilee over the results of their efforts to destroy the Union. The above notice, praising them and their treason, is not surprising, but it is not precisely true as history. The memory of the abolition work is instructive, for it is not yet too late to interpose for the preservation of the noble structure which unholy hands have well-nigh torn down. And it is instructive. also, because we may learn from it the danger which is always before us, so long as we remain a free, self-governing people-namely, the danger of permitting sectional and fanatical views of morals to become an element in our political struggles.
The abolitionists might have remained for centuries harmless to any one but themselves, had they not become the tools of wily politicians. The freedom of speech and doctrine which prevails in our country by no means endangers it, if the people are wise enough to forbid the introduction of treason-able doctrines like those of the abolitionists into the political arena. But can they prevent it? There is the question and there the danger.
We remember very well when there was a great division of the abolition society in the country. The old moral-suasionists, led by Garrison, might have gone on twaddling for a thousand years and would have been of no account in the moral or political world. But about 1841, or a little later, a certain set of keen men saw the prospect of turning abolitionist to political account, and introduced the doctrine that it was the duty of abolitionists to go into politics and vote for their own candidates. Garrison and his allies opposed this most fiercely. They had maintained that no man could vote in this country without, by the very act, 'giving in his adherence to "the league with death and covenant with hell," namely, the Constitution, and that it was their duty as consistent men to refuse all acknowledgment of that infamous instrument. The politicians, however, saw spoils and plunder in the future, and were not to be put down by the frowns or the indignation of the old fogies. We recollect when the split occurred in an anniversary meeting in New York, that Mr. Garrison cursed the opposition, or seceding party, with intense bitterness, and such billingsgate as abolitionists only know how to use. "I brand you as a traitor," was one of his expressions applied to the leader of the secession. From this time the abolition movement began to be the tool of politicians having in view the vilest ends, and ready to use the vilest weapons to accomplish those ends.
The progress was insidious but the result was deadly. The organization of the abolition party, its now growth, till it became a balance of power party in some neighborhoods, the introduction of the anti-slavery question in to national politics, and then the bargaining and selling of anti-slavery votes to control State and general elections, all went on until the power of the conspirators became absolute. The old fogies long ago yielded, and came into the plot of the politicians.
Who can read the mild and graceful compliments bestowed on those men by the Tribune without astonishment, that we have arrived at a time when black can be called white, and sin eulogized as holiness? In the record of the abolition work in this country there is nothing of benevolence to be seen, everything of crime and violation of law. The Political party which espoused the abolition cause was compelled to close its eyes to the most hideous crimes in the history of our country. Passing by the mere fact that the stealing of slaves from their master was the only plan of operation at first desired for removing slavery, we perceive the spirit of the of the whole movement in the organization of the John Brown raid, and his murderous attack on the peaceable men, women and children of Virginia, approved by the abolitionists, excused by their political allies, and finally rejoiced in and commended by a large part of the Republican party, who sing songs to-day in their churches as well as in their political gathering in praise of the murderer's memory. Since the war began, abolitionism has thrown off all masks, and appears in its natural colors and character, counselling the most barbarous styles of warfare, urging slave insurrections and all their attendant horrors, sending strong-minded women around the country to preach the reign of blood and terror, exhibiting towards the enemy the most savage, vindictive, and malign an spirit, prolonging the war by every possible means, until it shall, as they hope, become a war of extermination against the South, burning and destroying every evidence of civilization and every particle of property belonging to a Southern man. At this moment the wail of fifty thousand starving negroes, on the Mississippi banks, ascends to heaven, piercing the sky with an agony that would never have been known on earth but for the crime of the abolitionists. In the name of benevolence they have given starvation, disease, and death to the poor black man. When he asks for tread it is not a stone they give him, but it is poison. Every separate negro woman and child, now gasping in the last anguish of life on those miserable shores, will bear to the throne the evidence of another accomplished work of these men, whether fanatics or fools; nor will all the good they have ever accomplished, put together and weighed, be enough to balance the pain of one dying negro child, unsheltered in the storm that last night poured its cold rain on his head, while he lay perishing where the abolitionists led and left him.
It is something more than absurd, it is hideously grotesque, to hear the New York Tribune coolly
<c02>
talking about the "moral instincts and religious principles" of the men who have not only plunged the nation into war, but who have, beyond the possibility of denial, brought untold horrors on the thousands of poor negroes to whom they pretended to give "boon of liberty."
Let us turn to the written record and see what these "men and women of the highest order of intellect," "governed by very pure and noble motives," have said and done. We will not quote the song "Tear down the flaunting lie," which has been so often printed in our columns as illustrating their patriotism, but we go back to a favorite resolution adopted at their annual meetings year after year. On May 1, 1848, for example, at the Tabernacle in New York, the American Anti-Slavery Society, on motion of Wendell Phillips, adopted the following resolution declaratory of their faith and practice:-
Resolved, That recognizing, as we do, with profound gratitude, the wonderful progress our cause has made during the last eighteen years, and yet considering the effort now making to impress the community with the idea that the church and the land can and will abolish shivery by its own virtue, and that the parties are able and willing to grapple with the evil, this society deems it a duty to reiterate its convictions, that the only exodus for the slave out of his present house of bondage is OVER THE RUINS OF THE PRESENT AMERICAN CHURCH AND THE PRESENT AMERICAN UNION.
Very "pure and noble motives" indeed! Did they ever change or vary these treasonable designs? 
This resolution declares their hostility to our religion and our government, their impiety and their treason both. We could produce hundreds like it then and since. Read the following, adopted in this State in December, 1859, only a year before secession:-
Whereas, The dissolution of the present imperfect and inglorious Union between the free and slave States would result in the overthrow of slavery and the consequent foundation of a more perfect and glorious Union without the incubus of slavery, therefore
Resolved, THAT WE INVITE A FREE CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE DISUNIONISTS OF THE SOUTH, IN ORDER TO DEVISE THE MOST SUITABLE WAY AND MEANS TO SECURE THE CONSUMMATION SO DEVOUTLY TO BE WISHED. 
Very "pure and noble motives" indeed! We recall the speeches of these "men and women of the highest order of character." We remember when one Remond said, "remembering that he was a slaveholder he could spit upon Washington," and "so near to Faneuil Hall and Bunker Hill was he not to be permitted to say that that scoundrel George Washington had enslaved his fellow men?" Which speech Mr. Wendell Phillips followed, saying, "Washington was a sinner. It became an American to cover his face when he placed his bust among the great men of the world." In April, 1862, at Albany, Parker Pillsbury, one of the bright and shining lights of abolitionism, said in a speech, "I do not wish to see this government prolonged in its present form. I have been for twenty years at-tempting to overthrow the present dynasty. The Constitution never was so much an engine of cruelty and crime as at the present hour. I am not rejoiced at tidings of victory to the Northern arms; I would far rather see defeat," &c. Another of these men" of the highest order of character," Mr. Stephen F. Foster, said in a convention at Boston last year, "I have endeavored to dissuade every young man I could from enlisting, telling them that they were going to fight for slavery." (Mr. Foster was not arrested by the War Department, though scores of men, not abolitionists, were arrested just then on suspicion of discouraging enlistments.) Wendell Phillips himself said in public last year, "I have labored nineteen years to take nineteen States out of the Union; and if I have spent any nineteen years to the satisfaction of my Puritan conscience, it was those nineteen years." And Wendell Phillips was received on the floor of the Senate with distinguished courtesy by the Vice President! On the 16th May, 1862, the Essex County Anti-slavery Society, in Massachusetts, gave to the public the following resolution:
Resolved, That the war, as hitherto prosecuted, is but a wanton waste of property, a dreadful sacrifice of life, and worse than all, of conscience and of character, to preserve and perpetuate a UNION AND CONSTITUTION WHICH SHOULD NEVER HAVE EXISTED, and which by all the laws of justice and humanity, should, in their present form, BE AT ONCE AND FOREVER 
OVERTHROWN.
We need not extract more from the record. Traitors in heart, for years they plotted the overthrow of the government. Unscrupulous politicians used them as tools, and they willingly sold themselves to be used for such ends as we see accomplished. We agree with the Tribune, though for different reasons, that their "third decade meeting is an event which it is impossible to look upon with indifference, or to pass by as an insignificant event." On the contrary, it will deserve notice as the astonishing exhibition of an open assemblage of exultant traitors, rejoicing over the well-nigh accomplished ruin of their country; an assemblage of pretended philanthropists holding a congratulatory meeting, while the despairing cry of fifty thousand men and women and children, whom they had led to starvation and death, salute the very stars above them! Yes, it will be a noteworthy meeting.-Journal of Com. 

NATIONAL CONVENTION.
The following is a copy of a, circular which has lately been sent to prominent men throughout the loyal States:- 
NEW YORK, Nov. 9, 1863.
Dear Sir,-You are respectfully invited to attend a Convention to be held at Cincinnati, Ohio, on the 3rd day of December next, at 12 M., for the purpose of consultation, and taking such action as may be deemed most effective to secure the nomination and election of Conservative men in the approaching Presidential campaign. The meeting will be composed of Old Line Whigs, War Democrats, Conservative, men, without regard to former, party predilections-friends of Jackson, Webster Clay and Crittenden, who desire to preserve the Union and the Constitution unimpaired-who are willing to take their stand upon the Kentucky Plat-form, opposed alike to secession and abolition fanaticism-who believe that the war should be carried on till those in armed revolt are compelled to obey the Constitution and the laws of Congress, and who hold that the State Governments suspended by the revolt should be restored under their State Constitutions respectively. All such persons are invited to be present. The meeting will be held under the auspices of the "National Conservative Union Committee," appointed at the recent Rochester Convention, of which the venerable patriot, Amos Kendall, is Chairman, that Committee having been called to meet at the same time and place. In his letter to the Secretary, Mr. Kendall writes-" The only sure platform for patriotic men who love the Union, is 
<c03>
the Constitution as it is." "With the gentlemen whose names you mention (members of the Committee), I am prepared to cooperate in the attempt to unite the Conservative elements of the country in the next Presidential election, and it seems to me no time should be lost in determining upon a line of policy to be steadily pursued henceforth." Persons arriving to attend the meeting will please report their names to the National Committee at the Burnett House. Enclosed please find the proceedings of the Rochester meeting. Your presence is early solicited, that we may have the benefit of your counsel. By order of the Committee:
R. F. STEVENS, Secretary,
105 East 49th street, New York.

Selections.
THE WORK TO BE DONE. 
The great work for this Congress to do is to lay the foundation for the new Union which is to follow this war. There will be a great number of lazy and bungling impracticable who will insist that the structure shall be built upon the cracked stones and with the charred timbers of the old edifice; nay, who will even protest against the injustice of not calling in, as architects and master workmen, the incendiaries who have burned, and the robbers who have plundered it. We look to Congress and the President for protection against the advice of these incapables. If the President fails us, let Congress stand firm; if Congress falters, may the President's purposes be strengthened. With the co-operation of both, we shall be safe, even though, for the sake of peace and the carrying of the elections faithless Secretaries are kept in the Cabinet until March 1865. No Republican member of Congress needs to be advised as to specific measures. If any one of them lacks clearness of vision and of instinct, let him inquire which side of the question the mass of the Republicans are on, and note how unanimously the Copperheads are insinuating their advice to go the other way; and he will have no difficulty in steering straightly, if he be an honest man. "Stand by your friends," is a good motto for Congress-men. Weigh, not count, the votes which make up public opinion; that is, if the numeration is apparently against the right. There can be no question that the moral and intellectual power of this country, which must eventually carry it over mere numbers, is overwhelmingly against any settlement of the great controversy which does not make certain the absolute and total destruction of slavery. If this is not so, we must make it so. But it is so. Never did duty make a clearer appeal to citizen and public officer. No honest man of Republican principles can doubt it, and there will be no possible excuse for disregarding the mandate. The contemptible plea of the optimist that "slavery has received its death-blow," and therefore he will not strike it, will not excuse any man. As well might the sheriff stand excused for opening the prison doors to the condemned murderer, and pleading in extenuation that the culprit was so badly out of health, that a Life Insurance Company would not take a risk on him. If the institution has got its death-blow," so much the easier is it to kill it now. If it has not, let not Congress adjourn without giving it-on its peril! No matter what the blow is given with. Military necessity, civil necessity, constitutional amendment, statute law, proclamation,-take the weapon that is at the same time the nearest and the most fatal, and above all, don't quarrel as to which it shall be. As heavy a blow may be struck with the flail of the farmer as with the saber of the soldier.-Common-wealth.

CHANGED ASPECTS OF OPINION.
Who can look back as far as three years and contemplate the prestige of slavery as it then stood, ostensibly with the moral support of the nation, in the attitude of constitutional supremacy, all its fastenings clinched by long usage, and, we may say, sanctified by the imposing forms of religion, and then look on its present crumbling aspects, its "casemates" torn open, its walls level with the sea, and the negro standing full armed under the national flag, a man and a soldier-who can contemplate this marvellous change and say that the President would have done better to have done differently! We accept affairs as they are. Facts are more influential than theories. The bayonet, to-day, in the hands of the black slave of yesterday! There is a gospel in the fact that cannot be improved by disputation.
Slavery, technically and constitutionally, still exists in five of the old states. The action of the government has not. been to destroy it, but rather to stand by and see that no meddling hand has touch-ed its mortar. By inherent decomposition its mortar has crumbled, and the stones that were the chief of its corners are fallen apart. Technical and constitutional slavery is an exploded shell; before its fuse was ignited it was a terrific and fearful instrument; but now its fragments lie around, harmless and disregarded. Not a thousand Taneys can restore its old shape. Not a thousand constitutions can recompact it in its old body. Even political dogs are ceasing to fight over its bones. 
Slavery, economically and commercially, is as dead as an Egyptian mummy! We see, with more laughter than astonishment," atrocious judges" wrapping fold on fold of their intellectual cloth around the black carcass, and smoothing and parting their manuscripts about it, as the priests of Sesostris did with the disgusting bodies now encased in Barnum's Museum. But will that keep it or them out of their death-niches? They will stand together longer, because types are more enduring than pyramids. Labor, the fact is, as it now stands created by the freedmen's hands, has killed all the theories of the slavery economists. How stands labor to-day? The President of the United States is the overseer of the vast field of black muscle, commanding it to work with his voice, defending it against oppression by his arms, investing it with manhood by his edicts, and enlightening it with knowledge by his schools. He has given it a sword, to be henceforth the companion of the hoe. He says to the cotton of the slave-fields "wither," and to the negro "bloom;" and it is as be says. 
It was natural that the factory-owners of Manchester should howl their disappointment at the stoppage of their cotton market, which so long kept down at the same time the moral sense of England and America. But that point also is turned, never to trouble us again. The commercial prestige of slavery in England is demolished. Her economists are exploring new fields for raising the fibre in Africa, as France is in Mexico, with whatever result, still to the gain of free labor. With peace and order restored, the negro of the United States, having possession of unequalled soil in his indigenous latitudes, and already master of the culture, will keep his market the first in the world. The genius of the
<c04>
"Yankee" will substitute machinery for hand-labor, good implements for bad, intelligence for stupidity, and the superiority of cotton to all other tissues will not long be left without demonstration. That miserable system of forced labor which made it inevitable for the South to fall into periodical bankruptcy will no longer hang about the neck of northern commerce, involving it in its own failure. 
Slavery stands at the doors of our national treasury to be bought up! Shall we buy it? If so, and it shall appear in a few short months that the sellers of it are the richer for being rid of it, get more produce from their lands, live more securely and happily, enjoy more comforts and luxuries, for what shall we have taxed future generations with an oppressive debt? If we buy out slavery let us have a lien on the trade. If the masters quadruple the value on their lands which they have parted with in selling their slaves, shall we still swell our national debt-more properly their debt, by giving them a bonus of some hundreds of millions? But have we not already paid the states of Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Maryland and Delaware, twice or thrice the value of their slaves in the cost of their defence against the rebellion? What then do we owe them? and if anything, what market rate? Are their negroes to be priced on the market as it stood before the rebellion, or on the market now? What is the price of a "slave" on this 21st day of November, 1863? Is there a "slave" in the United States de facto? No we have only men and soldiers, labor, wages, and markets, with the flag of liberty waving over them.-N. Y. Eve. Post. 

THE WEATHER-COCK TURNING.
The New York Herald, and London Times, says the American Baptist, are convenient vanes to show where the wind blows. Our American Jim Crow after playing all sorts of antics in honor of slavery, and periodically calling for the hanging of Beecher, Greeley and Garrison, has been veering round with admirable tact since the last election, and now appears anxious to convince the public that he is a good, sound abolitionist. It was the Kentucky "majority of fifty thousand for the war," which first revealed itself to him as "a resistless flood, sweeping away all obstructions;" and when he saw the results in other States he became still more convinced of the determination of the masses" that the war shall go on; that the rebellion shall be crushed; that the government shall live, and not die; that its territorial integrity shall be maintained; and that the administration constitutionally in power cannot and shall not be separated from the government." He goes on to say:-
"Thus far we run before the wind. But there have lately been elections held in two of the border slave States upon another issue-the issue of emancipation -and the results of these elections are very remarkable. The States to which we refer are Missouri and Maryland, in both of which the abolition radicals have carried the day. Nor can it be said that it was the dictatorial power of the administration that brought about these results; for what are the facts.' In Maryland, one member of the Cabinet, (Mr. Chase) advocated the radical abolition movement; but another, (Mr. Postmaster-General Blair) quite as actively opposed it, and positively asserted that President Lincoln's policy was not that of the radicals. In Missouri, President Lincoln himself, in a very marked and in a very offensive manner to the radicals, defined his position to be against them; and yet the radicals have carried the State. Henceforth, in Missouri and in Maryland, emancipation will be the order of the day until the work is accomplished. We say, even so let it be. The people of each of the States of the Union have the right to determine the question for them-selves, and if they choose to abolish slavery, they will only be following the precedents of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and others of the 'old Thirteen.’ 

THE EMANCIPATION QUESTION.
Gov. Gamble, in his excellent message, regards the ordinance of emancipation in Missouri with much favor, and predicts that it will, in a brief period, accomplish the great object of making Missouri a Free State. It is impossible to overstate the value of this addition to the Free States, for Missouri, of itself, has the resources of a nation, and it is the key of the great Northwest, and the geographical centre of the Republic. The Governor does not recommend political equality for the negro.
The Knoxville. Whig-Parson Brown low's paper -comes out anew on the 11th instant, and it says in reference to slavery:-" We will take the ground which experience and logic prove, and that is, that it cannot longer maintain itself in the temperate zone after this rebellion-and that the African race when emancipated will disappear." It says, also, that "no greater mistake was ever made, than in supposing the masses of the South really favor the institution. They are opposed to- emancipation in their midst, because of the repugnance of negroes to labor, and of the demoralized state of society that must follow." The Parson signs his name to this editorial address. His solution of the question of the disposal of the African is, at least, thorough, for, on his theory, when he is emancipated he "will disappear."
At New Orleans, on the 5th inst., there was a great mass meeting of the free colored inhabitants at Economy Hall, for the purpose of petitioning Gov. Shepley for the right of voting at the next election, which is pronounced one of the most important and significant meetings which has ever taken place in that city, and because, to use words in a Republican journal," it has opened the door to the discussion of that vast and difficult question, what is the status of the colored man in Louisiana?" The meeting was orderly; the gradations of color, from black to white, so gradual that an expert could not tell, in many cases, whether a man belonged to the Anglo-Saxon or African side of the fence. Capt. Pinchbeck, an U. S. colored officer, summed up the object of the meeting by saying that neither he nor his fellow-citizens had any favors to ask of the United States Government; they only demand-ed as a right that they should be allowed the suffrage. They were fighting our battles, and were willing to fight them. They did not ask for social equality, and did not expect it, but they demanded political rights. They wanted to be men. He cared not for the past, but the future. He believed that if colored people were citizens, they had a right to vote; if they were not citizens, they were exempt from the draft." The gallant Captain evidently has no notion of "disappearing" with his race, and in his next speech will be very likely to have something to say in reference to Parson Brown low's solution of the race question.
The speeches at Gettysburg were calculated to favor Capt. Pinchbeck's position rather than Parson Brown low's. Secretary Seward "was determined to see slavery die by the fates of war;" and President Lincoln, saying that "eighty-seven years ago a new nation was conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created free and equal," vowed that this nation under God
<c05>
should have a new birth of freedom. This movement in New Orleans of colored citizens, who are fighting and demanding the "right of suffrage," may serve for an occasion for the President to write a practical commentary on the phrase "a new birth of freedom." 
Meantime the question of race embarrasses the exchange of prisoners. "Up to this hour," the New York Tribune of the 18th says, "the rebels have never indicated their readiness to exchange the colored soldiers or their white officers captured in battle by them. Up to this hour, we have no knowledge that a single one of those officers or privates has been exchanged or forwarded for ex-change by them. They are raising a dust to cover this point, but they do not conceal it. And, until it shall be settled we see no chance for exchanges."-Boston Post.

THE MISSOURI CONSERVATIVES CAUGHT.
The conservatives in Missouri have for some past claimed to be the peculiar friends of Mr. Lincoln and his administration; the radicals, they said, were opposed to the government and its policy, and were not to be trusted in the direction of affairs. In the late senatorial contest these conservatives avowed that they sought no other end than the election of men who would give the Administration a cordial support against all schemes whatever of "the radical disorganizers." Weary of this incessant hobbling of the conservatives, the radicals determined to test the sincerity of the professions so boisterously made, and accordingly on the 17th instant the following resolution was introduced in the House of Representatives:-
Resolved, By the House of Representatives, the Senate concurring therein, that General Order No. 135, authorising the enlistment of all able-bodied negroes, whether free or slave, meets with the cordial approbation of this General Assembly, and we regret that its publication has been delayed until the recent election seemed to warrant that it would meet with the general approval of all loyal men, and we would urge upon the general government the propriety of establishing recruiting offices, especially in the Sixth, Eighth, and Ninth Congressional districts, to aid in carrying out said order.
A bombshell could not have occasioned a greater sensation than this harmless resolution. It had scarcely been read when a score of conservatives leaped from their seats with objections. One moved to reject, another a call of the House, a third to lay on the table, and so on through the whole gamut of parliamentary devices. The "peculiar friends of the Administration" shrunk from a practical, honest test of their professions. They were not in favor of the government and its policy; their ostentatious pretence was pricked in a moment, and the whole fabric fell limp and shrivelled to the ground. On a vote to suspend the rules, fifty-nine members declared in the affirmative; but this not being two-thirds of the whole House, the resolution was laid over to come up some other time. Every member who voted against a suspension of the rules, in order that the resolution might be read a second time, voted a week ago for the copperhead candidates for the United States Senate. All, doubtless, would vote to-morrow to restore slavery, over every rod of Missouri soil, and become themselves catchers of slaves and patrons of traitors, if thereby the removal of the curse could be stayed.

LETTER FROM A MISSOURI CONSERVATIVE.
The following letter, which appeared in the Daily Advertiser some days ago, was written, as we hear, by Rev. Dr. ELIOT, of St. Louis, one of the most "Conservative" of men, even according to the common definition of that much abused word.
EXTRACT FROM A LETTER FROM MISSOURI.
St. Louis, Oct. 30, 1863. 
You cannot possibly make me a radical, except in the most conservative style; but I can meet the exigencies as they rise, and I cannot but think that in Missouri they are rising very fast, and that under the President's new call and prospective draft (which I strongly approve) a decided change of policy must take place. As it now stands, the loyal citizens are suffering the penalty of disloyalty, and non-slaveholders are held to a tighter rule than slaveholders or slaves. See how it stands. I have two boys, 22 and 20 years old, well-educated, active, loyal. They are worth in money to me more than any slaves that ever lived, and, if I die, they must support their mother and younger brothers and sisters. I cannot find it in my heart to advise them to volunteer, for they are the life of my house; yet they talk of it, and I shall not say one word to discourage them. When the draft comes, as it must, if they are taken, they must go. Now, one of my neighbors has two slaves, stout, stalwart men, valuable only as laborers, who would gladly volunteer. But the master is loyal, or goes for such, (his loyalty was at Camp Jackson!) and the men cannot be accepted. When the draft comes they cannot be included. Are his slaves better than my sons?
Again, the quota from Missouri is based on Congressional representation; i.e., with three-fifths of slave population. But the slaves are not drafted, and who a their substitute but the white population from whom the required number is drawn? Why should not the draft reach the slaves in a three-fifths proportion? Is it as a premium on slavery? Some of our factories will be almost stopped by the drain on them: is the plantation more sacred? 
Again, nearly one half of our white population, especially the slaveholders, have either become rebels, or are too notoriously disloyal to be trusted. Why should not their slaves be drafted, and why should their consent be asked, if they can manage to make a fair show of loyalty, before their slaves can be accepted. Why should the loyal men of the State have the burden thus doubled and made galling to them? I contend that Government should not recognize slavery under military law and in military exigency. The draft, should reach slaves as well as freemen, either under the two-thirds rule, because they are represented, or under the Divine rule, because they are men. And any able-bodied man, slave or free, who wishes to enlist, should be accepted, thankfully, because his service is needed. No consent of the master should be required; but if loyalty is clearly proved, the bounty might be paid to him, though of this I am not clear. It would be perhaps the best way to settle the legal doubts: but I think the inducement of bounty should be offered to the slave to encourage his enlistment. Where the loyal or semi-loyal master brings the slave as a substitute, I believe the bounty goes to the master. What I mean is, that this discrimination in the. Border States, against free men and non-slave-holders, should cease, and, now that the policy of negro regiments has been accepted, that the rule of enlistment should be made equal and just The point of compensation to loyal owners is of secondary importance, and under civil law may be no 
<c06>
more than justice requires. Under military law it may property be granted, but the main thing is to get the men, and to give to all who are willing to do their part as soldiers, the opportunity of service.
If I had any influence at Washington, I would use it to this end, and you may use what I have written in whatever way you please. 
Slavery as it now exists in Missouri is an unmixed evil, and the sooner it disappears from us the better. It is a most mistaken tenderness to do anything to prolong its days or to foster it into renewed life. Every attempt to do it lessens the loyalty of the State and prevents its recuperation from the crushing evils of civil war. Missouri has done wonderfully well. I confidently believe that her steadfastness has been the salvation of the Union, for if she had seceded, Kentucky would have followed, and the "big job" would have been doubled, perhaps beyond management. The reward we ask is to get rid of the incubus of slavery.

FREMONT'S REVENGE.
The country will not forget that it was John C. Fremont who first declared the doctrine of emancipation of slave property as a penalty for the treason of the master. His Missouri proclamation was the first official recognition of slavery's accountability for the rebellion. It treated the institution as a rebel. That proclamation was disapproved at the time of its appearance by the President of the United States, and has been the occasion of not a little animadversion towards its author, on the part of political opponents, ever since. The pro-slavery Democracy will never forgive Fremont that step, and unquestionably the act has proven no inconsiderable stumbling-block in his path, on account of the personal hostilities it has engendered. But at last in his case, as in every case in which a sound principle is enunciated, the vindication has come. Time proves an unfailing champion of the right. Fremont to-day has his revenge in the order issued for application in Missouri, by General Schofield, in pursuance of regulations "approved and ordered by the President." This order goes the full measure of Fremont's proclamation, and a step beyond. The order provides:
First. That no person who is, or has been engaged in rebellion against the Government of the United States, or who has in any way given, or shall give aid or comfort to the enemies of the Government, shall be awarded any compensation for the services of any slave enlisted into the service of the United States.
Second. That no compensation shall be awarded for the services of any slave who has at any time, during the present rebellion, belonged to any person who has been in rebellion, or given aid or comfort to the enemies of the Government.
It will thus be seen that the President has at last taken a step which is the same in principle with Fremont's famous order, and which by the terms of the new order is made to cover the very cases to which Fremont's, at the time of its preparation, was directed. Thus is Fremont's much abused proclamation vindicated by the same tribunal which passed original sentence of condemnation upon it, in the very letter of its declaration. No little personal gratification must this fact afford General Fremont. Being among those who gave his proclamation a hearty endorsement from the first, and never having ceased to advocate its principles since, we hail the confirmation it has received as a triumph well worthy of congratulation-being no less than the tribute tardy justice awards to that courage, which always suffers, and sometimes falls, as it pioneers truth through the conflict to victory.-Missouri Democrat.
TENNESSEE.
The following quotations from a letter recently received from a Massachusetts man now in Tennessee afford very gratifying evidence of the spread of Anti-Slavery opinions in that State:
NASHVILLE, Tenn., Sept. 12.1863.
find here a large and increasing Anti-Slavery sentiment, as decided and active as at the North, which needs only to be organized to expression to become very effective. Here are congregated a large number of men, formerly slaveholders and who will be so again from necessity if the institution is not abolished, who are now as strong in our faith and more self-sacrificing than our best men. It would be of no use to send Wendell Phillips here, except it should be to learn from them. They tell me that there are many others all through the State. Mr.-told me that he had been an Anti-Slavery man for years, and since the Rebellion broke out he had found more than five hundred men who entertained the same opinions, but dared not communicate them. He is ready to circulate any documents that may be furnished to him. Mr.-is a slaveholder who left Louisville because it was dangerous. His slaves are all there. He left them to take care of themselves. He says: "I was a Pro-Slavery man before the Rebellion, but turned against it as soon as they brought our State in. They seduced my only son into the ranks. I recovered his blackened remains from a Mississippi swamp. I' went over them, but tears brought no relief, for he had died a traitor. If he could have died an honest death, I could have been comforted. I will never forgive the Rebels for this." He now enters heartily into the work of reconstructing Tennessee on free labor. This State can be made by the cooperation of the War Department the nucleus of the free labor system for the South. On Monday evening last, a meeting of 100 men of this State was held in the State House, in this city. One old man, said he had been a slaveholder and a hard master. He had lost all his slaves, and it was the punishment of God for his sins. God had permitted this Rebellion as a punishment for Slavery, and he would continue to punish them until they repented and abolished it. These remarks were loudly applauded in Nashville by Tennesseans.
A.DESERTER'S CONFESSIONS. A Chattanooga correspondent of the Philadelphia Press writes to that paper as follows:-
"What are your people fighting for? I inquired of one of the twelve rebel deserters who came into our lines to-day. I could never get to know exactly, said he, but some of our officers tell us we are fighting for liberty. Beautiful sentiment thought I; but what a fatal delusion! Pretty theory and attractive. Pray tell me, said I, how much of this liberty you have secured for yourself, personally, and what is the nature of it? Liberty, said he, to enter the army or be shot in my own house; liberty to leave my family to starve for the necessaries of life; liberty to fight against my own countrymen, and, peril my life to gratify a few slaveholders, who are leading us to destructions. I am sick of it, said he, and have deserted, and thousands more would do so if opportunity offered. And the eleven, who were with him said Amen."
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERPERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE RADICAL PARTY OF THE SOUTH. 
Few events in the political history of this country bid fair to exert a more decided and salutary influence than the organization of the party above named. Next to the service performed by the war in the Southern States, is that destined to be achieved by this party likely to prove lasting and valuable. The war has been like a strong medicine. It has operated upon a system which was deeply disordered. Slavery was the disease which had laid fast hold upon the South, poisoning its entire blood and affecting all its members. War proved to be the remedy prescribed by Providence for the removal of this fundamental evil, but war is like all exhaustive nostrums. It is calculated to leave the system reduced and sore. After the men of the North and South have been engaged in the work of imbuing their hands in each other's blood, it would be reasonable to infer the existence of prejudices in the Southern mind, and a general want of harmony, which would seriously militate against the restoration of friendly relations and the establishment of a permanent Union. The disease might indeed be conquered, but the pestilent humors it would leave behind could not fail to be fatally prejudicial to health. As a restorative in this emergency comes the Radical Emancipation party of the South, which every good physician must admit to be exactly suited to the case. 
The direct tendency of the doctrines of this party is to assimilate the people of the South to those of the North. They point to the removal of the only real cause of difference between the two, and the making of them in fact one community. They contemplate emancipation immediately, or as speedily as circumstances will possibly allow, and by making the whole country free soil, would have but a single interest. Further conflict growing out of antagonistic institutions would of course, be thence-forward impossible. Their operation would have, however, another and more immediate bearing. The dissemination of the principles of the Radical party would have the effect of softening down the asperities in feeling existing between the North and South, by bringing the people of the two sections into sympathy through political cooperation. In proof of this important conclusion, we have the fact that the Radical party of the South contemplates conjoint action with the Republicans or more liberal politicians of the North. 
No such party has heretofore existed in the South. There have been individuals there, and in a few border localities, organizations professing to favor free soil, and giving a partial support to a Northern policy, but always with important qualifications calculated to disarm Southern prejudice. Such an organization existed in St. Louis previous to the war, and stronger here than any other place in the South; but how far it was removed from the principles of the Republican party of the North can now be easily determined by the present attitude of its most distinguished members, General Blair and Judge Bates, and the fact that the majority of its leaders have taken sides with the Copperhead or pro-slavery party, since the Radical Emancipation party in Missouri has arisen. The simple truth is, that the Blairs, Bates's, and many other leading politicians of this school, never were at heart in favor of freedom. They never advocated emancipation except upon conditions which made it practically impossible, and no sooner were they comfortably installed in office than they not only ceased its advocacy altogether themselves, but discouraged it in others. They were doubtless as sincere as many Republicans of the North, who were never anti-slavery in sentiment, as is yet the case with many men of that section, who hold political fellowship, from various motives, with the Union-Republican or Administration party. 
With the Radical party of the South, now existing, the case is wholly different. This is an anti-slavery party. As its name imports, it contemplates going to the root of the institution of slavery, and utterly eradicating it. From principle or paramount policy, its members are in favor of ridding the country of its presence, as speedily as the work can be performed consistent with good government. Treating slavery as a public enemy, they have no compromises to make with it. Their opposition is a warfare, not a negotiation. 
The triumph of this party involves, of course, the total overthrow of slavery, and with it would go treason in all its forms. Its success would be the final vindication of the Union. Its existence is now the surest anchor the Union cause has in the Southern States. It is calculated to sustain and give courage to all Southern men who array themselves against the peculiar prejudices of their section, and avow sympathy and co-operation with the North. Any Southern man who now professes to be anti-slavery, which the Blairs and Bates's never did, has a power at his back which will sustain him. In the presence of a strong Radical party, the cry of "abolition" loses its terrors. The true value of the success of such a party in the Southern States would appear an easy matter for any real Union man to appreciate. The strangest thing connected with its history, so far, has been the opposition it has received from the President of the United States, himself elected as a Republican, and claiming to be anti-slavery. He has chosen to give his confidence and his patronage to Border politicians of the Kentucky and Gamble-Bates' pro-slavery school of Missouri, rather than to real emancipationists. He has been the persistent advocate of gradual emancipation, thus putting off the benefits of freedom to a remote period, when every man in the slave States, who has made up his mind to favor emancipation at all, has clearly perceived its immediate necessity. Remarkable as the fact may appear, the literal truth is that the most formidable barrier the Radical Emancipation party of the South has so far had to encounter has been the President's opposition. May we not hope this most embarrassing obstruction will be speedily removed? Will not the President catch up with the times?
Notwithstanding the obstruction last mentioned, and all the difficulties attendant upon the organization and first movements of a new party, the growth and progress of the Southern radical movement have been even more encouraging than its authors dared hope for it at the beginning, and give the most flattering assurance of its speedy triumph. In the last days of September, one year ago, nine persons met in this city, (for to St. Louis belongs the honor of originating the radical party,) for the purpose of discussing the propriety of attempting such an organization. They were not politicians in the common acceptation of the word, although greatly interested in the country's welfare. None of them held office of any kind. They were persuaded that the men holding office, and regarded as popular leaders, were unwilling to take the risk and responsibility of such action as was demanded by the times. They felt that in their bands the cause of emancipation as an active Union agent had nothing to hope for. They therefore resolved to take the step themselves which they believed the emergency called for. A published call for a mass convention, to assemble one week hence, upon the basis of their contemplated movement, brought twenty-two persons together, and this was the first the world knew of the Radical party. From that time on, its course has been one of triumph. At its first trial of strength in St. Louis, it succeeded through a divided opposition. It has since succeeded over a united opposition. It soon found that it possessed sympathizers all over Missouri who were ready to fall into its ranks, and at the State elections of a few weeks ago, with the help of the soldier vote, it swept the State. Nor is its development confined to Missouri. All over the South, wherever loyalty has a voice, evidences of cooperation have been given. The same language is employed, and nothing but organization, it is apparent, is needed to consolidate the elements of a victorious party. The initial step for such a movement has already been taken. A Radical Convention has been called for the slave States, and assurances are given that Louisiana. Tennessee, Arkansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Virginia, Delaware and Missouri, will be represented. Here will be the development of a great work. The question of how the Union is to exist, after the conquest of the South, will find its solution in the solution in the success of a policy calculated to bring the people of the South into harmony with those of the North. The mystery of "reconstruction" will be made clear in the endeavor which peaceably and at home makes the South as free as the North—Missouri Democrat. 
PROGRESS IN MISSOURI. A despatch from Jefferson City, Missouri, says:—
"From the counties of Boone, Callaway and Randolph able-bodied negroes are crowding here in large numbers. The Provost Marshal has already received over one hundred applications to enter the army from negroes. Orders have been issued to the ferry-man to bring across the river all negroes who wish to enlist. The black brigade of once slaves is fast filling up."
<c02>
SPEECH OF GEN. E. W. GANTT—LETTER FROM GEN.THAYER. 
LITTLE ROCK, ARK., Nov. 14, 1863. 
Editors Missouri Democrat:
SIRS: I enclose you extracts from a speech delivered a few days ago by General E. W. Gantt, in a Union meeting held here in Little Rock, which I heard. While the apologists of slavery in the North are advocating the restoration of the seceded States with unimpaired rights, and with slavery still existing when the war is ended, General Gantt and others at the South propose to strike out of existence, at once and forever, the cause of all our difficulties-slavery. As fast as slaveholders and secessionists become convinced that the Southern Confederacy is a failure, and that they have got to live under the Federal Government again, just so fast does the conviction force itself upon them, that there can be no permanent peace in the future unless slavery is destroyed. Now, with them, one of the alternatives of the proposition enunciated by Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Seward, a few years ago, "all free or all slave," has come, and with them now, it is" all free." The leading Union men here now take the ground that Arkansas must come back a free State. This conviction is fast spreading, not only in Arkansas, but in Louisiana, Tennessee and Mississippi. Those people in the North who seem so exceedingly fearful lest slavery may be overthrown in this war, and who make such free use of the term, "rabid Abolitionists," will soon have to apply that term to the Southern people themselves.
General Gantt is one of the leading men of Arkansas, and wields a very extensive influence in the State. He was elected to the Federal Congress in 1860, by a very large majority, to succeed Rust, and would have taken his seat in December, 1864, had not secession taken place. He went out with his State and entered the rebel service. He was in command at New Madrid (when Pope besieged that place) until four days before its evacuation, and was second in command at Island No. 10, when General Mackall surrendered that stronghold to General Pope, and afterwards went to Fort Warren. He has become convinced that the secession movement is not only a failure but a great crime, and comes out in an open and manly way and acknowledges his error, and urges the people of Arkansas and the South to return to their allegiance to the flag of the Union. He is now working earnestly and zealously in behalf of the cause of freedom. 
Very respectfully yours,
JOHN M. THAYER,
Brigadier General. 
Extracts from the speech of General E. W. Gantt, delivered before the Union Club at Little Rock, Arkansas, November 7, 1863. 
As secessionists, we supposed we were out of the Union. We went out to protect slavery. We failed. We now come back. For what purpose? To protect slavery? The absurdity is too monstrous to tolerate for a moment. We went out to protect the negro. We come back to protect the white man. We regard the negro question as definitely settled by the last source of appeal, and we say there let it rest. 
But we of Arkansas must dispose of what is left of this question for ourselves. We can't dodge it. In our settling it, we are not agitating the slavery question. Can you agitate the dead? Is not slavery dead in our State? Did it not go down in the vortex of secession and civil war? But though dead, its remains must be disposed of. Its dead carcass is all that lies between us and a perfect restoration of our former relations with the Government. A convention of the people should meet and bury it. The question of abolition and its converse can't be made in our midst. We are not like Missouri. With us the question is, what shall we do with that which is already abolished? To this there can be but one answer: amend the constitution and put it beyond the hope of ressurrection. We of the North and South, knowing that slavery was the only disturbing element in our Government, after many "settlements" each one deemed "final," resorted to the last arbitrament—the sword. We who own slaves have lost, fairly lost, and we must abide the decision. The people of Arkansas are therefore the proper ones to act on its final extinction in our midst. The sooner we do it the better for us and the country. To many this truth is unpalatable, but we can't blink it, it must be met, let us do so like men. 
There is a large and growing party in the North that is disposed to reduce the seceded States to the condition of Territories. The central idea of this party is to get rid of slavery, as the source of all our calamities. It would be unbecoming in us, as well as a waste of time, to get up and argue the abstract question with them as to their right to do this. Let us anticipate them, and cut under them at once, by meeting in convention, at the earliest day that we can be empowered so to do, and extirpate forever the last vestige of slavery in our midst, and bury out of sight this source of all our calamities, personal, State and National. By thus formally giving up what is already lost, we will have secured to us all our rights as equal States in the Union. If we do not do so, I give it as my opinion, that right or wrong, we will be reduced to the condition of a Territory, and so remain until we do pass upon this question, definitely, at once and forever. You can't find a soldier in the army who has not already reached, or who is not closely approximating the conclusion, that his health, happiness and life have been exposed and jeopardized because of negro slavery, and who does not feel, and who will not insist, that, after all his toil and hardships, this question, which diplomacy and statesmanship could not settle, being settled by the sword, should be put at rest forever. And this is independent of any opinion he may have held before we tendered him the issue of a settlement by the sword. I am no politician, would not receive an office from President or people, and can therefore speak plainly. And I do say, in candor and sincerity, to these few Arkansas politicians who think they are striking the popular current by their efforts to reinstate slavery here, that they will be borne down by a tide as irresistible and powerful as it will be overwhelming and annihilative of all their hopes and aspirations The people of Arkansas are determined to go back to the Union, as they now find themselves, and they are not to be frightened from their purpose by having the words "consistency" or "Abolitionist" thrown at them. Finding slavery destroyed, they can so pass upon it, and be neither "inconsistent" nor "Abolitionists."

TESTIMONIAL TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN. 
The Democrats of Europe are a very different kind of men from the pro-slavery, rebellion-sympathizers in this country who call themselves by that name. Garibaldi is a representative of the European Democrats. Vallandigham, of the American Democrats, as a party organization. The European Democrats love liberty and desire the success of our Government in its struggle with rebellion. The American "Democrats,"—that is, those who control the Democratic organization—love Slavery and desire the success of rebellion. The difference, in brief, is, that Garibaldi and others like him in Europe, are Democrats in reality, while Vallandigham and his allies in America are Democrats only in name. 
Recently, President Lincoln has received a beautiful testimonial of approbation from nineteen hundred and sixty Democrats of Barcelona, Spain. It is an elegant album, with a silver escutcheon of the American Union on the back, and the name of "Abraham Lincoln" on the two silver clasps, and containing the signatures and congratulations of the 1960 donors. It is accompanied by the following eloquent address:— 
To the Citizen President of the United States of America from his Admirers, the Democrats of Barcelona: 
Citizen Lincoln: Be pleased to accept the sincere congratulations addressed to you in the name of humanity by the Democrats of Barcelona for your proclamation of Emancipation of the 1st of January, 1863. It is much to be regretted that the few slave States which have remained faithful to the Union should not have more readily supported your humane work by manumitting their slaves. In this manner the triumph of the illustrious republic, the model of a free people, would have been complete, by blotting out the infamous stain which has sullied the starred banner of your democratic institutions. 
Perhaps the terrible and destructive war you are waging may be the tremendous ponishment inflicted on the great republic over which you preside, for its iniquitous and criminal violation of justice, by consenting that where liberty glows in all the intensity of her purest beams, should be presented the odious spectacle of men, masters and buyers of other men, gifted, like them, with feeling and intelligence.
<c03>
For this reason, humanity demands of you not to yield to the obstacles and difficulties which selfishness opposes to the realization of the great work you have undertaken, winning unfading laurels for your name. Persevere, then, liberator! the cause you represent is that of justice, and for this act of humanity by which you have redeemed the original sin of your country, every man of right feeling, while admiring you, will offer fervent prayers for the complete triumph of your cause. And here the Democrats of Barcelona, in heartiest sympathy with your humane aspirations, earnestly invoke, "Honor and victory to the Federal banner! Destruction to the iniquitous participators in the enslavement of men! Fame, glory, and every kind of prosperity to the Citizen President of the United States of America, the MAN, Abraham Lincoln!" 
Barcelona, 8th of February, 1863. 

The Liberator. 
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1863. 
THE THIRD DECADE MEETING. 
In the next number of the Liberator we shall publish the proceedings of the memorable convention which assembled in Philadelphia on Thursday and Friday of last week, to celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society. The occasion, as was anticipated, proved one of rare interest. It was national rather than local. Not only from Pennsylvania but from neighboring and distant States came the veterans of thirty years' warfare to rejoice in the progress of the past and to take counsel together for the future. 
For this season of the year, the weather was singularly auspicious, and the elements, which for a quarter of a century have seemed to league themselves with the slave power to battle anti-slavery meetings and lecturers, as if convinced at last that further effort to retard this omnipotent cause is useless, fell in with the conquered public opinion and extended a genial welcome. 
Concert Hall in Chestnut Street, large and commodious, was the place of meeting. Those who were privileged to be present will never forget that concourse of earnest men and women. We venture to assert that, in point of intellectual and moral worth an audience superior to this was never brought together on this continent. To look into the faces and listen to the utterance of these deep-souled reformers was indeed to receive a baptism of the spirit.
The morning session of Thursday was opened with a prayer by the Rev. Samuel J. May, after which friendly letters from Whittier, Sumner, B. Gratz Brown, Arthur Tappan and others were read by the Secretary. Rev. Dr. Furness then read with expression and appreciation, the Declaration of Sentiments adopted by the Society at its inception, following his reading with some brief but excellent remarks. A speech of characteristic earnestness by the President, Mr. Garrison, concluded the forenoon meeting. 
The afternoon was devoted mainly to reminiscences of the early days of the anti-slavery struggle, and Mr. McKim, the youngest signer of the Declaration, Samuel J. May, Lucretia Mott and Mary Grew recurred felicitously to that "day of small things" in which they were themselves actors, the personal nature of their narratives adding to them a peculiar interest. Miss Grew's address was a valuable history of woman's organized efforts in the cause. 
In consequence of Mr. Beecher's lecture at the Academy of Music, for the benefit of the Sanitary Commission, the Convention, as such, held no evening meeting, although an interesting and well attended one, composed of anti-slavery friends, came together at the same place, at which Mr. Foster and others spoke. 
On Friday morning, previous to returning to New York, Mr. Beecher, as if in seeming recognition of the Convention's courtesy, came to the platform and spoke briefly. The meeting lasted late into the afternoon and, the fifteen minute rule being adopted, there was a rapid succession of speakers, among whom were Mr. and Mrs. Foster, Charles C. Burleigh, Samuel May, Jr., Oliver Johnson, J. N. Buffum, Aaron M. Powell, Orson S. Murray, Lucretia Mott, Susan B. Anthony, Lucy Stone, Frances D. Gage, S. J. May, and Colonel Wagner of the U. S. Camp Wm. Penn, for colored soldiers. Entering the war as a Democrat, to help restore "the Union as it was," the Colonel, like General Butler, found himself, of necessity, forced to take the ground of universal emancipation, and assume the once dreaded name of abolitionist. He paid a sincere tribute to the admirable behavior and proficiency of his soldiers, a delegation of whom attended each session of the meetings, dressed in the national uniform, their intelligent faces and manly bearing attracting much attention. 
The evening meeting was the fitting conclusion of the series—the jewelled crown. Robert Purvis, Theodore Tilton, Senator Wilson, Frederick Douglass, Mr. Garrison and Anna E. Dickinson—these were the speakers and their order. To particularize where all were excellent would be invidious, and we, therefore, invite our readers to peruse carefully the printed speeches, as we shall present them in the columns of the Liberator. 
It was a noticeable fact that no Philadelphia paper emitted one word of ridicule, blackguardism or even disrespect concerning the meeting. On the contrary, fair, and, in some cases, extended reports were given. The Press was especially courteous and friendly in its editorial remarks. The Quaker City puts to shame New York and Boston in this respect, and, inasmuch as it harbors no Bennett’s Herald or Courier, has much reason for its claim to be considered the most loyal city in the Union.—W. L. G., JR.

SHADOW WITHOUT SUBSTANCE. 
The papers inform us that the statue of Liberty, modelled by Crawford to surmount the dome of the Capitol of the United States, now stands upon that structure completed, its head having been successfully hoisted to its position ten days ago. 
Precisely because it is desirable that freedom should pervade this entire nation, and be its prominent characteristic in the face of all other nations, it is undesirable, and of ill omen, that we should continue to make a parade of the name before coming into possession of the thing. 
One of the chief features of the American people—so prominent as to make us, deservedly, the laughing-Stock of other nations-has been a habit of boasting of our country as "the land of the free," while it was preeminently the land of the slave. Not only did slavery exist here to an extent unparalleled in the world, not only did a large portion of our nation cherish it as their most precious possession, and bend all institutions of the country into conformity with it but that part of the nation which was called distinctively "free," and the General Government which represented both these sections, lent their constant and efficient aid to the maintenance of slavery. The history of our country, from the first revolution to the beginning of the present one, has justified the taunt constantly thrown in our teeth by the moralists and satirists of Europe, that the American idea of liberty is "the right of every man to larrup his own nigger."
In the new state of things which has arisen here within three years, we, the abolitionists, feel assured that slavery has received its death-blow, and must dwindle away and ultimately become extinct But this new hope has arisen, not through the virtue of the nation, not through its spontaneous determination to make an end of this pest, but because the vaulting ambition of the South has o’erleaped itself, and ruined slavery by the very act which was designed to fortify it. We expect slavery will die. But powerful parties, aided by powerful circumstances, are laboring to restore and confirm it The Executive, (so called.) content to be a follower instead of a leader, trims his course cautiously between these opposing forces, and
<c04> 
will finally side with the stronger. And the end is not yet.
What we wish is, that this nation might have possessed moral and spiritual insight enough to recognize its present state, and virtue enough to refrain from making new boasts on the score of freedom, until freedom is officially proclaimed throughout the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof. The statue of Liberty upon the dome of the Capitol should have remained unfinished until our transition state shall be over, until the last remnant of slavery shall be dead and buried. An incomplete statue of Liberty accurately represents our present state. We are on the way (we hope and believe) to freedom. Until we have attained, let us not hang out the symbol of attainment. When the war for freedom shall have closed in victory, then will be the proper time to rear the statue of Liberty as our national emblem.
One of the Italian towns has lately voted in favor of a monument to Garibaldi. This hero, as wise as brave, says in a published letter—
"As to a monument to me, I beg you will dismiss the thought of it. If you insist, you will put me to the pain of saying that I will not accept it. As long as the soldiers of two foreign armies riot on our soil, as long as a stream of civil blood flows from the Tronto to the Strait, as long as the glorious remains of our national battles die of hunger or by their own hand in the midst of the insane rejoicings of our cities, as long as the boy wants a school and the orphan an asylum, as long as there are in Italy misery, chains and darkness, speak not of monuments, least of all a monument to me." 
Such sentiments as these, and the prompt expression of them when the occasion called, show the appropriateness of a monument to Garibaldi when his work shall have been finished. Happy the land that has such leaders. If our President and Commander in-Chief were doing half the work for freedom which his great station authorizes and requires-if he were even keeping equal pace with those converted slaveholders of Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee and Louisiana who are now concerting means for immediate and universal emancipation in their respective States-he might appropriately have taken the responsibility of dismissing the workmen, and leaving Crawford's noble statue incomplete until the nation should be so far changed as to be justly represented by it. Then, with what force might he have urged upon the army and the nation the duty of establishing Liberty in fact, that we might have the right to be represented by her image; and whenever slavery shall be exterminated, in fact and by law, through every portion of the United States, with what fitness might he appoint the work of completing the statue and crowning the edifice to be finished! 
The complete obliteration of slavery from this country will be the most memorable event in our national history. To accomplish this, not only must there be left no occupant of the position of master or slave, but no line in Constitution or Statute-book which might even seem to authorize a relation so unjustifiable. Nay, to provide against the influence of a long-continued habit of oppression, and to resist the very beginning of an attempt at its reestablishment, both Constitution and Statute-book should contain a formal prohibition of slaveholding. The period when all this is accomplished will be the fittest time that our history has yet witnessed for the appointment of a day of National Thanksgiving. It should have been left for the morning of that day to witness the completion of the statue of Liberty on the Nation's Capitol. The chief of the nation should superintend that duty, with every auxiliary of grand, solemn, and devout ceremonial; the people of each city, town and village, assembled by Proclamation of the President to celebrate the day, should hear from their minister the fact, and the import of this new dedication of the land to freedom; and, if our Chief Magistrate had had principle and energy enough to perform this duty in this manner, every pictorial representation of Crawford's great work, whether on bank bill, or in shop window, on parlor wall, or in school-boy’s book of history, through the life-time of this generation, would have inevitably suggested and impressed upon the beholder the fact that he lived in a free country; that this is indeed, " the land of the FREE." At present, unfortunately, the statue does not teach this lesson. At present, it is a sign unjustifiably assumed in the absence of the thing signified—C. X. W. 

NEW PUBLICATIONS. 
"PECULIAR. A Tale of the Great Transition. By Epes Sargent New York: Carleton, Publisher, 413 Broadway, 1864."—pp. 500.
Mr. Sargent’s new novel, "Peculiar," is well called "A Tale of the Great Transition." It covers that period of the last few years in which men and women of all classes and characters have been coming over from preference for slavery, or tolerance of it, to a recognition of the fact that it is utterly detestable, and to union with its vigorous and determined opposers. Such a period, and the characters belonging to it, afford ample material for a book of the sort usually called "works of fiction." But, like many of that class, this book deals with serious and weighty facts. And it so deals with them as to keep the reader’s interest actively excited, from beginning to end, while at the same time he is kept constantly reminded that it is fact, and not imagination, a photograph, not a work of mere fancy, that is before him. 
The hero of this story is a slave, christened "Peculiar Institution" by a humorous overseer, and commonly called "Peek." Its heroine, a beautiful white girl, not only the daughter of intelligent and refined parents, but heiress to a great estate, was rescued from the steamboat explosion in which her parents perished, only to be sold at auction by her Southern rescuer, at the age of three years, as a slave. Her purchaser is a luxurious citizen of New Orleans, who places her at once with the keeper of a "Seminary for Young Ladies" in that city, making the following explanations and requisitions: the child, he says, is a slave, just bought by him; she is not his daughter, but is to be "raised" with as much care as if she were his daughter, and taught particularly music, French and dancing, with the art of dressing, when she arrives at the proper age; a daguerreotype is occasionally to be sent to her owner, that he may see if her looks fulfil her promise; her instructress is to give no explanation of her position to herself or others, and is to write, "not oftener than once a year," to report progress. Even if she were dangerously ill, there is no need of writing oftener, since Mr. Carberry Ratcliffe plainly avows that all his interest in her is in futuro. Mrs. Gentry "thinks she understands," promises compliance, and receives the first half-year's payment in advance. 
Such are the hero and heroine. There are many characters, Northern and Southern, in the book, many thrilling scenes, and many adventures of tragic and romantic interest. The work deserves the very great success it has already achieved. 
"Peculiar" seems to have been written with a serious and earnest purpose, such as has inspired Dickens and Reade to portray various social abuses in England. Mr. Epes Sargent has not long held the anti slavery faith; but various facts in the two or three years last past have shown him to be now a zealous worker in that department of reform. This also appears in the fact that the value of the book as a tale, as a work of art, is somewhat prejudiced by the author's effort to authenticate many of his statements as actual facts, and to embody so many of the details of anti-slavery argument in the conversation of some of his characters. He is really more concerned to make good the argument than the story. Considering that we are yet in the period of the "Great Transition," this is a good fault. Many will reach the most important truth of our time through the story; none will tire of the story on account of the argument.
"THE HISTORICAL WAR MAP. B. B. Russell, Boston, Maas." 
This is a map of the Southern and Border States (except considerable portions of Florida and Texas)
<c05>
defaced by red marks pointing out the places of conflict during the present war, and accompanied by a pamphlet of seventy-two small pages, giving details of each battle, and of the principal events in the rebellion. If the pamphlet it as defective and inaccurate as the map, they are not worth the twenty-five cents asked for them. The idea, however, is a good one. A well executed work of this sort would be very useful. 
"DARING AND SUFFERING: a History of the Great Railroad Adventure. By Lieut William Pittenger, one of the Adventurers. Philadelphia: J. W. Daughaday, Publisher, 1308 Chestnut street, 1863." pp.288. 
This book is a narrative of facts in retard to a most remarkable episode in the history of the Great Rebellion, namely, the expedition of twenty-two loyal men, chiefly soldiers in the U. S. army, under commission of Gen. Mitchell, into the heart of the Southern country, for hostile operations against the rebellion. Several of them were skilled in the management of railroad locomotives, and their plan was to seize locomotives, wherever practicable, on any of the great Southern railroad lines, detach them from their train of cars, dash off at full speed, and burn the bridges which they passed. Had all things gone favorably, this expedition would have done more injury to the rebels than the greatest defeat their armies have ever sustained. Circumstances prevented, almost entirely, the execution of this plan. Eight of the associates were hanged by the rebels, eight escaped, and six, after suffering a long and cruel imprisonment, were exchanged. This book, embellished by a portrait of the author, gives an interesting account of his share in the adventure, and of the varied experience of his prison life before being exchanged.
"THE ANTI-SLAVERY CAUSE IN AMERICA, AND ITS MARTYRS. By Eliza Wigham. London: A. W. Bennett, Bishopagate Street Without 1863."—pp.168. 
This little volume, prepared by one who has, from the beginning, been among the staunchest friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, and one of its most active laborers as well, cannot but do important service in the present crisis, when the love of many seems to be growing cold. It was a good thought, and a most timely act, to bring out in such a period a brief sketch of some of the principal advocates, including some of the martyrs, of this great reformatory work; to make a plain statement of what they did, and why, and of what was done to them therefor. This sketch has been accurately and judiciously made by Miss Wigham and many of the men and women of England; will probably learn from it for the first time what have been the heroic acts of Prudence Crandall, of James G. Birney, of the sisters Grimke, of Elijah P. Love-joy, of William S. Bailey of  Kentucky, of Thomas Garrett of Delaware, of Mrs. Margaret Douglass of Virginia, of Rev. John G. Fee of Kentucky, and of Captains Walker and Drayton—not to speak of the long and faithful labors of many men and women more widely known. Alas, many in our own country need a similar remainder. We thank the author, we welchme the book, and trust it may have a wide circulation both in England and Scotland. 
"THE FREEDMAN. Vol. I. No. 1. Published by the American Tract Society, Boston. January, 1864." 
This little paper seems designed for monthly publication (though it is not so stated) and is printed in that handsome style, and with those finely executed wood-cuts, which characterize the juvenile publications of the Boston, as of the New York, Tract Society. It is designed for gratuitous distribution among those persons, especially those children, who have recently been slaves. Single copies, for the year, are twenty-five cents, twenty-five to one address are three dollars. It contains religious instruction of the sort, and in the manner, usually put forth by the Tract Society, with the rudiments of primary-school instruction, and with various short items of intelligence respecting slavery and freedom, the transition between, and the work now doing for help and instruction to the freedmen. The paper is well named and well got up, containing a great deal of useful and attractive, with very little objectionable matter. 
The Boston Tract Society is moving along slowly in a course adverse to slavery, taking its usual care not to go in advance of popular sentiment. As slavery dies away (from the operation of causes which the Society has steadily refused to aid until the period of their success had begun) it will doubtless speak more and more strongly against that sin. This very paper intimates that God has helped the slaves to run away from their masters; but this statement is put in the mouth of a little negro boy, as something that his mammy told him; not something affirmed and inculcated by the Tract Society. They are cautious, conservative people. They will stick by the winning side. If slavery continues to go down (as we all expect) their utterances against it will grow stronger and stronger. In the event of a continuance of slavery, and a return of the slaveholders to power, they would, no doubt, resume the pro-slavery attitude which they held so many years as an auxiliary of the New York Society. There is no reason to suppose that they oppose slaveholding on principle now, any more than in 1858, when the Address of their Executive Committee to the Friends of the Society declared, with all the emphasis of italic letters—" We are not an Anti-Slavery Society."—C. K.W. 
New Music. We have received the following pieces of music from the Publishers, Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street:— 
Shadow Song, Polka Redowa, arranged from Meyerbeer's opera of Dinorah, by J. S. Knight. 
Bunley Richards' pianoforte works-La mia Letizia- (I Lombardi.) 
Flowers of Italy. Selected from the operas of the most celebrated masters. Se condele il cor nostrai. (If unkindly I seem.) 
Good morrow, love, good morrow. Ballad by Jacques Blumenthat. 
Major-General U. S. Grant's Grand March. Composed by Josef Gung'l. 
REV. DR. LORD. The Independent Democrat, in giving a sketch of the proceedings at the inauguration of President Smith, of Dartmouth College, a few days since, says:— 
"The closing prayer was offered by Ex-President Lord, and was a characteristic effort. His peculiar notions got full airing. Our national affairs received his attention-and such attention! No petition had he to offer for the safe issue of our nation's struggle with slavery-begotten rebellion, in the more perfect recognition of the inalienable Rights of Man, in the furtherance of Justice and Liberty, and in the establishment of Peace and Union upon them as their only sure and enduring basis. But he could and did pray that things be restored to ‘their old foundations,’ including, of course, his 'divine' institution of Human Slavery! But it is said that some prayers do not reach heaven, and we reverently suggest whether a specious adaptation of the copperhead catch-words, ‘the Constitution as it is and the Union as it was,’ may not be such a prayer. We are willing to abide in the trust, that for the sake of the aged divine who could pray thus, some of his petitions did not vex the ear of the God of justice and of Sabaoth, but only rose high enough to find appropriate lodgment among the cob -webs of the old church belfry. It is fortunate that some "old" things pass away, at Dartmouth, as well as elsewhere." 
NEGROES IN THE REBEL SERVICE. The Mayor of Charleston has published a notice requiring all able bodied male free negroes in that city to report them, selves for thirty days’ labor on the fortifications. Those failing to report are to be impressed. The following notice for the information of owners of slaves in Charleston is also published:
"The penalty for neglect or refusal to send a slave or slaves to work on the fortifications, according to law, shall be deemed a misdemeanor, punishable by indictment in the Court of General Sessions, and up on conviction thereof the owner or employer shall be fined in the sum of two hundred dollars for each slave or slaves he or she has so neglected or refused to send."
<c06>
SLAVERY AND EMANCIPATION.
BOSTON,24th Nov.,1863.
MY DEAR SIR-The enclosed sketch of a letter, with interrogatories on the operation of Slave Emancipation in the British West Indies, was, prepared in 1847-hoping that John Quincy Adam, s could be induced to sign it and allow it to be addressed to the Governors of the British West Indies. You will recognize in it the hand writing of our estimable friend, the late Ellis Gray Loring, who did so much for the good cause. 
Mr. Loring and myself visited Mr. Adams at Quincy to seek his cooperation; but he seemed indisposed to enter upon it. 
At this day, when Emancipation in its details has become so much of a study, it must be interesting to see how it was analyzed at a time when it was little more than a hope. 
I think the paper will be read with interest on account of its intrinsic character; but all who remember Mr. Loring, who was its principal author, will read it with interest on his account.
Believe me, dear Sir,
Very faithfully yours,
CHARLES SUMNER.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
BOSTON, U. S., 1847.
SIR-The people of the United States have a vast interest in the question of the perpetuation or abolition of Domestic Slavery. The Act of the Imperial Parliament of Great Britain, by which eight hundred thousand slaves were emancipated in her colonies, must, it is felt, have an important bearing upon the fate of slavery here and everywhere. And yet, it is a fact that there is, in this country, a very great want of authentic information on the effects of that measure. 
Most well-informed persons here are aware of the general features of British slave emancipation. It is known that in all the slave colonies, the number of blacks greatly preponderated over that of the whites, being in some instances not less than forty to one-that in the year 1833, Parliament passed an act providing for the abolition of slavery on the first of August succeeding, and the payment of a compensation to the slave masters of twenty millions pounds sterling. The law substituted for slavery a state of apprenticeship for the limited period of six years, during which the slave was bound to labor for his master forty-five hours in each week, and the power of punishment was transferred from the master to magistrates appointed by the Crown.
It is known that some of the most important colonies declined adopting the gradual measure of the apprenticeship, preferring that the liberation of their slaves should be unconditional and immediate. We understand that Antigua, where the black population amounted to 33,000, being sixteen blacks for each white person, adopted the alternative of immediate emancipation. The gradual system was no where permitted to live out its whole term. The working of the apprenticeship was found to be so unsatisfactory that, by a subsequent Act of Parliament, it was totally abolished in all the colonies on the first of August, 1838, two years before the expiration of the prescribed term; and thus 800,000 blacks passed from slaves into freemen with all the rights of British subjects, without the loss of one drop of blood, or the occurrence of the slightest disorder. 
These facts being incontestible, are somewhat widely known. What is disputed is the subsequent effects of the emancipation of the slaves upon the character and condition of white and black in the colonies. Is it or is it not true, as is sometimes asserted in this country, that "the experiment of British Emancipation is a failure"? This is the question which, although thirteen years have elapsed since the experiment was tried, has not yet been answered so as to reach the American people. So many of the reports from the British colonies have come through parties who, by reason of prejudice, or passion, or limited views, or fancied interest, are incompetent to testify fairly, that it is not surprising that, to a certain extent, a doubt should arise as to the actual results and workings of emancipation. 
It is to help clear up this doubt, Sir, that I address myself to you. Your elevated official position will give deserved weight to any statements you may be pleased to make in reply. Believing, therefore, that you have it in your power to render an important service to the cause of truth and humanity in this country and in the world, by imparting the results of your observation and inquiry on this subject, and that you will be willing to throw the fullest light on your country’s most noble achievement, I respectfully propose to you the following inquiries:- 
1. What is the aggregate population of the colony under your government, and what is the relative proportion of whites and blacks?
2. During the continuance of slavery, was it at any time attended by the actual occurrence or apprehension of insubordination among the blacks? and, if so, at what periods of the history of the colony, and to what extent, was this the case? 
3. Has any loss of life or violence to property, occurred, in consequence of the abolition of slavery in your colony? If so, to what extent?
4. Is there any general apprehension of the freed blacks becoming lawless, or of any general outbreak or insurrection among them? 
5. Is the present tranquillity of the colony due, in your opinion, to the presence of a garrison or other armed force? 
6. Has there been an increase or diminution of the military force or of military preparation in your colony? And has it had any reference to the emancipation of the blacks? 
7. Is the tendency to insurrection or disturbance of public order understood to have been increased or diminished by emancipation? 
8. Have the emancipated blacks in your colony shown, at any time, a disposition to commit violence on their former masters, in revenge for holding them in slavery?
9. Has the granting of equal civil rights to the blacks been the means of creating or exasperating feelings of jealousy and alienation between the races, or tended to show that it is impossible for whites and blacks to live together peaceably in the same community? 
10. Have offences against persons or property multiplied, as a consequence of or subsequent to the emancipation? 
11. Has there been any increase in the number of convictions for breaches of law since the emancipation? If so, how far is the increase to be ascribed to the removal of the power of punishment from the master to the public tribunals of justice?
12. Are the crimes of which the blacks are convicted more frequently of a sanguinary character, or are they chiefly petty offences against property, which were formerly punished by the master without the notoriety of the public tribunals?
13. Has there been any general disinclination on the part of the blacks to labor for wages in the cultivation of sugar? If there has been such disinclination, to what causes do you ascribe it?
14. To what extent have the exports and imports of the colony been affected by the abolition of slavery? 
15. Is the productive industry of the colony increased or diminished since emancipation? and can it be measured by the comparative amount of the exports? 
16. Has there not grown up, since emancipation, a home market among the blacks which absorbs a proportion of the products of their own industry which formerly appeared in the returns of exports? If the view here suggested is correct, I should be glad to have this process made clear by a statement of instances, or otherwise.
17. Are the emancipated slaves better or was supplied with the ordinary comforts of food, clothing and shelter, than formerly?
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
18. Does the character of the imports into the colony indicate an increased market for British manufactures, as a consequence of the altered condition of the blocks?
19. Under the system of slavery, were women employed to any considerable extent in the labors of the field? Has the effect of emancipation been to with draw them from those labors? If so, what has been the effect upon the condition and character of the women, and upon the market for labor?
20. Has any decided variation occurred in the price of landed property since the abolition of slavery? and if so, to what extent is such variation justly attributable rule to that measure?
21. Aside from emancipation, has there been a withdrawal by Parliament of the protective duties on sugar or other tropical products, which is deemed to have affected the material prosperity of the colony?
22. Has the abolition of slavery led to the introduction of machinery and other improved methods of cultivation?
23. Was the abolition of slavery in your colony immediate or by a gradual process?
24. What views are entertained by enlightened persons as to the apprenticeship system, as an intermediate step to freedom?
25. What has been the effect of the abolition of slavery upon the moral character and habits of the whites and blacks? Are marriage and the other domestic relations more or less respected than formerly is there any change in the estimation and position of the female sex?
26. What is the state of religious culture as compared with the period preceding emancipation? Are the institutions of religion better or worse supported?
27. Is more or less attention paid to secular education as a result of emancipation? I should be glad of any facts on this point.
28. What in general has been the effect of emancipation upon the character, welfare and prospects of the blacks, and what has it been upon those of the white population?
29. To what extent is the black and colored race admitted by law and public opinion to enjoy civil and social equality with the whites?
30. Are blacks and persons of color allowed to sit as jurors or magistrates, or as members of the local legislature, or to exercise executive functions?
31. What regulations or usages prevail as to the admission of blacks or persons of color into the army or militia establishment, whether as privates or officers?
32. What is the prevailing opinion and feeling of the white population generally, and of the planters in particular, of the advantages or disadvantages of the abolition of slavery, and the policy and propriety of that measure? Would any considerable class prefer, under all circumstances, to have the slavery of the blacks restored?
33. Have the blacks or colored persons obtained land in free simple? and, if so, to what extent and with what effect on their physical and moral condition? What is their relation to the soil? On what terms do the black and colored people hold it as lessees?
34. Has the union of the sexes by intermarriage or otherwise, between whites and blacks, increased or diminished since emancipation?
35. Are Savings Banks, or institutions having a similar object, established in your colony? If so, do the deposits give any indication of habits of thrift among the emancipated population?
Whatever may have been the term of your official residence in the colony, you have doubtless the means of forming a satisfactory opinion on the subject of these inquiries. They are proposed in this form, not with a view to limit the range of any remarks you may be pleased to make on slavery and emancipation, but for the purpose of indicating the topics on which I deem information to be most needed in the United States.

AN APPEAL FOR AID.
Lyons, (Mich.) Nov. 25, 1863. 
EDITOR LIBERATOR:— 
MY FRIEND,-Allow me to call the attention of yourself and your readers to the appeal for aid, clothing, money, &c., for the wives and families of "contrabands" in Mississippi, from my friend William Thirds, chief steward of the United States hospital at Natchez. Mr. Thirds is a man of high character and rare humanity. His statements can be wholly relied on, and whatever may be sent him will be sacredly and wisely used.
In a letter to me, he makes most touching statements of their wants, and a most earnest appeal for aid.
Why could not the humanity of Boston and vicinity get up a Fair for the needy among the freed slaves? While the families of white soldiers in the army are so generously provided for, why pass wholly by the equally deserving and more needy families of black soldiers? 
They are distant from us, but in a region where loyal men and women can hardly help themselves, and where rebels would rob and abuse these poor creatures.
The black soldier in the army risks more than the white, and freed slaves in the service have no means save their pay, which it is often very difficult to get to their families in the present disturbed condition of that region. Let some large-hearted woman, with a "faculty" for such work, start the ball for a great Fair-A Freedmen's Aid Ladies' Fair-in Boston during the holidays.
Yours, truly, G. B. STEBBINS.
CONGRESS. The Thirty-eighth Congress assembled on Monday last at Washington. SCHUYLER COLFAX, of Indians, was chosen speaker of the House on the first ballot, by a vote of 101 to 81 for all others. Edward McPherson, of Pennsylvania, was elected Clerk, by 101 votes against 69 for Emerson Etheridge, the former incumbent.
The Nashville Daily Union, though published in Tennessee, is an earnest and thorough anti-slavery paper. One of its recent numbers fills two-thirds of a column with the strongest expressions of Jefferson in regard to the vicious character and pernicious influences of slavery.
The freedmen of South Carolina are making large investments in the land of rebels about to be sold by order of the Government. A letter in the New York Post says that "the negroes are marking out their twenty- acre lots all over the department, and I have been informed to-day by Mr. Ketchum, who receives the deposits, that on this island alone over two thousand dollars have been paid in by the freedmen to secure their homes. The idea that they can become landholders fills them with delight, and there is no doubt but the soil will be well cultivated. The negroes who bought islands last year have done well. One man Kit Green-will clear more than two thousand dollars, and another-Henry Pope-nearly, as much, from their cotton crops alone."
A WORTHY TESTIMONIAL. Senator Conness, of California, is a man of the right sort. He recently presented President Lincoln with a cane which was a gift from the lamented Broderick. In presenting it, Mr. Conness said:-
"He took especial pleasure in tendering the cane to the President as a token of his respect and admiration for him in the issuing of that great edict, the Proclamation of Emancipation; and in resolutely maintaining it as the public law, the President had made himself a great leader in the civilization of the world."
CHATTANOOGA! A Railroad Chase for Life-Dismal Night among, the Hills of Chattanooga-A year in Rebel Prisons Seven captured Union Soldiers hung at one time! Read "Daring and Suffering." [See advertisement in this week's Liberator.]
<c02>
THE FREEDMEN OF THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY.
MEETING IN TREMONT TEMPLE.
There was a very large and interesting meeting at Tremont Temple last night, for the purpose of listening to a presentation of authoritative statements respecting the condition of the freedmen of the Mississippi valley, and for taking such action in view there of as might be devised or suggested. Judge Russell of the Superior Court called the meeting to order, and proposed for presiding officer, in the absence of the Governor, at New York, Hon. Charles G. Loring, who spoke, on taking the chair, in a spirited manner, and to great acceptance, concluding with the introduction, as a messenger from General Grant, of the Rev. Asa S. Fiske, Chaplain of the 4th Minnesota regiment of volunteers.
Rev. Mr. Fiske, on rising, was received with applause. Without much preliminary remark, he entered upon a description of the physical and sanitary condition of the freedmen in Gen. Grant's department, going considerably into details, and showing a state of destitution and suffering among those people almost beyond the power of conception by an audience composed of thrifty and happy New England men and women. He referred, likewise, to the former and the present situation of the contrabands, and to the policy of the Government respecting them; and also gave facts drawn from actual experience of the progress of the Union armies through rebellious and slaveholding districts, with some allusion to the treatment received by our soldiers, from the masters and from the slaves, and the reception extended to each of these classes by those in the United States uniform. The freed people gather to our lines, not as the result of any especial government policy, but from their own natural impulses. The exigency to be met is that created by the continual influx of these persons to the Federal jurisdiction with their manifold needs, and the possibilities of their elevation and usefulness in becoming citizens or soldiers. That they are industrious, intelligent, faithful and patriotic, has been abundantly demonstrated; that their necessities are most urgent—that it is equally the duty of those who are friendly to the cause of the country, and those who feel the emotions of Christian charity and benevolence to minister to these suffering blacks-are propositions that are absolutely self-evident.
There are now on the banks of the Mississippi, between Memphis and Natchez, from whence have been called all the able-bodied men, 50,000 of these people, almost utterly destitute, without compensated labor, and, in short, without the means of living till next Spring. Doubtless the Government intends to care for them advantageously on the opening of another season, and the imperative call is now for the means to assist and support them in the interim.
Rev. Edward N. Kirk, D. D., was introduced, and made an address of great eloquence and power, combatting the idea on which the confederacy is built with exceeding ability, and taking the highest ground in favor of the President's proclamation, and of the universal rights of man. He compared the best treatment of the black race by Americans to that received by the man who fell among thieves from the Priest and Levite. In response to the claims presented by Rev. Mr. Fiske, Dr. K. urged the most speedy and generous rejoinder in the shape of contribution of every kind, whether of money, of goods, of clothing or supplies of any and every sort likely to do good to those who are so much in need.
The Hutchinson Family here sang a song entitled "Uncle Joe comes home a sing in," with fine effect. The piece being encored, they performed "Sixty-three s the Jubilee."
Hon. Richard H. Dana, Jr., being called upon for an address, said he had been utterly unable to prepare anything like a speech adequate to such an occasion, but yet could not refuse to give his heart and voice in favor of the accomplishment of the objects sought to be attained by the present meeting. He made a spirited appeal in favor of meeting the issue here presented, not only as a duty to the country, but likewise as an act of justice to the black man. He said with the formation of black regiments and dispatching them to the seat of war, a new era in civilization commenced; and that the colored race then took a step forward which would never be retraced. There can be no difference of opinion in regard to methods or means in attending to the needs of these suffering freed people. We have a perfectly simple duty, and it should be discharged without delay.
Mr. Edward Atkinson, who has just returned from Washington, where there was a meeting of the Educational Commission, took the platform and announced that the memorial for the establishment of a bureau for the freedmen's wants had been very favorably received, and would undoubtedly be made the subject of a special message from the President to Congress. He also said that messengers had been sent to the Mississippi to attend somewhat to the wants of the colored people.
After another song from the Hutchinson's, the meeting adjourned.—Boston Journal.

WAR MEETING IN WARD SIX—OUR COLORED CITIZENS IN COUNCIL.
In accordance with a published call, the colored residents of Ward 6 held a war meeting last evening to assist in filling up the ranks of the 54th and 55th regiments. The place of meeting was the Twelfth Baptist church, in Southac street,. Rev. L. A. Grimes', and by the appointed hour the place was densely packed by an audience made up about equally of men and women.
Judge Russell presided, and made an introductory speech, in which he urged the necessity of filling up the thinned ranks of the army, and of thus escaping the draft. Rev. Mr. Grimes followed, and exhorted the young men present to enlist. Rev. George A. Rene, of the Bethel (Methodist) church, Anderson street. Sergeant Sparrell, of the 54th regiment, Rev. Mr. White, of Cincinnati, Rev. Elijah Grissam, of the Methodist Episcopal church, Revere street, Dr. John S. Rock, Rev. Mr. Johnson, Sergeant Johnson, of the 54th, Sergeant Hemminway, of the 54th, and others. All the speakers except Judge Russell were colored.
Much enthusiasm prevailed, and the patriotic remarks of the different speakers found frequent and hearty responses. The speeches were also interspersed with hymns and songs, rendered as only colored people can render them. At the conclusion of the meeting, between 11 and 12 o'clock, those present were invited to partake of coffee and other refreshments in the vestry of the church.
Several recruits were obtained during the evening.—Herald, Wednesday.
AN ORDER FROM GENERAL BUTLER IN REGARD TO COLORED TROOPS. General Butler has issued a lengthy order relative to colored troops, the effect of which is to call upon male negroes to fight for the freedom of their race, and to instruct every officer and soldier in his command to aid the coming of all colored persons into our lines. Negro soldiers are to be paid a bounty of $10, and $10 per month, while their families are to be furnished subsistence. Gen. Butler, in his order, calls upon Congress to place colored troops on an equality with other troops of the United States. Superintendents of negro affairs are appointed to oversee these negroes unfit for soldiers, in labor for public service, for which they are to be paid.
All offences by citizens against negroes, except of a high and unprecedented nature, are to be tried by the Provost Court.
There seems to be no room to doubt that there is a strong Union sentiment in Arkansas. Indeed, radical opinions prevail in some parts of the State, and correspondents tell us that the people would rejoice at the utter extinction of slavery, which they regard as the cause of the rebellion. A letter to the Cincinnati Gazette says:—
"This desire to be rid of slavery is almost universal with the non-slaveholding class, and is also shared by many of the owners of slaves. They see that it has been the cause of all their troubles and may continue to be so in the future, and they desire to do away with it. The political leaders, some of them sincere men, while others are only seeking to go with the current, are falling in with this sentiment and are using it as the keynote-stole of all their operations. ' A return to the Union without slavery is their motto. Union meetings in Little Rock get up an enthusiasm on the question, and the measure is everywhere received with favors."-Evening Post.
A correspondent of the Augusta (Ga.) Sentinel writes from Charleston:—
"About 25 100-pounder parrott shells have just been fired into the city. Old Gillmore scattered them promiscuosly in the lower part of the city, and it really seemed from the way in which they were pitched about, that he was trying to hit somebody. The City Hall building had a hole punched in one corner, and some of the marble cornice knocked away. One struck the telegraph office, and the operators "cut stick." One smashed through the roof of a house in Queen street, and several falling in this neighborhood, the frightened denizens "vamoosed to the tune of double quick." Several fell in the vicinity of the banks on Broad street and East Bay, tearing up the streets, smashing window panes, and kicking up the mischief generally. One went crashing through the Mechanics’ and Planters' Bank, and it is evident, I think, that Gillmore was after making a deposit. Whether he will be regularly "booked" and his currency taken "at par" is more than I can say.
Several counting rooms on the wharves were slightly smashed; but, during the entire shelling, which lasted from about 9 ½ to 1 o'clock, no one was hurt.
Special dispatches say that the rumor of the death of John C. Breckinridge, from wounds received in battle, is confirmed.
<c03>
THE ARRIVAL OF COLORED TROOPS.
The 2d Colored Regiment, which arrived in this city on Wednesday night from Washington, was accommodated with quarters at the Park Barracks, where they were supplied with substantial rations, and where they received the same attentions that are generally paid to white soldiers. They behaved remarkably well, and manifested the good nature and playfulness characteristic of the race they represent. Apple sellers, candy dealers, and peddlars of jackknives and cheap jewelry, were well patronized by these volunteers during their short stay in this city. Early in the forenoon, large numbers of spectators collected in the City Hall Park to see the only regiment of blacks that ever ventured to bivouac in this metropolis; and with many of them it was a source of thanksgiving that public sentiment had been so rapidly and so thoroughly educated, that no Secessionist dare openly insult them. There were some vulgar, cowardly fellows who spoke contemptuously of them, but deeming discretion the better part of valor, they spoke in undertones. Some of the New Jersey Copperheads assured the officers that they would have to fight their way through the streets of New York, and were informed in reply that the predictions of peace traitors and Secessionists could not intimidate them, for they could very soon put themselves in an attitude of self-defence, and they only regretted that they could not have been here with their troops at the time of the riot. Near the ferry at Jersey City a person in the uniform of a military officer came up to Adjutant E. B. Tracy and insulted him because he was associated with negroes in the service of his country, and was promptly knocked down by the Adjutant for his insolence. His blackened eye and battered face will advertise for several days to come his indiscreet exhibition of color-phobia. His name and the nature of the offence for which he was so justly and promptly punished have been telegraphed to the authorities at Washington. With two or three exceptions, the officers of this regiment have been under fire in several engagements, and some of them may be considered veterans in the service. They are gentlemen of culture and character. The officer in command is a graduate of Dartmouth College, and a majority of the other officers are graduates of Yale and Harvard. About two-thirds of the privates were formerly slaves, but some of them were men whose skill in several branches of industry commanded handsome wages before they volunteered to join the army, a few of them are men of considerable property, and all of them are patriotic and hearty supporters of the Government, and hold themselves in constant readiness to fight for the Union and Liberty. They have made wonderful progress in drill, and Gen. Casey remarked a short time before their departure, that they were not excelled by any white soldiers of similar opportunities and experience in the army of the United States. Their powers of imitation, their habits of obedience, their love of military display, the acknowledgment of their manhood by dressing them in the uniform of the soldier, and the fact that they are preparing to put down Slavery, which is only another word for Rebellion, eminently fits them for service in the ranks. They know that Dr. Wright was recently hanged at Norfolk for deliberately murdering one of their officers; they know that their black brethren rendered good service at Port Hudson, at Fort Wagner and elsewhere; and that their valor and loyalty are appreciated by the people. They know that the best, the bravest, and the most accomplished officers are chosen to lead them; they know that special efforts are made in all parts of our common country to make their pay equal to that given to white men in arms; they know that Connecticut has determined to pay the same bounties to black volunteers that are paid to white ones; that Massachusetts has resolved to memorialize Congress to pay negro troops the same amount of wages paid to white troops; and should they fail to accomplish their purpose, the good old State of Massachusetts, always foremost in every worthy work, will cheerfully submit to special taxation to make up the deficient compensation for her colored volunteers. These facts are significant signs of the times, and sources of encouragement to the negro soldiers. The great idea that rounds out in bold relief, kindling the gratitude of our patriotic citizens and exciting the indignation of traitors, is revealed in the fact that a colored regiment can march unmolested through the streets of New York; can stack their arms in the Park, so recently the hunting-ground where the infuriated rioters pursued the flying negro; can perform guard duty; can sleep in the barracks undisturbed; can eat their rations without being exposed to insult, and appear on parade without provoking the jeers of jealous and unpatriotic whites. During the day, these blacks amused themselves by looking at the ever-changing panorama of the street, conversing with curious visitors, and improvising various modes of enjoyment characteristic of the negro. About 3 o'clock, they formed in line, and marched to the boat prepared to take them to New Orleans, and they marched without any visible manifestations of displeasure in the only place in the loyal States where it is possible to create opposition to the colored soldier; so that New York, so long considered free from the intrusion of negro troops, is no longer an exception to the rest of the country. Capt. B. C. Lincoln, of Company B, 2d U. S. Colored Troops, was married yesterday to Miss Isidore Whitman, of Boston, at Tabernacle Church in this city, by the Rev. J. P. Thompson, whose son is an officer in this regiment.
The following is a list of the officers of this regiment: Lieut.-Col. Starkfellow, Maj. Townsend, Adjt. Tracy, Surgeon McCully, Assistant Surgeon Booth- by, Second Assistant Surgeon Wertz, Quartermaster E. P. Adams, Chaplain J. H. Schneider, Captains Wilder, Lincoln, Dewey, Childs, Andrews, Martin, Willett, Hall, Bartholz, Springstein, Lieutenants Reinhardt, Adams, Pease, Van Coughnant, De Coster, Ames, Seymour, Moore, Murphy, Thompson, Linton, Slayton, South worth, O. A. and A. P. Carpenter, Hills. N. Y. Tribune.
[Correspondence of the Traveller.]
BEAUFORT, S. C., NOV. 19.
The bombardment of Sumter has resulted in reducing its walls almost to the water level, but whether we are any nearer to the taking of Charleston may be questioned. There is still great complaint about the Admiral, and among navy officers, who state that the "obstructions" so much talked about are now supposed to be-not in the harbor, but in Washington!
There has just been a grand review by General Saxton of the troops on this island. The 1st South Carolina, (colored,) which, as to drill, is one of the best regiments, being on picket, did not take part in the parade.
The post chaplain, Mr. Harris, has daily evening prayer meetings which are well attended, and there is considerable religious interest. Rev. Dr. Peck and family have returned from their visit North, and the Doctor has resumed his duties as pastor of the Baptist Church. The church bells ring every morning at 9 o'clock for the day school, and some four hundred children are taught in this town.
The sale of houses to take place on the 18th of January will be advertised in Washington and New York. The plantations will be told as soon as surveyed, probably in February or March. In the meantime, the negroes are exhorted to locate on twenty acre lots which have been allotted for their exclusive use. The crop of cotton having been nearly gathered, General Saxton is about to turn over the plantation business to the tax Commissioners, and as they of course have no funds to carry them on as heretofore, it is supposed that the system of Superintendents is about to pass away, and that the negroes are to stand or fall on their own merits. The sooner this occurs, the sooner can we decide the question, "is the negro prepared for freedom?"
WHITE SLAVES. Col. Hanks, who has had charge of the freedmen in Louisiana, has been directed by Gen. Banks to proceed North, and present to the loyal people the situation of thousands of negroes in his department. The Col. has arrived at this port, and brings with him a man who is branded on the forehead with the name of his late master; a woman whose back and shoulders are scarred with the lash of her oppressors; a preacher of the gospel, until lately a slave; and three little white girls, with straight light brown hair and blue eyes; they are good looking children-indeed, one of them is very handsome. They were born in slavery, and held as slaves until the President issued his proclamation of freedom. Their mothers content to their coming North, in order to insure their escape from the lecherous clutches of their former taskmasters. Col. Hanks left the city last evening, and will proceed directly to Washington, taking with him the children who have been redeemed from a life of bondage. During their stay in this city, a number of philanthropic and patriotic ladies and gentlemen called at the Freedmen's Relief Rooms, No. 1 Mercer street, to see them.-Tribune.
NEW YORK, 23d. The Times despatch says: An officer on General Bank's staff, writing to a friend in this city, states that a large quantity of cotton was captured near Brownsville, and expeditions had been sent up the river to get all they could find. The Union men at Brownsville, who hailed with delight the capture of the place by our forces, were forming themselves Into defensive organizations and rendering valuable service as scouts. The cotton which will be thrown into the market by our occupation of Texas will amount to 250,000 bales. The amount stored on the Rio Grande line is immense.
The freedmen in Washington and vicinity are to have a jubilee on Arlington Heights tomorrow. It is fit that those delivered ones should give thanks for the great boon which has come to them, and no place could be more appropriate than Arlington, once the home of the rebel commander-in-chief, but now lost to him forever. Such a celebration there will mark fitly the progress the nation has made toward liberty and justice, and illustrate, also, the retribution which invariably overtakes the wrong- doer. Traveller, November 25.
<c04>
REBEL ATTACK ON FORT SAUNDERS.
KNOXVILLE, Tenn., Nov. 29. The great blow anxiously anticipated so long was struck this forenoon. Reinforced by the troops of Sam Jones, Jackson and Williams, Long street sought to annihilate the army of the Ohio by one blow, for which purpose be selected seven picked regiments. Skirmishing commenced last night at ten o'clock, and continued sharply until daylight on our left and front, before Fort Saunders, commanded by General Ferrer, defended by the 79th New York, Benjamin's 3d United States artillery, and Buckley's Rhode Island battery. Our pickets were driven in, and the enemy had possessed themselves of some rifle pits, but the Massachusetts boys drove them back. Suddenly the rebel storming party, led by the 16th and 17th Georgia, and 13th Mississippi, under cover of our own retreating men, came to the assault, and approached to within 100 yards of the fort unharmed. Then ensued a scene of desperate daring and stubborn resistance, death, carnage, and horror, scarcely equalled during the war. These men, veterans of the Potomac, and the flower of Long street's army, confident of promised victory, plunged into a "hailing hell" of lead. Wires had been stretched from stump to stump in front of the work, and over these the enemy fell in confused heaps, with the killed and wounded around them. Our artillery men hurled shell by hand forward upon the fallen and doomed rebels. Hot and hotter came the storm of shell; the ground over which they passed was carpeted with the slain. The ditch was filled with the dead, wounded and dying. Not one on their side faltered, not a score of the gallant stormers escaped. The sun rising looked down through the cold mist and chill of that November morning upon the remains of an army. One thousand killed, wounded and prisoners was the cost of the assault on Fort Saunders. Nobly has it sustained the reputation of its namesake, fearfully avenging his fall. Among the killed were Col. Girards of the 13th Mississippi, and Lieut. Col. O'Brien. The brother of Mrs. Brown low is a prisoner. Our loss will not reach eighty all told; over fifty of these consists of the 17th Kentucky, who were captured on the south of the river. Whether Longstreet is satisfied with the impregnability of Knoxville we know not. What his next movement will be may be predicted with confidence. Besides the prisoners, we have three battle flags, one of which was planted on our works at one time.
The following is from an official source, and is confirmatory of a dispatch sent yesterday:—
LOUISVILLE, Dec. 7. The news from East Tennessee is really glorious. Longstreet has abandoned the siege, and is getting himself into Virginia as fast as possible, via Greenville. Our cavalry is said to be in close pursuit of the rebels. A large batch of prisoners was taken yesterday it Clinch river. Sherman has arrived at Knoxville.

SUCCESSFUL ATTACK ON THE REBELS IN LOUISIANA.
Gen. Lee, with 800 Federal cavalry and a section of artillery, attacked the 4th Texas and 2d Louisiana rebel cavalry, and drove them from Camp Pratt to within four miles of Vermillion Bayou. Here the 2d and 3d Illinois cavalry made a gallant sabre charge and broke the enemy's ranks, capturing one commissioned officer and sixty-nine privates, mostly from the 4th Texas regiment, with their arms and horses. Eight rebels were killed and a large number wounded. 
Two days previously, Gen. Lee surprised a camp of rebels twenty miles from New Ibernia, and captured six officers and thirty-five men, with a large number of horses and arms belonging to the 1st Louisiana mounted Zouaves. Two of the rebels were killed. We met with no loss.
The steamer Brazel, from St. Louis, was fired into above Bayou Sara, on the 26th ult., and received about forty balls. A negro cook was the only one injured. The boat was not damaged.
The steamer Black Hawk was fired into near the mouth of Red river on the 21st ult. by six or seven rebel cannon from the west bank of the Mississippi. She took fire and was run to the opposite side of the river, where the flames were extinguished by the crew. The gunboat Choctaw soon alter arrived, and the Black Hawk was saved. The heavy guns of the Choctaw put the rebels to flight. Two persons were killed, and two wounded on board the Choctaw, which was badly damaged. She had, however, reached New Orleans under the escort of some of our gunboats.
MESSAGE OF THE GOV. OF KENTUCKY. 
CINCINNATI, Dec. 8. The Message of Gov. Bramlette, of Kentucky, was published this morning. He represents the financial condition of the State as satisfactory, and urges the complete organization of the militia for home defence from guerillas and robbers. He adds:
"It is a source of gratification that the patriotism of the people has met the efforts to place a sufficient force in the field for defence, and that we are now more secure and better guarded than at any time heretofore since the rebellion. In a short time, under an arrangement made with the Secretary of War, the thorough organization of the enrolled and volunteer militia for our defence will be complete, and security will again brighten the desolate homes of the people."
"He pledges the entire services of the State to the defence of the Government. Kentucky's position in reference to Federal relations is largely discussed, but no new position is taken. It is conceded that negro slavery is not essential to the life of the State or Nation, but that the Union is.
THE ESCAPE OF JOHN MORGAN-WHAT HE IS TO DO. The Louisville (Ky.) Democrat of Friday, noticing the arrest of two of John Morgan's officers near that city, adds:—
The prisoners state that Morgan, with six captains, escaped from the prison, and that Morgan, with the other officers, got upon the train at Columbus within fifteen minutes after they made their escape, and came this way. They were detained and slept in an old shed until the following night, when they started. They say that Morgan and the other officers were ahead of them, and that it was the intention of Morgan to cross the Cumberland river Wednesday night.
It was rumored that Morgan is to have command of the different bands of guerillas in this State, all of whom will be concentrated on the south bank of the Cumberland river, and that as soon as they can be got together he will make a raid through the State, and probably strike the Louisville and Nashville railroad.
THANKSGIVING AT THE COLORED ASYLUM. It will be remembered that the Colored Orphan Asylum on Fifth avenue, near Forty-third street, was burned by the mob during the late July riots, and more than 200 children were deprived temporarily of a home. Since the 1st of September last, the handsome mansion of Mr. M. B. Field, at Carmanaville, has been provided for them, and at present 115 boys and 95 girls, from the ages of 3 to 12 years, are enjoying there good treatment and educational advantages. Much sympathy has been expressed for the treatment both themselves and their race sustained through the infamous mob, and so great a demand exists for colored servants that none, scarcely, can be had at reasonable wages to attend to the work of houses. They are in universal demand by private families, who solicit their service as an offset against the brutal treatment of ignorant Europeans, many of whom have ridden themselves entirely of whites. Yesterday, the children enjoyed an excellent dinner of turkeys and other delicacies, $100 worth of which have been presented them during the past week by benevolent well-wishers.
CINCINNATI, Nov. 25. The Great Western Sanitary Association is now fully organized. Gen. Rosecrans is the President. The day settled for the opening is the 31st of December next. The proceeds of the Fair will be distributed to the Union soldiers with out regard to States, under the direction of the Cincinnati branch of the. United States Sanitary Commission. An appeal is made for donations of money and suitable articles for the Fair. The Express Companies will transport donations free of charge. The headquarters of the Association are at No. 178 Vine street, Cincinnati.
FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC ADVICES. The New York Evening Post's Washington correspondent says:
"The latest advices from the State Department, both from England and France, are very encouraging. The English government will undoubtedly prevent the construction of any more iron vessels for the rebels, even if it is necessary to resort to additional legislation for that purpose. Public opinion throughout England is changing rapidly to our side, in reference to the great contest in which we are engaged, and the speeches of Mr. Beecher were exceedingly opportune, as they fell upon the ear of John Bull when he was disposed to hear the truth. The Liverpool meeting is spoken of especially, in private letters received here, as resulting in great good. The outrageous conduct of the friends of the South on that occasion converted thousands of respectable people to Unionism, for it is perceived that the brutal coarseness of the Southern advocates on that occasion was characteristic of the rebels and their cause."
Ten of Jeff. Davis's, slaves were captured by the rebels thirty miles below Vicksburg, recently. They had Union uniforms and arms. Poor fellows!
Wednesday, November 25th, completed eighty years since the British forces left New York, a proceeding that closed what is specially called the American Revolution. The federal victory won on that day, in 1863, will render it doubly memorable.
<c05>
ALABAMA. A majority of the negroes driven into the State from Mississippi are working in the coal mines in Talladega county, for which the rebel government pays twenty dollars a ton, delivered at the Alabama and Tennessee River railroad, six miles distant. 
The people are generally in favor of conscription of the negroes. Several papers have come out in advocacy of the abolition of slavery, upon the ground that emancipation would have the effect of gaining an earlier foreign recognition of the Confederacy.
On the 12th of October, the bodies of six men were found hanging side by side in the woods, near Talladega, at which place there is a large conscript camp. It is supposed these men were hanged for resistance to conscription.
Two women were publicly hung at Talladega on the 13th for refusing to divulge the hiding places of their husbands, who had fled at the approach of the conscripting officers. A perfect reign of terror exists in this part of the country. The woods are full of refugees trying to evade the relentless conscripting officers. 
All men from the age of eighteen to forty-five, regardless of wealth or station, are conscripted for the Confederate army. Another conscription for State service has been made of boys from sixteen to eighteen, and men from forty-five to sixty, who are at all able to hold up a musket, and are not otherwise in the employment of the government.
THINGS WORKING IN TENNESSEE.
QUARTERMASTER'S OFFICE, NASHVILLE, Tenn., Nov. 13, 1863. 
To His Excellency, Andrew Johnson. Military Governor Tennessee:
GOVERNOR: The bearer, (colored,) Jane Woodall, is my house-servant. She is a slave, claimed by Christopher Woodall, a resident of Tennessee.
It is said that he is disloyal, and on a previous occasion, the military authorities prevented him from taking her.
Has Mr. Woodall any right, under the President's Proclamation and military law, to take this woman? 
It strikes me not, as we have taken possession of rebel property without compensation.
Requesting your decision in the premises, I am, Governor, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN C. CRANE,
Captain and acting Quartermaster.
THE GOVERNOR'S RESPONSE.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE, NASHVILLE, Tenn., Nov. 13, 1863.
Respectfully returned. If the girl referred to within is willing to return with Mr. Woodall, she should be allowed to go; but, if not willing, she will not be compelled palled to go with him.
ANDREW JOHNSON, Military Governor. 
A true copy. JOHN C. CRANE, Chief Quartermaster Nashville , &c.
LOSSES IN THE NINE MONTHS' REGIMENTS. A very erroneous impression lingers in this community in regard to the extent of losses in our army, occasioned, doubtless, by the continued use of the old epithets "cut to pieces," "fearful very erroneous impression lingers in this community in regard to the extent of losses in our army, occasioned, doubtless, by the continued use of the old epithets "cut to pieces," "fearful losses on both sides,” &c., &c. But whatever careful statistics are resorted to, this error undergoes a material correction. Thus, it is as ascertained that out of fifteen regiments and one company in the Massachusetts nine months' regiments, the loss by the casualties of battle was less than four-fifths of one per cent., while the deaths by sickness were about four and three tenths percent. The figures are: died of sickness, 662; killed and died of wounds, 117. —Boston Journal.
It is a melancholy amusement to note the manner in which the democracy imitate the old federalists. Even "war democrats" can't keep in line with their country. They had a convention, at Chicago, on the 25th, and it sat with closed doors, after the most disapproved Hartford Convention fashion Traveller.
Professor (late Colonel) A. C. Maggi has established himself in Boston, and offers his services as an Instructor in Modern Languages and Military Science.

INTERESTING, IMPORTANT, INSTRUCTIVE.
ETHNOLOGY-The Nations, Races, and Tribes, of Men-their Origin, Present Condition, and Probable Destiny. PHYSIOLOGY-—Functions of the Bodily Organs- their “Uses and Abuses." PHRNOLOGY-Abases. PHRENOLOGY—Our Social, Intellectual and Moral Nature. PYSIOGNOMY—"Signs of Character, and How to Read Them-"Ears, Eyes, Nose, Mouth, Chin, Hair, Skin, Complexion; their Language and Meaning. PSYCHOLOGY-the "Science of the Soul," including Man's Spiritual Nature, and his relations to this life and the life to come. The whole comprising a complete system of ANTHROPOLOGY, with numerous Portraits and other Engravings, given in the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL AND LIFE ILLUSTRATED. Single number, 15 cents, by first post. The January number begins a new volume, at 1.50 a year. Subscribe now. Address, FOWLER AND WELLS, 308, Broadway, New York.
Dec. 11-3t.
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION IN CONCORD,
N. H.—There will be a Convention in Eagle Hall, on Friday of next week, 18th inst., to commence at 10 o'clock, A. M., and to continue through the day and evening.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER, A. T. Foss and W. A. JAOKSON, (late coachman of Jeff. Davis,) will address the Convention. It is hoped the great questions of the present moment will bring together a large concourse of the people of Concord and vicinity.
A GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT WM.-WELLS BROWN will address the people on the above subject, as follows:—
Northfield, Mass., Friday, Dec. 11.
Bernardston, Mass., Saturday, Dec. 12,
Leyden, Mass., Sunday, Dec. 13.
Colerain, Mass., Monday, Dec. 14.
Northfield, Mass., Tuesday, Dec. 15.
Bernardston, Mass., Wednesday, Dec. 16.
Shelburn Falls, Thursday, Dec. 17.
Charlemont, Friday, Dec. 18.
Charlemont, Sunday, Dec. 20.
LYCEUM LECTURES.—Literary Associations, and Lyceums, desiring lecture for the present winter, may be served on reasonable terms, with any or all in the following list:—
1. Eighteen Months, at Port Royal, S. C., as Superintendent of abandoned Plantations; and the solution of the question, "What shall be done with the slaves freed?"
2. War and Peace.
3. The Progress of the Mechanic Arts, and its effect on Social Science.
4. The Poet and his Art.
5. Shakespeare.
6. The Merchant of Venice, (a Critical Reading.)
7. Hamlet, (a Critical Reading.)
8. Macbeth, (a Critical Reading.)
9. Milton.
10. Burns.
11. Coleridge.
12. Wordsworth.
Testimonials of a high order, from eminent gentlemen connected with Lyceums, in the West, where has been the lecturer's field hitherto, may be seen by any who desire it 
Address Prof. J. C. ZACHOS, Boston, Mass.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—Those who want an easy, pleasant and profitable business should send for
"FIFTY METHODS OF MAKING MONEY";
a book containing over fifty valuable secrets. Sent, post paid, to any address on the receipt of 25 cents.
Address, F. A. FOSTER, Troy, N. Y.
Nov. 13.—3t
ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. The invaluable Tract, by Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, entitled "The Right Way the Safe Way," can be had at the Liberator office, whole sale or retail. Price $6 per hundred; ten cents, single. The name of the writer is a sufficient guaranty of the book, both as to style and argument.
ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE.—Three complete sets of the (London) ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE are for sale; application to be made to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price,—three dollars each. The work covers a period of more than ten years, ending with May, 1863. 4t
REV. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor Clark's School Visitor, would make a few additional engagements to lecture the coming winter. His themes, are popular and practical. He may be addressed at the Visitor Office, 1308 Chesnut street, Philadelphia. 3t.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases o Woman and Children.
References—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
<c06>
"Lively, Interesting, Thoughtful, and Candid."
RUTH'S SACRIFICE:
OR,
LIFE ON THE RAPPAHANNOCK.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON.
THE critics ask, How is it that the author of this work so perfectly satisfies men of all creeds and parties with her revelations of Slavery, and so lucidly solves grave problems of the times connected with the rebellion? The answer is plain, viz: by being herself a resident of the South, and admitted behind the scenes, the great curtains of which are being drawn by the stern hand of War.
STORY OF THE ORIGIN OF THE WORK.
A Young lady, having connections at the South, and acquainted in several slave States, was a guest in one on of the old wealthy families in Eastern Virginia. At the princely board, distinguished men of our own and other countries discussed the grand questions which now shake our national edifice, while characteristic scenes in which rich-whites, poor-whites, and slaves figured, passed in vivid panorama before her. She had no theory on the "institution" of the South, but absorbed in what she saw and heard, noted down incidents and portraitures for her own references. The material grew on her hands. Her letters North appearing in a leading public journal, attracted attention throughout the land- —and very naturally: for while others wrote on that subject from imagination, she from observation; others from theory, she from facts; others still from sectional or political motives, she amid the charmed circle of personal friends.
From the Newburyport Herald.
An honest and truthful representation of the evils of slavery, in which the author has, with the greatest fidelity, introduced just such characters, scenes and incidents as came within the range of her own observation. It will be read and prised by every one who has any interest in the subject treated.
From the New York Evangelist.
The plain, honest truth is kindly told, and a picture presented in which slavery appears in those lights and shades in which every one's intelligence assures him must exist. There is one phase of Southern life which even Uncle Tom's Cabin does not so vividly present, the bearing of slavery upon the poor white population.
From the Cambridge Chronicle.
From first to last, the reader is made to feel that he is no mere listener to a narrative, but an actual observer of the scene.
From the Christian Secretary.
Painted by an eye-witness, the scenes are life-like and painfully interesting, imparting a much better idea of the enormity of the slave-traffic than can be found in Uncle Tom.
IT IS A BOOK FOR ALL.
It is absorbing as a story; its facts and logic shed light on matters of national interest; and although descending to the lowest stratum of Southern society, not an oath or aught offensive to the purest taste disfigures its pages, and being pervaded by an elevated religions sentiment, it is admirably adapted to the family circle and Sunday School, and just now will be peculiarly suitable for a Christmas present. Price $1. Agents wanted.
C. H. PEARSON,
Dec. 11. 67 Cornville, Boston.
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 1, seven cents; Nos. 1 and 2 twelve cents. No. 2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. Address
ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
Dec. 11. ly
JUST PUBLISHED,
A HEART-THRUST AT SLAVERY.
"The Most Thrilling Book the War has Produced." 
WONDERFUL REVELATIONS!
DARING AND SUFFERING:
A History of the Great Railroad Adventure.
BY LIEUT. WILLIAM PITTENGER,
One of the Adventurers.
With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of the School Visitor.
THE whole nation was excited, last Spring, by the revelations, made before the President and the Cabinet at Washington, by the survivors of General Mitchel's secret Railroad Expedition, sent into the heart of the Confederacy almost a year before. Of the twenty-two daring adventurers who penetrated the enemy's country, eight perished on the scaffold, and the others, after suffering untold hardships, finally succeeded in recrossing the lines, and reaching the Union army. The survivors, each received a medal of honor and other munificent rewards, from the hands of the President.
The marvellous adventures of this band are recorded by one of their number, who is fully competent to the task. Their history, as narrated by him possesses the connected interest of an epic poem. The scene is gradually developed, and the interest deepens from first to last. The reader will follow the adventurers, from their first midnight consultation, onward through their perilous journey, and will scarcely breathe during the progress of the terrible chase-the most exciting ever recorded in the annuals of any country. The death-scene will draw tears from the eye of the sympathizing reader, while his cheek will burn with indignation at the cruelties practised by heartless rebels. The style is a simple, unaffected one, rising with the occasion to the loftiest eloquence, and abounding in the tend rest pathos.
The whole narrative of the long captivity, attempted escapes, sufferings and sorrows, of these heroic solders, is told with a graphic power that at once rivets the reader's attention. Nothing in history is more startling than this adventure, or more heart-touching than its portraiture by the pen of the gifted author.
The book is illustrated by a fine steel portrait of the author, and is several exquisite wood engravings, and printed in the highest style of typographical beauty.
Price $1, post-paid.
AGENTS wanted in all parts of the country, to whom extraordinary inducements are offered. 
Address all orders to
J. W. DAUGHADAY, PUBLISHERS,
1308 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
For sale by A. WILLIAMS & CO, 100 Washington St., and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 231 Washington St., Boston. Dec. 4-2w

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years, made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair. 
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city is the country. They are also packed for her customers, to take to Europe with them enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

A. FOLSOM & SON,
MANUFACTURERS OF
OIL CARPETING,
—AND-
ROOF CLOTH,
23 WATER, STREET,
A.FOLSOM, BOSTON.
S. P. FOLSOM,
M. H. HARDY,
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
No. 10, Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between Oxford and Edinboro' Sts., BOSTON. 
Sept. 23
BRAID PATTERNS
STAMPED AT No. 20 WINTER STREET,
AT FIVE CENTS PER YARD.
Boston, Oct. 23, 1863.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW 
No. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
Poetry.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A LOYAL WOMAN’S NO.
No! is my answer from this cold, bleak ridge,
Down to your valley: you may rest you there:
The gulf is wide, and none can build a bridge
That your gross weight would safely hither bear.
Pity me, if you will. I look at you
With something that is kinder far than scorn;
And think, “Ah, well! I might have grovelled, too;
I might have walked there, fettered and forsworn.’
I am of nature weak as others are;
I might have chosen comfortable ways, 
Once from these ranks I shrank, beheld afar,
In the soft lap of quiet, easy days.
I might-(I will not hide it)-once I might
Have lost, in the warm whir pools of your voice,
The sense of Evil, the stern cry of Right;
But Truth has steered me free, and I rejoice:
Not with the triumph that looks back to jeer
At the poor herd that call their misery bliss;
But as a mortal speaks when God is near,
I drop you down my answer; it is this:
I am not yours, because you seek in me
What is the lowest in my own esteem:
Only my flowery levels can you see,
Nor of my heaven-smit summits do you dream.
I am not yours, because you love yourself:
Your heart has scarcely room for me beside;
I could not be shut in with name and pelf;
I spurn the shelter of your narrow pride!
Not yours,-because you are not man enough
To grasp your country’s measure of a man!
If such as you, when Freedom’s ways are rough,
Cannot walk in them, learn that women can!
Not yours, because, in this the nation’s need,
You stoop to bend her losses to your gain, 
And do not feel the meanness of your deed; 
I touch no palm defiled with such a stain!
Whether man’s thought can find no lofty steeps
For woman’s scaling, care not I to know;
But when he falters by her side, or creeps,
She must not clog her soul with him to go.
Who weds me must at least with equal pace
Sometimes move with me at my being’s height;
To follow him at his more glorious place,
His purer atmosphere, were keen delight.
You lure me to the valley: men should call
Up to the mountains, where the air is clear.
Win me and help me climbing, if at all!
Beyond these peaks rich harmonies I hear,-
The morning chant of Liberty and Law!
The dawn pours in, to wash out Slavery’s blot:
Fairer than aught the bright sun ever saw
Rises a nation without stain or spot.
The men and women mated for that time
Tread not the soothing mosses of the plain;
Their hands are joined in sacrifice sublime;
Their feet firm set in upward paths of pain.
Sleep your thick sleep, and go your drowsy way!
You cannot hear the voices in the air!
Ignoble souls will shrivel in that day:
The brightness of its coming can you bear?
For me, I do not walk these hills alone:
Heroes who poured their blood out for the Truth,
Women whose hearts bled, martyrs all unknown,
Here catch the sunrise of immortal youth
On their pale cheeks and consecrated brows!
It charms me not,-your call to rest below:
I press their hands, my lips pronounce their vows:
Take my life’s silence for your answer: No!
-Atlantic Monthly for December.

THE WORKING-GIRLS.
BY WOODBURY M. FERNALD.
Thirty thousand girls in New York, it is said, work for from one dollar to three dollars a week each, and their board alone averages within twenty-five cents of as much. They have combined in a movement for higher wages.
God of the Free! whose judgments rest
In awful justice on us now,
From North to South, from East to West,
While Slavery dies beneath the blow;
Oh stay not here; list to the cry
Of piteous thousands in our land,
Frail, trembling ones, who cannot die,
And scarcely live with laboring hand.
God of the feeble human frame,
And woman’s patient, suffering soul, 
Oh let not man’s heroic fame-
His power to guard, defend, control,
Sink to a selfishness so deep;
There is a deep, (and isn’t not here!)
At which the holy angels weep,
And woman sheds her bitter tear.
She asks for bread, for clothes, for more!
For comfort, culture, virtue, peace,
She asks-and, by the heavens so pure,
By God’s great arm, by man’s increase,
By all the powers above, below,
Her righteous prayer, so long deferred,
Shall soon be answered; earth shall know
The judgments which its crimes have stirred.
Yes, patient ones, ‘tis not alone
One form of bondage now that falls;
Jehovah makes thy cause his own,
And man shall tremble when He calls.
Oh, long account of labor crushed!
Of honest, anguished, starving toil!
And who art thou, oh man! so flushed
At such a price, with such a spoil?
See! rising thousands hear their tramp,
From seats of weariness and pain,
From gloomy garrets, cellars damp,
And crowded streets-a numerous train-
Who do not threaten, cannot take
The bolder measures man employs,
But simply ask of him to make
Life’s burden lighter, more its joys.
And will it be despised-refused?
Better that heaven’s high arching roof
Be hung with black; all trade accused;
And all professions stand aloof
From the great judgment which impends-
The curse of gold, and greed, and theft,
Which the Eternal Father sends,
His suffering children to protect.
Come! the great day, the glorious hour,
When Freedom’s self at last shall move-
When man’s superior gift of power,
And woman’s quivering soul of love,
And hearts and hands, all joyous things,
And myriad voices tuned anew,
Combine to bless the Power that brings
Freedom to souls and bodies too!
Boston, Mass., Nov. 17.

LEAD THOU ME ON!
Send kindly light amid the encircling gloom,
And lead me on!
The night is dark, and I am far from home;
Lead Thou me on!
Keep Thou my feet; I do not wish to see
The distant scene; one step’s enough for me.
I was not always thus; nor prayed that Thou
Shouldst lead me on;
I loved to choose and see my path; but now
Lead Thou me on!
I loved day’s dazzling light, and, spite of fears,
Pride ruled my will: -remember not past years!
So long thy power hath blessed me; surely still
Thou’lt lead me on
Through dreary doubt, through pain and sorrow, till
The night is gone;
And with the morn those angel faces smile,
Which I have loved long since, and lost the while.
The Liberator.
<c02>
PLANTATION PICTURES.
yBY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of “Cousin Frank’s Household.”
CHAPTER X.
A DISCOVERY.
In the midst of a goodly array of wheat and corn fields stood a brick house, of a stiff, cold aspect, unrelieved save by a cramped garden in front, in which a few scattered flowers bloomed as if not sure of a welcome. 
Here abode the Rev. Mr. Grey, a poor, persecuted, unhappy man. Not poor in this world’s goods, if the bodies and souls of men be included in that term, for he was the "owner" of two hundred human chattels. Neither was he persecuted for his religion, nor wretched because of the depravity of his fellow-men, for he had long since ceased to be a John the Baptist to the men of his generation, or a Paul to weep over “his brethren, his kinsmen according to the flesh.”
The scene of the suffering of the fallen preacher was in the domestic circle, and the desecrated sanctuary of the soul. At home, his shrew of a wife seemed resolved that he should have no peace; and if the wildly moving eye, and oft-times incoherent talk and remorseful look, were an index of what was passing within, conscience had turned against the man till its scorpion sting had well nigh driven him mad. 
Too low had the young man of holy orders rated the incumbrance when he aspired to the fortune of Grunelda Fisher-thus to become the master of slaves, but himself the slave of a tyrant wife. A dark day for Mr. Grey was it when he refused the quiet little parish among the free hills of his native Vermont, and four hundred a year, for the "well-watered plains" of the fertile South. A dark day when he stifled the voice within, and put away his humanity for slavery-accursed wealth, to become a living illustration of the text, “The way of the transgressor is hard.”
Mr. Grey once was a man to be looked up to, for his liberal culture, fine mind, and prepossessing exterior. His college course was finished with honor, and from the "school of the prophets" he went forth with the eyes of many upon him, as a young man well furnished "to every good word and work." A slightly too strong love of money was his weakness; but many have blest the world who had more to overcome in that regard.
In his early career Mr. Grey was active in various reforms, and often with stirring eloquence pleaded the cause of the oppressed. But a trip to the "sunny South" wrought a marvellous change. He took a milder view of slavery ; and his letters, written home, spiced with pious sentiments, advanced by rapid stages-from well turned pleas against harshness towards those who would be rid of the system if it were not for their deep concern for their helpless dependents, who, cast loose on the cold charities of the world,. would not be able to take care of themselves,-to an open espousal, backed by “Moses and the prophets,” of the divine right of making slaves of the poor African and his many-hued descendants. Those of his Northern friends who had commercial and other sympathies with the Southern task-master, derived from his correspondence much “aid and comfort;” but others shook the head, and waited to discern the philosophy of the thing. They averred they had discovered it in the broad acres, well stocked with human and other “cattle,” which he had wedded. Perhaps they were uncharitable in this;-we will not defend them. The clergyman in question, however, in becoming a proselyte to American slavery, lost his religious life, and sunk to depths of spiritual debasement. He lost caste as a preacher even in slaveholding circles-seldom finding an audience that desired his services. Eventually his mind came disordered; and with his long black hair flowing down his neck, his glittering coal-black eyes, he would converse keenly on matters of business, but unconnectedly of higher topics, intermingled with absurd boastings concerning his only child, who, he was often repeating with a wise air, was born on the fourth of March, and would therefore become President of the United States. A stranger seeing him once would never wish to see him again. 
Grunelda Fisher-or ‘Nelda as she was familiarly called, was a legitimate result of slavery. When a mere child, she learned that the servants were subject to her caprices. To see her put on an authoritative air, and give off orders after the manner of older persons, were considered by the doating parents indications of smartness; and when she stamped her foot at the old family nurse, and tyrannized over the unprotected slave-children, she was regarded with undisguised  admiration, and rewarded accordingly. ‘Nelda’s love of power, and force in wielding it, grew with her growth, and strengthened with her strength, till she not only ruled the servants, but subjected all else to her sway. Her parents, in their declining years, trembled before her, nor might any presume to have a will in opposition to hers. Her divine right to hold slaves was no narrow-minded, milk-and-water affair, but extended to all, black or white, that she could turn to her advantage, or stood in the way of her wishes. She was no bigot in this respect.
It is but simple justice to say, however, that ‘Nelda was not destitute of feminine attractions. She did not stint herself as to the outward adornments; and when all things went to her mind, she was a sprightly, dashing conversationalist, her tongue having been well limbered, in very, emphatic service on other occasions. Her youthful charms had faded somewhat ere she became a bride; the beaux of her neighborhood, not possessing enough of the daring supposed to belong, par excellence, to the “chivalry,” to trust themselves in any nearer relation to the “spitfire,” as the servants called her, than to listen to the sallies of her wit. But when the godly Mr. Grey, feasted and complimented by the courtly Southrons, chanced along in that bland after-dinnerish mood, consequent on such high living, she declared that “ have that Yankee she would“ ; and she did! Poor, unsophisticated clergyman! right from his books-his head stuffed with theological lore-he thought his enchantress as fascinating and amiable as he had found slavery to be; and he walked right into the trap, as if it were paradise.
‘Nelda’s will had never been crossed in her father’s house, and it was supreme, after marriage, in her own, as she invariably termed the residence, left her by her father. The husband soon sank to the position of a quasi-house servant, the "chief end" of whose existence it was to humor her selfish whims, and assist in the disciplinary care of the other dependents. 
Afflictions, like the sun, may soften or harden; the dew of heavenly grace was withheld from his, and, disappointed, baffled, spirit-broken, his heart became soured and embittered; and, it was whispered, the slavery he had also taken “for better or for worse,” finished the work, till his became a mind in ruins.
Mrs. Grey had no thought of making home happy. With impaired health and diseased nerves, she grew every day more turbulent and exacting towards her husband, and harsh towards her servants. In cruelty, she was the equal of any of the neighboring planters.
A babe brought little gladness to the household. The mother soon resumed her gay life; for balls and parties she had a passion, consigning her boy to the nursery, and the care of servants. Poor Mr. Grey would have demurred if be dared, for the love shut off from the wife poured itself more passionately toward the child; and well he knew that, under the training of such a mistress, servants of course were selfish and cruel, and it was not safe to commit him to their keeping. And apprehensive of evil, he lingered much about the nursery.
One night the little Grey baby, who- bore the name of “Bub,” fell into a fit of crying, and refused to be comforted. Its mother, of course, was absent, and the chief black nurse declared that he was “cross as the
<c03>
mischief, and ought to be trounced,” and she gave him a hearty shaking, which by no means served to compose his nerves, or diminish his voice. The father, aroused and alarmed, hastened to ask what had befallen his idol. Nurse declared he was sick, and in discrutiating pain,” and at once administered a dose of laudanum. This had the effect of putting the child into a sleep, from which the father feared he would never awake. In great anxiety he started off for a doctor, not trusting a servant lest he should loiter. The physician was not at home, and he urged his horse across the fields to shorten the route.
It was a dark night, and as Mr. Grey guided the physician back over the same path, they strayed from their real course into a neighboring thicket, when, just as they emerged once more, the doctor suddenly checked his horse, exclaiming,-
"Bless me! what have we here? A dead or worn-out runaway, I reckon.” 
"Surely,”," said Mr. Grey, coming up; “wonder whose man it is?” scrutinizing the prostrate figure that neither spoke nor moved. 
“Not dead, but completely exhausted,” added the physician, as, having dismounted, he laid his hand on the form of the straggler. 
“What shall we do now!” he continued; " there would be little life left by morning, if he stays here all night in the storm that’s coming up, and somebody would lose a hand. Shall we take him along with us to your house?” 
"My boy is in great danger-guess we’d better go on,” said Mr. Grey. “I can send a servant to attend to this matter in the morning.” 
"No, no, that won’t do: we must take him along, or his master will lose him, and have cause of complaint against us. Bless me! he’s as light as a girl! Starved to death, I reckon. Just give us a lift, and we’ll put him on my horse, and I will see that he is kept on till we reach your house.”
After administering to the stupified child, the physician directed his attention to the recaptured fugitive.
"Just as I suspected!” said he; a woman in disguise! These runaways are artful enough, certainly. Here’s something to revive her. Keep her quiet till morning, and I’ll ride over and see if we can find out who she belongs to. 
Scarcely had the doctor gone when Mrs. Grey’s carriage arrived. The lady, much fatigued with her late hours, returned in no very pleasant humor. The news of the capture was not long in reaching her ears, and she snuffed the prey with blood-thirsty eagerness. With a malign satisfaction, she sought the kitchen to scrutinize her victim. "One sharp glance was enough-she recognized the poor wanderer and the slave woman’s fate was sealed. 
“Hold up your head, and let us see whose nigger you be,” was the gentle salutation of the lady. Then, turning to her husband who stood meekly by,-
"Phil! where were your wits that you didn’t know her? This is Mr. Nelson’s house-servant Chainy; and here you and the doctor have been fussing round, and it never once entered your stupid heads! Don’t neither of you read the papers? And there’s the advertisement for this miserable runaway staring you in the face; and yet you didn’t know her! And she had her boy Trolo with her did you take him? "- and she flung the journal at him that contained the description of Chainy and her son. 
The husband, thus respectfully addressed, stated that the woman was alone. 
"Stupid! stupid!" exclaimed the termagant; “of course he was close by ; but you wouldn’t see him, if you’d had to swallow him! Anybody with half an eye could have caught him, and you and the doctor will just start off to-morrow morning early, and hunt him up. I hope if that boy escapes Mr. Nelson will hold you responsible. Pretty neighbor you are! Why, all the servants in the county could run right by your nose, all in a body, and you wouldn’t be any the wiser for it." 
Mrs. Grey judged correctly: it was indeed Chainy who had been taken. It was with hearts full of sadness, that she and Trolo took leave of Hinna the night the courageous ferry-woman started them on their way. Silently they gazed after her till the little boat, that had been as an ark of safety to them, was lost to view. Seldom had they felt the warm beams of a sympathy like hers; and Chainy wept, almost hopelessly, for already had her clinging heart learned to depend on the stronger nature that had so efficiently befriended her. But now, fear of pursuit urged them onward, and they hastened to make the most of the sheltering darkness. They continued travelling most of the next day, and then on, on, making their way through unfrequented fields and woods. Chainy had a fine, sensitive organization, and was timid to a fault; only a strong motive could impel her to a flight formidable with such difficulties, and she soon became much enfeebled. Nor had the adventurers made the progress that it seemed to them; the rough, unknown route cost them unspeakable toil, and at last, in a sudden n change of the wind, and losing their true course, they were unconsciously retracing their steps. The slave-mother was now much exhausted, and at length tired nature fully overcome, reaction and apathy seized her. Trolo, filled with anxiety, strove to encourage her; but she complained of dizziness, and was utterly unable to proceed. Trolo found a comfortable" mossy seat at the foot of a tree, to which he assisted his mother, and thinking she needed food for they had been very careful of their little stock,-opened the package, now nearly consumed, which Hinna had given them, and tried to persuade his mother to eat; but she had fainted. Much alarmed, the heroic boy; seizing the little dipper so considerately put among their effects, ran to find water, but without success. It wore late into the night, Chainy having alternate fits of insensibility. It was during one of these, while the distracted boy had once more gone in search of a stream or spring, breaking the bushes as he went, and otherwise marking the route, that the keen-eyed physician discovered Chainy, as before related.
One day as Mr. Manson and Amelia were returning from a ride, a carriage drove before them, and drew up at the door of Powhatan plantation. It was Mrs. Grey bringing back Chainy.
"Why," exclaimed Amelia, “that looks for all the world like Mrs. Grey. But what a funny little old man of a servant she has there!
Then dismounting, and giving the bridles of the horses to Jehu, they entered the parlor a moment after Mrs. Grey, and just as she was greeting Miss Forsythe. Lelia sat by a window engrossed with a book. 
"I rode over to return your servant, madam."
"My servant!" ejaculated Miss Forsythe.
"Chainy!" called Mrs. Grey from the parlor door, "step this way, and show yourself to your mistress”-and the poor woman, more dead than alive, came in.
"Why, Chainy!" exclaimed Miss Forsythe, compassionately, “is this you!”
"Yes, it’s her,” sharply said Miss Grey, "old man’s duds and all! Are you sorry to get her again? 
"Pray be seated, Mrs. Grey," said Miss Forsythe, "I ‘II ring for Kitty to take your things"-and the child coming in soon after, and seeing her mother Chainy, forgetting all else, sprang into her arms, and cried for very joy.
"Is you free! Is you free! O, I’m so glad you’ve come! I been wanting to see you all the time!"
Lelia was much affected at the scene, and the tears sprang to her eyes. Mrs. Grey saw it, and her eyes flashed as she said, fixing her gaze on Lelia,-
"I’ve been to considerable trouble to bring back this runaway; but, if I judge right, there are those here who do not thank me for my pains. If you didn’t wish your nigger found, what did yon advertise for, I’d like to know to make your neighbors trouble for nothing? 
"I doubt not Mr. Nelson will be deeply obliged to you; and when he learns of Chainy’s recapture, will lose no time in expressing his sense of your kindness. Miss Lelia is a stranger here, and is not yet accustomed to our ways; yon must therefore excuse her.” 
"I can speak for Uncle" said Amelia, bent on soothing the irate visitor," he’ll be very grateful, and
<co4>
will put you down as a right smart woman and a true friend.”
Miss Grey looked pleased, but as she was taking her leave at the door, said,-
"Miss Forsythe introduced that young lady as Miss Nelson. Is that your uncle’s ward, of whom I have heard so much?”
“Yes,” replied Amelia.
“Has she ever been here before!”
“No; this is her first visit.”
"Ah! it is strange-but her face looks familiar. I never forget countenances, no matter how long since I saw them, nor what changes time may have made. I should have known Chainy if she had been turned into an elephant-the oid duds didn’t deceive my eyes; and I have been studying upon it how it is that Lelia’s face looks so natural to me. I can’t make it quite out yet, but I shall, depend upon it. But there’s one thing I don’t understand; and that is, how Mr. Nelson can harbor such a character under his roof.” 
Such a character! Why, what do you mean!” said Amelia.
“Mean? Why, don’t you see, she’s a raving abolitionist! Why, she actually looked as if she was going to cry when that little imp came to see her runaway mother. But she is from the North- that explains it. Why, I consider it positively dangerous to have such a person about. No wonder your servants begin to scatter. She’s a Yankee abolitionist; and I’d make her show her colors, and send her off, or have her what she should be at once. I hate such folks every one of them ought to be hung; and as for this Yankee baby, she’ll hear from me some day-I feel it in my bones.”

LETTER FROM REV. CAPT. DANIEL FOSTER.
NORFOLK, (Va.) Nov. 29, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON-In my last letter ‘o you, I gave some account of the night engagement in the Chattanooga valley, in which our regiment suffered so severely. A few days after, I received an order from the War Department to report immediately to Brig. Gen. Wild at Newbern, N. C. I started on the 7th of November, and reported to Gen. Wild, whom I found at Norfolk, on the 16th inst. I was mustered out of the 33d Mass., and into the 3d N. C. Vols., as Captain, the same day. The next day, the 17th, Gen. Wild ordered me to join an expedition, under Col. Draper, of the 2d N. C. Vols., consisting of one hundred men, (colored soldiers,) which was to go through Princess Anne county to disperse the guerillas, and bring in colored recruits. The expedition started on Tues day, the 17th. The men and officers (excepting Lieut. Hendricks and myself of the 3d N.C.) belonged to the 2d N. C. Vols. We were gone ten days, and returned with four hundred and fifty men, women and children, whom we had redeemed from slavery, henceforth to be, and to be recognized, as free citizens of the United States of North America. Let it be remembered that we took with us only those who wished to come. And then let me say, as an answer to those who represent the slaves as caring nothing for freedom, that in our tramp of over a hundred miles, we did not find a single slave who did not manifest an eager desire to join our party. The slaves of secessionists and Union men, of so-called kind as well as of hard masters, all, with out exception, eagerly and at once fall into the column for freedom. We took one hundred and six carts and wagons, and one hundred and sixteen horses and mules for the transportation of the women and children and their humble household effects. We foraged on the county, taking supplies for our army from the secessionists. Col. Draper was very strict in his discipline to prevent any thieving, and to have all the supplies that were taken procured in the regular and proper way through the Quartermaster or some officer detailed for that purpose. And there was no plundering, except once, when some poultry was stolen in the night from two widow women near our camp. The Colonel took up a contribution of sixty dollars, and made good the loss which these women had sustained.
The leader of the guerillas in Princess Anne and adjoining counties was a certain Maj. Burronghs, formerly a Methodist clergyman, and a very active, able, bitter and dangerous enemy. For a year past, the Government has been anxious to get hold of him. He was first in the rebel army, was taken prisoner and paroled. He returned home, and without waiting to be exchanged, organized a guerilla force, with which he has done great mischief. It was but a few weeks ago that he fired into a Government steamboat at Pemya Bridge, killed several of our men, and burned the boat. Three cavalry parties have been sent out within the year for the capture of this dangerous man, but they failed, and left that important service to be performed by Col, Draper and his colored soldiers. I should say here, that Col. Draper was thoroughly informed of every move of the guerillas by slaves, who were daily coming into camp with intelligence of the enemy. Thus he learned on Thursday evening that Maj. Burroughs had gathered a force of fifty men, which he was striving to augment for the purpose of cutting up Col. Draper’s command, and retaking the freed slaves. Col. Draper acted upon the information brought him, and laid his plans to capture the Major. At Pemya Bridge he turned back toward Norfolk, and caused intelligence to be sent to Maj. Burroughs that he was going directly and rapidly back to the city. At the proper point, he turned off the main road, and went down the neck to the Beach. Long Island, the home of Maj. Burroughs, was eight miles down the Beach. We passed down the Beach last Sunday afternoon to the Island. The sky was clear, the sun shone brightly, a high wind rolled up the waves, which broke with old Ocean’s grandest thunder at our feet, and we marched in silence and awe, with trailed arms, to the capture of one who had doomed as all to an ignominious death. At dusk, the troops crossed the arm of the sea, guided by Major Burroughs’s slave, in a flatboat, and at once Col. Draper took possession of the houses belonging to Maj. B., and of all the crossings to the Island, and of all the roads by which intelligence could be carried to the Major. He ascertained that Maj. B., supposing us on our way to Norfolk, had sent word that he would be at his house that evening. He came, and Colonel Draper captured him. We brought him in, and four other rebel fighting men with him. These prisoners are now in confinement at Fort Norfolk, awaiting Gen. Butler’s action in their case. 
These soldiers behaved well, proved patient, obedient, enduring and brave. Thank God for this way of freedom which He has opened for the slave! I am now in my right position, with a part of a colored regiment. I am at home, and with my friends and brothers. We have a noble commander in General Wild.
Truly yours, 
DANIEL FOSTER,
Captain in the 3d N. C. Vols. 

GEORGE THOMPSON.
DEAR GARRISON-How did my heart leap with joy when I read the announcement that George Thompson was to visit our shores once more I Yes, once more! For, although he has been with us twice before, yet, never has he met with that reception from the whole people of our Commonwealth and country to which his labors in our behalf have so manifestly entitled him. A more honest, eloquent and earnest friend our country never had in Europe. And, while we cherish the memories of Steuben, of Kosciusko, and of Lafayette, surely, we may not be wanting in gratitude and justice to that heroic philanthropist, George Thompson, who, in his labors, has been "more abundant."
Well do I remember his first appearance thirty years ago in this city. And, so does the Editor of the Liberator remember it, I am sure. There was, there could be, no public demonstration in favor of this champion of Human Rights, then. That was a “day of small things,” which, however, was not despised 
<c05>
by the faithful in this city. We could not even find a hall where Mr. Thompson would be permitted to address the public. And, as you will recollect, his “first speech in America” was made to less than a hundred, all told, and crowded to suffocation in a small room somewhere near Cornhill. And for some time it was a matter of extreme doubt as to when, and where, and how, Mr. Thompson would be permitted to obtain a public audience, until, finally, the writer procured an invitation for him to “preach” a sermon in the church in North Bennett street, which was then occupied by the Methodists.
Mr. Thompson had once been a Wesleyan preacher in England, and while he could not be allowed to occupy any pulpit in Boston in pleading for the slave, it was thought it would be prudent to permit him to preach a sermon! And, for this invitation, I was indebted to the pastor’s wife, Mrs. Daniel Fillmore. It was through her influence, excellent woman that she was, that Mr. Thompson made his public debut in Boston in the pulpit of her husband. He preached a good sermon, which he sat up all the night before to write on the text, "Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.” In closing, Mr. Thompson took occasion to explain the object of his visit to this country, and the labor he was ready to perform if permitted to do so.
Of George Thompson’s labors, sacrifices and persecutions, during his first visit to this country, it is not needful here to speak. But, I ask, if the time have not now arrived when an ovation should be made, such as shall demonstrate to this veteran philanthropist and to the whole world, the estimate which the people of this city and the nation put upon his talents, his character and his labors? Labors, continued now for the space of thirty years or more, in behalf of the American Idea of Freedom; that Idea for which the nation is now contending in a bloody war. To this Idea George Thompson has always been true, whether in England, India or America. And, now, let the friends of human rights in this city and throughout the Commonwealth be informed that the  hour is at hand, when we shall have an opportunity of signifying to this eloquent advocate of human rights how much we appreciate the Idea of Freedom for which he has so long labored and suffered in other lands. Let the hour be announced when he will again place his foot upon our wharf; and let the people rush there with such a greeting as he so well deserves. And, then, in Tremont Temple, let us do for him what our citizens have so often delighted to do for other philanthropists and distinguished men who have honored us with their visits. LA ROY SUNDERLAND.
Boston, Nov. 24, 1863.
STARVING OUR SOLDIERS AT RICHMOND.-Among the ninety-five released surgeons from Richmond is Dr. Allston Whitney, of Boston, surgeon of the Massachusetts 13th. He was taken prisoner at, Chancellorville, and has had quarters at “Libby” ever since. Dr. W. furnishes some interesting incidents of his capture. On his arrival in Richmond he was forced to stand several hours in the street under the rays of a burning sun, when our sick and wounded who were prisoners were thrown together in carts, jolting and bruising them. This inhumanity caused the doctor to remonstrate, whereupon he was arrested and taken before a rebel Provost Marshal, who took all his money (360) and his sword and sash, and then sent him to Libby prison. As usual, the return of the money was promised when he was released, but the doctor “don’t see it.” In the third story of Libby, with some two hundred others, in a room 100x43, he took up his prison abode. The officers cooked their meals, one stove being furnished for the entire room. Each officer was allowed one blanket, provided he had brought one himself. Those who had none were obliged to lay on the floor in their uniforms. The water furnished was very impure, and hard to get. They sometime had barely enough for cooking purposes. When they first entered the prison, in May last, the rations consisted of one pound of beef, bones and all, and sixteen ounces of bread. During the middle of last month the food began to diminish, the beef disappearing except about once in four days. One pound of corn bread was furnished them each day with one sweet potatoes. Dr. Whitney says that the prisoners suppose that there are some ten thousand of them confined in Richmond, and about three thou sand at Belle Island, in the James river. At the latter place, all that we have heard of their sufferings is true. The men are confined in wretched sheds that illy afford protection against the inclement weather. 
MORE TESTIMONY TO THE REBEL BARBARITIES.
The Rev. Mr. D. C. Eberhart, Chaplain of the 87th Pennsylvania Volunteers, has been released by the rebels, and gives his experience at Castle Thunder and Libby prison. They were the same as those related by many others. But we cannot resist copying his closing remarks: 
Of the manner of our fare, rations, &c., enough may have been said by others, yet even then the half has not been told. I would advise all our officers to run a most fearful risk rather than to throw themselves upon the hospitalities of heartless rebels, and experience the realities of this vile and loath-some prison.
While in the hospital, and able to go about, I was permitted, as a favor from the doctor, to visit the hospital situated in a lower room of the same building, where our citizens and private soldiers were brought. Here I conversed freely, and received the testimony of many a poor fellow, whose vital energies had almost eked out at the cruel treatment received. I have seen as high as twenty brought in at a time from Belle Island, and seated on benches while they would take their names, but before they were half through with the ceremony, one-third or more of the number would be fallen to the floor, and many of them insensible, and some only to wake up in eternity. My heart has sickened at the sight, and I now make these statements, not with a revengeful feeling, but only to warn our noble soldiers from falling into such hands. If when closely pressed and a thought of surrendering crosses your mind, pass in review before you the gaunt, half-famished forms of those unfortunates, and it will stimulate you to a desperate effort to escape, or even to die on the field of battle rather than to fall into such hands.
Our citizen prisoners seem even to fare worse, if possible, than any others. Some were taken forcibly from their peaceful homes in Pennsylvania and Maryland, and without a moment’s warning, or an opportunity of changing their working apparel, or supplying themselves with a little needful change, or giving a word of comfort or advice to their weeping families, were hurried off on foot, in front of the bayonet, and travelled thus for five days. The only rations issued to them during that time was a pint of flour per day; and not until the evening of the third day were they allowed to make anything like dough and bake it in the ashes-thus being compelled to eat raw floor, like beasts, and this by the boasted chivalry of the South. I have seen these same men begging like children even for a crust of bread to satisfy their appetites-men who had, perhaps, never known what it was to want for anything. 
For some six weeks several hundred occupied a lower room in Libby, and in the night the officers would pass down through the cracks in the floor all the surplus bread that could be procured through the savings of the officers, and I was told by one of our doctors, that he had actually seen them fish bread out of the sinks where all the filth from the rooms above passed through, and wash it off and eat it, so near were they to starvation! I have seen citizen prisoners in Castle Thunder, over seventy-two years of age, simply for clinging in their old age to the time-honored flag of their country.
Friends at home, if you can do anything for our poor prisoners at Richmond, either through your personal effort or through the agency of our noble Christian Commission, rest not until you have done your duty in mitigating their sufferings and cheering their sinking spirits, and a kind Providence and many grateful hearts will bless you.
D. C. EBERHART, 
Chaplain 87th Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, Army of the Potomac.
HOW WE TREAT REBEL PRISONERS.
The following are extracts from a report of inspection made at the camp for prisoners of war at Point Lookout, Maryland, by William F. Swain, 
M. D., Inspector United States Sanitary Commission:-
<co6>
WASHINGTON, Nov13, 1863
SIR,-In compliance with orders received from the Central office, to proceed to Point Lookout, Md., and inquire into the condition, &c., of the rebel prisoners there confined, also the sanitary condition of the encampment and its inmates, I hereby submit the following report:-
The accommodations here were much better than I expected to find them, and much more comfortable.
The wards were in very good condition, but there, was a vast difference in the cleanliness of those occupied by our men-no spitting on the floor or lounging on the beds with clothes on-as was seen among the rebels; could do nothing with them, impose no punishment, for they were too weak; every attention was paid them, and all possible care taken to keep the wards and bedding as clean as possible. 
In the half and low diet kitchen, found the trays all ready to convey the food to the sick; the rebels received the same as our men, no distinction whatever: potatoes, rice, cabbage, sweet milk, soft bread and butter, and farina or corn starch being prepared. In this kitchen were female cooks. The full diet kitchen was by the side of the dining-room, with everything complete, oven, boilers, &c. The dining-room, capable of seating 1000 persons, was in splendid conditions, with tables, floor, &c., in good order. I shall not enter into the details of these various apartments, but will speak of the sections which to us now is of more interest. It was my fortune to enter the dining-room as dinner was being placed upon the table, and found about six ounces of fresh beef boiled, three potatoes, two thick sheets of bread, butter, one pint of soup with vegetables, and the condiments of pepper, salt, mustard and vinegar; and to this the rebels sat down at the same time and in the same room with our men. What could they wish more? If there was any complaint at all, it ought to come from us, that they received too much and were entirely too well treated.
FULL DIET.-Breakfast-Bread 50z; butter 1 o%; 1 Indian meal boiled, 2 oz; molasses .32 of a gill. Dinner-.32 of a gill. Diner -Beef soup and vegetables, 1 pint; meat, 10 oz; sweet potatoes, 7 oz.; bread, 4 oz. Supper-Coffee, 1 pint; bread, 5 oz; cheese; 2 oz; butter 1 oz.
The diet is changed every day, when they also receive cabbage, tomatoes, maccaroni, and on Sunday day have both Irish and sweet potatoes. puddings, &c. The bread ration was formerly six ounces, but the doctor had cut it down one ounce breakfast and supper, and two ounces dinner.
Bath, laundry and engine rooms complete and in good order. 
"In contrast with the Richmond atrocities, we have abundant evidence of the kindness with which rebel prisoners are everywhere treated by the United States authorities. We give only a single instance, in the following quotation from the letter of a rebel officer, late on the staff of a Major-General, who writes from the general depot of prisoners at Johnson’s Island, Lake Erie, to a gentleman of New York:-
"Our prison life here (Johnson’s Island) in for pleasanter than we anticipated. I cannot speak in too high terms of the care, attention and good management displayed in the conduct of this prison by those who have it in charge. Every indulgence a compatible with our position as prisoners is allowed us, and if, in the future of the war, changing fortunes should throw Federal prisoners in my charge, I shall certainly endeavor to show that I am not insensible to the magnanimous treatment I have experienced at their hands.”
"The Cleveland Herald expresses its disapprobation of the manner in which these prisoners have been treated, as follows:-
"The sales of delicacies and Luxuries to the rebel prisoners has been stopped. Hitherto nothing has been too good for them. Game of all kinds has been bought up to such an extent for the rebels that the citizens of Sandusky complain that they cannot get any for their own tables. One lot of twenty four boxes of wine went up, a few days since, from Cleveland firm, bound for the Island. It is satisfactory to know that these outrageous proceedings have been stopped, and that the rebels have to come down to ordinary rations.”
"BRUTALITIES OF THE REBELS. Rev. George H. Hammer, Chaplain of the 12th Pennsylvania Cavalry, who was recently released from Libby prison, furnishes the Philadelphia Inquirer a long account of his captivity, and of the sufferings of our: soldiers who fall into the rebel clutch. The facts he relates are heart-rending. They illustrate the savage brutality engendered by the spirit of slavery. Having ended his report of cruelties inflicted upon white soldiers, he adds:-
There are also there about one hundred free negroes of the North, officers’ servants from the army and navy. They are used at the present, about the prisons, or upon the fortifications around Richmond, One of the many nights spent in Libby is deeply engraved upon my mind. A free negro of Philadelphia, captured in the navy, nearly, early white, received three hundred and twenty-five lashes in a room immediately beneath us, his laundries and pleadings load cries as blow penetrating every part of the building as blow followed blow. He was then wrapped in a blanket saturated with salt water, and cast into one of the dungeons for a month or more. Such scenes cries were frequent. Those of our number who entered there as advocates of slavery, or at least sympathizers, are so no more.” 

BOOKS FOR THE TIMES
SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS By. WENDELL PHILLIPS. Library edition, $2.25; Trade edition, $1.50; People’s edition, $1.
II. HOSPITAL  SKETCHES. By Miss L. M. Alcott, Price 50c.
III. TOUSSAINT L’OUVBRTURE: a Biography and Autobiography. $1.25.
IV. REDPATH’S LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWY,.$1.00. 
V. HENRY WARD BEECHRE’S GREAT SPEECH IN ENGLAND. Price 10c.
VI. THE BLACK MAN. By William Wells Brown $1.00
Circulars containing criticisms of these publications <illegible> to any address, free. 
Any of these Books will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price. R.F. WALLCUT. 
Anti-slavery, Office,221 Washington St, Boston. 

ROUND HILL
WATER-CURE.
DR.HALSTED, of Round Hill Water-cure Northampton Mass, has so far perfected his "Motorpathic System" of treatment that many cases of incipient procapsus uteri, kindred weaknesses and ulcerations, can be cured by one consultation, and the following of his instructions. The plan and remedies for self or home treatment are potent and restorative. They dispel pain and weakness in the back, strengthen the nerves, toxemias, indigestion the stomach, and obviate indigestion and constipation.
Confirmed cases and bed-ridden patients can be so much relived by one visit as to give them faith of ultimate recovery at his institution. Water treatment may be must used to tone the system, or it may not; but supporters causes, or harsh treatment, never. The organ, one only, motor-pathically adjusted, no ordinary exertion will displace; and after a short treatment, its healthy condition becomes fixed and permanent.
This method is so simple and reliable that is working a revolution in the treatment of woman’s diseases. Physicians are cordially invited to test its value. Their attention is also called to his treatment for neuralgic and. spinal difficulties restored, and broken-down constitutions renovated. The names of thousands of invalids who have been cured at his institution are on record, with a history of their sufferings. Further information will be given, it desired.
Northampton Mass, Nov. 25

GAS FIXTURES
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messers. H. B Stanwood & Co’s, now Messers. Shreve, Standwood & Co’s where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most careful manner. Now Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for parties Shop under the Marlboro’s Hotel. Orders may be left as Messers Halt & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L PERKINS. 
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct.30-ly
