<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED- 
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT. 
TERMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 47. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1861. WHOLE NO.1613.
Refuge of Oppression.
<C01>
THE EMANCIPATION SCHEME.
There are presses and individuals at present seriously engaged in discussing the plan of emancipating the slaves of the South by Presidential proclamation. This discussion means nothing, but as it is the preparatory sounding-note for the full cry from the pack of fanatic leaders; and we may as well make up our minds now that it is the aim of the conspirers to plunge the country in a sea of bloody woes that would cause even the horrors of the French Revolution to pale in contrast. While we are all insisting that this war is only to restore the supremacy of the Constitution over the whole land, they are scanting or skulking about, before the eyes of the public, and in the lurking-places of social life, doing all they can to poison the sentiment and fever the blood of the unsuspecting people, and treacherously bent on diverting the energies of armed patriotism to the wickedest and most merciless scheme that was ever proposed for signalizing an era of general anarchy and suffering.
Sumner boldly struck the key-note of open rebellion against the principles of our Constitution, in his outrageous speech and over-strained scholasticisms before the Worcester Convention. Others have been repeating his effort since. The New York Tribune, finding its generalship in the Bull Run advance so faulty in military eyes, has thought proper to assume the John Brown role and now incites the pike style of fighting, by arguing that the negroes shall cease to be regarded as property by the National Government, but be permitted to take a part of their own in this great controversy at arms. The New York Independent labors as efficiently in its way. Fremont thought to head off the President himself,-Gen. Scott being left entirely out of account,-but received a merited check at the President's own hands, and is likely to lose his own military head besides. There are smaller instruments engaged in the same work,-smaller, but not less influential within their own spheres of operation.
It may very likely come to that, and not long hence, either, that we shall be obliged to assert at the North the organized indignation of the people at the very thought of such a project as this of Emancipation by our Government and army. That the hundreds of thousands of men in arms for the support of the Constitution have left home and all that is dear to them for a purpose like this, is not to be thought of for an instant; they would repudiate the insinuation themselves with all the patriotic scorn it deserved. But it is no less true, however, that the fanatic leaders have all along hoped and labored to give the war just such a direction, and that they give it their support mainly to that ulterior end now. There are signs enough about to teach us this beyond dispute. They desire to see this great Government arrayed on the side of a wild St. Domingo scheme for the forcible release of four million blacks from their domestic relation to the white race with whom they have always lived; and would have but few lamentations for the total annihilation of the Government itself in the frantic endeavor, if so be the blacks achieved a freedom through blood and rapine and burnings, that would be nominal and worthless at the best. They are praying with the zeal and perseverance of Hindoo devotees for the sudden letting loose of an army of wild passions, hitherto kept in subjection by the rules and instincts of society, upon defenceless women and children. They would take a fiendish delight in beholding vast tracts of the most productive portions of our country, upon whose uninterrupted cultivation depend the manufactures and a large share of the commerce of the world, rendered waste tracts, spoiled alike of inhabitants and the visible yearly fruits of their industry. Not only this, but more, they prefer anarchy everywhere to order. Taking the profession of PROGRESS for a motto, they think to confuse the perceptions of all honest citizens, so that they shall suddenly, and to their destruction, mistake ruin for advancement, and the overthrow of everything stable for the construction of something infinitely better. Such dreamers, such madmen, such wild plotters against principles and institutions that all civilized communities hold dear as life itself, because without them there can be no actual and continued life-are seeking to-day to control the direction of public sentiment, and to madden a loyal army, raised for the preservation of our free form of government alone, into measures that can result in nothing less than the loss of all.
This class of men are growing more rampant every day. They are the ones who complain of the Government's inactivity-who continually lament the slowness of the army movements-who affect dissatisfaction with every plan set on foot-and who cunningly declare that nothing will ever come of this war until the President proclaims unconditional and immediate emancipation for the slave, and till such a measure is openly sustained by the army at the point of the bayonet. Tell them that this, inhuman work conflicts in its very conception with the spirit of our noble Constitution, and they will answer: “Oh, well: but you know we have no Constitution now! That is all past; we are entering upon new things!” Ask them of the policy, the justice, the humanity of the measure, and they will say they are not bound to give these things a thought-they will, under the overrulings of Providence, take care of themselves. They only insist that, as slavery is the origin and test of the present troubles, so these troubles can never be settled until slavery is destroyed; forgetful of the part they have themselves borne for thirty years in producing this festering sore, and that they are largely accountable for its present existence in the land.
The influence of these mischievous men and presses is to be put down; there are no words but these to apply to the case. If we would continue order at home, we must hurl from public sight these gods of fanaticism, and inaugurate the true system by which alone our Government and our society can stand. They are responsible for having wrought a large share of our woes; shall we let them go on, and lead us blindly to destruction? Are we become so enamored of their wise guidance already? Can we not all see and understand, that they would alternately lure and force us to the brink over which lies the deep of a national despair, that would be pointed to with a shudder of horror by all the future generations of men? We may as well be warned in time.–Boston Post.(1)
(1). Can there be a more loathsome exhibition of shameless mendacity, abominable caricature, malicious perversion of facts, senseless raving, mental imbecility, moral disorganization, and sham democracy, than is this entire article from the post? And its treasonable intent is easily discerned beneath its veiled hypocrisy. The charge brought against the friends of immediate emancipation, that they wish to see blood and carnage sweep through the land, to gratify an unhallowed fanaticism, is pure infernalism. 
<c02>
THE ORIGINAL ABOLITIONISTS.
It cannot be denied that a party in the North are clamorous for emancipation, and they sustain the war only in the belief that it will end in abolition. We know that some of them are not contending for the Union, for they have denounced the Union, and with their own hands burned the Constitution. These are the original Abolitionists. Others, who never worked with them before, say slavery is the cause of the trouble, and slavery must be removed for permanent peace. Altogether they constitute a power that presses the Administration, and which must inevitably grow stronger as the war goes on. We enter the struggle for the nation, as we go forward and men die, property wastes and business ceases, it becomes personal, and we come to hate the men opposed to us, and all their institutions.
Now, whenever this party becomes strong enough, if it ever shall, to change the issue, so that it will be the North against the South, and free institutions against slave institutions, we chance change the position in two ways.—we make the South a unit, and we fill the North with factions; change a war for the support of the Constitution to a war of subjugation; and if anybody can see the end of such a contest, we are sure that we cannot. It would be a war as vexatious as war could be, bloody beyond history records, and cruel without parallel. It would set State against State, section against section, race against race, and would end in the destruction of a Government that rests only upon the voluntary assent of the governed. Suppose the war should be such as to make the people of the South united! against us,—as it certainly will be if it ever becomes a war upon their institutions,—how longs, let us ask, would it take to subjugate that people?
Spread out the map, and look over that million of miles of territory with two thousand miles of sea coast, three-quarters of it mountain woods, and upon the whole twelve million of inhabitants.—and tell us at what period of time the conquest will be complete. Then next tell us what we shall do with it at the end of that time; how we are to hold, and what would be the cost of holding. And finally, suppose we did conquer it, and did hold it, how would that restore a union of co-equal States? The whole thing is an absurdity.
If we are ever to have peace, and above all, if we ever want to see a restoration of the Union of these States, the first effort of every good citizen would be to repress and crush out the radical mad-headedness that is willing to risk the destruction of thirty millions of whites for the liberties of four millions of blacks, which blacks, set free with no more preparation than they now have, would be worse off than ever before.—Newburyport Herald.

Selections.
"ABOLITION AND SECESSION."
The war has put some over-nice gentlemen into a pretty pickle. These are hard times for Mr. Facing-Both-Ways. For several years he has been blandly repeating: “Our Southern brethren! Our Out poor, injured, forbearing Southern brethren!” But, the Southern brethren having so unmistakably gone to the bad—having surrendered themselves to the most unfraternal antics—having fallen feloniously upon that Constitution which has been Mr. Both-Ways's private and public and particular pet-he is; forced to look about him for something to admire, and., as ill-luck will have it, he finds his ancient enemies, “the Abolitionists,"(as he calls them.) working devotedly for his poor Constitution, while he.—where is he? Not merely outside the caucus, but pretty nearly outside all creation! In this hot struggle, there seems nothing in particular for him to do., except to utter warnings which nobody heeds, and to give advice which everybody laughs at. He falls into a rage, and begins an indiscriminate damnation. To the pit he consigns all Northerners, and to the same torrid place he sends all Southerners. He calls loudly for “Union,' but he cannot find it in his heart to unite with anybody; and so he goes on, day after day, blowing hot and cold, and telling his neighbors for the five hundredth time that he is no “secessionist," but., egad! he is no “abolitionist." He fancies that this is conservative, and so it is, of brains: for in such boys' play, there will be but a scanty expenditure of that article. He calls a meeting, and resolves that he is a patriot, but that he is not an “abolitionist." He issues an address expressly to let the world know that he is not an “abolitionist." He nominates a candidate who is “no secessionist”" and “no abolitionist."," and he solemnly votes for that candidate as the representative of what he is pleased to call his “principles"; when the lamentable truth is, that what he thinks to be “principles," are merely a hodge-podge of notions, prejudices, traditions and other lumbering nonsense. Having done this, he is satisfied. Things may go from bad to worse, but he is as complacent as an old lady who, having foretold a rainy day, wakes up to find the windows of heaven wide open. 
We are led to these reflections by the solemn fact that in Ward 5 of the city of Boston, a little meeting of Constitutional-Union-Democratic-Uptonians voted, the other evening, that they were for “the vigorous prosecution of the war." but that they were not” “abolitionists." A more unnecessary disclaimer! we can hardly conceive of. It requires" a modicum of brains to be anything of the kind. But we can not blame these timid gentlemen; nor will anybody blame them who considers that an “abolitionist" is also an infidel, an agrarian, a foe of human Government, a dupe of his conscience, a woman's-rights-man, an anti-Sabbatarian, a “spiritualist," a phrenologist, a water-curer., a vegetarian, a fourierite, and an opponent of tobacco and capital punishment. All male abolitionists wear beards, all female abolitionists are “bloomers." All of them, being  tainted by “peace principles," are avowedly in favor of insurrection, with fire, bloodshed, rape, anarchy, and a general whiz of everything. No wonder that a smugfaced constitutional-union man., just as highly respectable as it is possible for one of our fallen race to be. take?, takes all possible pains?, before he lifts so much as his little finger for his country, to have it distinctly understood, though he may be in little danger, that he is not an “abolitionist." His dudgeon at the accusation is a portion of his respectability.
Now, it is no part of our business either to attack or defend the American Anti-Slavery Society. It is a distinct organization, and is abundantly able to take care of itself. But, before we consign to the limbo of the wicked this poor word “abolition," we would like to ask if there be in this whole State of New York, for instance, one well-informed and conscientious person who is not an “abolitionist"? This is the way to put it: Here is this negro slavery; it has been our torment and our curse, our daily and our nightly danger. It has brought us to this shame before the nations; it has attempted to overthrow the institutions which we love, and which our fathers founded. It has changed peace to war,
<c03>
plenty to want, confidence to doubt, and ease to embarrassment. It has wasted our material wealth, and it has hardened the hearts of our brethren against us. It has enfeebled the mind, contaminated the pulpit, made dim the distinctions between right and wrong, and discredited our political principles, which, but for this curse, would have been the hope of the world! God favoring, circumstances permitting, the way opened by a Providence, which! will indeed be divine, shall we not rid ourselves of it., once and forever? Where is the intelligent Northern man, we care not how he may politically style himself, who will not say from the bottom of his heart, to such a question, “Yes”? If this is to be an “abolitionist," we should like to look in the! face of the, poor creature who will say that he is not. one. This is no longer a question of morals, but one of common sense and of common safety; of ordinary prudence and the least possible foresight. We are arguing for no particular scheme; we are demanding no hasty action; we feel, as much as! any, the need of a circumspect policy; but upon the naked question of “abolition” or" “no abolition," we believe that every honest, thinking man! will be ready to avow himself an u “abolitionist.”." Shall we send down this inheritance of distraction; and division to our children? Are we such cowards as to impose upon them burdens which our fears and weakness shrink from? Shall the Union be restored only again and again to be jeoparded? Shall we have done our whole duty well and wisely, if we transmit to the next generation this frightful bequest of civil quarrel? And has our day been so full of glory and historical achievement that we can afford to throw away this golden opportunity of redressing the injuries of an unhappy race? And yet men shun the subject, and shrink from the problem because its solution is difficult, and strive, by a senseless babble of constitutional obligations, to be rid forever of the whole matter. Is this brave, manly, or becoming?
We say “No"; and, if saying so puts us into the “abolition” category, we accept the place as a place of honor. Many a good, brave, loyal man shares: our opinion; many a citizen who has given his blood as if it were water and his money as if it were dross, to the republic, thinks as we do. And by what right is such a patriot to be classed with traitors in arms against the republic? By what law, even of the commonest personal civility, do these libelers couple the names of the sound and the rotten, of the patriot and the anarchist, of footpads, and freebooters, with the honest names of Christian gentlemen? And who are these new mentors who assume to direct, advise, censure, persuade and exhort an immense majority of the voters of the North —arraigning their intelligence, questioning their motives, imputing to them selfishness or silliness, venality or incapacity? Where is the record of their political successes? Where were they, when this storm was gathering, that they did not by notable pilotage save us from the cruel shore of death which threatens us?
Abolition and Secession! Light and darkness, truth and falsehood, right and wrong, fact and fallacy, are as nearly alike. Heaven help us if, in the dark days which are weighing down our very souls, we shun the truth because it is not pleasant, and strive to exorcise this devil of slavery by the gibberish, nine times worn out and ninety times weaker than water, which sham-conservatives so glibly utter. Better fling at once every musket into the Potomac and recall our gallant men, than to prate follies at home which will make their doughtiest deeds of none effect! If we must have the disgrace of a substantial defeat, let us meet it at once, and before we have murdered—yes, that is the word —any more men. If we must yield at last to the slaveholders, and think their thoughts and do their dirty work, let us at least save our cash, for that will be a consolation in the lower deep of our degradation!— N. Y. Tribune.

A DEMOCRATIC COLONEL ON THE WAR.
At the serenade, given to the Secretary of War, at New York, on Monday evening last, John Cochrane, late Democratic member of Congress from New York city, but now a Colonel in the Federal army, made the following significant speech:—
"We are here to-night to establish in the applause which we have given to the leader of these armies, our adhesion to our faith, our country, and our God. We are here to lift a note which shall resound over this land, obliterating all others, and confusing and overwhelming all others in its thundering dispersions, signifying that it is the note of freemen in behalf of freedom which their fathers achieved, and which they, as a proud inheritance, have been taught to enjoy.(Applause.) I am here to raise my voice in behalf of those truths, which we all profess, and to cast to the winds all adherence to party, to wipe every fond memory from the record of the past of party action or party faith. While we look at yonder banners which stream over every corner of the streets, do you perceive there the signal cries of armies arming for the contest tomorrow? You perceive a contest merely of individual opinions. It is nothing more to-morrow but the struggle of brothers, every man of whom declares, at the top of his breath, and with the utmost: accord, that he is for his country, his whole country, and nothing but his country.(Applause.) Therefore, party is obliterated, and the fires now that flame throughout this land must be, if we pray for success, the lines which divide loyalty from rebellion, treason from integrity. (Applause.)
It is intimated to us that there can be no success for the arms of the North, so long as the South feel that it is their homes, and altars, and firesides for which they fight. Great God! and have we no homes to strike for? Have we no altars that are extinguished and smouldering? Have we no faith to be trampled to the dust? Let me signal yonder flag in yonder tropical sky, as it flies now elate on the breeze, now obscured by the smoke of cannon, and ask you, as the first cannon booms and I the first shot penetrates its folds, whether there was no honor and no integrity wounded upon that staff that ascended over Sumter's walls?(Applause.) And let me ask you, as army after army gathered itself against us, as government was proclaimed and confederation established, and the emblem of government and confederation adopted in the flag of the Confederate States, when from beneath that flag and authority of that confederation, a high official applied the match, which discharged the first war gun against our glorious stars and stripes; whether that was not simple war against a government and a flag covered with the glories of the Revolution and the honors of the war of 1812? (Cheers.)
Now, tell me not of slavery and slaves, or of the peculiar institution of the South. The war is one of the institutions of the South upon the freedom and institutions of the nation.(Cheers.) And now, fellow-citizens, allow me to say, and I am fearless in the declaration, believing it to be true, and I am careless of its consequences, because I feel that
<c04>
with you all I am enlisted for my country, and not for party, it has been declared that there is a body in the South which, it has been asserted by many, is the original cause of our disturbances—which body, when armed and emancipated, should be imported into our ranks as allies. I refer to the emancipation of the slave, and more particularly to that description of emancipation which may have been interpreted, or may hereafter be admitted to be accomplished, through the instrumentality of proclamations. I must condemn all such,(applause)and for the simple reason that in war any such question will produce sides, and sides controversies, and controversies dissensions, and dissensions divisions, and divisions defeat. Therefore, let us have no more proclamations. But let me suppose that our gallant young General,(three cheers for McClellan.) on taking his army South, should discover a magazine of combustibles which, when ignited, would explode and send the enemy skyward, to give us success, would you say that he would be tolerated for an instant if he did not crown our efforts with success by those means? Certainly you would hold him accountable for the neglect; and if our armies, as they march to the South, discover any allies of any character, human, material, or substantial, that can aid the armies of freemen and contribute to our success, let them be used.
I refer to it as a military necessity. It commends to us to avail ourselves of every means within our grasp.(Tremendous cheers.) Suppose for an instant that our armies take a Southern march, and that, as we drive the enemy before us, they are broken and in extremity, what think you of those men in the exercise of sound reason would accomplish or attempt? Would they not put arms into the hands of four millions of the colored race among them? If they did not, you would proclaim their folly to the four corners of the earth. Suppose, on the other hand, in this war of self-preservation, the result should be different, and we should be in adversity. Think you that we should be tolerated, it if we did not avail ourselves of the identical advantage, and put arms into the hands of those who, under these circumstances, would be our allies? Whether it will come to this, events will determine; but I, for one, am prepared to see it come to this, and rapidly.(Great applause.) I stand from amongst the ranks of those who are arrayed for the defence of this country, and I believe that such is the opinion of those men, and of every man, woman and child of reflection throughout the United States. They will hold that General accountable who, when victory depends upon his gathering any force, black or white, neglects to avail himself of the occasion.(Applause.) This is war, and conducted on the strict principles of war. Now let us have done with this conservatism. When a man is imperilled, he may resort to everything in self-defence. When a nation is imperilled, it may take the same course; and when liberty is struck at, it is the duty of the human race everywhere to spring to arms, and by every means in its power to prostrate its opponent."(Long and loud applause.)
"The New York Herald gives the following version of Col. Cochrane's speech:—speech:-
"In such a war, we are bound to resort to every force within our power. Suppose our army encounters myriads of cotton bales, and we are able to export those cotton bales to Europe, and receive from them millions upon millions of the sinews of war, do you say we should not seize the cotton? No. You are clear upon that point. Suppose that munitions of war, that subsistence for their army are within our reach, would we not be guilty of shameful neglect were we not to appropriate them to our own use? Certainly we would. Suppose the enemy advances against you, would you, from any squeamishness, from any false delicacy, refrain from leveling the hostile gun and prostrating them in death? No: it is yours your object, it is your purpose. Then, if you seize their property, if you open their ports, if you destroy their lives, I ask you whether you will not seize their slaves? I ask you whether you will not arm their slaves, and whether you will not carry them by battalions into war against their masters?(Cheers.) What! You have no sympathy for white rebels, and yet you will spare the black slave whom they use! Why, if it be necessary to save this Government, I would plunge their whole people, black and white, into one indiscriminate sea of carnage and slaughter, and build upon it a government which shall be the vicegerent of God,. Let us have, no more of this dallying with people's dillitanti conservatism, this doubting in Cabinet when your soldiers are perishing in the field. Soldiers, you know no such reasoning as this. You have arms in your hands, and those arms are for the purpose of exterminating the enemy until he submits to law, order and the Constitution. Then explode whatever magazine of combustibles is in your way; set fire to and consume the cotton; export the cotton; take property whenever you find it; confiscate property wherever you find it; take the slave, and bestow him upon the non-slaveholder, if you please; do unto them as they would do unto you; raise up in their midst a party interest against the present slaveholder; distract their counsels. Do all this, and if that be not sufficient, take the slave by the hand, place a musket in it, and bid him, in God's name, strike for the liberty of the human race.(Great cheering.)
This, said Colonel Cochrane, was not abolitionism or emancipation. Abolitionism was to place the slaves above their masters in the social scale. Emancipation was to free them. This war was prosecuted for no such purpose. The South commenced the war, and the North was not responsible for its consequences.
The speaker then stated the proceedings of the Charleston Convention, to show the deliberate purpose on the part of the leaders of the South to precipitate a revolution. He portrayed the direful effects of the admission of the doctrine of secesion, and closed by appealing to the sacred principles of religion, on which our cause rests for its support, and to that Deity without whose favor we cannot succeed.
Secretary Cameron having been called for, came forward and said:—
"Soldiers,—It is too late for me to make you a speech to-night; but I will say that I heartily approve every sentiment uttered by your noble commander. The doctrine which he has laid down I approve as fully as if his words had been my own. It is idle to talk about treating with these people upon their own terms. We must meet them as enemies, and punish them as our enemies, until they learn to behave better."
Secretary Cameron's endorsement of the radical views of Colonel Cochrane produced marked sensation among the troops, and have excited considerable discussion in high civil and military circles.
Slavery having caused the rebellion, what else is it than treason to insist that Government, in self-defence, shall not utterly exterminate it?
<c05>
TRAITORS IN OHIO.
We ask the attention of all loyal men to the following startling-summary of facts from the Cleveland Plain Dealer:—
Organized treason exists in the State in the shape of “Knights of the Golden Circle,”," to an extent, and of material so incredibly great, as to jostle the credulity of the quiet and honest loyal citizens in the truth of any public expose. It is a secret organization, its workings ingenious, its votaries led on by easy degrees from first approach through promises, pledges and obligations to the most terrific and Heaven-daring oaths that ever shook the nerves of Demons. The late arrests startle the slumbering nerves of the incredulous, and the flippant doubt gives way to an interrogative faith. Still the published oaths are doubted, still the extent of the organization, and the mighty names on the roll which so long and so fully commanded the confidence of the people at the polls; the object and the preparation are thought to exist more in imagination than reality. Government officers were slow to believe, and had the people the evidence now before the Government, they would startle with alarm. The object of the organization in its present phase is to upset the Federal authority by a preconcerted rising at a given signal from the Southern rebels, looking to plunder for their reward. Large quantities of arms are secreted in different parts of the State, awaiting the hour for home massacre to commence. In one instance, 12,000 stand of arms entering this State from the Lakes, were secreted within three miles of the Lake shore for a long time, when, fearing a revelation of their whereabouts by a traitor in the Circle, they were suddenly removed, and the track lost. An emissary, now of the rebel army, threaded this Slate State with a peddler's wagon, ostensibly to sell dry goods, but really to establish “Knights' Circles." An important letter written by him to another “Knight," was taken from the Post-office by an obscure mechanic whose name was the same, and at once given to the Government on account of its treasonable contents. The letter failing to reach the friend addressed, the itinerant treason peddler became alarmed, and rushed off to the South, and is now in active duty as a General under Davis. That letter has a list of great names, members of the order, ex-judges, ex-M. C’s, Sheriffs, &c., which it is not policy yet to publish. Persons have gone into it by insinuating degrees till at length their eyes have been fully open to the prospective bloody culmination, and through very fear have fled for their lives. Others less advanced have reported to the Government their folly, regrets, alarms, and promised to advance farther for the good of society, and for the purpose of such complete exposure as should work its effectual overthrow, but in every instance have come to a point where their hearts have failed them, and they have utterly refused to reveal or advance, and have left the State in hot haste. Their most important ceremonies are not allowed to be in writing, and therefore it is difficult to reach documents of importance; and such letters and papers as they keep are buried or secreted, as are their arms. Had Louisville fallen and Cincinnati been attacked, Ohio would have seen a blood red day from which Heaven defend her. Had St. Louis fallen, Illinois and Indiana would have opened the fruits of the “Knights of the Golden Circle." Had the rebel army crossed the Potomac into Maryland, soon after Bull Run, 20,000 stand of arms, well laid down in oil, would have suddenly emerged from Baltimore Bay. There is scarcely a county in Ohio but has its lodge of" “Knights of the Golden Circle," laboring in the cause of the rebels South.  We have but pointed at the exposures scarcely in the future, nor need we point at the political wing now nursing it, and from which it wins its recruits, but see for yourselves who are nearest allied or in sympathy with armed rebellion, and’' “watch."
Can it be possible with such evidence before their eyes, that the loyal people of Ohio will longer doubt the existence of a secret oath-bound association in this State, more dangerous to public liberty than the armed thieves, pirates and assassins who openly proclaim their determination to overthrow our glorious Government? The Union menaced by such secret scoundrelism, it becomes the duty of every loyal man in the State to be on the lookout for these stealthy assassins of public liberty. Remember they organized the Southern rebellion which has stricken down the liberties of the Southern people, and that upon the political demoralization of the Northern people depends their entire success. Is it then any wonder that they should strive to extend their devilish order into the free States? and as political depravity is not circumscribed by State lines, we cannot hope that Ohio has escaped the contamination of their devilish presence. The refusal of a large portion of the people of this State to join the Union movement may, we think, be fairly attributed to the machinations of these black-hearted traitors.
By the following paragraph from the Boston Herald,(and that paper is likely to know all about it,) it seems that there is a similar secret conclave of mercenary traitors in Boston. Look out for them!
THE UNITED LEAGUE. There is no doubt of the objects of ft a secret order now existing in this city, and in several of the seaport towns, under the name of the “United League." The League is nothing more nor less than a branch of the “Knights of the Golden Circle." The League is organized for the purpose of rendering assistance, if possible, to the rebels by such information as circumstances from time to time will permit as regards the movements of the New England States in relation to the war. It is stated that a number of our traders in the manufacturing cities and towns who have had a large trade at the South are connected with the secret League, the members working as spies at lyceum lectures, political meetings, etc., and spot all who wage a war of subjugation against the Southern States.

GENERAL FREMONT.
The Portland Advertiser warmly sustains Fremont, and has full confidence that he will fully and triumphantly sustain himself in his present very difficult position. A recent number of that paper has the following concerning him:—
"Notwithstanding the fact that the original charges against Fremont have been persistently and malignantly repeated up to the present day, not one of them has been fully proved, and we do not believe one of them ever will be proved. We hear that the battle-cry at the late brilliant and successful attack upon Lexington by the General's Body Guard, was ‘the Union and Fremont;’ the inspiration which moved them was love of their leader, and the love of brave men is not a blind, unreasoning passion, but a profound feeling based upon the worthiness of its object. Fremont could not have filled the souls of such men with love and admiration had he been only the holiday soldier his enemies describe. We sincerely hope that, for the good of the cause, for the sake of that love which a million and a half of people bear his name, in spite of the combined efforts of personal, political and rebel enemies, Fremont will emerge from the cloud, having nobly earned new laurels."
<c06>
JOHN C. FREMONT.
The deed is done. The enemies of the Pathfinder have at last succeeded in deposing him from his command of the Western army, just as he was driving the rebels from the State of Missouri. But it is a blow which, if we do not utterly mistake the spirit of the loyal American people, will recoil, sooner or later, most terribly upon the heads of those who have dared to inflict it. It never can be that the great North will suffer so pure a patriot and so splendid a man to lie be sacrificed with impunity to the envy and hatred of his defamers. The end is not yet.
We do not claim that Fremont is the highest type of a military commander. Since he entered upon his duties as a Major-General in oar our army, he has not seemed to be sufficiently careful and prudent about the expenditures of his department; he has not always acted with the wisest forethought and discretion, nor has be he appeared to treat with due consideration many of those upon whom depended there the good success of our cause. But we by no means believe that he has been as guilty in these neglects and mistakes as the persistent charges of the ambitious and mischievous Blairs, and the petty details of the report of Adjutant General Thomas have represented. Whether he has or not, the same rule of right by which the President has removed him from his position would demand that the Administration itself should at once be hurled from place and power. If a man like Fremont is to suffer disgrace like this in consequence of the misconduct of which he stands accused, we ask that others, who have not been less criminal than he, shall be visited with equal executive displeasure. Can all the contracts that have been made at Washington stand the test of a searching and malicious investigation? Has no one yet blundered at the Capital, or along the line of the Potomac? Will our Boston and New York capitalists say that their suggestions and wishes have been regarded with proper deference by the President and his Cabinet? Is Missouri the only scene of mismanagement and corruption? Is Fremont the only offender? Why then is he thus singled out for the doom of official decapitation?
It is very evident why. It is because be he is a true friend of Freedom, and because, in the prosecution of the war, he would strike at the very root of all our woe. He has not been willing to subordinate his work of restoring the Union to the occupation of hunting and returning fugitive slaves. He has not been sufficiently respectful and considerate in his treatment of the “peculiar institution." His course has not been such as to please the men who have solicited anus arms and equipments from our government, and who have taken good care to see that they should find their way into the hands of the enemy, until General Thomas himself declares that they are lost to our army. He has not manifested admiration enough for the crafty and treacherous' “neutrals”" of Kentucky and the Border States. This has been the dire offence of Fremont-the offence for which he must needs be most cruelly punished by an Administration, two of whose chief characteristics thus far seem to have been tenderness toward slavery, and deference to hypocrites. The South demanded a convincing proof that the Administration had renounced Republicanism. The Administration has consented. Heintzelman's turn comes next. Will McClellan be displaced to make room for Kelley? Oh! is it not a shame and a humiliation that hundreds of thousands of our best and bravest men should be taken from their peaceful homes and occupations, and led forth to the field of conflict, and then be taught that, while it is desirable to preserve the government, their chief care and anxiety must be to please disloyal men, and guard the right of slaveholders to their property in human flesh and blood?
There were powerful reasons why Fremont should have kept his command. The men who can infuse enthusiasm into the masses of our young braves are very few. Fremont was one of them, and this hold upon his countrymen was something that was of invaluable worth to us. His heart has always beat strongly for the honor of his native land! He has rendered that land services which his foes, however distinguished, have neither the genius to equal, nor the patriotism to emulate. In other yean be years he planted the glorious flag he has loved so well, upon the very summits of the eternal mountains, amid wintry snows and freezing cold. But not less ready was he to plant it in victory upon the strong-holds of Rebellion. When the war broke out, he abandoned his important private affairs in Europe, and flew home across the seas, to seal with his blood, if necessary, his devotion to the Republic. The moment he arrived at New York, be he hastened to Washington to tender his services to the government in whatever capacity they might be required. If he has not accomplished all that was expected of him, it must be remembered that this same government has provokingly crippled his movements by depriving him at various times of the means and forces which his own popularity and energy had collected, and which were so necessary to the success of his plans. If he has been too lavish with the money of the nation, he has not been less lavish with his own. If he has refused, now and then, to be bound with red tape, ret yet he has as often accomplished brilliant results by the celerity and daring of his action.: Whatever may have been his failures, be seemed to be rapidly recovering his lost ground, and was doubtless just on the eve of an important victory when Lincoln consented to his sacrifice. It is one of the saddest and most cruel things that have yet been done. We fear it may also be one of the most unfortunate. Fremont himself, indeed, will continue to be, as he has been, the idol of the people. His fame is sure. It is not red-tape, thank God, that confers immortality. But his removal will disgust the hearts and paralyze the arms of thousands of our soldiers. It will discourage enlistments. It will dampen the ardor of the loyal States. It will do much to alienate from as us the good will and sympathy of other nations, and to divest our cause of its moral grandeur. Let us trust that it may not ensure, at last, the national defeat.—Norfolk County Journal.

DISCOVERIES OF CAMERON AND THOMAS.
The report of Adjutant-General Thomas, who accompanied Secretary Cameron to Missouri, has been published by, authority of the War Department, and occupies over six closely-printed columns of the Tribune. The Journal of Commerce says it has settled the case of Gen. Fremont; that the idol of the Republican party “must be regarded as a doomed man," and it is a cause of wonder that he does not resign. The Express says the “extraordinary publication of this very extraordinary document.”." damaging as it may be, from the information it affords the enemy, was nevertheless necessary in order to prepare the public mind to acquiesce in the, contemplated removal of Gen. Fremont. If such was its object, we presume it will fail of its end; for it needs but a bare perusal of the document to convince every intelligent reader that it is a case
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
got up for a special object. The immense array of paltry charges, second and third-hand rumors, and gratuitous insinuations of dishonesty, can only be accounted for on the supposition of a preconceived determination to make out as strong a case as possible.
From this letter of Gen. Thomas to his traveling companion the Secretary of War, informing the latter of what he, or rather they, saw and heard, it would seem that Gen. Fremont has been the cause of all the difficulties and disasters that have beset the army of the West for the last three months. If Gen. Curtis could not be as free with Gen. Fremont as with Gen. Scott, it was Fremont's fault; if contracts were made for guns and ammunition, they were sure to be irregular; if orders for payment of supplies were issued, they were not in proper form; if officers were appointed, it was without authority from the proper source. A contractor for forage, in one instance, requested his partner to provide a quantity of hay; of course, such an irregular procedure could only have been prompted by the motive of " a consideration." If the mules purchased were too few or too many, if they cost too much, or did too little, it was Fremont's fault; if blankets were rotten. Fremont was the cause; if rifles proved worthless, it was Fremont that bought them: if he provided three hundred half-barrels to carry water, it was where no water was needed; if he made a pontoon bridge over the Ohio, it was where a ferry would have done just as well. He ordered Gen. Hunter to march with forty-one wagons, when he might have known that Gen. Hunter had but forty mules. Gen. Hunter was sent to Missouri by the President for the special purpose of being the ï¿½adviser" of Gen. Fremont, as second in command, and yet the latter never consulted himï¿½conduct to which Mr. Thomas ï¿½ventures to assert that a parallel cannot be found in the annals of military warfareï¿½; instead of foreseeing that Gen. Lyon would be defeated at Lexington, Fremont sent his reenforcements to the wrong places; he did not adopt Gen. Hunter's plan for relieving Col. Mulligan; finallyï¿½ Gen. Hunter expresses his decided opinion than his commanding officer is " incompetent," and this is ï¿½the opinion entertained by gentlemen of position and intelligenceï¿½; and in addition to all these charges, there is another, far more serious, viz.., that somebody in St. Louis had mentioned to Mr. Thomas that somebody who was in Europe with Gen. Fremont (a Mr. Selover) had written to somebody in San Francisco that his (Mr. Seloverï¿½s) share of the profits in the purchase of guns in Europe was $30,000! In plain terms, Adjutant-General Thomas would have us believe, on the testimony of Messrs. Sellover and Sellunder, that Gen. Fremont, not content with the profits of his Mariposa mines, is so desperately covetous that, to obtain some $30,000, he conspires with the Sellovers to defraud his country by purchasing guns that are worthless, and then comes home to put these useless weapons into the hands of his soldiers, for the purpose of leading them on to certain defeat! Malice sometimes overshoots its mark; it has certainly done so in this Sellover story.ï¿½American Baptist.
The report of Adjutant-General Thomas has been the great topic of talk in camp circles for the last twenty-four hours. As far as I have observed, and I have been quite curious that way, there is but one opinion concerning it among rank and file: It is grossly, cruelly unfair, a piece of special pleading, a desperate attempt to make the best of a bad case, more fitting the practice of a hack lawyer than the dignity of the official station in which it had its source. The general, I believe the universal feeling in our regiment is that of pain, and in many instances of burning indignation, that our yet much loved commander should, in the midst of his harassing cares, be so set upon in the rear, crippled and hindered by those to whom he should look for co-operation and support. But we believe the very fierceness and unfairness of the tirade that has been let loose on General Fremont will render it inefficient, at least to destroy his hold on the esteem and confidence of his army, and of the unprejudiced part of the American peopleï¿½of nearly all those who have no personal interest at stake in the contest. It may serve as a pretext for his removal. not certainly as cogent reason with any man who has brain enough to administer the affairs of an ordinary scow. Taking all sorts of light rubbish, they have got a big load for the gun now aimed at the General; but great will be the reaction should there be a discharge, and they at the breech will have the worst of it.
Such is camp talk on this painful subject. To one who has served with our regiment for the last five months, it does seem a small thing to remark upon, that troops should march in the rain from Jefferson City to Tipton, a distance of thirty-five miles, with only such food as they could take in their pockets or haversacks, and find their beef a little tainted when issued at the end of the marchï¿½a ridiculously small thing to be picked up and thrown, by such hands, at the officer commanding a raw army of forty thousand men, in such a region as this. Some other charges have the same look to us. Some are already well refuted, and others, doubtless, will be. Let us have a fair inquiry into the matter, if, amid the bitter prejudice, personal animosity and selfish interest involved, such a thing be possible.
A fact which commands universal attention is the startling freedom with which Adjutant Gen. Thomas has communicated military information to the enemy. The affairs of the Department of the West and of Cumberland are published without the slightest reserve. The very points which, above all others, should not have been divulged to the foe, are bluntly and fully exposed to the whole world! The exact numerical strength of the Union army in Missouri, and of each of its divisions, with the particular wants and deficiencies of each, are set forth with full particularity. What intelligence could be more valuable, or how could it be more satisfactorily communicated to the enemy? The gloomiest picture is given of the Union resources in Kentucky, and a triumphant attack is invited in the strongest manner possible. After Thomas's exhibit of our condition to the enemy, does anything adverse to us remain to be told? He, at least, appears to have apprised the Confederates of substantially all they could desire to know.
For this palpable and gross violation of an important army regulation, in giving important military intelligence to the enemy, Adjutant Gen. Thomas should be promptly tried by court martial. If guiltless, his innocence can only thus be established. The evidence now before the public tends powerfully to fasten the guilt upon him. It will be seen whether, even in his high position, he is at liberty in the zeal of malice to disregard the first rules that bind a soldier and a patriot.

MRS. FREMONT IN CAMP.
The correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette, writing from Camp Lillie, near Jefferson City, Mo., under date of Oct. 6, says: ï¿½
"On Wednesday last, our camp was honored by a visit from Mrs. Gen. Fremont and her daughter. They arrived in the afternoon train from St. Louis, and were received with becoming ceremony by the staff and body guard. News of their coming having reached head-quarters in time, all necessary preparations were made for their entertainment A tent was pitched for their accommodation, and a couple of contrabands were detailed to minister to their wants. They still remain here, and seem quite at home in their canvas domicil. To those acquainted with Mrs. Fremont, it is hardly necessary to say that she is ever a welcome guest in refined and intelligent circles, whether civilian or military. Her amiable disposition, her generous heart and cultivated mind, make her a most acceptable addition to the society, of whatever kind, in which she moves. In camp she is, of course, the cynosure of all eyes, and her company is deemed a distinguished favor by the members of the staff. In conversational power and general intelligence, she has no equal in the military household, and in saying this, I do not speak in terms of disparagement concerning any of the gentlemen comprising said household. She has always a large and varied fund of ideas on hand, and without laying herself liable to the charge of loquacity, never permits loquacity to lag in her presence. She can talk with the Chief of the Engineers corps about fortifications, or with the head of the Ordnance Department about columbiads. She can discuss ï¿½the situation' with the Commanding General, and descries the weak points of the enemy as well, if not better than the most experienced military man on the staff. To strangers to whom she is introduced, she is polite, affable and entertaining, but never affected. Her daughter. Miss Lillie, now in her seventeenth year, promises to be equally an ornament to her sex and country. She inherits all the prominent traits of character which make her mother the noblest type of American women."

MRS. FREMONT.
This lady is thus photographed by a correspondent of the Tribune:ï¿½
"The 'Jessie' whose name wan so familiar six years ago, has three childrenï¿½the eldest a daughter of 15, in whose honor ' Camp Lillie' is named; but hers is one of the natures which do not grow old. Inheriting her father's talent and many salient points of his character, she impresses all who come in contact with her by her great intellectual power. See her, as you might have done a few weeks ago, with all the blood of the Bentons roused within her at the gross injustice done to her husband, and you would say:' Nature made her for a queen; had she inherited a throne, what a record she would have made in history!' In the winter of 1849, when the frontier of civilization was seven hundred miles further east than now, she was about to join her chief, upon the great plains. It is said that when a very decorous fossil from Keokuk, Iowa, asked her, ' Are you not afraid to take that perilous journey at this inclement season?ï¿½ She startled his nerves with the reply:ï¿½ Afraid, Sir!. Do you suppose that the daughter of Col. Benton, and the wife of Capt. Fremont, is afraid?"
With peculiar grace of movement, she possesses that 'excellent tiling in woman,' a voice like Annie Laurie's, low and sweetï¿½more rich, more musical, and better modulated than that of any tragedienne upon the stage. To a broad, comprehensive, masculine intellect, she adds the quick, feminine intuitions which leap to results and anticipate explanations, and that inevitable tendency to episode, incident, and bits of personal analyzation which contribute so largely to the charm of a woman's conversation. It is easy to see that there inhere in her great possibilities of heroism; that for a cause she held sacred, she would not only make the uttermost sacrifice, but say with Cleopatra,
'Let's do it in the high Roman fashion,
And make Death proud to take us.'
A lady in the best sense of the word; of ripe accomplishment and large culture; a rare conversationalist, overflowing with humor and sparkling with epigram; a star in society, but the sun of that home-circle where she has garnered up her heart; an uncompromising friend and ï¿½a good hater;ï¿½ an enthusiastic believer in the destiny of her husband; an invaluable assistant in his arduous labors, yet full of wifely and motherly tenderness, Jessie Benton Fremont is not only an historic woman, but the greatest woman in America."

A CONTRABAND INCIDENT.
Down in Kentucky, in the region of Muldraugh's Hill, lived an ardent Unionist named M'Kinley, formerly a resident of this county, and now staying, for the time being, among his relatives north-east of Bucyrus.
When General Buckner with his horde of outlaws invaded that part of Kentucky, M'Kinley was a doomed man. He had been plain and out-spoken in his Unionism, and had made efforts to rally the Union men of his neighborhood, and aid the Government in beating back the invaders. No sooner had Buckner's forces possession of the country than the burning, hanging, waste and desolation that have followed secession commenced. M'Kinley, was among the first victims. His house and barns were burned, his crops destroyed, his valuables seized, and his negroes impressed into the rebel service, he escaping barely with his life.
Among his negroes was one for whom he felt a particular interest ï¿½ a stalwart, full-blooded negro, enumerated in his schedule of property as "John." John had been raised upon the plantation, was extremely intelligent, and was faithful and honest. Three years ago he married a quadroon belonging to a neighboring planter, and his master, to show his respect for his faithful property, purchased her. Two children were born to them, and they had lived as happily as is possible for intelligent beings in a state of servitude. When his master fled, he urged John to accompany him, but the faithful fellow refused. He would stay, and endeavor to save something from the wreck, and so far as in his power to keep matters in some sort of shape. For security he occupied a cabin in a forest some distance from the former quarters.
One day about six weeks ago, he was returning from a tour over the plantation; while yet some distance from his cabin, he was startled by loud screams in the direction of his cabin. Apprehending evil, he sprang forward with lightning speed, and in a few moments was in his dwelling. As he entered at one door, a brawny scoundrel escaped from the other. His wife lay upon the floor, half crazed, and the broken furniture showed that a desperate struggle had taken place in the room. A few words explained it all. A scouting party of the secession army had entered the house violated her person, destroyed what little property the house contained, and fled. Knowing the road they must take to reach their camp, he took a shorter route, and saw them pass. He knew them all. They were residents of the neighborhood, ten in number, and the very men who had been instrumental in bringing the vengeance of the rebels upon the head of his master.
The next day he took his family to the Federal camp, sought out Colonel Gibson's regiment, and to his great joy found in it a company (Captain Keller's) from the county that his master was in. Captain K. and his company made the necessary arrangements, and sent the family to their owner at Bucyrus.
Captain Keller furnished him with arms and provisions, and John returned alone, to work out his own vengeance in his own way. He hung around the rebel camp, night and day, and watched, Iynxeyed, their out goings and in comings. Every day he had opportunities of shooting rebel soldiers, but he had his game, and would touch nothing less. Finally he shot one, picking him off as he sat at the camp fire. Another and another were killed, until five of the ten slept their last sleep. Then two of them, scouting in company, were met, and both killed, one shot, and the other in a desperate hand to hand encounter. The remaining three, stricken with fear, kept close in camp, but to no purpose. One was stabbed in his tent, another struck down while on guard, and the last was shot in day-light almost in the middle of the camp. Terrible was the crime, and terribly was it avenged.
John is now with Colonel Gibson's regiment, employed as a scout, and a more valuable man is not in the service. His family are being well cared for here.ï¿½Bucyrus Journal.

A BRAVE COLORED MAN.
CAIRO, Nov. 9, 1861.
Editors Chicago Tribune:
While other and abler correspondents will write you full particulars of the hard fought battle of Belmont, I will confine myself to narrating a single incident which came under my observation.
The greatest bravery was shown by officers and men; none was more conspicuous in his coolness and daring than Gen. McClernand. There were no cowards, no panics, no Bull Runs, notwithstanding we were attacked on front, flank and rear.
During the thickest of the fight, the body servant of Gen. McClernand, a mulatto named William Stains, of Decatur, exhibited conspicuous courage. He was close by the General during the whole engagement, cheering the soldiers and swearing that he would shoot the first man that showed the white feather. Many of us laughed heartily at the fighting darkey, while the bullets flew like hail about us.
In the course of the fight, a captain of one of the companies was struck by a spent ball, which disabled him from walking. The mulatto boy, who was mounted, rode up to him and shouted out, ï¿½Captain, if you can fight any longer for the old Stars and Stripes, take my horse and lead your men." He then dismounted, and helped the wounded officer into his saddle. When he was walking away, a rebel dragoon rushed forward at the officer to take him prisoner. The darkey drew his revolver and put a ball through the rebel's head, scattering his brains all over the horse's neck.
I relate these little circumstances so that merit may be justly dealt with, even if the hero is a "nigger," as some people would call this brave fellow.
Yours, for the Old Flag, C. W.
An irruption of Yankees is threatened at Beaufort. The first these South Carolinians will know, the town will be laid out into corner lots, Seward street crossing on Lincoln avenue, and both bordering on Cameron Square. There will be a newspaper, and a patent medicine store, and a steam ferry, and Henry Ward Beecher will be advertised to give a lecture on the relations of freedom and slavery to civilization.ï¿½Providence Journal.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1861.
DEATH OF FRANCIS JACKSON, ESQ.
Six years ago, Mr. Jackson was brought so low by illness that his case was pronounced hopeless by the most eminent of the medical faculty, and his decease for several weeks became a matter of daily expectation. Happily, his recuperative powers so far rallied, to the surprise of all. familiar with his situation, that he was restored to comfortable health until last winter, when he was again so much reduced as to make his recovery seemingly impracticable. But a further respite was granted him so far as to enable him to take moderate out door exercise, to visit his friends and receive visits from them, and to transact his ordinary household affairs. About three weeks Ago, he made a visit to his esteemed friend, BOURNE SPOONER, Esq., at Plymouth; but the weather was raw and blustering, and the journey and exposure proved too severe for his debilitated system. Though manifestly much enfeebled after his return home, no immediate danger was apprehended, and his decease at last took even his most watchful friends by surprise. The event occurred at his residence in Hollis street, on Thursday morning, Nov. 14th. Born on the 7th of March, 1789, he was 72 years and 8 months old.
The intelligence of this removal of one so deservedly loved and revered for his works' sake will excite no ordinary emotion among the friends of enslaved and suffering humanity on both sides of the Atlantic. It will be felt by them like a personal bereavement of the closest nature.
In reference to the funeral services, Mr. JACKSON left the following characteristic request, which, of course, was complied with to the letter:ï¿½
"At my decease and burial, I desire that forms and ceremonies may be avoided, and all emblems of mourning and processions to the grave. Such irrational and wasteful customs rest on fashion or superstition; certainly, not on reason or common sense. The dead body is of no more consequence than the old clothes that covered it. Nothing should be wasted on the dead, when there is so much ignorance and suffering among the living."
As at the funeral, we took occasion somewhat at length (see succeeding columns) to express our high sense of his life and characterï¿½his ï¿½mountain majesty of worth"ï¿½it is unnecessary for us to add any thing thereto in this connection.

TRIBUTES OF AFFECTION AND RESPECT.
At a special meeting of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, held on Tuesday forenoon, Nov. 19, the. following Resolutions presented by SAMUEL MAY, Jr., were unanimously adopted:ï¿½
Resolved, That, admonished as we have been, for several years past, by his failing health, that the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society must at no distant day lose the services of its beloved and respecter President, FRANCIS JACKSON, yet, now that that event has occurred, and we have been compelled to say to him our last farewells on earth, we find the separation a very grievous one, and feel the loss to be exceeding heavy to our Society, to ourselves individually, and the great cause of Human Progress and Brotherhood, not only in this community, but throughout the land.
Resolved, That we deem it one of the highest honors which our Society has enjoyed or ever can enjoy, and one of the most signal proofs which it could possibly give to the world of the integrity and nobleness of its aims and purposes, that FRANCIS JACKSON was its active friend and steadfast supporter for upwards of a quarter of a century, and that he continued such even to the moment of his departure 
Resolved, That if we loved FRANCIS JACKSON as a personal friend, and valued him as a most efficient officer and fellow laborer in the Anti-Slavery Cause we did not less respect and honor him as a Man, in whom no high and noble quality which dignifies and ennobles our nature was lacking; who, to great clearness of moral judgment, sense of duty and power of will, added a remarkable independence of popular opinion, and rare fearlessness in both speech and action, and combined with them all an habitual modesty and absence of self-esteem, which have made him, in our judgment, one of the best and truest men it has ever been our privilege to know.
Resolved, That in the many offices and duties of a public and private nature which have been laid upon him, in the discharge of the many and most responsible trusts which have been confided to his hands, no words can better describe his constant life and character than theseï¿½"Faithful Forever."
Resolved, That to his remaining family, with whom we have so long been associated in respect for their honored father, and in the promotion of works dear to his heart, we tender our most sincere and respectful sympathy in this hour, which, if one of temporary bereavement, is nevertheless full of the highest consolations and causes of gratitude.
The following Resolutions were unanimously adopted at a special meeting of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in Boston, Tuesday forenoon, Nov. 19: ï¿½
Resolved, That among the numerous bereavements which the Anti-Slavery cause has sustained since it inception in this country, no one has left a larger space of usefulness to be filled, or touched more loving hearts, or made a more profound impression, than that occasioned by the recent death of FRANCIS JACKSON Esq., our honored and revered coadjutor, who has for so long a series of years so faithfully filled the office Treasurer of the American Anti Slavery Society, and been so constant and efficient an attendant at the deliberations of this Committee.
Resolved, That he deserves to be held in grateful remembrance as among the truest of patriots, the most unselfish of philanthropists, and the most radical of reformers; for the grand simplicity and rare integrity of his character; for the extent of his private charities and public benefactions, ministering to every variety of human wretchedness; for his early, long continued, generous and hearty espousal of the Abolition movement, as well as of other kindred enterprises; for the serenity and bravery of his spirit in the midst of all abounding violence and universal proscription; for his life, (covering more than three score years and ten,) so admirable in all the relations of society, so distinguished for manly independence, moral worth and public spirit, so symmetrical and well-balanced, so the earnest in its noble purposes, so thoroughly devoted to the cause of "liberty, equality, fraternity," in its highest significance and minutest application.
Resolved, That while it was not permitted him to see the fruition of his efforts and sacrifices, in the utter abolition of slavery, yet we rejoice to believe that, above the roar of cannon, the clash of arms, and the smoke of battle, he heard the song of jubilee and the shouts of redeemed millions, as a swiftly approaching consummation of that glorious struggle for universal emancipation in which he bore so important and conspicuous a part.
Voted, That the tenderest sympathies and highest consolations are proffered by this Committee to the surviving members of his family, and relatives, in view of their great bereavement.
"IN MEMORIAM." We have just received an extended and most feeling tribute to the memory of FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq., and of other prominent laborers in the sacred cause of freedom and humanity, who have within a comparatively short period seen " the last of earth," from the pen of Mrs. L. MARIA CHILD; but, in consequence of our paper going to press one day earlier than usual this week, on account of Thanksgiving, we are reluctantly obliged to defer the publication of this tribute till our next number.
<c04>
FUNERAL OF FRANCIS JACKSON, ESQ.
On Monday forenoon, 18th inst., the residence of the late FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq., in Hollis Street, Boston, was thronged by an admiring and sympathizing gathering of relatives, friends, neighbors, and fellow citizens, (Music Hall could readily have been crowded with such, had an opportunity been given,) to pay the last sad tribute of affection and respect to his character and memory. Addresses were made by WM LLYOD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, and SAMUEL MAY, JR., in the following order.

REMARKS OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
Such is my reverence for the memory of the redeemed and disenthralled spirit whose mortal remains lie before us, waiting for their intermentï¿½such my knowledge of the simplicity, integrity and grandeur of his characterï¿½that I feel I must carefully measure my words on this occasion, lest, in the fulness of my feelings, I should seem to exceed the bounds of moderation, or overrun the time appropriate to these obsequies.
In itself considered, the present bereavement is marked by nothing peculiar; for, so populous has our world become, that, with every swing of the pendulum, a soul takes its exit there from, casting aside its earthly habiliments, and assuming an incorruptible body, in accordance with the conditions of immortal life. What has been the lot of the myriads who have gone beforeï¿½ what is, in due time, as surely to be the lot of all now living, and of all who are yet to dwell upon the earthï¿½ cannot, therefore, be other than an infinitely wise and beneficent arrangement, conducive to the welfare and advancement of all, and for the noblest purposes of creation.
Such was the view taken of this great change by our departed friend, who has now experienced it for himself. By evidence which to him was of a strongly demonstrative character, he joyfully recognized the truth of the affirmationï¿½
"There is no death! What seems so is transition:
This life of mortal breath 
Is but a suburb of the life elysian,
Whose portal we call death."
Hence, there was no doubt in his mind, no cloud upon his prospects; and he waited for "the inevitable hour" which should liberate his willing spirit, with rational and unfaltering trust, with philosophic serenity, with be cheerful readiness, with Christian assurance. To quote his own pleasant words, in a private letter to a friendï¿½" Heaven is all around us! So there is to be no separation between us. I am for both spheres, and all the spheres, 'however bounded.' In whatever sphere, we shall together sing that good old Methodist, hymnï¿½in substance:ï¿½
ï¿½When we've been there ten thousand years,
Bright shining as the sun,
We've no less days to sing God's praise
Than when we first begun.' '
There is, then, no darkness here, nothing but light supernal; no sting of death, but death swallowed up in victory. Nevertheless, human nature is not stony insensibility. Regrets at the separation, tears of affection, emotions of sorrow for our own temporary loss, these are not incompatible with absolute trust and reverent acquiescence; for
"There is a tear for all who die,
A mourner o'er the humblest grave."
Only let there be nothing morbid or superstitious in the treatment of an event like this; no gloomy meditation; no talk of a mysterious Providence; no sorrowing as do those who have no hope.
"Clay to clay, and dust to dust!
Let them mingle,ï¿½for they must!
Give to earth the earthly clod,
For the spirit's fled to God.
Look aloft! The spirit's risen;
Death cannot the soul imprison;
'Tis in heaven that spirits dwell,
Glorious, though invisible."
And now, what shall I say of the life of our beloved and widely honored friend, whose mortal hand we are never again to clasp, whose outward form we are soon to commit to the sheltering tomb? I feel restricted and oppressed for utterance between my desire to award him the high meed of praise he deserves as a husband, father, relative, friend, neighbor, citizen, cosmopolitan, philanthropist, reformer, and my consciousness of his modest estimate of himself, and his great repugnance to any laudation being made of his efforts to leave the world better than he found it. I seem to hear him saying,ï¿½"Award to me nothing more than a conscientious desire and a ruling purpose to know myself; to be true to my convictions of duty; to be led in the right way; to increase in light and knowledge; to contribute something to the stock of human happiness by lessening the sum of human misery; to lead a manly life and set a manly example; to be with the right, at whatever odds or however forsaken; to be lifted above that ' fear of man which bringeth a snare,' my feet planted on the rock of eternal truth; to espouse the cause of the downtrodden and oppressed as my own; to uphold the democratic idea of human equality, without regard to sex or complexion, tribe or people; to show my abhorrence of caste in the most practical manner; to uproot priestcraft, bigotry, a ceremonial religion, and every form of usurpation over the mind and conscience; to encourage freedom of speech and inquiry, in the spirit of the apostolic injunction, ' Prove all things, hold fast that which is good '; and to save and bless my native land, and through her the whole world, by inducing the abolition of her all-blighting and fearfully demoralizing slave system, by which she is shorn of her moral power, and made a proverb in all other lands. If I have been instrumental in the furtherance of any good work, or the success of any a righteous enterprise, I have simply tried to do my duty; but spare me, even though now out of the body, the bestowal of any encomiumsï¿½for how could
I have done less? Alas! that I was able to achieve so little!ï¿½
Though I am sure that I correctly interpret the feelings and wishes of our departed friend,ï¿½departed in one sense, and yet with us at this hour, I doubt; not, for he "still lives," ï¿½ yet, admitting that no, flesh can glory in the Divine Presence, and that no one can exceed the requirements of faith, hope, charity, I am persuaded that it is allowable to recognize extraordinary virtue and shining worth, both as matter of justice, and as an incentive to the attainment of a similar moral elevation. How splendid the tribute paid by Jesus, when, assuming to be an outcast and felon as the representative of suffering humanity, he said to those who had succored and befriended him, " Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world"! Of course, they disclaimed having done anything answering to this high award; otherwise they would have shown themselves unworthy of it.
To FRANCIS JACKSON are singularly applicable the descriptive lines of Sir Henry Wotton:ï¿½
"How happy is he born or taught.
Who serveth not another's will;
Whose armor is his honest thought,
And simple truth his highest skill:
Whose passions not his masters are;
Whose soul is still prepared for death;
Not tied unto the world with care 
Of public fame or private breath:
Who God doth late and early pray
More of His grace than goods to lend;
And walks with man, from day to day,
As with a brother and a friend."
And not less applicable are the lines of Whittier:-
" Such was our friend. Formed on the good old plan,
A true and brave and downright honest man!
He blew no trumpet in the market-place,
Nor in the church, with hypocritic face,
Supplied with cant the lack of Christian grace:
Loathing pretence, he did with cheerful will 
What others talked of while their bands were still!
And while ' Lord, Lord! ' the pious tyrants cried,
Who, in the poor, their Matter crucified,
His daily prayer, far better understood 
In acts than words, was simply DOING GOOD
So calm, so constant was his rectitude,
That by his Ioss alone we know its worth,
And feel how true a man has walked with us on earth!ï¿½
<c05>
In the prime of manhood, he took an active part in the municipal affairs of this city, and, to some extent, in public life; but, whether in the hall of legislation or in the council chamber, or as one of his country's defenders at Fort Warren in the war of 1812-14, he was always characterized for the faithful performance of every trust, in the spirit of disinterested patriotism, as well as for remarkable solidity of judgment, a wise forecast, great circumspection and rare good sense, blended with equal courage, determination, and untiring perseverance.
Firmness of opinion and purpose was a conspicuous trait, because he did nothing impulsively, and had no self-seeking in view; yet he was always ready to reexamine the ground on which he stood, and if he saw that duty required him to advance, (for he never took a step backward,) he had no pride of consistency to deter him, but boldly went forward, rejoicing in progress.
His personal integrity was of the highest order. No one ever questioned his sincerity, or thought him capable of intimidation or faltering. He believed what he said, spoke with caution and deliberation, and proved his faith by his works. Economical in his habits on principle, he was liberal and unstinted in his hospitality, and munificent in the aggregate of his charities and contributions, especially in reference to the Anti-Slaver cause, to the promotion of which, the last twenty-six years of his life were particularly consecrated. Other reformatory enterprises were also liberally aided by him. An early teetotaller, he was a steadfast friend of the temperance cause, and maintained a consistent example of abstinence to the end. Regarding even the life of the criminal as sacred, and capital punishment as equally inexpedient and demoralizing, he gave his countenance and support to the movement for the abolition of the gallows in this Commonwealth, and in other parts of the country. In the cause of peace, in its most radical form, he took a growing interest; being deeply impressed by the moral sublimity of its doctrines and the martyr-heroism of its spirit. "At the first Woman's Rights Convention I attended many years ago," he wrote to a friend, "Wendell Phillips said in the course of his speech, that ' the movement was the greatest reform of the age.' I thought that an extravagant declaration. I did not then believe it. It served, however, to call my attention more earnestly to the subject. I soon became convinced that the declaration of my highly esteemed friend was true. I now believe that the movement for woman's rights is the most important reform of the age, and still more important for the ages to come. It includes man's rights in the truest sense, not only for this generation, but for all succeeding generations. I do not believe it possible for man to attain or enjoy his highest rights until woman gets hers. I do not see how it is possible to inaugurate a reform more world-wide or more just. I have always believed in the progress of the human race. In this reform I see the way opening, broad and beautiful, towards the summit of human progress; but both sexes must travel it abreast, or it will never be reached."
Such was the strength of his conviction, such his emphasis of expression; for it was his nature to be thorough and complete in whatever he undertook, and, having once put his hands to the plough, not to look back, but to cut his furrows beam deep, and sow his seed broadcast.
In theology he was on the liberal side, thinking more of character than of creeds, and judging men by their lives rather than by their professions. As a lover of fair play, and abhorring all religious persecution, he nobly stood by Theodore Parker, when it was ' first resolved by a chosen few that he should have an opportunity to be heard in Boston, in spite of the proscriptive efforts to prevent it. It was a struggle for religious freedom and independence against sectarian exclusiveness and dogmatism, and he could not be an indifferent spectator. It was the presentation of the cross in a new shape, but it had for him no terrors.
Prior to this, animated by the same noble spirit, he gave a warm and generous support to his honored friend Rev. John Pierpont, in the long protracted, hotly contested, and memorable struggle, on the part of a few wealthy and conservative parishioners, to oust him from the Hollis Street pulpit on account of his temperance and anti-slavery views.
In the veins of Mr. Jackson ran the best blood of the Revolution. His father, Timothy Jackson, Esq., at the age of eighteen, joined a company of " -Minute Men," in Newton, raised in January, 1775, "who verified their claim to the name they assumed, on the morning of the Lexington fight, to the letter." He was a corporal in the company. On the morning of that ever-memorable day, he heard the signal guns which announced that the British troops were in motion. He went to the Captain's house at the break of day, and received orders to warn the company to meet upon their parade ground forthwith, which order he promptly executed on horseback, and before eight o'clock, the company were on the march to join their regiment at Watertown meeting-house, and from thence took their march for Lexington and Concord. They encountered Lord Percy's reserve at Concord, and continued to hang upon the flank and rear of the British troops until night-fall, receiving the thanks of Gen. Warren for their zeal and bravery. He subsequently participated in other battles, was captured, and suffered much by confinement in these floating hells called prison ships.
The love of liberty, therefore, seemed to be inborn in the person of our deceased friend. As soon as his attention was called to the subject of slavery, he became an avowed Abolitionist, with his customary zeal and courage. In the month of October, 1835, the memorable mob of so-called "gentlemen of property and standing" furiously assailed a meeting of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society, convened at 46 Washington street, and caused its dispersion. Though hazarding his personal safety and property by the, act, (such was the phrenzy of the times,) Mr. Jackson promptly and openly invited the ladies to hold a meeting in these very parlors; to which invitation more than a hundred of them responded, (among whom was the distinguished writer, HARRIET MARTINEAU, of England,) and a thrilling occasion it proved. Grateful for such an overture in a crisis so perilous, the Rev. Samuel J. May, who was then the General Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, was requested by the ladies to communicate their appreciation of it in a letter to Mr. Jackson, which elicited from the latter the following soul-stirring reply:
"BOSTON, Nov. 25. 1835.
"In tendering the anti-slavery ladies the use of my dwelling house, Sir, I not only had in view their accommodation, but also, according to my humble measure, to recover and perpetuate the right of free discussion, which has been shamefully trampled on. A great principle has been assailed; one which lies at the very foundation of our republican institutions.
"If a large majority of this community choose to turn a deaf ear to the wrongs which are inflicted upon their countrymen in other portions of the landï¿½if they are content to turn away from the sight of oppression, and ï¿½pass by on the other side 'ï¿½so it must be. But when they undertake in any way to impair or annul my right to speak, write and publish upon any subject, and more especially upon enormities which are the common concern of every lover of his country and his kind, so it must not beï¿½so it shall not be, if I, for one, can prevent it. Upon this great right, let us hold at all hazards. And should we. in its exercise, be driven from public halls to private dwellings, one house at least shall be consecrated to its preservation. And if, in defence of this sacred; privilege, which man did not give me, and shall not (if I can help it) take from me, this roof and these walls shall be levelled to the earth, let them fall, if they must. They cannot crumble in a better cause. They will appear of very little value to me, after their owner shall have been whipt into silence.
"Mobs and gag-laws, and the other contrivances by which fraud or force would stifle inquiry, will not long work well in this community. They betray the essential rottenness of the cause they are meant to strengthen. These outrages are doing their work with the reflecting.
"Happily, one point seems already to be gaining universal assent, that slavery cannot long survive free discussion. Hence the efforts of the friends and apologists of slavery to break down this right. And hence the immense stake which the enemies of slavery
<c06>
hold, in behalf of freedom and mankind, in its preservation. The contest, is therefore, substantially between Liberty and Slavery.
ï¿½As Slavery cannot exist with free discussion, so neither can Liberty breathe without it. Losing this, we too, shall be no longer freemen indeed, but little, if at all, superior to the millions we now seek to emancipate.
ï¿½With the highest respect, your friend,
FRANCIS JACKSON.
ï¿½Rev. S. J. MAY, Cor. Sec. Mass. A. S. Society.ï¿½
Worthy to be printed in letters of gold, and handed down with Magna Charta and the Declaration of Independence to the latest posterity! Worthy of Hampden and Sydney, of Jay and Franklin, of Martin Luther and Geroge Fox, of the Mayflower and Lexington, of the noblest patriots and the bravest heroes of any age or country! Now, happily, so altered is the state of public sentiment on the subject of slavery, it is impossible for those who have since come and sublime, self-sacrificing spirit of an act like this-its immense service to the cause of freedom-the imminent danger that attended it, (such was ï¿½the madness of the hour,ï¿½) for the probability was that this consecrated dwelling would be levelled to the ground a demonized mob, and its owner subjected to personal outrage. The whole country was in such an inflammatory state, at the time, that the uncompromising advocate of emancipation, like an apostle of old, could speak of beingï¿½ in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils among false brethren.ï¿½ But that ï¿½reign of terrorï¿½ has passed away-the spirit of freedom is abroad in the land, with great majesty and power-and there is cheering evidence that the demonic slaveholding spirit which has so long and so brutally held sway will speedily be cast out, to the redemption of us all, and the joy of heaven and earth.
As another illustration of his scrupulous regard to his conscientious convictions- Mr. Jackson resigned his commission as a Justice of the Peace, in a letter written July 4th, 1844, addressed to His Excellency George N. Briggs, in which, objecting to the Constitution of the United States as ï¿½containing provisions calculated and intended to foster, cherish, uphold and perpetuate slavery,ï¿½ he expressed his belief that it would be morally wrong for him any longer to support it-adding, ï¿½I am not in this matter constituting myself a judge of others. I do not say that no honest man can take such an oath, and abide by it. I only say that I would not now deliberately take it; and that, having inconsiderately taken it, I can no longer suffer it to lie upon my soul. The burdens that the Constitution lays upon me, while it is held up by others, I shall endeavor to bear patiently, yet acting with reference to a higher law, and distinctly declaring that, while I retain my own liberty, I will be a party to no compact which helps to rob any other man of his.ï¿½
Such personal integrity is, alas! rarely to be found in history. It breathes of that spirit which of old exclaimed, ï¿½Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge yeï¿½; and of that kindred spirit which asked, ï¿½What fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what concord hath Christ with Belial?ï¿½ Whether that step was really called for or not, all must admire the conscientiousness which prompted it.
So it was with our honored friend in all things. Desiring neither conspicuity nor notoriety, he was, nevertheless, every ready to ï¿½stand in the gapï¿½ when gap-men were wanting, and to brave all obloquy in the cause of unpopular truth. Like Niagara or Mount Washington, his character impresses us the more deeply, the more it is contemplated. Symmetrical, massive, grand, it challenges admiration, it excites wonder, it prompts to high aims, it is a model for imitation.
Farewell! truest of friends, safest of counselors, bravest of heroes, noblest of exemplars!
Farewell! shelterer and defender of the hunted fugitive slave, foe of oppression, lover of justice, friend of humanity!
Farewell! veteran in years, crowned with the glories of a philanthropic life, and the honors of a spotless career!
Hail, ascended, spirit, no longer held by the trammels of earth! Lead us onward and upward in the path of everlasting progress, and inspire us with thy unfaltering trust in the truth and the right, whatever may be the trial, or however heavy may be the cross!

REMARKS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
Let me, friends, add a word, however needless it may seem, to what Mr. Garrison has told us. Here lies the body of one of whom it may be justly said, he was the best fruit of New England institutions. If we had been set to choose a specimen of what the best New England ideas and training could do, there are few men we should have selected before him. Broad views, long foresight, tireless industry, great force, serene faith in principles, parent of constant effort to reduce them to practice-contempt of mere wealth, that led him in middle life to give up getting, and devote his whole strength to ideas and the welfare of the race: entirely unselfish, perfectly just; thrifty, that he might have to give-fearing not the face of man-tolerant of other menï¿½s doubts and fears-tender and loving-are not these the traits that have given us the inheritance we value? None will deny they were eminently his.
My only hesitation in describing him is lest I be thought to flatter. What men have themselves seen, they believe; all further is set down to the blind partiality of friendship. Few have been privileged to know men like Francis Jackson. To such men, in fulness of years, there is no death. There seems no place for tears here. Our friend has only laid down this body, the worn tool God lent him, and passed on to nearer service and a higher sphere. He had thought a good fight, and certainly finished his work here.
We have known him so long, looked up to him for so many years, trusted his judgment, leaned on his friendship, counted on his strength so constantly, that, like the child losing a parent, we seen left without some wonted shelter under the high, cold heaven-something we nestled under is gone.
I said he was all that our institutions ought to breed-yes, having regard to his plans and purpose of life, he was one of the most thoroughly educated men I ever knew. All he professed and needed to know, he knew thoroughly. Though enjoying but scanty opportunities of education in early life, he was thoroughly dowered by patient training, carefully gathered information and most mature thought: he was in every sense a wise man. And wise men valued him. My friend, Mr. Garrison, has quoted Theodore Parker. All of you knew Theodore Parker intimately, will recollect that when he wished to illustrate cool courage, indomitable perseverance, sound sense, rare practical ability, utter disinterestedness, and spotless integrity, he named Francis Jackson; and when in moments of difficulty he needed such qualities in a staunch friend, he summoned Francis Jackson to his side.
Every character has some pervading quality, some key-note; our friendï¿½s I think, was decision, serene self-reliance and perseverance. He was the kind of man you involuntarily called to mind when men spoke of ï¿½one, on Godï¿½s side, being a majority. ï¿½Such a one sufficed to outweigh masses, and outlive the opposition of long years. Francis Jacksonï¿½s will did not seem a mere human will or purpose-it reminded you of some law or force of nature-like gravity or the weight of the globe-hopeless to resist it. I cannot describe it better than by quoting some sentences of John Fosterï¿½s sketch of Howard-you will see how closely they fit our friend:-
ï¿½The energy of his determination was so great, that if instead of being habitual, it had been shown only for a short time on particular occasions, it would have appeared a vehement impetuosity; but by being uninterrupted, it had an equability of manner which scarcely appeared to exceed the tone of a calm constancy, it was so totally the reverse of anything like turbulence
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
or agitation. It was the calmness of an intensity kept uniform by the nature of the human mind forbidding it to be more, and by the character of the individual forbidding it to be less."
"The moment of finishing his plans in deliberation, and commencing them in action, was the same. I wonder what must have been the amount of that bribe in emolument or pleasure, that would have detained him a week after their final adjustment. The law which carries water down a declivity was not more unconquerable and invariable than the determination of his feelings towards the main object.
or agitation. It was the calmness of an intensity kept uniform by the nature of the human mind forbidding it to be more, and by the character of the individual forbidding it to be less."
"The moment of finishing his plans m deliberation, and commencing them in action, was the same. I wonder what must have, been the amount of that bribe in emolument or pleasure, that would hare detained him a week after their final adjustment. The law which carries water down a declivity was not more unconquerable and invariable than the determination of his feelings towards the main object.
There was an inconceivable severity of conviction, that he had one thing to do, and that he who would do some great thing in this short life, must apply himself to the work with such a concentration of his forces, as to idle spectators who live only to amuse themselves, looks like insanity."
"As his method referred everything he did and thought to the same end, and his exertion did not relax for a moment, he made the trial, so seldom made, what is the utmost effect which may be granted to the last possible efforts of a human agent: and therefore what he did not accomplish, he might conclude to be placed beyond the sphere of mortal activity, and calmly leave to the immediate disposal of Omnipotence."
Add to this quality of decision his other trait,-tireless activity,-and it explains his life. Indeed, he needs no words of ours: "his own right hand has carried his epitaph." As Mr. Garrison has told us, he withdrew long ago from office-stood outside of the political machine. But when History records the struggling birth of those changes and ideas, which make our epoch and city famous, whose name will she put before his? And God has graciously permitted him to see of the labor of his hands. These walls said to the wave that beat down all law and authority in Boston in 1835, "Thus far; no further." That word of rebuke was the first faint sighing of the tempest that now sweeps over the continent, "scourging before it the lazy elements, which had long stagnated into pestilence." Some men would say he flung away the honors of life. No; who has reaped so many? The roar of the streets, the petty inefficiency of mayors, never turned him one hair’s breadth from his path, or balked him of his purpose. Brave, calm, tirelessly at work, he outlived Mayors and Governors,-the mere drift-wood of this Niagara,-and wrote his will on the Statute Books of States.
Three years ago, he brought me five thousand dollars, to be used in securing the rights of women. The only charge he laid on me was, to keep the name of the donor secret, until what has now happened, his death. Already that fund has essentially changed the Statute Book of the Empire State-altered materially the laws of two other Commonwealths, and planted the seed of radical reform in the young sovereignty of Kansas. This unseen hand moved the lever which, afar off, lifts the burdens of one-half of the people of great States. And you all know how every man, friend or foe, confidently expected to see his calm brow on every platform which advocated a humane and an unpopular idea. I remember, years ago, at the very first meeting ever held in this city to abolish the use of the whip in the navy, a timidly conservative merchant refused to attend, saying, "Why, I know whom I shall see there- just Francis Jackson, of course, and his set."
But he was not only a Reformer, nor wholly absorbed in what narrow men call useful. Our broad city avenue to Roxbury is half hid by noble trees, because, thirty years ago he, a member of the City Government, saw to it, unaided at first, that they were planted. And he found time to save for history a sketch of his native town-a volume the result of great labor, and which ranks among the best of our town histories.
Rarest of all, this pitiless toiler in constant work, this tremendous energy of purpose, was wholly unsavored with arrogance. He was eminently tolerant. It was not only that his perfect justice made allowance,-no, his ready sympathy helped to give fair, full weight to all that should excuse or make us patient with others. Indeed, his was that very, very rare mixture,-iron will and a woman’s tenderness,-so seldom found in our race. Those who saw him only at work, little knew how keenly he felt, and how highly he valued, the kind words and tender messages of those he loved. He not only served the needy and the fugitive slave, but his genial sympathy was as precious a gift as the shelter of this roof or the liberal alms he was sure to bestow. Some men are only modest from indifference, and the energy of some is only ambition in a mask. Mr. Jackson’s modesty had no taint of indolence: his enterprize was no cloak for ambition.
Highest of all, he was emphatically an honest man in the full, sublime sense of those common words. "Boston," as the Tribune says, "has lost her honestest man." If I speak again of the opposition he encountered, it is not because he cared for it. He took fortune’s buffets and rewards with equal thanks-with a serene indifference. But it is just to him to consider that malignant opposition in another light. The pitiless storm of public hate beat upon him for thirty years. Malice-personal, political, religious- watched his every act, dogged his every step, and yet no breath of suspicion ever touched his character. Out of that ordeal he comes, with no smell of fire on his garments: the boldest malice never gathered courage to invent an accusation. Son, brother, husband, father, neighbor, friend, reformer, in private life, in business, or holding office, no man ever suspected him of anything but the bravery of holding opinions which all hated, none could confute,-and of acting them out at the risk of property and life, and the actual sacrifice of all common men love. How few have such an epitaph! We who knew him, when we read of Hampden resisting ship money, or Sidney going to the block, feel that we have walked and lived with their fellow. Scholars watched him, and thought of Plutarch. Narrow sectarians scrutinized him, and wondered how one lacking their shibboleth wore, so naturally, graces they only prayed for. Active, stanch friend, wise counsellor, liberal hand, serene worker like the stars, "without haste, without rest"! Let us thank God for the sight, for the example. He would tell us to spare our words, saying he had only tried to use his powers honestly. His best praise is our following his example, and each fearlessly obeying his own conscience, and doing, with his might, whatever his hand finds to do for his fellow-man. Let us so do him honor. And as the great Englishman said of his friend, "There’s none to make his place good- et us go to the next best," so of thee, dear comrade and leader of many years, thy place is sacred forever to thy memory-we go to the next best, till God gives us to see thee once again, face to face.

SAMUEL MAY, Jr., General Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, said:-
I will occupy one moment on this occasion to read an extract from a letter written by our friend FRANCIS JACKSON, which I hold in my hand. Last winter, when he was so ill, he desired and purposed to resign the offices which he held, of Treasurer in one Anti-Slavery Society and President of the other. He felt that he must resign those offices, for his strength was not sufficient to warrant his retaining them. This letter was written by him, communicating that purpose. It is unnecessary to say, that the urgent entreaties of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society induced him to consent to remain the President of that Society, and he did retain that office, with the pledge that the active duties should be discharged by others; the other office he gave up, and he also resigned the office of Treasurer of the Vigilance Committee. But in regard to fugitive slaves, he says-
"I cannot withhold my aid from fugitive slaves, who for the last twelve or fifteen years have had much of time and assistance. I cannot deny them, while I have any strength left. They and the millions they have left are my system of Theology, my Religion, my Atonement. I have helped to enslave them-my father helped; unknowingly, it may be, nevertheless, helped. I believe in this kind of Atonement; my reason accepts no other. I believe the slaves are God’s chosen people."
The services here closed, and, after many a lingering look at the placid features of the deceased, on the part of those present, the company separated, and the mortal remains were taken to Newton for burial.
<c02>
FREMONT AND THE GERMANS OF BOSTON.
At a meeting of the "friends of Fremontlike energy," called by the Germans of this city, and held at their Turnhalle, Tuesday evening, November 12th, resolutions were adopted, of which the following are a translation. They give vigorous expression to the free, enlightened sentiment of our German population, both here and elsewhere, in relation to the war in general, and the last, most disgraceful feature of it in particular. Our readers cannot fail to find them interesting:-

RESOLUTIONS.
1. We reject, as narrow and pernicious, the doctrine that in time of war the Government ought to be spared public criticism or opposition. It need never fear this criticism, when it does its duty; but to be silent about its violations of duty, is to approve and encourage them. When the People must sacrifice not only their treasure: but their blood also, it is all the more incumbent upon them to see that both are not wasted; and they should the more zealously maintain their rights in the midst of war, the more likely war is, per se, to induce the Government to believe itself the independent Lord and Master, instead of the responsible Servant and Guide, of the People. Public criticism by speaking and writing, in popular gatherings as well as through the press, ought, in war as in peace, everywhere to exercise free judgment, except where extreme peril has temporarily clothed the Government with dictatorial power, or made necessary the suspension of constitutional rights by a proclamation of martial law.. But when the Government, in open violation of the Constitution, by forcible measures menaces the freedom of the press, in order to suppress the consequences of its own mistakes in the right of challenged criticism, the citizens should let no opportunity pass of lifting each one his voice and calling to mind the fact, that the People, and not the Government, are and remain the highest and the final tribunal of the Republic.
2. We reject, as foolish and unworthy, all homage rendered to a public man as the tribute of a thoughtless admiration, or even as the expression of unmanly devotion for his rank. We entertain sympathy for, and espouse the party of, those only in whom we see the right persecuted, and whom we can recognize as worthy supporters of a noble cause.
3. In the sense of these principles, we take open sides with General Fremont against the Administration at Washington and its abettors, while we condemn the whole proceedings which were crowned by his removal, as thoroughly unmanly, iniquitous, shameful and pernicious.
4. We recognize in General Fremont not merely the noble character and pure patriot, but also the energetic and courageous supporter of the only true policy which should be employed in this war against the most unjust and reckless of all rebellions. Whereas we see in his removal only a ruinous, ill-boding triumph of that irresolute feebleness and reactionary mania for compromise which are responsible for all our disasters hitherto, and which alone have made the Rebellion formidable, and encouraged it more than the consciousness of its own strength ever could.
5. The insidious, passionate and unjust proceedings against Fremont do but agree with the spirit and interest of those to whom by his removal the weightiest service is rendered, to wit, the rebel slaveholders. They violate every consideration of personal honor, of official discretion, of impartial justice and the public weal. While it was made the patriotic duty of the press to avoid every publication that might injure the army and benefit the enemy, the Commanding General of a State in the extreme of danger was publicly pursued with every conceivable kind of official chicanery, intrigue, treachery, and accusation, whose disastrous effects were paralyzed only by the personal character and self-denial of the victim, and surely not by the intent or merit of his persecutors. They seem, in the consciousness of their inability to bring any adequate charges against him, to have wished to force him to resign by vexations, hindrances, and every species of indignity, in order to spare themselves the odium and hazard of an act of injustice. By the parade of investigations which were ostentatiously undertaken against him, they seem to have wished to inspire him as well as the people with a belief in guilt which did not exist, that he might by voluntary resignation avoid the impending sentence. And after he, in the consciousness of his integrity, had endured even this last test of his steadfastness, they at last removed him, without sentence and to gratify a personal enemy, from the head of an army which he had created, and whose entire confidence he possessed, at the moment when they had to fear they might see him,-thanks to a decisive, long prepared-for victory,-snatched from the power of his persecutors, and themselves put to overwhelming confusion. Even the danger of seeing his army demoralized in face of the enemy, and the rescued State delivered back into their hands, could not disarm the scandalous hatred which had sworn his downfall, because he had threatened destruction to the enemies of the Republic and intended to elevate their slaves to "free men"; perhaps, also, because, by a policy in harmony with the free spirit of the People, he had become a dangerous rival to ambitious political aspirants. If it was foreseen,-as we must conclude it was, after the censure which preceded it,-that his recall in the presence of the enemy would render the army worthless, then open treason was committed; but if it was trusted, that, spite of the recall of their beloved leader, the army would remain patriotic and capable of victory, then in this very trust lies the most brilliant vindication of the censured General. All the grounds which could be employed as pretexts for his removal, EXISTED ALREADY BEFORE HE TOOK THE FIELD. The fact, however, that his recall was delayed till he was confronting the enemy at Springfield, justifies every suspicion and reproach which the procedure against him may excite. This unexampled procedure, which rests on charges partly unimportant, partly proved false, partly yet to be investigated, seems the more revolting when compared with that in the case of other military leaders. With what conscience could they remove the organizer of the army of Missouri, who spared General Patterson and deprived of a court-martial the authors of the defeats at Vienna, at Great Bethel, at Manassas, and at Edward's Ferry? Few Generals of the army would be sure of their positions or perhaps their heads, if the procedure towards Fremont were adopted as the measure of inflexibility in the treatment of the military leaders. From the experience we have had, we must conclude that Fremont would long since have been shot, had he commanded at Harper's Ferry, Bull Run or Ball's Bluff; while, as things are, no fault or no culprit is to be found in the official world. But it seems that the yardstick for the measurement of faults, as of merits, is applicable only to a man's position on the slavery question, and that he is regarded as the most incapable and culpable General who betrays the greatest ability and the best intention to put an end to the rebellion by extirpating its root.
6. If the removal of Fremont must be called a disgrace, it is at the same time a new peril, to the Republic, since it destroys faith in justice, invokes dissension, paralyzes true patriotism, encourages bad passions, and manifests a continuance of that destructive policy which treats the country's enemies with forbearance, and its best friends with asperity. It is our firm conviction, that the Rebellion can only then be suppressed, the Union only then restored, and the Republic only then secured against external as well as internal dangers, when such relentless energy as was expressed in the proclamation of Fremont, and especially as made good in the action of General Lane, conducts a war whose means and end are made the abolition of slavery. If 500,000 men and 500,000,000 dollars should have been demanded only to restore the Union on the old conditions, the American people would be the most foolish in the world, and this formidable war would be nothing else than the most senseless self-destruction and the most deadly self-betrayal, under the deceitful guise of patriotic sacrifice. A people that should neither have the will nor
<c03>
the power to employ this war for the regeneration of the Republic, would thus indicate that they had become weak enough and corrupt enough to see it buried.
7. Whilst in the foregoing resolutions or declarations we have expressed our political views on occasion of Fremont's recall, we assure him, in addition, of our sympathy and recognition for the especial reason that, by his behavior towards our fellow-countrymen and other adopted citizens, he has revealed a capacity, not everywhere to be found, of recognizing rights and merits without prejudice and without regard to descent, and of allowing them, in the interest of the Republic, to attain their full value.
8. The President and Secretary are hereby instructed to transmit a copy of the foregoing resolutions to General Fremont in the name of this assembly, and to provide at the same time for their publication.

WHO IS RESPONSIBLE?
It is more than unjust on the part of a portion of the political press, to undertake to unite the two extremes of abolitionism and secessionism. Either those who do this are incapable of distinguishing the connection between cause and effect, or they are "false witnesses against their neighbors." If of the former class, they should be sent at once to a school of idiots. If of the latter, they deserve the hearty condemnation of all honest men. Heaven and hell, light and darkness, the true and false, are not more suggestive of opposition and conflict, than are these misused words in the mouths of such persons. All attempts, for any purpose, at this time, by any clique, to harmonize the meanings of words so divergent in origin and purpose, in order to make those whom they designate equally responsible for our national troubles, are both false and stupid.
While this rebellion was imminent months before the fall of Sumter, it was plain to see why the abolitionist should be held responsible, by some who knew better, for the loss of Southern debts. To find the shortest path to the pocket of the indebted secessionist and conspirator, it was thought necessary to stifle the convictions of honest men, and inflict a blow upon free speech. This was a sacrifice on the altar of proslavery, the wrath of which was to be appeased. But why, at this time, when not only this immense debt, but millions of the national property, and other millions owned at the North, and invested in the South, have all gone by the board-and while war as terrible as ever existed has become a stubborn fact-it is difficult to see what is to be gained by trying to make this imaginary issue. Certainly, there can be no motive for it, except it be to disturb the unanimity of the North, and thus prolong the war.
It would be useless to indulge in feelings of vindictiveness to this class of writers. It would be wrong to doubt their patriotism. Their interests and hopes are common to us all. They have played their part in former times. They have worked as unselfishly as others, for the growth and prosperity of the country, and, like other men with strength of will and purpose, what were once ideas pertinent to the issues of their time, are now prejudices which they have not yet been able to throw off. These men have done their best to reconcile freedom and slavery, and they have made the mistake to suppose that a union of States, resting on such a basis, could ever be made permanent. The disturbance of their power and respectability, from any cause, they could ill brook. To sever the close friendship between Northern and Southern politics was a severe blow; and when new emergencies required their removal, it was but natural that somebody should be blamed for their reverses. And what less formidable for this purpose than the poor unhonored abolitionist?
Now, what has this abolitionist ever done? Why, simply what every votary of science does. Not to create facts, but to expose them to view. Slavery was a fact, and an appalling one. The abolitionist has pointed it out, and explained, in befitting terms, its hideous nature and bearings upon our national welfare. This idle censure is as absurd as to censure the astronomer for pointing out the spots on the sun, or the physician who describes the disease of the dying man.
But the efforts of these men will be unavailing. Slavery is, and ever has been, a gigantic wrong in this country. Our best statesmen,-to say nothing of others,-have so considered it from the dawn of our national existence to this hour, and it is the deep-seated conviction of nearly all Northern men that slavery, in whatever form, is a curse to all concerned; and that our form of it is the direct cause of this rebellion. And these gentlemen editors will find a difficult task, more difficult than anything that has yet been attempted in this war now upon us, to suppress the utterance of this conviction.
This accursed rebellion is a slaveholders' rebellion; and it will never be put down, and peace will never return to us, till slavery is crushed throughout the length and breadth of the land.
When the hour arrives for THE PEOPLE to decide the question, whether this Government shall fall, or the rebellion, with all the props that support it, let demagogues and partisan papers "stand from under"! W.

MEMORIAL OF THE PEOPLE TO CONGRESS.
"PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND, TO ALL THE. INHABITANTS THEREOF."
To the Congress of the United States:
The undersigned, citizens of State of, respectfully submit -
That as the present formidable rebellion against the General Government manifestly finds its root and nourishment in the system of chattel slavery at the South; as the leading conspirators are slaveholders, who constitute an oligarchy avowedly hostile to all free institutions; and as, in the nature of things, no solid peace can be maintained while the cause of this treasonable revolt is permitted to exist; your honorable body is urgently implored to lose no time in enacting, under the war power, the total abolition of slavery throughout the country-liberating unconditionally the slaves of all who are rebels, and, while not recognizing the right of property in man, allowing for the emancipated slaves of such as are loyal to the government a fair pecuniary award, in order to facilitate an amicable adjustment of difficulties; and thus to bring the war to a speedy and beneficent termination, and indissolubly to unite all sections and all interests of the country upon the enduring basis of universal freedom.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. Our thanks are due to the Hon. John P. Hale for a "Narrative and final Report of the Explorations for a Route for a Pacific Railroad, near the 47th and 49th Parallels of North Latitude, from St. Paul to Puget Sound. By Isaac I. Stevens, Governor of Washington Territory." This volume, emanating from the War Department, while the traitor Floyd was still at its head, contains, besides the General Reports, Botanical and Zoological Reports, Appendices, &c., is clearly and handsomely printed, and, with its maps, colored lithographs, and tables, forms a most interesting and valuable work.
From Ticknor and Fields we have received the "Record of an Obscure Man," but must defer a proper notice of the book till we have had time to read it. The publishers have our thanks for their favor.
NEW MUSIC. Messrs. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, have just published "Ole Shady," or the Song of the Contraband, by the author of "Darling Nelly Gray," dedicated to Columbia's noble son, Major-General Benjamin F. Butler. "Grand Army March," introducing the popular melody "Glory Hallelujah," and " Hail to the Chief," dedicated to Gen. Scott, by Ch. Grobe; "Kathleen Mavourneen," being one of the series of translations, for the piano, by Brinley Richards; and "General Scott's Grand Review March," with a fine portrait of the General as a frontispiece, music composed by Stephen Glover.
<c04>
ENCOURAGING TESTIMONY FROM CAMP LIFE.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
The following extract from a letter which I have lately received from a young friend, and a Captain of a company of volunteers, now encamped near Washington, is one of many encouraging proofs that Slavery itself is now most effectually converting intelligent soldiers to Abolitionism. If you think the extract worthy of a place in the Liberator, please insert it.
I had inquired of my friend, in a private letter, what he thought the effect of the war would be on Slavery, and he answered:-
"I must tell you frankly that my views are changed materially on the subject of slavery since this rebellion has broken out. Before, as you perhaps knew, I was not an ‘Abolitionist'; I did not believe in the irrepressible conflict.' I was an ultra Unionist, and believe I should have preferred slavery in all the Territories to a dissolution of the Union. I now know that the institution has once threatened our liberties, culminated in rebellion, and must cost much blood and treasure to put it down. No reasonable man can assign any other cause for our troubles, and that admitted, there is but one thing left for us to do; nor should we hesitate. The history of our nation should record, that, with this rebellion died the cause-SLAVERY. The same cause will always produce the same effects, and it is certainly good logic to say, that if we fail to eradicate the cause, the effects will again, sooner or later, reappear. I believe with you, that that is inevitable, and it were cowardly and unjust in us to entail upon our posterity such a curse. As you say, the rebels have forfeited all rights under the Constitution."
Thank God for the retributive Providence that is thus making Abolitionists! The traitors and rebels are a legitimate crop of slavery, and when the North shall be ruled by them, civilization will go down, and barbarism prevail. But the people will yet drive a reluctant pro-slavery government to strike for liberty and the rights of man, in order to save itself. What imbecility to protect the plantations of rebels with one hand, and to fight them with the other-and the fighting being done, apparently, with the left hand! But it is encouraging that the people almost unanimously condemn such folly, and sigh for an administration that is as earnest for the "Union" as the traitors are for the "Confederacy."
I have yet heard no man speak of the removal of Fremont that does not condemn the act, and conjecture the cause to be, envy and jealousy. The letter-writer just quoted from says, " It looks to me as if some one was envious of him, and wished to place him where he cannot interfere with his ambitious aims."
Another friend-and he a distinguished one, who speaks for many of the influential-says, in a letter this hour received: "If the Government does not satisfy the people that the removal of Fremont, just when it was done, was eminently right and proper, it will lose, beyond recovery, the public confidence."
Alas! that that "confidence" is so nearly gone already! That there is no enthusiasm anywhere for the Cabinet is a fact known and read of all men. But God's Providence is pledged to protect this nation till it let the oppressed go free; and the people are fast coming up to work with it. The less earnest the Cabinet appears, the more do the people rouse themselves to demand activity against the cause of the murderous rebellion. Their subserviency to the Slave Power may, therefore, be overruled for good.
"God moves in a mysterious way 
His wonders to perform."
Let us all hope, then, in Providence and in the people, and in the government at last.
But, in a crisis like this, what need of great men- morally and religiously great men, especially to lead, instead of inferior men to be driven! But the Hour is not yet. The Man will come with the Hour-or the Men.
God reigns! W. H. F.
Francis Jackson, a well-known citizen of Boston, died in that city on Thursday morning. His death was sudden, at last, from an attack of acute disease, though he has been an invalid for several years. Mr. Jackson was best known to the public from his long and devoted adherence to the Anti-Slavery cause. When, nearly thirty years ago, the "broadcloth" mob of Boston undertook to suppress all expression of Anti-Slavery sentiment by an attempt to hang Mr. Garrison, Mr. Jackson, from pure love of fair play and free speech, threw open his house to the devoted women whose meeting was the immediate cause of the mob. Since that day, his door has never been closed to those who suffered persecution, whether black or white, and especially has his home been a haven of refuge to those flying slaves whom neither man befriended nor the law protected; but though Mr. Jackson has been for so many years conspicuous among the advocates of more than one cause of reform, a very large circle has known him in quite other relations, where the tenderness of Christian sympathy and the generous openness of Christian charity were the qualities brought into action, rather than the sterner virtues of the reformer. Mr. Jackson Was a natural democrat, who was literally no respecter of persons, and saw no difference between man and man, but who possessed that large pity for human suffering of every nature that was never appealed to in vain. Hunger and nakedness, whether of soul or of body, whether in the high or the low, found in him a ready helper, and his winning simplicity and kindliness, his wisdom and his benevolence, made him the centre of a circle who held him in such reverence and love as is given to not many men in a generation. While all Boston will bear testimony-in spite of the fact that she has pointed her finger at him so often on the Anti-Slavery platform-that her honestest man has died, there will be a deep and silent sorrow among very many people who will mourn a benefactor as wise and kind as he was unassuming.-N. Y. Tribune.
DEATH OF FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq. Boston has lost one of its most useful and esteemed citizens in the death of Francis Jackson, Esq., which took place at his residence in Hollis street, on Thursday morning last. He was born in Newton, March 7th, 1789, and, was, consequently, in the 73d year of his age. The city owes much of its enlargement to his enterprise and perseverance, as the Tremont Road and the South Cove sufficiently testify. As early as 1835, he became warmly interested in the cause of the enslaved millions in our land, and has ever since been conspicuous in the ranks of the uncompromising Abolitionists; giving liberally of his substance to aid that cause, and to promote the success of kindred reformatory and beneficent enterprises. A man of eminent integrity and uprightness of character, he was firm in the execution of his purposes, and conscientiously adhered to his convictions of duty, at whatever cost.
He was for many years President of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and also Treasurer of the American A. S. Society; but, though deeply consecrated to the liberation of the oppressed, his benevolent interest extended to every form of distress, and multitudes have been succored and blest by his charities. However unpopular his anti slavery opinions and position, he always commanded the highest respect for his solid character and sterling worth, and will long be remembered as among the many who have done honor to Boston and the Commonwealth.-Boston Traveller.
DEATH OF A WELL-KNOWN CITIZEN. Francis Jackson, Esq., one of the earliest and most prominent abolitionists of the country, died in this city yesterday morning, after a long illness. His zeal and devotion to the Anti-Slavery cause, are widely known. He was a gentleman of great intelligence, and was much esteemed for his benevolence and probity.- Transcript, 15th inst.
"THE UNION MUST BE PRESERVED." The New York Evening Post, speaking of the great meeting on Thursday night for the benefit of the loyal inhabitants of the Hatteras banks, says:-
"One of the striking incidents of the evening was when Mr. Bancroft read the original letter of General Jackson, transmitting the closing part of his famous proclamation to the revising hands of Mr. Livingston. ‘One night, in the watches of the night, as he sat alone,' said Mr. Bancroft, ‘he finished that proclamation, and as he sent it to Livingston, he accompanied it with these words, written with his own hands-the copy I now read was from the original letter, for the authenticity of which I can vouch:-
"DEAR SIR,-I submit the basis and conclusion of the proclamation for your amendment and revision. Let it receive your best effort of language to strike at the heart and to speak to the feelings of my deluded countrymen of South Carolina. The Union must be preserved, without blood, if this be possible; but it must be preserved at all hazards, and at any price.
Yours, with high regard,
ANDREW JACKSON.
Dec. 4, 1832-11 o'clock P. M."
"Now,' continued the speaker, ‘can any new phantom frighten us from the love of the Union? If slavery and the Union be incompatible, listen to the words of Andrew Jackson that come to us from the tomb:
<c05>
"The Union must at all hazards be preserved." ’ this allusion to slavery, the cheering on all sides was terrific, the men rising to wave their hats, and the ladies to wave their handkerchiefs."
In the course of his speech, Mr. Bancroft added:-
"I do not understand turning a soldier of the United States into a constable to keep the peace on the plantations of the Secessionists. (Enthusiastic and prolonged applause. 'Give it to them.') It is not the part of strength to return them; it is not the part of a brave man to make himself a police officer of that sort. (Cheers.) It is not the part of a soldier who fights under the flag of the Revolution. It is not worthy of a man of honor. It is not consistent with the duty of a commanding officer in the service of the people of the United States. (Cheers.) We send the army into the South to maintain the Union, to restore the validity of the Constitution. If any one presents claims under the Constitution, let him begin by placing the Constitution in power, by respecting it and upholding it."

ARREST OF THE CONFEDERATE AMBASSADORS, MASON AND SLIDELL!
FORTRESS MONROE, Nov. 15. The U. S. steamer San Jacinto has arrived from the coast of Africa via West India, where she has been cruising six weeks.
Old Point was electrified by the tidings that she has now on board Messrs. Mason and Slidell, who were going abroad as Ministers of the Southern Confederacy to England and France.
They were taken from an English steamer in the channel of Bahamas.
Commodore Wilkes reported the news at headquarters in person, and will forward his dispatches to Washington to-night.
BALTIMORE, Nov. 16. The name of the British vessel is unascertained. All the private papers, documents and instructions of Slidell and Mason were seized. Their families were allowed to proceed. The Captain delivered them up under protest. This is the substance of the reports by passengers.
Capt. Wilkes was sent to the coast of Africa especially to bring home the San Jacinto, and it was only when he arrived at the West Indies that he heard of the escape of Messrs. Slidell and Mason. Therefore his arrest of them could not have been pursuant to orders. Capt. Wilkes acted in accordance with the principle of international law. He tendered to the ladies accompanying the Slidell and Mason party a passage in his ship and the use of the cabin, with all the delicacies and attentions they might require, but they declined his gallant and considerate attention.
The visit of Mr. Mason to Boston calls to mind an incident which may now be considered prophetic. In January last, Mr. Winthrop, who was then in Washington with the Union Committee, called upon Senator Mason, and, referring to his former visit to Boston, said, "I hope, Mr. Mason, we shall see you again at Bunker Hill." To which the pompous Senator stiffly jerked out the response-"Not unless I come as any ambassador, sir." The words were nearer prophetic than will now be pleasant for the traitor to reflect upon as he looks at the granite shaft at Bunker Hill from the walls of Fort Warren.
The reported arrest of Slidell and Mason created a phrenzy of enthusiasm in New York. Slidell was born in that city. This leader of Southern chivalry, who maligns the "mud-sills" of the North, sprang from an honest tallow chandler, who, as father of Slidell, carried more light into the dwellings of the nations from his tallow shop, than his degenerate son has done from his seat in the national councils.
"GREAT EXPECTATIONS." The Richmond Examiner of Oct. 29 has the following rich pronunciamento on a small scale:-
"By this time, our able representatives abroad, Messrs. Mason and Slidell, are pretty well over the briny deep toward the shores of Europe. We commit no indiscretion in stating that they have embarked upon a vessel which will be abundantly able to protect them against most of the Yankee cruisers they may happen to meet, and the chances are consequently a hundred to one that they will reach their destination with safety. The malice of our Yankee enemies will thus be foiled, and the attempt to capture them fail of success. Great will be the mortification of the Yankees when they shall have learned this result. Our ministers did not choose to leave from any other port than one of our own, or under any but the Confederate flag. We believe that, at no distant day, Mr. Mason will have the pleasure of signing a treaty of amity on behalf of the Confederate States with one of the oldest and greatest dynasties of Europe, and thus cement those relations of commerce upon which our future so largely depends."
Every line of this is good.

LUDICROUS REBEL TALK ABOUT THE LATE VICTORIOUS NAVAL EXPEDITION. The Richmond Enquirer, just before the sailing of the Expedition to Port Royal, malignantly and boastingly said:-
"If the expedition attempt to land at an important point, we hope that our force will be sufficient for their repulse. If among the pines and swamps, they will have committed a great folly, and injure themselves, not us. We are not, however, without other hopes. The winds have been howling, and the clouds have been pouring out their floods. We confess it-the blast of the storm has sounded in our ears like sweetest music. It has made us think of the Spanish Armada, that sailed in great pomp, on grand design, but was dispersed by the winds, and vanquished, without meeting an enemy. Who knows but that stormy Hatteras was created for such a time as this? Who can tell but that the rocks and sands on the Florida coasts shall prove the instruments of Providence to punish the wickedness of man? The grand fleet sailed on Tuesday, the 29th. On Friday afternoon the storm commenced. Three days had thus elapsed. Where the fleet had got to-whether the storm there raged, and whether it claimed its prey, we have yet to learn.
But, whether by the winds of Heaven, or by the of blessing of Heaven on Southern valor, we trust soon to be able to announce that the fleet which sailed from Hampton Roads is a fleet that shall never more return, unless, indeed, under another flag."
What does the Enquirer say of it now?
The landing of a powerful force on the coast of South Carolina is carrying the war into Africa in a form which will be universally approved by our people. It was there that the cockatrice's egg was hatched a generation ago, and that open treason sprang defiantly into existence years before the rest of the country could realize the danger which threatened from it. South Carolina passed the first ordinance, and fired the first gun; she set the example in crime, and it was the result of her long labors that others were ready to follow. If peace were to come to-morrow, it would be felt to be a halting success, if South Carolina had not first felt the rough hand of authority. Years ago, she threw away all kindred with the other States, and began to preach alienation, hostility, jealousy, and contempt for those whose industry and success she at once despised and envied. She will find that bitter fruit has been the result, that not only her own people but ours have learned her lesson; and they who proclaim that the war will never be properly fought until hatred is matched with hatred, will find no lack of it, we apprehend, on either side, on the Carolina coast.
The Leavenworth correspondent of the New York Times says-"Ever since the commencement of this war, the moveable property of Missouri has been taking unto itself legs. One gentleman has kept the record of the fugitives who had passed through his town since last May, and it reached over 150. Over 200 have been recorded at Leavenworth. Some 400 are now at Lawrence, a number at Atchison, and in the counties of Linn and Bourbon, south-eastern Kansas, there cannot be less than 400 more. Of these latter, 150 are a new instalment, sent from his camp to Gen. Lane, and gathered during the march from Kansas City to join the column of Sigel in pursuit of Price. It is true that where the Kansas men march, slavery disappears, as Gen. Lane in the United States Senate declared it would. The 150 contrabands spoken of were all provided with teams, bedding and provisions, which their late masters having left, they appropriated."
A FIRE IN THE REAR. According to the Little Rock (Arkansas) Democrat, quoted by the St. Louis Republican, the rebels have been caught in their own spring. It seems that the Indians in the Southwest are not unanimous in joining the rebellion, but that the Creeks absolutely refuse to have their loyalty transferred. One of their chiefs is reported by the rebel colonel McIntosh to have raised a large force of warriors, estimated at from 3000 to 6000, and to have torn down the confederate flag at the Creek agency at North Fork, where McIntosh had hoisted it, and to have raised the stars and stripes. Disunion residents were in a panic, McCulloch had ordered out a force to "crush the outbreak," and it is supposed that several thousand secession soldiers will be needed in Arkansas to hold the Indians in check.
ST. LOUIS, Nov. 18. The Memphis Argus of the 16th has a dispatch dated Chestertown, 14th, which says that the Federal forces have possession of Pinckney Island, and have seized all the able-bodied men on the plantations and placed them on board the fleet. Others were fleeing. They had made no attempt to effect a lodgment on the main land.
The Memphis papers express great alarm at our preparations for an expedition down the Mississippi, and demand that the entire reserves of the country shall be brought to bear against it.
<c06>
THE SLAVE PIRATE. The conviction of Captain Gordon of the ship Eric, of piracy, for being in the slave trade, is said to be the first capital conviction for that offence ever obtained in this country. The penalty is death; and as there is no escape but through a pardon by the President, which cannot be had, Gordon will undoubtedly be hanged for slave trading. This will mark an era.
A gentleman in Southern Illinois has raised about one thousand acres of cotton the past season. It is a very good crop, and preparations are being made to plant about ten thousand acres next year. The gentleman who raised it is a Louisianian; and other Southern refugees in Southern Illinois will probably devote their attention next year to the cultivation of their favorite staple.
Senator Wilson addresses to the Boston Journal an explicit denial of the story which has been circulated, that he has a Government contract for one million pairs of shoes, by which he is to realize the sum of a quarter of a million of dollars. "This story," he says," in all its parts, and in every form, is utterly false; and the persons originating it knew it to be a false and wicked slander."
The Government saw fit to rebuke Gen. Fremont for his proclamation confiscating the slaves of rebels. Well, the Administration has instructed the commander of the land forces taken South by the great Naval Expedition to arm the slaves against their masters, if he shall find that measure expedient. Arms and uniforms were furnished for that purpose. If the Government is right in this step-and we believe it is-it was wrong in censuring Fremont. It must either drive slavery to the wall, or slavery will drive the Government there.-Honesdale Democrat.
"Perley" closes one of his letters from Washington to the Boston Journal with this sentence-"A few doses of Fremont's proclamations would prove fatal, and scatter the people to their homes and peculiar institutions." So think the people generally.
Seven negroes, belonging to the estate of the late John A. Washington, fled from one of his plantations beyond Occoquan, and were brought into Fort Lyon, whence they were sent to Washington.
Gen. Sherman has seized two million dollars' worth of cotton in the vicinity of Beaufort, S. C. Numbers of citizens there have professed loyalty to the Government, and were soliciting arms with which to organize and protect themselves against the rebels.
It is said that four thousand seven hundred and thirty-five applicants for admission to the New York State Inebriate Asylum are on tile, coming from all States of the Union, from all classes of men, and some of them from foreign countries.
It is stated that the government has now a volunteer force of 480,000 men in the field-lacking but 20,000 of the number authorized by Congress.
As far as heard from, Davis and Stephens have received a unanimous vote for President and Vice President of the Southern Confederacy. Their term is for six years.
OHIO ELECTION. The majority for Mr. Todd, the Union candidate for Governor at the late election in Ohio, was fifty-five thousand.
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FOURTH SERIES.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FOURTH SERIES of FRATERNITY LECTURES continue weekly at TREMONT TEMPLE.
The lecture on Tuesday Evening, Nov. 26, will be by

HENRY WARD BEECHER.
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS by Lectures from the following gentlemen:- 
December 3-FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
December 10-DANIEL S. DICKINSON.
December 17-EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
December 24-EZRA H. HEYWOOD.
December 31-WILLIAM S. STUDLEY.
January 7-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Doors to be opened at 6 1-2 o'clock. Lectures to commence at 7 1-2 o'clock, precisely.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the American Anti-Slave-Society, will speak in
Portland, Maine, Sunday, Nov. 24.
Hallowell, " Monday, " 25.
Skowhegan, " Wednesday, " 27.
Cornville, " Friday, " 29.
Athens, " Sunday, Dec. 1.
Palmyra, " Tuesday, " 3.
East Pittsfleld, " Wednesday, " 4.
Newpor, " Thursday, " 5.
Carmel, " Sunday, " 8.
Etna, " Monday, " 9.
Hampden Corner, " Thursday, " 12.
Bangor, " Sunday, " 15.
Bucksport, " Tuesday, " 17.
Orland, " Wednesday, " 18.
Ellsworth, " Sunday, " 22.

A. M. POWELL will speak at
Ghent, N. Y., Sunday, Nov. 24.
Canaan, " " Dec. 8.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to P. M.

JOHN S. ROCK,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
TERMS REDUCED,
AT the Round Hill Water-Cure in Northampton, Mass., to $7 and $10 per week. Open Summer and Winter. DR. HALSTED'S success in the treatment of Woman's diseases is well known. The cure is speedy and reliable. Those brought on beds, even, are soon enabled to walk. Over four hundred cases of spinal diseases, paralysis and loss of the use of limbs have been restored; and numerous cures have been made of various stubborn difficulties which had lingered without help for years. For the success in treating more ordinary complaints, and the great favor given the Turkish Chemical and other Baths, see circular sent gratis.
Needing a little change, and desirous to confer as well as to receive benefit, Dr. H. will make a few professional visits, travelling expenses being paid, without charge.
Northampton, Oct. 30.
Woman's Rights under the Law.
THREE Lectures delivered in Boston, January, 1861, by Mrs. C. H. Dall.
I. The Oriental Estimate and the French Law.
II. The English Common Law.
III. The United States Law, and some Thoughts on Human Rights.
16mo., cloth, 63 cts.
Published by
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
245 Washington street, Boston.
Uniform with
Woman's Right to Labor, 63 cts.
Practical Illustrations of the same, 63 cts.
Historical Pictures Retouched, $1.00.
All of which are sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
Oct. 25-3 tis.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and
MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, Accoucheuse,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office Hours, from 10, A. M., to 4, P M.
Boston, Oct. 4, 1861. 3m
THE most able and brilliant book, called forth by the present struggle, is
THE REJECTED STONE:
Or, Insurrection VS. Resurrection in America.
By a Native of Virginia. 12mo., flexible covers-50 cts.
Published, and sent free by mail, on receipt of the price, by WALKER, WISE & CO.,
Oct. 25-3tis 245 Washington street, Boston.
The Life and Letters of 
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN,
WHO was Executed at Charlestown, Virginia, December 2, 1859, for an Armed Attack upon American Slavery: with Notices of some of his Confederates. Edited by RICHARD D. WEBB.-This very valuable and interesting work, which has met with a most favorable reception and, ready sale in England, has been carefully prepared by one of the most intelligent and experienced friends of America in the old world. For sale at the Anti-Slavery Office in Boston, 221 Washington street, Room No. 6. Also in New York, at No. 5 Beekman street; and in Philadelphia, at No. 106 North Tenth street. Price, One Dollar
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE.
Our fathers set dark Slavery's root  
In Satan's Compromise;
To-day we pluck the ripened fruit
Of blood, and theft, and lies.
Now let us dig, and never cease,
Till falls this Upas tree;
Then plant the olive-bough of Peace,
Whose fruit is Liberty.
Richfield, October, 1861.
HITCHINGS.

THE TWO WATCHWORDS.
A cry from the South, “Secession," sedition,
Scream of a Fury to startle the night,
Ruthless contention, and reckless ambition,
Hatred of rule, and destruction of right;
Tyrannous pride, and lust of oppression,
Wicked defiance of reason and law,-
This, O false Southerner, this is “Secession,"
Vilest of treasons the world ever saw!
A voice from the North,-long suffering in sadness,
The grief of an angel to darken the day;
Calmly rebuking the popular madness,
Slowly determined that hydra to slay!
Order, and peace, and social communion,
Law had in honor, obedience to rule;
This is the Northerner's watchword of “Union,"
Noblest of lessons in loyalty's school!
Which of these twain should an Englishman favor,
Cosmos or chaos, the right or the wrong,-
Slavery's curse, O fowl of ill savor,
Or blessed Freedom, that bird of sweet song?
Which of these twain will Providence, guiding,
Lead to the haven of national might?
Joy to thee, Northerner, justly confiding!
Woe to thee Southerner, ruin’d outright!
Albury, (Eng.) MARTIN F. TUPPER.

SOUTHERN TREASON.
[Another American ballad by Mr. Tupper.]
Like Jezebel's face at her casement,
Strangely dismay’d and perplext,
The world looks forth with amazement,
Marvelling what's to come next:
The world looks round her in wonder
For beauty and strength destroy'd,
For brotherhoods broken in sunder,
And statecraft quite made void!
Alas, for America's glory!
Ichabod, vanisht outright,
And all her magnificent story
Told as a dream of the night:
Alas, for the heroes and sages,
Sadden'd in Hades to know,
That what they had built for all ages,
Melts as a palace of snow!
And woe, for the shame and the pity
That-all for no cause, to no end-
City should fight against city,
And brother with brother contend:
Alas, for this libel on freedom-
Patriots-gone to the bad,
Citizen Arabs of Edom,
Slave-drivers, liberty-mad!
How sadly, through sons so degraded,
Pigmies ill-sprung from great men,
Even your glories look faded,
Washington, Franklin, and Penn!
Popular government slander'd,
Mid the deep scorn of the world,
Liberty's star-crowded standard
Foul'd by black treason, and furl'd!
Southerners! shame on such treason!
Shame on your folly and guilt!
Woe for this war of unreason!
Woe for the brothers-blood spilt!
Curse on such monsters unfilial,
Tearing their mother to shreds;
Curse on those children of Belial,
Curse on their parricide heads!
Albury, (Eng.) MARTIN F. TUPPER.

THE QUIET SLUMBER.
Lay him gently to his rest-
Fold his pale hands on his breast;
From his brow-
Oh! how cold and marble fair-
Softly part the tangled hair;
Look upon him now!
As a weary child he lies,
With the quiet, dreamless eyes,
O'er which the lashes darkly sweep,
And on his lip the quiet smile-
The soul's adieu to earthly strife,
And on his face the deep repose
We never saw in life.
Peaceful be his rest, and deep;
Let him sleep!
No tears for him-he needs them not;
Along life's drear and toilsome road
Firmly his manly footsteps trode,
Striving to bear his weary lot,
With such a pride upon his brow,
With such a pain within his heart,
The firmness of the manly will
Veiling the secret smart.
Oh! it is well the strife is o'er,
That thus so peacefully he lies,
Unheeding now the bitter words,
The cold, unpitying eyes.
Fold his mantle o'er his breast-
Peaceful be his sleep and blest;
Let him rest!
No sigh to breathe above his bier,
No tear to stain the marble brow;
Only with tender pitying love,
Only with faith that looks above,
We gaze upon him now.
No thought of toil and suffering past-
But joy to think the task is done,
The heavy cross at last laid down,
The crown of glory won.
Oh! bear him gently to his rest-
Oh! gently heap the flowery sod,
And leave his body to the dust,
His spirit to his God.

From the Salem Gazette.
ON THE COMPLETION OF THE PACIFIC TELEGRAPH.
Swift to the western bounds of this wide land,
Swifter than light th’ Electric Message flies;
The continent is in a moment spanned,
And farthest West to farthest East replies.
While War asunder drives the nearest States,
And doth to them all intercourse deny,
Science new bonds of union still creates,
And the most distant brings forever nigh!
I hail this omen for our country's cause;
For it the stars do in their courses fight!
In vain men strive against th’ eternal laws
Of Peace and Liberty and social Right;
Rebel against the light, and hope to stay
The dawn on earth of Freedom's perfect day.
J. V.

OCTOBER DAYS.
Yet one smile more, departing, distant sun,
One mellow smile through the soft vapory air,
Ere, o'er the frozen earth the loud winds run,
Or snows are sifted o'er the meadows bare.
One smile on the brown hills and naked trees,
And the dark rocks whose summer wreaths are cast,
And the blue gentian flower, that, in the breeze,
Nods lonely, of the beauteous race the last.
Yet a few sunny days, in which the bee
Shall murmur by the hedge that skirts the way,
The cricket chirp upon the russet lea,
And men delight to linger in thy way: 
Yet one rich smile, and we will try to bear
The piercing winter frost, and winds, and darkened air
 
<c02>
The Liberator.
AS ARTFUL DODGE.
In October of this year, a bulky octavo volume was published by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions-prepared by Rev. Dr. Rufus Anderson, its Senior Secretary-entitled, “A Memorial Volume of the first Fifty Years of the American Board." It purported to give a sketch of the Board's history and operations for that period, and great praise was bestowed upon it by the " religious " periodical press.
The Congregationalist slightly qualified its praise by regretting “that the relations of the missionary churches to slavery have not been stated as freely as those which they sustain to caste and polygamy."
In an article written for the Congregationalist, but refused admission to that paper, (and subsequently printed in the Liberator of October 14th,) I pointed out that the relations of the Board's mission churches to slavery, instead of being merely imperfectly stated, in Dr. Anderson's “Memorial Volume,” were not stated at all; and that the transactions thus omitted, instead of being small or trivial, (and thus necessarily or justifiably passed over in a sketch covering half a century,) occupied forty of the Board's fifty years-had given rise to numerous and urgent remonstrances on the part of its members and patrons-had occupied much time, given rise to much exciting debate, and occasioned the presentation of many special reports in the Annual Meetings-had necessitated the sending of two expensive deputations from the Board's headquarters to the Indian Territory, to attempt an adjustment of these difficulties-and had forced the Prudential Committee into the unpleasant dilemma of either abandoning a course of policy which they had commenced in 1817, and carried on ever since, or of maintaining it at the expense of truth and justice, by a long series of disingenuous and dishonest contrivances.
The article in question proceeded to show, not only that the Prudential Committee had adopted, and persisted in, the latter of these alternatives, but that the Senior Secretary, in his " Memorial Volume," had followed the same line of policy; not only omitting material and important portions of the history which he pretended to sketch, but making gross misstatements in regard to other parts of that history.
The Congregationalist of the 8th inst. announces that “this oversight" [so the editor has the hardihood to call the entire suppression of one great department of the history in question] “has been rectified in the fourth edition of the work"; and page 303 is referred to as containing this rectification. On turning to the page, the whole of the pretended rectification is found to be the addition of the following passage:-
“The relation of the mission churches to slavery, where that has existed, has been the same as that sustained to caste, polygamy, and other evils and sins. The qualification required for admission to the ordinances of the gospel has been common to all the churches in the missions, and also to the churches in this country supporting them, namely, a credible profession of faith in Christ, in the judgment of those whose duty it is to act in the case. With that principle, the Board, not being an ecclesiastical body, has had no power to interfere. The churches among the Cherokees and Choctaws, acting on that principle, have admitted holders of slaves to their, communion; but the statistics show that this class of church-members has been decreasing for some years.”-Mem. Vol. p. 303.
This is the whole of the addition which the Congregationalist represents as having “rectified" the book, in regard to the forty years' complicity of the Board with slavery. This is the only addition to the substance of the book. But it has been thought needful to add something more to its appearance; and the fourth edition has been made to seem different from the preceding editions, just as a fashionable lady is made to seem different by the application of rouge, or a stolen horse by the application of paints and washes. The first edition contained the word “slavery " in four obscure places, where it was indispensably needful for the elucidation of other topics, but this word did not appear in the Index, nor in the headings of the chapters. A person cursorily examining the volume would not have discovered that it mentioned slavery at all. A person searching for the mention of that subject would not have been able to find it, unless accurate previous knowledge of the facts had taught him precisely where to look. Now, in the fourth edition, besides one-third of a page really added, at the end of a chapter, to the substance of the book, the word slavery has been skilfully let in, in two places; once in the Index, and once in the heading of that chapter to which the passage above quoted makes the tail.
Slavery is now as conspicuous in the Index as the rouge on a lady's cheek. Every inhabitant of Boston has seen placarded on its walls the name of “the great Magician, Wizard, and Prestidigitator, Anderson." But none of his feats have been more wonderful than this trick performed by his namesake, the change of a line of printing in a stereotyped book. For, where the Index to Dr. Anderson's first edition read-“Sewall, General Henry, 142”-in the fourth edition, (Presto! Change!) this line has disappeared, and we read in its place- “Slavery, 140, 303, 357, 358, 361." And in the heading of " Contents" to Chapter VI., where the first edition read- “Among the Choctaws-In Other Tribes.-Tabular View of the Churches," the fourth edition reads- “Among the Choctaws.-Slavery.-Tabular View of the Churches."
The introduction of this word " Slavery " into the Index of Dr. Anderson's book is not only a false advertisement-a pretence, in four of the five places mentioned, of a subject being treated there which is not treated there, and where only the name stands for the thing, only the painted mask for the face-but it is doubly deceitful, since the one place out of the five where slavery is really spoken of (to the extent of one-third of a page) gives a false representation, and is adroitly expressed so as utterly to mislead the confiding reader.
1. The relation of the Cherokee and Choctaw mission churches to slavery has not been the same as that sustained to “other evils and sins” in those nations; and it has not been the same as the relation sustained to” polygamy and caste” by the mission churches of the “American Board” in the nations where these vicious customs prevail.
In the book entitled “Relation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Slavery," evidence is given, compiled from the Annual Reports of the Board, (which are prepared by this same Dr. Anderson,) thoroughly disproving both his allegations above quoted. Taking, for instance, the vice of intemperance, it may there be seen (pp. 34-36,) that the missionaries among the Cherokees and Choctaws preached against it, printed tracts against it, adopted church rules against it, formed societies against it, and wrote to the Prudential Committee periodical accounts of those labors, and of the success or want of success attending them. It may also there be seen, (pp. 100-113,) not only that the same missionaries did none of those things against the equally prevalent vice of slaveholding, but that they made a merit of not having done them, and declared that they would continue to treat slaveholding as unobjectionable, and to receive slaveholders to their churches as Christians.
As to the treatment of “polygamy and caste” by missionaries of the Board stationed in Asiatic or African nations where those vices prevailed-although it is true that a degree of unfaithful and unchristian laxity has sometimes been practised upon these points which would astonish and confound the churches at home, if it were collected and placed before them-yet, on the other hand, many instances of faithful rebuke of these sins can be found, spoken by the missionaries and printed in the Board's publications, such as cannot be paralleled in a single case by the action of the Cherokee and Choctaw missionaries in regard to slavery.

<c03>
Examples of the real purpose and effort of the Board's missionaries in Asia (not in America) to overthrow and destroy caste, may be found in the following places.
In the Board's Annual Report for 1839, p. 166 of the Appendix, there is an account of a meeting of delegates from the Ceylon, Madura and Madras missions. One of the questions which they discussed was- “What is the best method of destroying caste in the native churches?" To this question they reply- “The whole power of the gospel must be brought to bear upon it.....There must be a constant pressure upon it, and there is danger perhaps in our missions of growing weary in the contest......They would allow no distinctions of caste at the Lord's table, or in the church."
In the Annual Report for 1846, p. 139, is an account of the suspension of a church-member by the Ahmednuggur mission, for adherence to caste, and on the next page his repentance, public confession and restoration are recorded.
Page 143 of the same Report mentions the suspension of five church-members, for the same offence, by the Madras mission. After months of persistence in their offence, “all these persons, with one or two others who had joined them, came forward and made full and humble confession, and promised for the future to conform to what was required in renouncing caste."
These are specimens of a faithful performance of the duty of missionaries on this subject. The testimony of the missionaries among the Cherokees and Choctaws shows that they never did anything of this sort in opposition to slavery, and that they never used against slavery one of the various methods of active opposition which they used against intemperance. If they had done these things, no remonstrance would ever have been made, (because none would have been needed,) against the Board's complicity with slavery. Since they did not do these things, nor any of them, the statement of Dr. Anderson, added to the fourth edition of his “Memorial Volume," that- “the relation of the mission churches to slavery... has been the same as that sustained to caste, polygamy, and other evils and sins”-is a statement directly and flagrantly violating the truth.
2. In the above-quoted passage, adroitly “veneered" into the middle of Dr. Anderson's book, it is asserted that “the Board, not being an ecclesiastical body, has had no power to interfere” with the acceptance of” a credible profession of faith in Christ” as the recognized and sufficient qualification for membership in the mission churches.
This introduction of a statement which, though true in itself, is entirely without pertinence to the matter in hand, and is a dishonest evasion of the difficulty which it purports to answer, is a fair specimen of the ordinary dealing of the Prudential Committee, and of the Secretary, upon this subject. I will disentangle it.
Nobody ever pretended that the Board was “an ecclesiastical body," or should try to exercise the powers of one.
Nobody ever pretended that the Board should demand of their missionaries the requisition of any qualification for church-membership other than "a credible profession of faith in Christ"!
What was demanded of the Prudential Committee was, that they should dismiss from their employment missionaries who persisted in assuming the practice of open and flagrant vice to be consistent with  “a credible profession of faith in Christ," and in admitting persons manifestly living in such vice to membership in their churches.
This is the thing which the Prudential Committee have constantly refused to do, and which the Board have constantly refused to require.
This, however, is the thing which their own confessions, recorded in their Annual Reports, plainly show to be their duty.
As long ago as 1845, they declared, by an unanimous vote, (in which Dr. Anderson is named as taking part,) that the slaveholding system is "a tremendous evil"; that its effects are “pernicious”; that “its destructive influence is seen on the morals of the master and the slave "; that " it sweeps away those barriers which every civilized community has erected to protect the purity and chastity of the family relations"; that " we also see its baneful effects on the rising generation "; and that the abolition of it is a consummation “which justice, humanity, and Christian principle demand should be hastened."
As long ago as 1848 they declared, in a document drawn up and signed by Dr. Anderson himself, that slavery “is at variance with the principles of the Christian religion." And they further declared, in the same document, that in the case of any missionary who refused compliance with his duties, their resource was “to dissolve his connection."
The missionaries to the Cherokees and Choctaws had not only previously gone on, from year to year, receiving slaveholders into their churches as Christians, and thus upholding slavery in the most efficient manner, but in that same year, 1848, they expressed their determination still to do so. It then became, therefore, even more emphatically than before, the duty of the Prudential Committee to "dissolve their connection." This they would not do. And their refusal to dismiss these openly pro slavery missionaries (whose converts, be it remembered, are now in arms against the United States in defence of slavery,) is the very offence which has continued, from year to year, to be charged against the Board and its Prudential Committee. And yet Dr. Anderson has the effrontery to present, as an appropriate and sufficient reply to this charge, the statement that the Board is “not an ecclesiastical body," and therefore " has had no power, to interfere."
What is to be said, therefore, to this portion of Dr. Anderson's apologetical paragraph is, first, that it is not at all an answer to the charge; and, next, that its conclusion-palpably a non sequitur, not following from the premises-is manifestly placed there with intend to mislead its readers.
3. The next paragraph, telling only half the truth, is also manifestly placed there with deceptive intent. It says that “the churches among the Cherokees and Choctaws" have admitted slaveholders. But the charge is against the slaveholding missionaries, and the Prudential Committee who employ them, and the Board who sustain them. And all these admitted, as long ago as the Annual Report of 1848, that “some of the earliest converts, in both nations, were the proprietors of slaves.” The missionaries, then, began the course of recognizing slaveholding as perfectly consistent with a Christian life; and it is they, not the Indian churches which they educated in that pernicious error, who are to be held responsible for it.
4. Dr. Anderson's apology closes with saying-“the statistics show that this class of church-members has been decreasing for some years."
To this, two things are to be said. First, no such statistics are before the public. The Prudential Committee have given none in their Annual Reports, except such as have been cork-screwed out of them by the importunity of the remonstrants; and these are not sufficient to explain the relation of the successive years to each other. Next, part of the decrease claimed is discreditable to the churches and the missionaries, being a voluntary departure of the worst of the slaveholding church-members, who were dissatisfied that the missionaries merely tolerated slavery, instead of eulogizing and extending it. These men, (who ought to have been excommunicated, instead of being dismissed with letters of recommendation,) went away because they wished to join more pro-slavery bodies, which they found among the Methodists and Baptists. We find this departure (and the shameful permission for them so to depart) admitted by Mr. Secretary Wood, in 1855. He mentions that the missionaries are denounced by many as “abolitionists," (which is well known as the readiest vituperative expression in the slaveholding region,) and adds, that-“Some of their slaveholding church-members have left their churches for another connection on this account” 
The alterations in the fourth edition of Dr. Ander

<c04>
son's book do not avail to excuse, or to palliate, the conduct of the Prudential Committee. Since, however, they show a new attempt to mislead the public, they show additional guilt on the part of the author. 
Let it be remembered-let it never be forgotten until the Prudential Committee and their Senior Secretary retract their shameful declarations-that the present attitude of these two in regard to slavery, in the end of the year 1861, is the following: the Prudential Committee testify that the slaveholding Cherokees are “a Christian people”; the Secretary, in his " Memorial Volume," echoes this assertion, and adds to it the representation that the slaveholding Choctaws also are a Christian people; while the fact is, that these two nations of Indians are not only as desperately bent upon the maintenance of slavery as the people of South Carolina, but that they have joined that people in making war upon the United States to secure the extension, perpetuity and supremacy of slavery.-C. K. W.

WHO ARE THE INFIDELS? No. II.
By the late Rev. J. P. Fessenden, of S. Bridgeton, Me.
Mr. Garrison is an infidel, in respect both to the benevolence and philanthropy of the men who founded and have all along patronized the American Colonization Society. He does not believe, as do the friends and patrons of this Society, that God has planted such an invincible aversion to colored people in the breasts of white people, that it is impossible for the former ever to live in the same country, in the possession and enjoyment of equal rights and privileges with the latter. He does not believe that the colonization of emancipated slaves in Liberia will facilitate the civilization or evangelization of the heathen in Africa, or essentially better the condition of the colonists who are sent there. But he does believe that this Society is an iniquitous scheme, which has a direct tendency to foster and perpetuate the sin of caste, and was got up by selfish slaveholders at the South, and pro-slavery men at the North, for the purpose of removing the free colored people from the country, that slaves may be held by their oppressors in greater safety and security.
He is decidedly infidel in respect to the blasphemous dogmas, generally held by orthodox ministers and churches at the South, and extensively embraced by professedly religious persons at the North, that God authorizes American Slavery, and the Bible sanctions that system of utter abominations, by which, in hall the States of this nation, nearly four millions of human beings, men, women and children, for no fault of theirs, are, by the strong arm of the Government, imbruted, doomed to the most degrading ignorance, and subjected to countless wrongs, indignities, sufferings and sorrows, at the contemplation of which the heart of humanity is pained and the eye of benevolence weeps.
He is infidel to the generally assumed fact, that slaveholding ministers and churches, and those ministers and churches in what are called the Free States, who uphold or abet slavery as it exists in this country, either by their direct teachings, or by their influence in any way, or even by their silence in regard to it, are ministers and churches of Christ. He believes that they are not Christ-like, and, therefore, cannot be his ministers and churches. He does not believe that it is right or proper for professing Christians in the free States to recognize, as ministers and churches of Christ, and hold fraternal intercourse with them as such, ministers and churches of the South who hold slaves, and defend the iniquitous system of chattel slavery as a divine and benevolent institution. He believes that, in such recognition and fraternal intercourse, these Christians give the whole weight of their influence in the support of slavery, and practically declare to the world that, in their estimation, imbruting human beings is not inconsistent with true piety, and a good standing in the ministry and church.
He is an unbeliever in the false and ridiculous sentiments which are everywhere current in the land, both among professors and non-professors, that the slaves are generally contented and happy in their present condition-are in a better situation in bondage than they would be in the enjoyment of liberty, and in a better situation than are the free colored people of the country, and the free laborers of the North.
He has no faith in the equity or Christianity of the Fugitive Slave Bill, the opinions of eloquent statesmen, and learned doctors of divinity, and pastors of churches, who have written and published speeches and sermons in vindication of it, to the contrary notwithstanding. But he believes it to be a cruel, barbarous and infamous enactment, which is disgraceful to the nation, at variance with the Gospel, with humanity, and all the great principles of liberty and human rights; and which ought to be spurned and trodden under foot by every free man in the nation.
He is a believer in the doctrine of immediate emancipation, that every slave in the country is entitled to his freedom on the soil where he was born, without any delay, and that no slaveholder can withhold the blessings of liberty from any wretched victim of oppression in his possession, for a single hour, without being guilty of the grossest injustice and wrong.
He believes that any concessions to slavery, any compromises with slaveholders, made, either in the Constitution or the administration of the Government of the country, are sinful, “a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," and ought to be annulled. And his motto, therefore, is, “No union with slaveholders, politically or ecclesiastically."
He believes in the Bible as an anti-slavery book, and all along, throughout the whole course of his anti-slavery career, for a quarter of a century, has openly and strenuously maintained, that it is a calumny to say it gives any countenance or support to the vile and hateful system of American slavery. In all his speeches and writings which have had any reference to the subject, he has avowed his belief that the teachings of the Prophets, of the Lord Jesus Christ and his Apostles, are to be relied on as the grand instrumentality, above all others, for the overthrow of slavery, intemperance and war, and all other sins in our country and the world. He is a firm believer in our Savior as a Teacher sent from God, and maintains that his spirit must be imbibed and his example followed by every person who can lay any just claims to being his disciple.
He believes that it is sinful for individuals and nations to rob the poor and oppress the afflicted, and has never been known to swerve for a moment from the faithful discharge of his duty in opening his mouth in behalf of the suffering and the dumb. In the midst of bitter obloquy and unrelenting persecution, when assailed by mobs, and obliged to take refuge in a jail as the only shelter in which he could be protected from the violence of infuriated men, and a large price offered by State Legislatures for his head, he has never forborne to do all in his power for the deliverance of the helpless victims of oppression in the country who are daily drawn unto death, and are ready to be slain. And it is doing him but simple justice to say, that a man of purer character, greater integrity, kindness, benevolence and self-denial, for the promotion of every good cause, is not to be found among us.
 Now, let me offer it as my humble opinion, that it would be more befitting, in religious journalists, to purge the leaven of infidelity out of the evangelical ministry and churches of the country, before they undertake to condemn Mr. Garrison for any heresies of which they may suppose him to be guilty. If he is an atheist who denies the existence of God, he is a much worse atheist who makes the God he professedly believes in a monster of iniquity, by giving license to men to commit with impunity crimes of the greatest enormity. If he is an infidel who denies the divine authority of the Bible, he is a worse infidel who believes it to be God's word, and that it gives its sanction to the “sum of all villanies.” If they are infidels who write treatises against the inspiration of the Scriptures, they are worse infidels who write books in vindication of American slavery, and endeavor to make their readers believe that it is a benevolent institution, 

<c05>
authorized by God and the Scriptures. “What term, then, ought we to apply to those Theological Professors, Presidents of Colleges, and Doctors of Divinity, in our very midst, who have written and published books which teach that slavery is in accordance with both natural and revealed religion? What name ought we to apply to ministers who have endorsed these books, and thanked God for them, and who have written and published sermons in justification of the Fugitive Slave Bill? In my judgment, such writings do a far greater injury to the cause of Christ and the progress of true Christianity, than all the open infidel works that have ever been published. And I think it would be well for evangelical ministers and Christians at the North to inquire, whether they are not justly liable to the charge of making infidels in fearful numbers, by extending the right hand of Christian fellowship to slaveholders, and the abettors and supporters of this dreadful system. They are, surely, guilty of practically endorsing as Christian, the foulest iniquity that the sun ever looked upon. It is a fact which ought to make them hang their heads in shame, that, with the Bible in their hands, and professing to believe it to be the word of God, they have suffered American slavery, from a feeble beginning, to grow with the growth and strengthen with the strength of the nation, till it has become a sin of giant magnitude and power, overshadowing the whole country, threatening its speedy ruin, and bidding defiance to all efforts made for its overthrow. It ought to cover them with confusion of face, that they have suffered it, unmolested, to build its strongest fortress in what they call the church of Christ, and to cover in this fortress its defenders with the oracles of God, as an impenetrable shield for their immunity and protection against the assaults of all opposers. At their door, more than anywhere else, must lie the guilt of fostering and protecting the crimson iniquity. They have been, from the beginning, and are still, its chief bulwark. Had they done their duty, we should have been saved from the mortification of seeing the lips of such bodies as the American Board, the Tract Society, and the Sunday School Union, hermetically sealed against uttering the gentlest word in its condemnation. Had they done their duty years ago, slavery would have ceased to exist, and would now be remembered only as a frightful sin that had been. And I trust the few ministers and Christians in New England, who have been in profound slumber, and even now are only partially roused in regard to it, will not forget that the dead sleep in which they were so long holden was broken by the shrill note of the anti- slavery clarion of the very man whom they stigmatize as an infield! Whatever they may say of him, let them not be guilty of the meanness of withholding from him the credit, which is certainly his due, of succeeding, after a long and persistent trial, in disturbing a little the insensibility which they have manifested in regard to the enormous sin of American slavery.

DARBY VASSALL.
The decease of this well-known and worthy colored citizen occurred in Boston, Oct. 12th, 1861. The day of his burial (15th) completed just 92 years and 5 months since his birth.
Mr. Vassall was born in Old Cambridge, in the celebrated Vassall house, known as Washington's headquarters, (now the residence of Prof. Longfellow.) It was formerly occupied by Col. John Vassall, (a royalist,) when, in 1775, it was confiscated, and subsequently called the Cragie estate.
After his marriage, Mr. Vassall settled in Boston, where he became known to many of the wealthy families, including Peter C. Brooks, James Sullivan, William Stevenson, and others-by whom, to the day of his death, he was universally respected for his general intelligence and excellent character.
He was the oldest member of Brattle Street Church, having received the ministrations of the following stated occupants of that pulpit, viz: Peter Thatcher, J. S. Buckminster, Edward Everett, John G. Palfrey, and Samuel K. Lothrop the present incumbent, whose remarks at the funeral bore deserved tribute to the virtues of the deceased.
He was among those colored citizens of Boston who, in 1796, instituted the " African Society." Its objects were benevolent, and the preamble to its Constitution expressed its loyalty by the following emphatic clause:-“Behaving ourselves, at the same time, as true and faithful citizens of the Commonwealth in which we live, and that we take no one into the Society who shall commit any injustice or outrage against the laws of their country."
In alphabetical arrangement, the name of Darby Vassall stands last on the list of members, and he lived to be the last survivor.
In April, 1843, he was presented with a paper by Miss Catharine Graves Russell, which contained this provision:-
*** “I have promised Darby Vassall that he and his family shall be placed in my grandfather's tomb under the church in Cambridge, built by Henry Vassall, and owned by me, his granddaughter." ***
It happened that the centennial anniversary of Christ Church was being commemorated on the very day of the funeral. The tomb had not been opened since the death of Miss Russell, some sixteen years ago; and to those who were not cognizant of the provision for Mr. Vassall's interment therein, the event seemed strange indeed. The idea of this tomb being his last resting-place was often the subject of his meditation, and he was eloquent in grateful expressions towards her whom he had always regarded as a considerate, rare, and valued friend.
That he inherited loyalty will be seen by the following facts, noted by a correspondent of the Boston Transcript:-
“At a gathering of historical writers at Professor Longfellow's, on the 17th of June, 1858, the late Chief Justice Shaw stated an incident with which he was officially conversant, of Anthony, (Mr. Vassall's father,) and Catherine, (his mother,) viz:
“When the commissioners were selling the estate, Tony, who had long lived in an old house on the estate, stepped forth and said-‘He was no tory, but a friend of liberty, and, having lived there all his life, he didn't know any reason why he should be deprived of his dwelling.’ 
On petitioning the General Court, a resolve was passed, granting Tony a stipend of twelve pounds annually. About 1810, after his death, Cuba, his wife, went to the State Treasurer to get her stipend, but it was found that the resolve did not include her. Judge Shaw, then a member of the House, presented her petition for its continuance, which found favor, and she had the annual sum through her natural life."
Mr. Vassall was favored with a wonderful memory, and it was deemed a privilege with many persons, from different walks in life, to avail themselves of his conversational reminiscences of Boston and vicinity, in the olden time.
He had an intelligent appreciation of the Anti-Slavery movement, and loved to speak with and of Wm. Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips. Those who attended the first Attucks commemoration in Faneuil Hall, March 5th, 1858, will remember his presence, and the reference made to him by Rev. Theodore Parker.
He was probably the oldest colored man in Massachusetts, and in his death has been severed the last link which associated many of his race with the wealthy and dominant class in Boston, and which (at least in his case) was kept bright by continued sympathy, friendship and recognition of his Christian manhood.
Boston, Oct. 13,1861. W. C. N.

EQUAL RIGHTS.
BOSTON, Nov. 12, 1861.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON: The accompanying petition, forwarded from New Bedford by our active friend Wm. P. Powell, gives earnest of what his fellow-citizens are preparing for the approaching legislative season.
Boston and other localities in the Commonwealth will, it is safe to infer, renew their application, trusting that the people of Massachusetts are now ready to grant them this long-solicited right. W. C. N.

<c06>
PETITION.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, in General Court assembled:
The undersigned, citizens of New Bedford and of the State of Massachusetts, respectfully submit-
That the alpha and omega of civil government is the protection of man; that every independent State of this Union has a perfect right, between itself and all other States, to adopt such a form of government as its people shall choose, but in no case to violate, in its organic law or legislative enactments, the rights of native citizens, to say nothing of foreign subjects, as guaranteed to them by the United States Constitution; that in framing laws for the common weal, it is the obvious duty of legislators to enact such laws as will best secure the liberty, virtue and happiness of their constituents; that the divine right of every individual, whether native or foreign, should be so guarded that he cannot be oppressed, or deprived of those rights, either by a party or a government; that man has a God-given right to himself and all other blessings of this life, to all intents and purposes, in common with his fellows, without regard to the cuticle which covers his body, or the texture of the hair which adorns his head, unless forfeited by misconduct; that complexional and political, to say nothing of religious tests, are beyond the purview of legislative authority, and any attempt to enforce them is down right usurpation. Under these circumstances, and in view of the broad fact that the Federal Constitution now here specifies the complexional standard of its citizens, justice, sound policy, and the growing intelligence of the age, alike demand the repeal of all laws which make any invidious distinction.
Therefore we earnestly but respectfully request your honorable bodies to strike the word WHITE from off the statute laws of this Commonwealth.
And your petitioners will ever pray.

From a letter recently received from a devoted anti-slavery friend in Albany, N. Y., I select the following encouraging facts.
W. C. N. 
“Let us hope on and hope ever. There is one side of the cause which must give  us encouragement; that is, in the change as to prejudice against color. The very boy that was turned out our public schools, of our pubic school, some years since, has been sent to the boys’ academy from one of the public schools, as being the best scholar in the school, of whom each school has the privilege of sending on to be taught gratis; and a colored girl is attending at the academy- one of the most aristocratic schools in the city.”

THE NO-PARTY CRY. What is really meant by the homilies to which the public have been treated of late by certain Democratic leaders, is plainly seen in what follows, from the Boston Post of the 1st inst.:-
“We would again impress upon the minds of Democrats the importance of casting a full vote for their State ticket.
“By giving our State ticket as large a vote as possible, we shall prove the Democracy to be of sufficient strength to command consideration in public movements hereafter, and thereby enable it to wield a beneficial influence in future political movements in Massachusetts. Do not neglect this duty, Democrats-a very important duly at this time, namely: to give your State ticket as many votes as your best exertions can bring to the polls. More will depend upon such a course hereafter than is now apparent, and we hope the full significance of the action of the party in this respect will be properly appreciated by its members all over the commonwealth.” 
The Lawrence Sentinel, in alluding to the State election, says- “The Democratic  State ticket receives an unexpectedly strong support. It will probably reach the vote given to Douglas for President, and may exceed it. The speech of Charles Summer, the course adopted by some of the Republican leaders, and certain acts of the State Administration, have given thousands of votes to the Democratic ticket. If we cared very greatly about party now, we should find cause for congratulation in the result of Tuesday's election. Proportionately, the Democratic vote is the largest cast for fifteen years, at least.”
The Boston Journal and Traveller say that there will be a radical element in the coming Legislature. Well, we suppose that Fort Warren is not yet full. Why should not the same policy be pursued in Massachusetts that was in Maryland? Latitude has nothing to do with it.-Boston Post.
WOOLEN MITTENS. An officer from West Point, who commands one of the finest regiments in the service, suggests that woolen mittens for the soldiers will he greatly needed when the cold weather begins. Will not all who can employ themselves in this way, help to furnish five hundred thousand pairs? They should be knit with one finger, to allow a free use of the first finger and thumb. It is said there were more soldiers disabled in the Crimean war from frost-bitten fingers than from any other one cause. [All newspapers please copy this.]
The Richmond Examiner publishes John Tyler's plea for votes as a candidate for the Confederate Congress, and devotes itself to a eulogy of that gentleman's life-long fidelity to the South, declaring that to him belongs the credit of breaking up the Peace Conference of last winter: “Had he yielded to the many arts employed-to seduce him from his duty, and courted Northern favor for the hope of Northern rewards, the result would have been an almost unanimous report by the Peace Congress in favor of an unworthy and deceitful compromise-some juggle which would have paralyzed the movement for independence in the border States.”
The Providence Journal says-“Some men, Who are a little superstitious about names, are sorry that it should be our fate to land a force at Bull Bay. Since the disasters at Bull Run, they have an aversion to any place with a taurine appellation. The New York Herald says that near Bull Bay is Hell Hole Swamp. A cheerful neighborhood.” 
The far seeing men of the South are looking forward to the holidays with much anxiety;: for that is the time on which the great negro insurrections have always occurred. Should this season be passed in peace, they are confident that the negroes can be kept down through the war.
Now that Gen. Fremont and his Presidential prospects are supposed to be crushed, would it not be policy for the ambitious members of Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet, with the assistance of Thurlow Weed and Adjutant Gen. Thomas, to begin considering the propriety of finding Major General George B. Mc Clellan guilty of in competency, extravagance, &c. &c!-Hamilton Democratic Republican.
The Southern rebels have become dissatisfied with their flag of stars and bars. They propose to have new one. Among the substitutes, is one with a blue field and a spread white eagle in the center.

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Home, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.

Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861.

IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
“FOUR PARKER’S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These, together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other, parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat: and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account.”
J. B. SWASEY,
BOSTON.
LAW OFFICE, 114 STATE STREET, ROOM 11. 
