THE LIBERATOR
  —IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
   —AT—
  221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvanians, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:— WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Country are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO.14. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1865.  WHOLE NO. 1783.

   <c01>
   Selections.
   SHERMAN’S ARMY IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
   FORAGERS MURDERED BY THE REBELS.
Within the last week, the rebel cavalry have committed atrocities upon our foragers which make the horrors of a battle-field tender mercies in comparison. In one instance, a courier was found hung up on the roadside, with a paper attached to his person bearing the words, ”Death to all foragers.”
In another instance, three men were found shot by the roadside, with a similar notice upon their persons. And yesterday our cavalry in the direction of Chesterville found in a ravine twenty-one of our infantry soldiers, lying dead with their throats cut, but with no notice given as a reason for the frightful murders. All of us understand that the reason assigned for these butcheries is a cruel farce, and that any one of us will meet the same fate if fall into their bloody hands. Oh, shame on Beauregard, and Hampton, and Butler! Has the blood of their patriot fathers become so corrupted that their sons are cowardly assassins? If this murderous game is continued by these fiends, they will bitterly rue the day it was inaugurated.
A NEGRO WOMAN SHOT.
During the skirmishing, one of the men, who, by the way, was a forager, was slightly wounded. The most serious accident of the day occurred to a negro woman, who was in a house where the rebels had taken cover. When I saw this woman, who would not have been selected as a type of South Carolina female beauty, the blood was streaming over her neck and bosom from a wound in the lobe of her ear, which the bullet had just clipped and passed on.
“ What was it that struck you, aunty?” I asked her.
“ Lor bress me, massa, I dun know, I jus fell right down.”
“Didn’t you feel anything, nor hear any sound?”
“Yes, now I’ member, I heerd as-z-z-z-z-z, and den I just knock down, I drap on de groun’.. I’ se so glad I not dead, for if I died den de bad man would get me, cos I dance lately a heap.”

UNCLEANLY PEOPLE.
To-day is the first instance within a week that I have seen a household where the women were neatly dressed and the children cleanly. The people who have inhabited the houses along the roads for fifty miles behind us are amongst the most degraded specimens of humanity I have ever seen. Many of the families I now refer to do not belong to the class known as the ”poor whites of the South,” for these are large landowners, and holders of from ten to forty slaves.
 The peasantry of France are uneducated, but they are usually cleanly in their habits, and the serfs of Russia are ignorant, but they are semi-barbarous, and have, until lately, been slaves. The working classes (many of them) in England are debased, but they work., The people I have seen and talked to for several days past are not only disgustingly filthy in their houses and their persons, but they are so provokingly lazy, or ”shiftless,” as Mrs. Stowe has it, that they appear more like corpses recalled to a momentary existence; and I have felt like applying a galvanic battery to see if they could not be made to move. Even the inroads of our foragers do not start them into life; they loll about like sloth’s, and barely find energy enough to utter a whining complaint that they will starve.
HORRORS OF SLAVERY.
During this campaign, I have seen terrible instances of the horrors of the institution of slavery. I have seen men and women as white as the purest type of the Anglo-Saxon race in our army, who have been bought and sold like animals, who were slaves. I have looked upon the mutilated forms of black men who have suffered torture at the caprice of their cruel masters, and I have heard tales of woe too horrible of their belief, but in all these I have never been so impressed with the degrading, demoralizing influence of this curse of slavery as in the presence of these South Carolinians. The higher class represent the scum and the lower the dregs of civilization. South Carolinians they are, and not Americans. 

GENERAL SHERMAN AND THE NEGROES
I happened to be present this afternoon at one of those interviews which so often occur between General Sherman and the negroes. The conversation was piquant and interesting, not only as being characteristic of both parties, but it was the more significant because, on the part of the General, I believe it a fair expression of his feelings on the slavery question.
 A party of ten or fifteen negroes had just found their way through the lines from Cheraw. Their owners had carried them from the vicinity of Colombia to the other side of the Pedee, with their mules and horses, which they were running away from our army. The negroes had escaped, and were on their way back to find their families. A more ragged set of human beings could not have been found out of the slave States, or perhaps Italy. These negroes were of all ages, and had stopped in front of the General’s tent, which was pitched a few feet back from the side walk of the main street.
 Several officers of the army, among them General Slocum, were gathered round, interested in the scene. The General asked them:
”Well, men, what can I do for you? —–where are you from?”
“Wese jus come from Cheraw. Massa took us with him to carry mules and horses away from youins.”
“You thought we would get them. Did you wish us to get the mules?”
“Oh, yes, massa, dat’s what I wanted. We knowed youins cumin, and I wanted you to have dem’males; but no use, dey heard dat youins on de road, and nuthin would stop dem. Why, as we cum along, de cavalry run away from de Yanks as if dey fright to deth. Dey jumped into de river, and some of dem lost dere hosses. Dey frightened at de very name ob Sherman.”
Some one at this point said: ”That is General Sherman who is talking to you.”
“God bless me, is you Mr. Sherman?” 
“Yes, I am Mr. Sherman.”
“Dats him, su’ nuff,” said one.
“Is day de great Mr. Sherman dat w’es heard ob so long?” said another.
“Why, dey so frightened at your bery name dat dey run right away,” shouted a third.
“It is not me that they are afraid of,” said the General;”the name of another man would have the same effect with them if he had his army. It is these soldiers that they run away from.”
“Oh no,” they all exclaimed,”it’s de name of Sherman, su’; and we  had wanted to see you so long while you trabbel all roun jis what you like to go. Dey said dat dey wanted to git you a little furderon, and den dey whip all your soldiers; but, God
<C02>
bress me, you keep cumin’ and a cumin’, an dey allers git out.”
“ Dey mighty fraid ob you, sar; dey say you kill de colored men, too,” said an old man, who had not heretofore taken part in the conversation.
With much earnestness, General Sherman replied:
“Old man, and all of you, understand me. I desire that bad men should fear me, and the enemies of the government which we are all fighting for. Now we are your friends; you are now free. (“ Tank you, Massa Sherman,” was ejaculated by the group.) You can go where you please; you can come with us or go home to your children. Wherever you go, you are no longer slaves. You ought to be able to take care of yourselves. (“ We is; we will.”) You must earn your freedom, then you will be entitled to it, sure; you have a right to be all that you can be, but you must be industrious, and earn the right to be men. If you go back to your families, and I tell you again you can go with us if you wish, you must do the best you can. When yon get a chance, go to Beaufort or Charleston, where you will have a little farm to work for yourselves.”
The poor negroes were filled with gratitude and hope by these kind words, uttered in the kindest manner, and they went away with thanks and blessings on their lips.
At Columbia there were several families of wealth and position, who had always been suspected of loyal proclivities. Upon our occupation of that city, it became known to the rebel inhabitants that these people had always assisted our prisoners, and previous to our approach, had secreted a great many at imminent peril. It would be impossible to reject these generous, self-sacrificing friends. The fire had not spared their houses, and they were homeless, but we well knew that to remain after our visit would be certain death. Up to this time, the want of means of transportation had necessitated a refusal of these requests. But some of the wagons were now empty: then there were a number of vehicles captured from the enemy; horses and mules we bring in every day, and again, not a few of the families asking our protection are able to furnish their own transportation.
General Howard was in command of the troops at Columbia, and these unfortunates did not appeal in vain to his generous, sympathetic heart, which never refuses to sympathize with those in distress.
With the approbation of General Sherman, General Howard at once organized an emigrant train, which was placed under guard of the escaped prisoners belonging to other commands. The train has been separated, and apportioned to each division of the Fifteenth and Seventeenth corps. They are getting along famously. Ladies who have been always accustomed to the refinements of life, seem to enjoy the journey as much as if it were a picnic. In truth, it is better than that; for, while they are not exposed to the dangers of war, they participate in its excitements. The column has a singularly outre appearance. First, there will be a huge family coach containing ladies, with their personal baggage crowded about them; then an army wagon loaded with men, women and children, comfortably seated upon such articles of household truck as they are allowed to carry. Following this will be a country cart filled with negro women, for the negroes came along also, and hosts of the little curly, bully-headed youngsters gaze, curiously upon the strange sights which meet their eyes..
A WAIF.
Yesterday, as one of General Howard’s headquarters’ wagons came into camp for the night, a little bright-eyed mulatto girl slipped off from the end of the tongue underneath the wagon, where she had been clinging for many a long hour, while the vehicle had made its devious journey over rocks into deep ruts, through mud holes and deep creeks.
“How long have you been there?” she was asked.
Turning her dusky, piteous face towards her kind interlocutor, she replied:
“Dunno; since ye morning, I spec.”
“Where did you come from?”
“Dunno; couldn’t fine mammy nor sissy dis mornin’, so I jined the waggin.”
The poor little waif was provided for by General Hazen, and perhaps it will be infinitely better for her future welfare that she lost her”mammy and sissy” in the march through South Carolina.

HATRED OF JEFF. DAVIS.
A citizen, whose name may be found in the earliest annals of the State, and which stands forth in high honor in the war of the Revolution, but whose sons are now in high office in the army of treason, said to me to-day:
“Sir, every life that is now lost in this war is murder, murder, sir. We have fought you bravely, but our strength is exhausted: we have no resources; we have no more men. The contest was unequal. You have conquered us, and it is best to submit, and make wise use of the future. This is not my opinion because the Union flag is flying upon yonder Capitol to-day, but it has been my conviction for many months past—a conviction more than confirmed by recent events. We would have peace, sir, were it not for that vain, obstinate, ambitious man. Jeff. Davis. I am not in excitement nor anger, sir, when I assure you that I know that a large majority of our people curse him, not only with their hearts but their lips. His haughty ambition has been our ruin.”
The words of the gentleman which I have thus quoted have been the sentiments of nearly all I see, only they are sometimes expressed with added vehemence and more violent objurgations against Jeff. Davis. Unhappy chief of fallen spirits is he. Failure has brought down upon him hatred and abuse. It would not be cheers, nor friendly greeting, nor welcome that he would receive from the people of South Carolina, were be to visit them now.
GIVING UP THE SLAVES.
There have been many prophecies and theories advanced as to the possible future of the slaves and their owners, but I never thought that the day would come to me when South Carolina slaveholders would beg that I should take away their slaves— not because the negroes have been unfaithful, not that they would be unkind when we went away, for a lady bore witness, with tears in her eyes, to their attentions and kindness on the night of the fire; but, said she:
“I know they wish to go with your army, and I beg of you to take them, for I have nothing for them to do, and cannot feed them. We have scarcely food for our own mouths, much less theirs.”
These requests are not isolated, but general. The motive which prompts them is extended where-ever we march; but it is a singular development of the war that South Carolinians, should petition us to give freedom to the many slaves, to retain whose servitude they have sacrificed so much of the best life-blood of the land.

THE BANDS.
As I am writing, I can hear the exquisite music of the Thirty-third Massachusetts band, who are

<C03>
serenading one of the general officers. This is the best band in the army, and the favorite of all of us. They are playing operatic and national airs. There was a time when Massachusetts men were not permitted in this chivalric State. The wretches who insulted Judge Hoar and his daughter have not been consulted in this matter. Yes; there is that soul-stirring anthem,” John Brown,” and” Rally round the flag,” and the rest. When our troops marched into Columbia the other day, the bands commenced and ended with” Hail Columbia.”

NEGRO CHILDREN.
At one point on the road to-day, where the column had halted for a moment, I saw half a dozen three-year old” picaninnies,” as their mothers called them, perched upon the top rail of a fence, and singing with all their might—
“ I’m glad I’m in this army,” &c.,
an old Sabbath school hymn, which they repeated, all unconscious of its singular appropriateness to the time and place.
The soldiers were delighted, and greeted them with shouts of approbation.”  “Go it, little one,”“ Bully for you, curly-head,”“ You’re right there, little nig; we’ll stick by you,” &c.

NORTH AND SOUTH CAROLINA.
The line which divides South from North Carolina was passed over this morning. It was not in our imagination alone that we could at once see the difference between the two States. The soil is not superior to that near Cheraw, but the tillers, the farmers, are a vastly different class of men. I had always supposed that South Carolina was agriculturally superior to its sister State. The loud pretensions of the chivalry had led me to believe that the scorn of these gentlemen was induced by the people of the old North State, and that they were little better than” dirt-eaters,” while the strong Union sentiment which has always found utterance here should have taught me better.
Thy real difference between the two lies in the fact that the plantation owners work with their own hands, and do not think they degrade themselves thereby. This degradation, to the chivalric mind, was quite enough to inspire contempt. For the first time since we bade au revoir to salt water. I have to-day seen an attempt to manure land. The army has passed through thirteen miles or more of splendidly managed farms. The corn and cotton fields are nicely ploughed and furrowed. The fences are in capital order, the barns are well built, the dwelling-houses are cleanly, and there is that air of thrift which evinces itself where the owner takes a personal interest in the conduct of affairs.

NEGRO SOLDIERS, NORTH AND SOUTH.
[Washington Correspondence Boston Daily Advertiser.]
WASHINGTON, March 20.
“ Close Order!” Tramp—tramp—tramp. They were the first sounds I heard this morning. Rising and looking from the window, I saw, in the gray dawning, two companies of soldiers marching down the street—two companies of negro soldiers. Not an uncommon sight now, by any means, this of negro soldiers; but one not seen here till within twenty months.
Soon tapped at my door the blackest and ’cutest of negro boys, Adam, with the morning paper; opening which, I found this remarkable and significant paragraph:—
“ War Department, Adjutant, and Inspector-General’s Office, Richmond, Va., March 15, 1865. —Sir: You are hereby authorized to raise a company or companies of negro soldiers under the provision of the act of Congress, approved March, 1865. When the requisite number shall have been recruited, they will be mustered into the service for the war, and muster-rolls forwarded to this once. The companies when organized will be subject to the rules and regulations governing the Provisional Army of the Confederate States.
 By command of the Secretary of War,
JOHN W. RILEY, A. A. G. 
To Majors J. W. Pegram and T. B. Turner, through General Ewell.”
Neither the most hopeful nor the most insane person could have predicted six months ago that such order would ever appear in the Richmond Sentinel, or would ever emanate from the Richmond War Office.
On the high and almost precipitous eastern shore of Island No. Ten, forever to be famous in the great history of our land, in the misty morning of Saturday, July 4, 1863,.I first saw negroes clothed in the uniform of the United States. They were soldiers of the rough-and-ready stamp—gay, jaunty and impudent in their new freedom; many of them with bearing as haughty, doubtless, as the masters from whom they had recently escaped. Yet I do not doubt that they did their duty well, if they ever came under fire. There were about five hundred on the island, they said; and beside them about fifty white soldiers. The work and guard duty were all done by the negroes.
Sitting in the roomy parlor of the Gayoso House, Memphis, in the hot afternoon of July 6th, 1863., we heard that measured tramp—tramp—tramp; and, looking from the wide windows, I saw negro soldiers for the second time. There were about three hundred of them. General Oglesby, now Governor of Illinois, was in command there then, under General Hurlbut, also of Illinois, who was in command of the department. Hearing the soldierly tread, also, one of the two lady boarders of the Gayoso, siting at the further end of the parlor, rose and looked out of the window—returning with,”Bah! some of the Illinois niggers!” 
The battle of Helena took place on the morning of that Fourth of July, when our boat touched at Island No. Ten. Brigadier-General L. F. Ross, a gallant officer and courteous gentleman, was post commandant at Helena in that spring and summer. Thirty days’ leave of absence was given him early in the season, of which he declined to avail himself for many weeks, hoping against hope that Price and Marmaduke would attack the place, and so give him a chance to show the mettle of his Western boys. On the first of June, however, when all prospect of an atack had died away, he packed up and went North. He and three members of his staff were on that boat, returning to Helena, from Quincy, Illinois. The Fourth was kept in a quiet way at the dinner table; and in the afternoon when we tied up to wood, there was considerable target -firing for an hour or so. Somehow, during the day, there was a great deal said, in a jocose, bantering way, about an attack by the rebels on Helena.” Oh, well, I shall get back there day after to-morrow, and shall be delighted to have them try it,” answered General Ross two or three times. Even then the fight was raging, though the tenor of our advices of three days previous gave no indications of an attack. We spoke of it afterwards, —how curious it was that we talked so much that day of a fight there, not knowing that it swept around the little town while we drifted lazily down the river.

<c04>
Swinging into the levee of Memphis just at church time on Sunday, —only there were no churches open in Memphis then, —before the gang-way plank had touched shore, some one had given the astonished General a brief account of the previous day’s fight at Helena—General Prentiss in command of our forces. We had 3300 men, and the rebel force was reported at 18,000. They had been repulsed on Saturday, but would probably renew the fight on the following day. In half an hour the General and staff were on another steamer, and off at full speed for Helena—the ladies and the baggage of the party, with myself in charge, being left at Memphis.
Monday morning brought us more detailed reports of the fight, and it did not seem possible that our forces could escape ultimate capture. Every military thing in Memphis was alive. General Oglesby was everywhere at once, apparently bringing out whatever could be used as re-inforcements. He had one full regiment, I believe, of negroes, and also three hundred towards another regiment—a few of them raised in Memphis, but most of them” contrabands,” as they were then called by everybody who didn’t call them” Illinois niggers.” They were on their way then to the levee to take the steamer for Helena. We had a vital interest in them, you see, —we three persons, whose near friends were then, for aught we knew, in the hands of the rebels. Haughty and proud Memphis scowled then, and always since, at negro soldiers, but they have done her good service, and won many of her residents to words of praise and commendation.
We left Memphis on Tuesday, without waiting for orders, and reached Helena next day,—to find the little town jubilant with victory and praise of Ben Prentiss and Colonel Solomon, the local commandant—to find General Ross and the members of his staff thoroughly disgusted with the rebels for making the attack during their absence.
I remained at Helena from the 8th of July till the 16th of October following, and in that time never went two miles from the past-office in any direction. The rebel guerillas gave us just the space we could command with our guns. It was a strange life— writing all day, and sitting all the evening in some broad and cool” gallery,” or porch, as we call it in the North. Chiefest of the attractions to me were the negro soldiers. The number there ranged from 800 to 1700. They were camped just back of the rebel house we occupied—camped all around the house, even making our great tree just at the corner of the gallery the relief-guard house.
It scarcely needs to be said now, how those negro soldiers bore themselves. The few there during the fight did their duty to the satisfaction of everybody. Those who came afterwards were the jolliest creatures I ever saw. From early morning till” taps,” when not at work, or on duty, their life was one continuous round, of sport and music. There was no school-boy’s trick in which they were not proficient; no practical joke they could not devise and execute; no snatch of song ever sung there which they did not echo by the hour. They were prompt at duty, vigilant on guard, proud of their honors and uniforms, faithful to any order given them—good soldiers in every sense. Two things were especially noteworthy, their never-ending good humor, and their unquestioning obedience of orders.
And now the rebels will try to make soldiers of this class they have so long contemned and abused. Say the Majors Pegram and Turner in their appeal:
“ This class of our population having given repeated evidence of their willingness to take up arms in defence of their homes, it is believed that it is only necessary to put the matter before them in a proper light to cause them to rally with enthusiasm for the perservation of the homes in which they have been born and raised, and in which they have found contentment and happiness, and to save themselves and their race from the barbarous cruelty invariably practised upon them by a perfidious enemy, claiming to be friends.”
How much of this fine talk do these men believe? Does General Lee really believe he can make soldiers of these slaves?” I attach great importance to the result of the first experiment, and nothing should, be left undone to make it successful,” says be in his letter of the 10th to General Ewell. Of course, much importance attaches to the result of the first experiment—they will but repeat our own experience.
Does any body fear they can gain our measure of success in using the negroes as slaves? Hear the President:—“I have in my lifetime heard many arguments why the negro ought to be a slave; but if they fight for those who keep them in slavery, it will be a better argument than any I have yet heard. He who fights for that ought to be a slave.” Of course, this disposes of the question but indirectly. Yet the President does make direct answer, as follows: —“The negro cannot fight, and also stay at home and make bread; and as one is just as important as the other, I don’t care which they make them do.” That is sufficient answer to any one’s fear.
DIXON.
MR. SUMNER ON JUDGE TANEY.
In the debate in the Senate, on the bill introduced by Mr. Trumbull, of Illinois, providing for a bust of the late Chief Justice Taney, to be placed in the Supreme Court Room of the United States, Mr. Sumner made the following remarks:
I objected, to this joint resolution some days ago, when it was reported by the Senator, from Illinois, [Mr. Trumbull,] and he was disposed to hurry it at once upon the Senate, to the exclusion of important business., I objected to it again to-day, but it was from no indisposition to discuss it.
I know well the trivial apology which may be made for this proposition, and the Senator from Maryland [Mr. Johnson] has already shown something of the hardihood with which it may be defended. But, in the performance of public duty, I am indifferent to both.
The apology is too obvious.” Nothing but good of the dead.” This is a familiar saying, which, to a certain extent, may be acknowledged. But it is entirely inapplicable when statues and busts are proposed in honor of the dead. Then, at least, truth must prevail.
If a man has done evil during life, he must not be commemorated in marble. And if indiscreetly it is proposed to decree such a signal honor, then the evil he has done must be exposed; nor shall any false delicacy seal my lips. It is not, enough that he held high place, that he enjoyed worldly honors, or was endowed with intellectual gifts.
“ Who wickedly is wise or madly brave,.
Is but the more a fool, the more a knave.”
What is the office of Chief Justice, if it has been used to betray human rights? The crime is great according to the position of the criminal.
If you were asked, sir, to mention the incident of our history previous, to the rebellion, which was in all respects most worthy of condemnation, most calculated to cause the blush of shame, and most deadly in its consequences, I do not doubt that you would say the Dred Scott decision, and es-

<c05>
pecially the wicked opinion of the Chief Justice on that occasion. I say this with pain. I do not seek this debate. But when a proposition is made to honor the author of this wickedness with a commemorative bust, at the expense of the country, I am obliged to speak plainly.
I am not aware that the English judges who decided contrary to liberty in the case of ship-money, and thus sustained the king in those pretensions which ended in civil war, have ever been I commemorated in marble. I am not aware that Jeffries, Chief-Justice and Chancellor of England, famous for his talents as for his crimes, has found any niche in Westminster Hall. No, sir. They have been left to the judgment of history and there I insist that Taney shall be left in sympathetic companionship. Each was the tool of unjust power. But the Power which, Taney served was none other than that Slave Power which has involved the country in war.
I speak what cannot be denied when I declare that the opinion of the Chief-Justice in the case of Dred Scott was more thoroughly abominable than anything of the kind in the history of courts. Judicial baseness reached its lowest point on that occasion. You have not forgotten that terrible decision where a most unrighteous judgment was sustained by a falsification of history. Of course, the Constitution of the United States and every principle of Liberty was falsified, but historical truth was falsified also. I have here the authentic report of the case, from which it appears that the Chief-Justice, while enforcing his unjust conclusion which was to blast a whole race, used the following language:
“ It is difficult at this day to realize the state of public opinion in relation to that unfortunate race, which prevailed in the civilized and enlightened portions of the world at the time of the Declaration of Independence, and when the Constitution of the United States was framed and adopted. But the public history of every European nation displays it in a manner too plain to be mistaken.
These had for more than a century before been regarded as beings of an inferior order, and altogether unfit to associate with the white race, either in social or political relations; and so far inferior that they had no rights which the white man was bound to respect, and that the negro might justly and lawfully be reduced to slavery for his benefit.”—[19 Howard’s Reports, 407.
In these words, solemnly and authoritatively uttered by the Chief Justice of the United States, humanity and truth were set at naught, and the whole country was humbled. “Then you and I and all of us fell down, while bloody slavery flourished over us.”
I quote his words fully, so that there can be no mistake. Here then is his expressed assertion, that at the Declaration of Independence in 1776, and the adoption of the national Constitution in 1789, in Europe as well as in our own country,” colored men had no rights which white men were bound to respect.” Now, sir, this is false—atrociously false. It is notorious that there were States of the Union where, at the adoption of the Constitution, colored people were free, and even in the enjoyment of the electoral franchise, while in England the Somersell case had already decided that there could be no distinction of persons on account of color, and Scotland, Holland, and France had all declared the same rule. On this point there can be no question. And yet this Chief-Justice, whom you propose to honor with a marble bust, had the unblushing effrontery to declare that at that time, as well abroad as at home,”colored men had no rights which white men were bound to respect;” and this he said in order to justify a wicked interpretation of the Constitution. Search the judicial annals, and you will find no perversion of truth more flagrant.
Sir, it is not fit, it is not decent that such a person should be commemorated by a vote of Congress, especially at this time when liberty is at last recognized. If you have money to appropriate in this way, let it be in honor of the defenders of liberty now gathered to their fathers. There was John Quincy Adams. There also wan Joshua R. Giddings. Let their busts be placed in the court-room, if you please, where with marble lips they can plead always for human rights, and teach judge and advocate the beauty of justice. Then will you do something which will be an example for future times; something which, will help to fix the standard of history.
I know that in the court-room there are busts of the other Chief-Justices. Very well. So in the hall of Doges, at Venice, there are pictures of all who filled that high office in unbroken succession, with the exception of Marino Falsero, who, although as venerable from years as Taney, was deemed unworthy of a place in that line. Where his picture should have been, there was a vacant space which testified always to the justice of the republic. Let such a vacant space in our court-room testify to the justice of our republic. Let it speak in warning to all who would betray liberty
POLITICAL MOVEMENT IN RHODE ISLAND.
The colored citizens of Rhode Island have entered the political field as a distinct party organization, for the accomplishment of a specific purpose, and a very proper one too. It appears that equal rights in the public schools of our sister State are denied, colored children being excluded therefrom; and their parents and other relatives, a well as their friends of every color, are wisely determined not to give any countenance to what is the result of a paltry and contemptible prejudice, never entitled to any consideration, and the injustice of which is peculiarly striking at this time. They have got up a State ticket of their own, nominating Edward Harris, of Woonsocket, for Governor, and Rowland Hazard, of South Kingston, for Lieutenant Governor. Better nominations could not be made, as these gentlemen are of excellent standing and sound views. Mr. Harris is a man of great practical liberality, being well known for his many benefactions, and for his earnest efforts to promote the cause of humanity; and Mr. Hazard is worthily associated with him: ”We think that the colored citizens of Rhode Island have done well in taking to political action, in order to rebuke a sentiment and to put down a practice that ought to have no place in any community that claims to be enlightened. It was bad enough that the spirit of exclusion should have had a place in an American State before the secession war, but to entertain and uphold it now is something to peculiarly base that we long to see it effectually laid. To make distinctions on the score of color is to pander to that low prejudice which lurks among the meaner portion of the democracy, and which makes those who are influenced by it sympathizers with the Southern Confederates, and enemies of their country. The colored race were always entitled to the same treatment as the whites, and we should no more think of making distinctions grounded on the color of men’s skins than we should of making distinctions grounded on the color of their coats. But if such distinctions ever had any foun-

<C06>
dation in the eyes of the ignorant, who, may have fancied—egotism being the twin-brother of ignorance—that, whites were morally and intellectually so much the superiors of blacks as to be entitled to the enjoyment of peculiar privileges, they have it no longer. Colored people have amply vindicated their right to equality before the law. They have conquered prejudices, or, at least, they have done enough to conquer them. They have been loyal citizens, and have stood by the flag throughout the war, though until very recently it was to them but the emblem of oppression. They have, their whole number considered, furnished more men to the army and the navy of the Union than the whites have been able to furnish. They have fought well on a hundred occasions, by sea and land. Their blood has helped to fertilize fields on which their sweat or that of their ancestors had freely (we say servilely) fallen. They are employed to garrison Southern conquered towns by thousands. In forming regiments, they count man for man with the most heroic of whites. Such being the facts, assuredly we have no right to require them to stand back as peace approaches. If they are good enough to be killed for our benefit, their children are not so bad as to be unfit to go to the same schools in which the ideas of our children are taught to shoot. It is their right that they should be placed on the same, footing that others occupy. If white men are not dishonored by sleeping in the bed of honor with black men, after both have fallen under rebel musketry, they cannot be dishonored by sitting with them in church or at school. The colored people are right in demanding the enjoyment of their rights; and they show their sense by having resort to political action to obtain what they desire, that being the only thing that ever commands attention in America. They ask no more than they are entitled in justice to ask; and any thing less than justice it does not become us to require them to be contented with. —Boston Traveller.

BRAGGART SOUTH CAROLINA.
Referring to the precipitation of the Southern States into the rebellion, the Boston Traveller says:—
South Carolina was allowed to lead then all, and she led them to destruction. The opulent and growing Georgia, the venerable Virginia, Jackson’s Tennessee, that Louisiana which we had bought with our money and saved with our blood and nursed with our”protection,” and Texas which we had acquired by sin and shame, and half a dozen more,— all followed the lead of the Palmetto State, and became the wretched tools in doing the work which she could not do for herself or by herself. They were the slaves of her slaveholders. Yet that State which was so powerful in determining greater and better communities to go wrong, to make war on their own best interests as well as against the nation, that State, so gigantic as a tempter, became the most insignificant member of the very Confederacy which she had called into being. She seemed to have exhausted herself in the production of such a monster. She was of far less note in the Confederacy than were States that she had always looked down upon, and she never held even a third-rate place is its councils or in its armies. She gave no leaders to it, neither statesmen nor soldiers. Mr. Davis is a Mississippian, Mr. Stephens a Georgian, Mr. Benjamin a Louisianian, Mr. Hunter a Virginian, Mr. Seddon a Virginian, Mr. Slidell a Louisianian, and Mr. Mason a Virginian. The only prominent. South Carolinian in the rebel government is Mr. Trenholm, and he became prominent as Secretary of the Treasury only to fail more signally than any other man in any other office has failed. The measure of his skill is to be seen in the moneyless, creditless, foodless, and menless condition of the rebel coffers and magazines and armies. So of the rebel military leaders. Gen. Lee is a Virginian, and Stonewall Jackson, Stuart, Ashby, and other renowned rebel soldiers, were or are Virginians. The Hills are North Caroolinians, natives of a State as much despised by South Carolina as if it were the original home of Yankees. Beauregard is a Louisianian, Breckinridge a Kentuckian, Bragg a North Carolinian, and Price a Missourian. Wade Hampton is the only man of note among the rebel military leaders, who is from South Carolina, and he is only a partisan, resembling those dashing fellows of the Revolution of whom Mr. Gilmore Simms has written so much and so cleverly. South Carolina is also far behind the other rebel States in furnishing men,. North Carolina has in an especial manner exceeded her, both in respect to the quantity and the quality of her food for powder, pouring out her best blood lavishly on many fields. North Carolina’s regiments are of frequent mention in almost all accounts of battles, those of South Carolina are seldom mentioned. Louisiana has excelled South Carolina in the number and the distinction of her soldiers. Finally, South Carolina’s territory has been overrun with an ease that has astonished as well foes as friends. Judging from her language, we should have thought she would have been to the federal soldiers what the Vendee was to the soldiers of Republican France. But nothing of the kind happened. She became an easy prey to Gen. Sherman, who could not get a fight out of her chivalry, who either remained quietly at home, or fled before the”Yankees.” It must add to her mortifications that her old antagonist, Massachusetts, is now triumphant, and witnesses her abundant disgrace, the consequence of her”brave words” and her cowardly deeds. Her feeling must be like that of the dying Douglas in the battle, and the ballad:”Earl Percy sees my fall!”

REBEL ADULATION OF THE BLACK MAN.
The following is clipped from one of our exchanges. The enemies and friends of the colored man should peruse it:
The Richmond Enquirer is now so ardently in favor of arming the negroes, that it declares they are the best troops in the world—that those in our army have already proved, by their valor, patience and discipline, that they can and will go where the white man will not.
Such is the world-wide revolution made by these arrogant rebels. From the most utter contempt, they come round to the highest adulation. From the loftiest scorn of the black man, they now place him in the front rank of the heroes this war has developed.
The negro, as a soldier, has won a place in the world’s respect that his best friends never dreamed of, and wrung from his bitterest and direst enemies a tribute of admiration without a parallel. He has done well as a sentinel, as a scout, as a cavalryman, and in the desperate and headlong charge. In every arm of the service, and in every quarter of the Union, the negro has asserted, in the grandest and manliest way, his title to manhood, and his right to free action.
That the rebel chiefs would how down to this poor black man, and say he is the strong, the patient, the tough, the brave man, par excellence, we did not expect, but so it is. Just now, beneath that taway
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power… It is a war power. I say it is a power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
skin lies the only hope of the Confederacy. If the man there says, no, Jeff. Davis must fall. If he will not wake when the Confederate drum beats for him the rebel cause must sleep forever.
Two hundred thousand black men are demanded to do the work that the brigades of Lee, and Long-street, and Bragg, and Hood, and Johnston, cannot accomplish, to fill the imminent deadly breach, to hold up the foul and dastardly banner of treason, whose motto puts the negro, the ape, and the crocodile in the same category. How gracious and complimentary now are these lords of the lash. They are ready to give their poor bondmen beauty for ashes, and the oil of joy for mourning. But we predict they will not hear the voice of the charmer, charm he never so wisely.
The negro, if he is ignorant, and degraded, and subdued, knows his friends, and will sooner tear out his heart-strings than fight them. Flattery, or praise, or begging, or even the love of freedom, cannot conciliate the negro now to join the rebellion. The memory of insults, outrages, broken hearts, scattered families, blasted hopes, will rise like a mountain, hideout and black, before him, and bar him from all share in it.
Let them arm the black man, if they dare—they but fit out a soldier for our ranks, and place a weapon in the hand surest to smite their cause to the earth. 

CASE OF ANDREW JOHNSON.
That Andrew Johnson, Vice President of the United States, was drunk when inaugurated, and outraged, in a frightful manner, all the proprieties of the occasion, is a notorious fact, and is being noticed with extraordinary freedom of speech. The indignant virtue of the people has full scope. But it might not be improper to remember, when indulging the wrath that is entirely proper, that Mr. Johnson is not the first of our public men who have advertised their drunkenness in the Senate Chamber. At least four United States Senators have been intoxicated a great portion of the time during the late session of Congress, and a new recruit for the drunken squad has just been obtained. And, if the exact truth were told, in plain print, of the personal habits of a great many distinguished individuals, good people might be seriously troubled in their minds, and the "miserable scribblers" who dared to tell it would be denounced. Mr. Johnson had been drunk some time before be reached Washington, and found that a bad place to sober-off in. It is rather expected of a "great man" there, that he shall consume a large ration of whisky. The Vice President elect fell in with his old friends, and the temptation to have a good time was irresistible. The presumption was indulged that, as he was an important personage, he would be competent to contain much whisky; and that, as he had reached an official altitude quite conspicuous, he should work himself up to a corresponding personal elevation. There was a little miscalculation, and the poor man is disgraced. Other drunkards will look sorry, wag their bloated heads, and pity him. Congressmen, who take a gill of whisky at a drink, will grieve over the dreadful dishonor that has come upon "our institutions." It is all right. Let the Vice President be the victim. He may work a great reformation in his associates, serving them in the capacity of an "Awful Example." His inaugural speech may prove the most efficient temperance lecture ever delivered in the country. If he were sentenced to be stoned to death for his sin, in the eastern portico of the Capitol, and it was necessary to find a committee of Congressmen who never drank whisky to cast the first stone, his chances to escape execution would be reasonably good. —Cincinnati Commercial.

ANDREW JOHNSON.
We are deeply mortified as any one can be on account of the inebriation of Andrew Johnson, at the inauguration; but we deprecate the manner and spirit in which the Vice President's conduct is commented upon by the Republican press. Knowing that the opposition journals would seek to make capital out of the affair, by heaping censure upon Mr. Johnson and the party which elevated him to the second office in the Republic, Republican journals have really eclipsed the copperhead press in reckless censure of a sterling patriot, to whom the Union owes more than to any other living man whose lot was east in a rebel State. The intemperate zeal of these loyal journals, for the purpose of "taking the wind out of the sails" of the opposition press, is manifestly inconsiderate and unwise. No one can be more keenly sensitive than we of the breach of propriety committed by the Vice President; and yet we do not, as some of our cotemporaries seem to, regard it as an indelible stain upon the character of the Nation. The reproach rests upon Andrew Johnson; and we can readily believe that no one has experienced more poignant sorrow than he, because of his misconduct, which has doubtless been greatly exaggerated. The N. Y. Sun says:
"It is due to truth, if not to charity, to remember that there are not wanting some circumstances in this case which are calculated to place the object of so many fierce assaults in an attitude suggestive as much of pity as of condemnation.—We recognize that there is not in the United States a man who has rendered more effective service to the Union cause than Andrew Johnson. He has been in the very depths and whirlpool of secession, and held his ground, from first to last, like a man. At a time when all men's hearts forsook them, and when the treachery of Mr. Buchanan rendered it extremely doubtful whether any active opposition would be offered to the formation of a slave confederacy, Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, in his place in the United States Senate, denounced Jeff. Davis and the others southern traitors to their faces, and maintained that the American people would never submit to disunion and dismemberment. He resisted all the blandishments of the chivalry, and abandoned house, home, property and everything for the Union, and he has ever been true to his record. As Governor of Tennessee, he inspired our Generals there with the saving grace of his indomitable spirit and will. We who live peaceably at home cannot realize the fierce excitement and peril to which a border State Unionist is or was subjected, who dares to stand up for hit principles. Still less can we comprehend the tremendous strain upon a leader of even Andrew Johnson's stalwart frame and robust mind. The over-excitement was too much for him at last. The strong man succumbed in the hour of his triumph. At the moment when his services had been recognized by the American people, the Vice President elect was stricken down with an illness from which it was long doubtful whether he could recover. He did not die, but he has never been the same man since. We have no heart to recount the sad story, of a resort to stimulants to recruit the shattered energies which had been wasted in the noblest of all causes. During our best, and what now appears most quiet times, the excitement of ordinary politics broke down many of the strongest men. As compared with European statesmen, our public men do not live out half of their days. But now, When the events of a hundred years are crowded within the scope of a few months, who can tell the wear and tear of brawn and brain of those who struggle in the heat and thick of the contest? It is his misfortune, rather than his fault, that Andrew Johnson did not pass the ordeal unscathed. The excitement that produced his sickness followed him through his convalescence, and he resorted to strong drink to drown the clamor of office-holders, that haunted President Taylor to his death. It still remains to be decided whether Vice President Johnson has survived the period of his usefulness, or his removal from his high position may not be necessary to the honor and dignity of our country. But in the future, the memory of his services will eclipse his faults, and we who reap the benefit of his labor should not prejudice ourselves before posterity, by judging too harshly a man to whom we owe so much."
GEN. BANKS. We are gratified to learn that the report made by Gen. Banks on 
his campaigns in the Department of the Gulf are completed, and are soon to be published. A gentleman writing informs us "that the numerous admirers of the General will be abundantly satisfied with the able and elaborate history of his military and civil career in Louisiana. No one who has ever regarded Gen. Banks with pride or favor even, will, on reading his official report, have cause to regret their pride or favoritism. On the contrary, they will be more than ever satisfied with his whole career, evincing, as it does, that wisdom, patriotism and statesmanship which have ever distinguished this favorite son of the Republic. The report will remove all aspersions which have been cast upon him, and his character-executive and military-will stand out as distinct and invulnerable as Gibraltar itself, and he will be more than ever intrenched in the hearts of a just and grateful people."–Boston Journal.
<c02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TEEMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANE, MAKEE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO RESNSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHES, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirty-Second Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 9 , at 10 o’clock, A. M.
The Executive Committee urge upon all the members of the Society a prompt attendance at this meeting. The questions to come before it are of the greatest importance. Some members of the Committee propose, in view of the almost certain ratification of the Anti-Slavery Amendment of the United States Constitution, to dissolve the Society at this annual meeting; while others would postpone such dissolution until the ratification of that Amendment is officially proclaimed; and others, still, advocate continuing the Society's existence until all the civil rights of the negro are secured.
Besides this, whichever of these views receives the sanction of the Society, there is the further question whether the Standard shall be continued.
On these and other accounts, our deliberations will be most interesting and important, and ought to assemble all the members and earnest friends of the Society.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

OFF FOR CHARLESTON!
The Secretary of War, Hon. Edward M. Stanton, invites us to witness the ceremony of raising the United States flag on Fort Sumter by Major General Anderson, on the 14th inst., pursuant to the order of President Lincoln; and a free passage is offered us in the Arago, which sails from New York this day, having General Anderson on board. We have accepted the invitation; and, consequently, we shall be absent from our post two or three weeks. It will be a memorable occasion, in connection with the downfall of the rebellion, and the utter overthrow of slavery.

HORACE GREELEY'S "PLAN."
The New York papers copied last week, from the Manchester Examiner and Times, a letter written last summer to President Lincoln by Horace Greeley, re-questing, and indeed strongly urging, the opening of negotiations with the rebel envoys then at Niagara. The substance of this proposition was stated by rumor at the time, (July 7th, 1864,) and variously commented on. Now the letter is published, and certified to be correct by Mr. Greeley himself. Here is the offer which Mr. Greeley wished the President to make to the rebel leaders, admitting their envoys by safe-conduct to Washington for the purpose. His letter says—
I venture to suggest the following
PLAN OF ADJUSTMENT.
1. The Union is restored, and declared perpetual.
2. Slavery is utterly and forever abolished throughout the same.
3. A complete amnesty for all political offences, with a restoration of all the inhabitants of each State to all the privileges of citizens of the United States.
4. The Union to pay four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000) in five per cent. United States stock to the late Slave States, loyal and secession alike, to be apportioned pro rata, according to their slave population respectively, by the census of 1860, in compensation for the losses of their loyal citizens by the abolition of slavery. Each State to be entitled to its quota upon the ratification by its Legislature of this adjustment. The bonds to be at the absolute disposal of the Legislature aforesaid.
5. The said slave States to be entitled henceforth to representation in the House on the basis of their total, instead of their Federal population, the whole now being free.
6. A National Convention to be assembled so soon as may be, to ratify this adjustment, and make such changes in the Constitution as may be deemed advisable.
Among the objections to this "plan of adjustment" (which the President showed his wisdom by utterly disregarding) were the following, which I will mention in the inverse order of their importance.
1. The payment of "compensation" to slaveholders for giving up slavery, always undesirable and objectionable, was in this case and at that time peculiarly so. Apart from the absurdity of paying an immense sum to the recipients of a very great benefit, as persuasion to induce them to consent to accept the said benefit—apart from the obvious countenance and support which such an offer would give to the lying pretence of the slaveholders that slavery was indispensable for the adequate cultivation of Southern products, and that the Southern States would be impoverished without it—apart from the injustice of taking hundreds of millions of dollars from Northern men who had earned them by hard labor, to give them to men who had never earned anything, and for the purpose of enabling them to live still longer without labor— and apart from the folly of repeating an experiment which did far more harm than good in the British West India Islands, throwing away twenty millions of pounds sterling, and hindering, instead of helping, the good working of the glorious Act of Emancipation— apart from all these considerations, I say, the payment of such a sum, or of any sum, under these circumstances, would have been a premium on rebellion. If by making aggressive and grossly unjustifiable war for three years the rebels could have obtained the offer of bribe of four hundred millions for peace, why should they not stand out for twenty hundred millions, or whatever the Confederate debt might amount to? To offer composition-money to notorious liars, thieves and villains is of course to put yourself in their power. And, of all men in the world, are the men who robbed the treasuries, arsenals and navy-yards of the United States, as the beginning of the accomplishment of their scheme of treason, the ones to make as honest, or a moderate, use of such an offer? The plan is preposterous and absurd. Its realization would have effected the enslavement of the North, in exchange for that of the blacks.
2. But a far worse feature of this plan of Mr. Greeley is its proposal to treat with the instigators and leaders of the rebellion at all. These men should be recognized by the United States Government, and by its loyal citizens, only as felons. They have committed, through a course of years, a series of the grossest outrages possible upon the Constitution, and laws, and Government, and citizens, and peace and welfare of their country. Breaking the obligation of solemn official oaths, they have practised the basest treachery against their native land. They have thievishly picked her pockets, burglariously entered her forts and arsenals, murderously slain her citizens, and sought, by a course of the basest calumny and falsehood, to turn her foreign allies into enemies. The warrants have long been out against these detestable villains. Detectives and special police, aided by a strong military force, are in search of them. The only place where they have a right to stand, or to be, in this country, is in the criminal's dock. And, whenever their arrest and trial may take place, it will be undeserved favor if the customary capital punishment for such crimes as theirs shall be commuted, in their case,
<c03>
to hard labor in a penitentiary for life. Yet it is these wretches whom Mr. Greeley would have had the President meet, on equal terms, as fit and proper negotiators in regard to the reconstruction of the divided nation. Most not every loyal man, every lover of his country, every one who prizes national honor, and venerates justice and fair-dealing, cry out, promptly and strongly, against such a profanation?
Treat, by all means, with the misguided followers of the rebellion with the people of the Southern States, who have been coaxed, or cheated, or forced into cooperation with treason. Offer them not only kind but liberal terms, to take effect whenever they shall show a loyal disposition by turning against the civil and military leaders of the rebellion, and making submission to the rightful authority of the country, the United States Government. By all means issue an Address to the People of the Southern States, encouraging any disposition which they may feel to take the above-mentioned first steps of return to their duty. And preeminently, let an address be issued, by the President, to that portion of the Southern people who have always remained loyal, without qualification or exception, the Blacks of the slave States. Let these things be done, and the sooner the better. But, for Heaven's sake, for the sake of honor, decency and self-respect, for the sake of posterity, who have a right to demand of us that no root of this infamous treason be left to bear a harvest of misfortune for them, let no share in the arrangement of terms of reconstruction be given to a single person who has held office, civil or military, in the rebel government. If a few hundreds of the chief of these civil and military leaders get off with imprisonment for life or perpetual banishment—if the minor rebel officials get off with confiscation of their lands, and permanent disqualification for office of any sort, they may well be thankful—and this moderate amount of the administration of justice will not only be a good thing in itself, but will justify the Government in granting the most liberal terms to the great mass of the Southern people. The whole North will agree in the wish that such terms should be offered. But let no rebel leader be allowed a position which may enable him to continue or resume his pernicious influence over the people of his State or city. Let it be a settled thing that the career of those men is finished, as far as public life is concerned. This idea brings me to the third and last point I with to notice in Mr. Greeley's plan.
3. Its worst feature is the provision of "complete amnesty for all political offences, with a restoration of all the inhabitants of each State to all the privileges of citizens of the United States." Nothing could be devised more likely to damage the future of our country, interfere with the reestablishment of loyal feeling in the Southern States, check the influx and counteract the influence of new ideas among that benighted people, and keep up the group of aristocratic and oligarchic habits, manners and customs, which have thus far kept the poor whites in degrading subserviency. If the "lords of the lash," the "Barons" of the South, return to their former places of abode, and the possession of their lands, they return to the exercise of an influence still dangerous over those who have all their lives acknowledged them, looked up to them, fawned upon them, as superior beings. Even allowing the nation to be no longer in danger from them, these poor white neighbors of theirs are still in danger. And even this is not the worst. 
These men, if re-instated at once in all the rights and privileges of citizenship, could and would do immense injury by limiting he rights and privileges of the emancipated class. The Constitution and the laws (as we hope and believe) will soon be so arranged as to secure to the colored people exemption from slavery; that is, from the liability to be bought and sold, owned by an individual as property, kept, transferred, or killed, like a hog or a horse. But what a vast interval remains between the position of freedman and the position of citizen! This wide interval is a debatable ground, and an active contest is already going on in regard to it. We are in a state of transition, when new ideas and customs are trying each to impress itself upon the plastic mass. The tendency of the whole past is unfavorable to the colored people. All that can be done by the utmost efforts of their friends, in connection with the erection of every possible barrier against their enemies, will be to make some approach, greater or less, to that relation of equality and fraternity which justice and Christianity require of us. But if these secessionist ex-slaveholders, these deniers of the humanity of the negro, these founders of the institution of caste, these despisers alike of labor and the laborer, are to take an active part in moulding public opinion, in this, its formative stage, if they are to hold the estates which formerly gave them distinguished consideration, and hold the positions in which both blacks and poor whites have always been accustomed to tremble before them, what a mighty inimical influence will take part in the work of reconstruction! How shall we gain for the colored people the rights of manhood, when the great independent proprietors, throughout the South, combine to keep down their wages, to limit their privileges, to abridge their means of education, to discourage their advancement, to keep them in the position of laboring " freedmen," instead of favoring their ascent to the true and right position of citizenship?
This danger is one that seriously threatens us still, We are past (I believe) the danger of being persuaded to vote money to robbers for the discontinuance of robbery. Since, as I write, the bells are ringing to signalize the capture of Richmond, we shall probably hear no more of treating with Jeff. Davis for the conditions of return to the Union. But if, in treating with the people of the conquered South, we shall show such unspeakable folly as to give full amnesty to all, or half, or a tenth part, of the civil and military leaders of the rebellion, we shall be partners in their crimes, and shall richly deserve to share the woes which their continued influence will bring upon the nation. —C. K. W.

PUBLIC MEETING IN FANEUIL, HALL.
An immense and highly enthusiastic meeting was held in Faneuil Hall on Tuesday afternoon last, at the call of the City Government, to commemorate the fall of the rebel capital, and give expression to the emotions of joy and gratitude that thrill every patriotic heart, at the auspicious omens for peace and freedom. The venerable Hall was tastefully and appropriately decorated, the Germania Band and an excellent Glee Club were in attendance, and nothing was wanting to give spirit and enthusiasm to the meeting.
At 3 o'clock, Mayor Lincoln called the vast assembly to order, and introduced Rev., J. M. Manning, who offered a fervent and impressive prayer. Speeches followed from his Hon. the Mayor, Col. P. R. Guiney, Hon. Henry Wilson, Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, Hon. Thomas Russell, Capt. W. H. McCartney, Frederick Douglass, and Rev. E. N. Kirk. We have room this week, only for the felicitous speech of Mr. Douglass, which will be found below. A reference to President Lincoln, by Mr. Winthrop, called forth unbounded enthusiasm, the great assembly cheering, and waving hats and handkerchiefs for several minutes. It was a spontaneous tribute to the worth and patriotism of our Chief Magistrate, and indicated how closely he lies to the popular heart. A noticeable feature of the occasion was the singing of the anthem, "Sound the loud timbrel o'er Egypt's dark sea," by two colored men, Rev. Geo. A. Rue and Mr. John S. Brown, which was sung with such power of voice and manner as to elicit the most vociferous applause and a clamorous "encore," that was not to be denied.
SPEECH OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-Citizens: I gratefully recognize your kindness, and the compliment implied, not merely to myself, but to my humble race, in the calls made repeatedly for my appearance on this platform. I am here, however, to-day, not as a speaker, but as a listener; and it was farthest from my intention to occupy any of your time on this grand occasion, with
<c04>
anything that I might be able to say. Nought but the pressing calls made upon me by friends upon the platform, and the thought that there was, after all, a certain degree of fitness in one, at least, of the race to which I belong being present and somewhat prominent on the occasion, has induced me to step forward to say a few words.
I have noticed that every gentleman who has undertaken to speak here this afternoon has found some difficulty in expressing the thought, the feeling in keeping and outspringing from this great occasion. If they, the eloquent and the learned, have difficulty in giving expression to their sentiments and feelings on such an occasion as this, how incomparably more difficult must it be for one in my circumstances to express the profound gratitude which I feel, and which my race must feel, over the glad tidings that are flashed to us of the fall of Richmond! In those tidings, you have announced to you the safety of the country. I, for the first time in my life, have the assurance, not only of a country redeemed, of a country regenerated, but of my race free and having a future in this land. Heretofore, the black man in this land has had no future; he has, scarcely had the hope of a future. But in the fall of Richmond, which is but another name for the fall of the rebellion—a rebellion which appealed from right to wrong, from justice to injustice, from the ever-in creasing light of a glorious civilization to the dark and hell-black counsels of the system of bondage, I say we have in the fall of Richmond the fall of this terrible rebellion and the upbuilding of liberty through the Southern States. (Applause.)
I have been making a new catechism. (Laughter, and cries of "Let's have it!") Hitherto, the race to which I belong has been sneered at as never having accomplished anything—never invented anything. But I when an American asks me any questions concerning my race, what they ever did to prove their manhood, what they ever did to prove themselves entitled to liberty and protection in this Republic, my answer will be, that the first feet which timed their proud steps to the music of the "Star-Spangled banner" in Charleston were the feet of black men. (Applause, and cries of " Good.") And when it is further asked, "What have you done?" my answer will be, that the first soldiers who entered the long-beleaguered and long desired city of Richmond, on the heels of the retreating rebels, were black soldiers. (Renewed applause.)
I rejoice, fellow-citizens—for now we are citizens (Laughter and applause.) It so happens that we have been citizens before in the history of this republic. It so happens that we have always been citizens when our country has been in trouble. We were citizens, I believe, some few of us in 1776, when a few, only a sprinkling—enough to say "we," ascended with you yonder hill, and confronted the British for your independence. We were citizens again, in 1812, when Gen. Jackson had a little job for us to do at New Orleans. (Laughter.) He then addressed us, you know, as "fellow-citizens." "Fellow-citizens," he said, "by a mistaken policy of the government, you have not hitherto been called upon to bear arms in the service of your country. I am not in favor of that policy. I summon you to rally round the standard of the Re-public, and aid in beating back the invading forces of old England." We did come to the rescue at that time, and we were citizens during the war of 1812, and for some time after peace was declared. But through the machinations of the dark character you see represented on that canvass, (the painting of Webster in the Senate Chamber,) we were gradually read out of our citizenship, gradually crowded beyond the reach of your beneficent principle of liberty; but two years ago, and more, some of your fellow-citizens thought the country was again in need of the black man's services. Massachusetts—God bless her now and always (applause)—led the way; and in the twinkling of an eye, almost, two black regiments sprang from this old Commonwealth. We are citizens again (laughter)—citizens in this time of trouble and by the force of old Massachusetts' example, almost every Northern State has been induced to call upon her black citizens to aid, in this day of trial, in upholding the flag. We have come; and you are here welcoming me to-day, as you did not twenty-four years ago, (laughter and applause,) and want me to make a little speech to you. As I know more about the useful than the ornamental, know a little more of the language of complaint than of the language of exultation and joy—for the experience I have had in the United States has taught me mere the language of complaint than that of joy and exultation—and as you want a speech from me, let me tell you what I want. What I want, now that the black men are citizens in war, is, that they shall be made fully and entirely, all over this land, citizens in peace. (Applause, and cries "They shall be.") If Faneuil Hall says so, it will be done. (Applause.) If Massachusetts speaks the word, it will be done. I will not doubt it for a moment. I believe Massachusetts does speak the word. I believe it is not your intention, in your extreme charity, now it that Jefferson Davis has shown you his coat tails, and the rebels are marching out to find the last ditch, to take to your bosoms those men, who with broad blades and bloody, hands have been seeking the life of this nation, and invest, them with the right to vote, ("voices"—"never!") and divest the negro of the right to uphold that flag by his vote. You will not go down to the South and say, "We will enfranchise our enemies and disfranchise our friends—(cries of "never!" and applause;) we will protect our enemies and forget our friends." I hold that the American people, in calling upon the black men to take part with them in this great struggle, have bound themselves by every consideration of honor to protect them from the consequences of their espousal of their cause, ("Hear," "hear," "That's so," and applause.) They are bound to do it. And remember that hereafter, at the South, the negro will be looked upon with a fiercer and intense hate than ever before. Every one of those who have been interested in the rebellion will look upon the negro as one of the causes of the failure of that rebellion.
I tell you, the negro is coming up—he is rising-rising. (Laughter and applause.) Why, only a little while ago we were the Lazaruses of the South; the Dives of the South was the slaveholder; and how singular it is that we have here another illustration of that Scripture!! Once there was a certain rich man who fared sumptuously every day, and was arrayed in purple and fine linen. He came North, clothed in silk and in satin, and shining with gold, and his breast sparkling with diamonds—his table loaded with the good things of this world. And a certain Lazarus sat at his gate, desiring the crumbs that fell from his table. Such was the record. But now a change has taken place. That rich man is lifting up his eyes in torments down there, (tremendous applause,) and seeing Lazarus afar off in Abraham's bosom, (tumultuous laughter and applause,) is all the time calling on Father Abraham to send Lazarus back. But Father Abraham says, "If they hear not Grant nor Sherman, neither will they be persuaded though I send Lazarus unto them." (Prolonged and vociferous applause.) I say we are way up yonder now, no mistake. (This was said with an expressive gesture, that called forth another outburst of applause.)
My friends, I will not inflict a speech upon you. (Loud cries of "Go on.") O, no; I am afraid I shall spoil it. (Great merriment.)
FIVE HUNDRED PERSONS BURNT OR DROWNED! The transport steamer General Lyon took fire off Cape Hatteras, on Friday morning last. At the time, there were on board from 550 to 560 souls, only some thirty of whom are known to have been saved. Almost an entire Illinois regiment was lost. The awful calamity was owing to the ignition of several barrels of kerosense oil in the engine room.’ 
For the last four days, the whole loyal North has been roused to the highest pitch of enthusiasm, celebrating the capture of Richmond and Petersburg, and the utter rout of Lee's army.
<c05>
INSTRUCTIVE CORRESPONDENCE.
UNPUBLISHED LETTER OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
NEW ORLEANS, July 15, 1862.
CUTHBERT BULLITT, Esq..
DEAR SIR -You are as familiar as any one with the manner in which the conspirators of this State precipitated Louisiana into the rebellion. They called a convention by a simple act of the Legislature, without putting the question to the popular vote. They carried the election in New Orleans in favor of secession by intimidation of the voters, and, as there is good reason to believe, by a fraudulent count. They refused, in the convention, to have the returns of the returns of the election laid before that body, and published; thereby tacitly admitting what the opponents of secession claimed, that a majority of the popular vote had been actually recorded against the scheme. They refused to submit to the vote of the people the ordinance of secession, showing thereby they could not rely upon the result.
But the conspirators had, nevertheless, succeeded in inspiring the minds of nine tenths of the slaveholders of the State—and, remember, it is the slaveholders who irresistibly give tone to all movements in this State, whether political or social—with a sincere belief and apprehension that the administration of the General Government, by the Republican party, would affect immediately and ruinously their slave property, and through that, all other property. Had this belief not been sincerely entertained, it would not have been possible to array the people of Louisiana in armed resistance to the Government of the United States.
The arms of the United States having now quelled the rebel authority on the coast of the Mississippi from the Balize to the mouth of the Red River, though still exposed in certain quarters, and to some extent to predatory and marauding excursions, the question arises, how can the population of this region, together with that of the Bayou La Fourche, also to some extent under control, be restored to a Union sentiment?
This region embraces a large portion of the sugar-growing section of the State. It may be truly said that its inhabitants, as well as those of the city of New Orleans, have a deeper personal interest in, will be more benefited by a restoration of the Union, than any other equal number of persons in the South. Yet it is certain that there has been manifested here, up to the present time, a reluctance to acquiesce in the new order of things, and a spirit of passive resistance which not even the dictates of self-interest, strong as they are, have been able to overcome; and this, too, in a city and surrounding country once firmly attached to the Union, and among a body of planters mainly of French descent, who have never been disposed to adopt extreme views in politics, and who have by no means shown any marked enthusiasm in favor of the rebellion.
What, then, are the causes of the present aspect of affairs here and in the neighborhood? Setting aside, from our consideration, the selfish spirit of gain of those who are creditors of the rebel government, and hold its securities; leaving out of view, also, the bad faith of those who desire to repudiate their indebtedness to the North; and waiving those feelings of pure and sacred affection which bind many to their relatives and dearest friends in the ranks of the confederate army; you will have perceived that the leading causes of disaffection and reluctance, now existing, are the following:
The slaveholders, who give tone to everything, have not yet had their minds disabused of the false impressions stamped upon them, in the outset, by the conspirators persuading them that they are to be deprived of their slave property. On the contrary, events of daily occurrence, under the U. S. military rule, tend to excite fears that the relation of master and slave is to be entirely disregarded; although the proclamation of the Commanding General announced, in absolute terms, to the inhabitants of the State, that all private property should be respected; for the practice under this proclamation has been entirely inconsistent with its language and meaning, so far at least as slaves are concerned.
The U. S. Custom House building, which is the Headquarters of the Commanding General, contains a large number of slaves who have left the service of their masters. The same is the case with the St. James' hospital, in the use of the U. S. authorities; the U. S. Mint, where soldiers are quartered; the Camp of General Phelps, a few miles above the city; and other places where the U. S. troops lie.
Such facts are looked upon as direct violations of the principles of the Constitution of the United States, as well as of the promises held forth in the Commanding General's proclamation; and are regarded as impolitic in the highest degree by all those who desire reconciliation, and a reconstruction of the Union. It is in vain we are told that these negroes are needed for military purposes. Such an assertion goes for naught with persons who observe negro men, women and children in the Custom House building, and other localities, doing just nothing at all; idling, and fed from the U. S. treasury, which we must be taxed to replenish.
Nor would It, indeed, be good policy to retain these negroes, if every one of them were profitably employed in the service of the United States, because the business and wants of the Government can be better supplied, here in New Orleans, in another way, and thereby all causes of irritation and disaffection avoided. You are well aware, sir, that, at the present time, there are large numbers of while persons, of both sexes, in this city, who are totally out of employment, and in great need; and such as these, would, for moderate wages, be glad to perform all the service the slaves now perform for the military authorities. To take these white persons into employ would be, at once, a benefit and favor to them; and by displacing the slaves from the places they now occupy would remove a cause of ill-feeling more potent against the Union than any that exists here.
But this, it may be said, would involve the expulsion of the slaves from the United States lines, which would, in effect, be restoring them to their masters; and it is added, with some feeling, that it cannot be expected the officers and soldiers of the United States army should catch slaves for their masters. This is all very true. No one, however, expects the soldier to be a slave-catcher, nor is any one dissatisfied with his refusal to become such. We do not wish the United States soldiers to catch our slaves, but not to catch them; we merely wish the slaves let alone. If slaves are admitted into the lines of a camp or station, and there maintained, whether specially enticed thither or not, the evil is accomplished.
Slaves may be enticed from the service of their masters by general or special means. Whether any particular soldier has, at any time, enticed any particular slave into the United States lines is entirely unknown to me. Such may or may not be the fact. But, as soon as the slaves of our families in town, and of the plantations in the country, in the vicinity of the camps, became aware that they would be admitted into the Custom House, the Hospital, and the encampments and forts, there fed and supported, and permitted to depart when they pleased, a most demoralizing effect was at once produced upon the slave population, and a most injurious one upon the minds of the masters; for the fact operated as a general enticement to the slaves to abandon their master’s service; while the master no longer knew when he could command his servant's labor, who might at any moment leave, without the possibility of recovery: thus filling the master's mind with doubt, anxiety, disappointment, and resentment.
The remedy for this evil seems to me to be simple. With regard to admission and maintenance within the United States lines, place all persons upon the same footing, white or black, bond or free; and admit no one into the Camps or Stations who has not special business in which the United States Government is interested; and when that business is finished, let him depart as he came. Next, take no slave from the service of
<c06>
his master, for military purposes or needs, when a white person can be hired to perform the work. Such a course would at once tranquilizes the public mind, and prepare it for submission to the Government of the United States, even in the absence of military force. 
Sometimes, in justification of the course pursued by the military authorities in reference to slaves, an act of Congress is referred to, which, it is stated, forbids any military man to restore to his master a slave escaped into the United States lines. This act I have never seen, and therefore cannot undertake to criticise or expound. Let me say, however, that the Commanding General, by his proclamation of martial law, and the established practice under it, has set aside entirely the Constitution of the United States; and, therefore, an act of Congress seems no more than a gnat to strain at, under the circumstances. You and I have never, most assuredly, wavered in our attachment to the Constitution and Government of the United States; yet either of us could to-morrow be tried for an offence involving our lives or liberties, without an indictment by a grand jury, and without a trial by a jury of our peers. My house could be searched, as is almost daily the case with others, on information given by any vile or malicious creature; and property could be taken without due course of law. There is not a single guarantee of the Constitution of the United States, in favor of the citizen, I could fall back upon as a protection from the military power. They have all been swept away; and, let us admit, necessarily and wisely, by proclamation of the law martial, which has no standard but the will of the Commanding General. No doubt it is good policy, at present, that such should be the case; but if any my slave leaves my service, and goes among the soldiers at the Custom House or elsewhere, immediately a law of Congress is quoted as being in full vigor to repel my reclamation. This seems to me to be injudicious. The slaveholders find that all the clauses of the Constitution and laws of the United States in their favor are abrogated, while a single law, interpreted much against them, is maintained in full force. You must be convinced, my dear sir, that such a condition of things as is here described is highly injurious to the Union cause; and could a change be effected, the happiest results would speedily ensue. Under contrary influences, more Union men would spring up in a month than will under the present system in a year. 
Let me next invite your attention to the established system of oaths, licenses, permits, passes and passports, which is certainly vexatious, and, in my judgment, operates injuriously to the Union cause. 
No one is allowed to leave the city for any part of the State, even such party as is under the control of the U. S. military forces, nor any point beyond the lines, nor for any point in the loyal States, without a passport; and to obtain this, the applicant must take an oath of allegiance to the United States. But any one may come into the city from this or any of the adjoining States without as passport. The effect of this regulation is to check, and almost destroy, that free communication between city and country, which, if permitted, would greatly tend to accustom men’s minds to the new order of things. The restriction, too, often operates in a specially injurious manner. For instance, one who is faithful to the Union desires to leave town; but should he be known to have taken the oath of allegiance, his person, even his life, would be in danger from the predatory bands beyond the lines. This requirement, in such a case, strikes every one as being unreasonable; since the authorities require the performance of an act, against the consequences of which they cannot shield the party upon whom it is imposed. Such a restriction seems, also, peculiarly unnecessary within the portion of Louisiana possessed by the United States troops. The citizens of New Orleans, and of the adjoining parish of Jefferson, circulate freely, without pass or permit, through both parishes, as far as the cities of New Orleans and Jefferson extend, and by the canals and railroads, to Lake Pontchartrain; while to go a mile beyond, a passport must be had. As far as can be seen, this system works no benefit to the Government. It does not diminish the number of secessionists and malcontents in the city, and every one knows it does not prevent their having free and full communication with their friends in the country. It is, therefore, rather felt as a vexaticus restriction than a wholesome regulation. 
Again, no planter can send produce to town without a permit, provisions excepted; and no supplies can be sent to him from the city for his plantation without a permit granted only on the supplies applicant’s taking the oath of allegiance to the U. S. Government. This, undoubtedly, operates to the injury of the commerce of the city; and you are well aware, that whatever checks commercial intercourse retards reconciliation, and injures the cause of the Union.
Good policy, in my opinion, would dictate that the United States Government, and all in authority under it, should distinguish the population of the portion of Louisiana which is subdued, into two classes; which ought to consist not of such as come forward to take an oath of allegiance to the United States, and such as fail to comply with that formality,-since had men, for the sake of personal advantage, will readily take any oath, while good men, and such as feel a high sense of honor and delicacy, even where they are sincerely attached to the Union, are reluctant to take an oath, which, being attended by profit and gain to themselves, may seem to be done for that cause only. The population should rather be classified into those who are or have been in arms against the United States, together with such as adhere to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort; and, on the other hand, those who, unarmed and quiet, remain at home, and pursue their usual avocations. And with regard to the latter, all action affecting them ought to be founded on the presumption that they are liable to no penalty, punishment or restraint, until found guilty of some crime defined by act of Congress. 
Let me illustrate. A sugar planter on the bank of the Mississippi, at some distance from the city, thinks that slavery is A DIVINDE INSTITUTION. He would prefer to live, if he could, in a confederacy composed entirely of slaveholders. He has, however, not been in arms, and is doing no overt act of treason. Such a man wants to ship his crop of sugar to this market. Why should not every impediment, physical and normal is taken from his path? It is a mere commercial operation; his opinions are not concerned in it; but; by drawing him again into the business of trade and intercourse with the city, under the Government and laws of the Union, you are in a far better way of convincing him of his errors, than by putting upon him the moral duress of an oath or license, which he is unused to and shrinks from. 
In the next place, such a planter needs supplies of provisions, dry goods or groceries from the city. It is to the real interest of the United States he should get them, for, whatever his opinions in politics may be, without supplies he may not make a crop; and, in that case, the wealth of the country, the basis of taxation, is by so much diminished, which is a manifest injury to the entire Union, North and South. Now, the merchant in our city, whose business it is to ship the planter’s supplies to him in the country, must for each shipment take out a permit, no matter how small or how frequent the shipments may be and the merchant must also have taken the oath of allegiance. From the same reasoning as above, you will see that this restriction, without changing any man’s views, has an inconvenient and vexatious effect. It is felt as an unnecessary application of force to those who are not resisting. It makes, moreover, an unjustifiable distinction between matters and transactions entirely alike. The most intense secessionist can buy any supply, in any branch of merchandise, here in the city, and a merchant or shopkeeper of the same views may sell to him without any oath of allowance, or permit being required from either of them; while the purchaser could not send the articles purchased out of the town, without both the oath and permit. These are distinctions which men cannot set.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
the benefit of, and therefore are only annoyed without being convinced by them.
The views now presented might be greatly developed, and no doubt set in much better light; but, in their present shape, they will probably suffice to illustrate the leading ideas entertained by many of the friends of the Union in this city, who think that the good of our great national cause would be greatly promoted here by encouraging commerce, and the intercourse of trade, in every legitimate way; and that, when armed resistance has cease, the time for clemency and conciliation has arrived. 
You will readily, sir, appreciated, and therefore it is unnecessary to press the consideration of the further view, that foreign nations will look with anxiety to see what efforts are wisely and prudently made by the authorities of the United States to re-establish commence with the interior, and thus with Europe. 
In the course of these remarks, it seems proper to allude to the practice grown up here, under the authority of the United States, of putting upon every man the burthen of proving his loyalty, and of treating in the light of favors what have always been considered mere matters of right. Houses are often searched, and arms (the property of individuals) taken possession of, and sometimes produce, such as sugar, &c., arrested by military order, without the owners’ being able to know on what information or for what cause. In these cases, no claim for restoration is entertained, unless the applicant first takes an oath of allegiance to the United States. 
Now, admitting such practice and requirement to be in accordance with strict justice, yet it is by no means the best policy. The proclamation of the Commanding General assured us of protection of private property, and the goods faith and dignity of the Government of the United States demand that such protection should be given on the most liberal terms. The promise, it should be recollected, was unconditional; it was not that the property of men of certain opinions should be respected, but the property of all the inhabitants of Louisiana, without restriction. Requiring a test oath then, in the presence of such a promise, as a preliminary to the restoration of private property, wears the appearance of changing the character of the promise itself; and the retention of property under such circumstances approaches to nearly the likeness of a confiscation, without an act of Congress. 
In conclusion, sir, permit me to express the hope that some favorable modifications of existing rules and regulations may soon be determined upon, and believe me, 
Your obed’t serv’t,
THOMAS J. DURANT.
REPLY OF THE PRESIDENT
WASHINGTON, D.C. July 28, 1862.
CUTHBERT BULLITT, Esq., New Orleans, La.
SIR –The copy of a letter, addressed to yourself by Mr. Thomas, J. Durant, has been shown to me. The writer appears to be an able, a dispassionate, and an entirely sincere man. The first of the letter is devoted to an effort to show that the secession ordinance of Louisiana was adopted against the will of a majority of the people. This is probably true, and in that fact my be found some instruction. Why did they allow the ordinance to go into effect? Why die they not assert themselves? Why stand passive, and allow themselves to be trodden sown by a minority? Why did they not hold popular meetings, and have a convention of their own to express and enforce the true sentiments of the State? If pre-organization was against them, then why not do this, now that the United States army is present to protect them? The paralyzer –the dead palsy –of the Government, in the whole struggle, is that this class of men will do nothing for the Government –nothing for themselves, except demanding that the Government shall not strike its enemies, lest they be struck by accident. 
Mr. Durant complains that, in various ways, the relation of master and slave in disturbed by the presence of our army; and he considers it particularly vexatious that this, in part, is done under cover of an act of Congress, while constitutional guarantees are suppurated on the plea of military necessity. The truth is, that what is done and omitted about slaves is done and omitted on the same military necessity. It is a military necessity to have men and money; and we can get neither, in sufficient numbers or amounts, if we keep from or drive from our lives slaves coming to them. 
Mr. Durant cannot be ignorant of the pressure in this direction, nor of may efforts to hold it within bounds, till he, and such as he, shall have time to help themselves. 
I am not posted to speak understandingly on the public regulations of which Mr. Durant complains. If experience shows any of them to be wrong, let them be set right, I think I can perceive, in the freedom of trade which Mr. Durant urges, that he would relieve both friends and enemies from the pressure of he blockade. By this he would serve the enemy more effectively that the enemy is able to serve himself.
I do not say or believe that to serve the enemy is the purpose of Mr. Durant, or that he is conscious of any purposes other than national and patriotic ones. Still, if there were a class of men, who, having no choice of sides in the contest, were anxious only to have quiet and comfort for themselves while it rages, and to fall in with the victorious side at the end of it without loss to themselves, their advice as to the mode of conduction the contest would be precisely such as his is. 
He speaks of no duty, apparently thinks of none, resting upon Union men. He even thinks of injurious to the Union cause that they should be restrained in trade and passage, without taking sides. They are to touch neigher a sail nor a pump –live merely passengers. (“dead heads” at that) –to be carried snug and dry throughout the storm, and safely landed right side up. Nay, more –even m a mutineer is to go untouched, these sacred passengers receive an accidental wound! 
Of course, the rebellions will never be suppressed in Louisiana if the professed Union men there will neither help to do it, nor permit the Government to do without their help.
Now, I think the true remedy is very different from what is suggested by Mr. Durant. It does not lie in rounding the rough angles of the war, but in removing the necessity for the war. The people of Louisiana, who wish protection to person and property, have but to reach forth their hands, and take it. Let them in good faith inaugurated the national authority, and set up a State government conforming thereto under the Constitution. They know how to do it, and can have the protection of the army while doing it. the army will be withdrawn so soon as such government can dispense with its presence, and the people of the State can them upon the old constitutional terms govern themselves to their own liking. This is very simple and easy. 
If they will not do this –if they prefer to hazard all for the sake of destroying the Government –it is of them to consider whether it is probable I will surrender the Government to save them from losing all. If they decline what I suggest, you scarcely need to ask what I will do. 
What would you do in my position? Would you drop the war where it is; or would your prosecute it in future with elder-stalk squirts, charged with rosewater would you deal lighter blows rather than heavy ones? Would you give up the contest, leaving every available means unapplied? 
I am in no boastful mood. I shall no do more than I can, and I shall do all I can to save the Government, which is my sworn duty as well as my personal inclination. I shall do nothing in malice. What I deal with is too vast for malicious dealing.
Yours very truly 
(signed)  A. LINCOLN.
President Lincoln is now occupying Jefferson Davis’s late residence in Richmond!
<c02>
NATURE OF THE STRUGGLE.
We make the following impressive extract from the recent Thirty-First Annual Report of the Philadelphia Female Anti Slavery Society, (by Miss Mary Grew)—
The real nature of the struggle in which the abolitionists have been engaged during the last thirty years is now better understood by the people of the United States than ever before. God’s voice, in the thunder of war, has pierced deaf ears; His lightnings have flashed into closed eyes, which would neither hear nor see outraged humanity, in the person of the American slave. At last, the nation is learning that in the rights of the slave their own were represented; and that at his cause was lost or won, humanity was vanquished or victorious. For there has been nothing new in our contest but its form. It is the old battle between Democracy and Aristocracy, waged in every land, “bequeathed from bleeding sire to son,” through countless generations. On one side, the rights of Man, as Man; on the other, the usurped privileges of tyrants. The shock of the conflict has upheaved kingdoms and overturned thrones; its fury has destroyed nations; and the world has resounded with the shouts of its victors and cries of its vanquished. In this country, for more than a quarter of a century, its combatants have been the slaveholders and their allies on one side, and on the other the Abolitionists. On one side was the denial of man’s inalienable right to freedom; on the other, its absolute assertion. In this struggle we pledged ourselves to the use of moral weapons alone, firmly believing in their power to gain this new conquest in the long warfare. This faith was justified when, in the autumn of 1860, the regenerated public opinion of the Northern States issued its mandate to the Slave Power, —”Thus far shalt thou go, and no farther;” and the South shrieked, in anger and ill-concealed terror, “The Government is in the hands of Abolitionists; we will dissolve the Union! “In the year 1853 the Attorney General of the United States announced; “If there be any purpose more fixed than another in the mind of the President and those with whom he is accustomed to consult, it is that the dangerous element of Abolitionism, under whatever guise or form it may present itself, shall be crushed out, so far as his administration is concerned.” And throughout the length and breadth of the land, the people cried, “Amen! so let it be;” and Church, and State, and mob, pulpit, press, and drawing-room, were eager rivals in the execution of this purpose. In 1804, one of the leading journals of our enemies thus testifies to the result of the struggle: “Is it not a fact that the Abolitionists command all the power of the North? It is. Is it not a fact that we Democrats are unable to wrench that power out of their hands? It is. Is it not a fact that the power of the South must, per force, give way to the power of the North? It is. And is it not a fact that the Abolitionists are determined to carry out their principles, as first conceived by themselves, and as now enforced on the entire country by the resolve of the rebels to subdue the North? It is. It is, therefore, a fact, that slavery is doomed. We, the Democracy, do not like this; but our dislike can effect nothing. There are facts before us, and, nolens volens, we must accept them. The Abolitionists have won the game.”
In this result we see only the triumph of principles; of Truth over Falsehood, of Right over Wrong; a victory which will be universal, because “the earth is the Lord’s,” and He is “the Governor among the Nations.” “His right hand and His holy arm have gotten Him this victory.”
Bright shines, the Star of Hope on our new year. All is not yet won for freedom; but each day, dawning with new victories, foretells the swiftly approaching hour when American Slavery shall give up the ghost. Illinois, Maryland, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, Michigan, Missouri, Maine, Ohio, and Virginia, have ratified its doom. 
All honor to Maryland, whoso recently washed her robes, and received her consecration at the altar of Liberty! Her eager hand was the first to seize the pen to sign this death-warrant, though while, with unwonted fingers, she slowly traced the letters, Illinois followed quickly, and first completed her signature. With hope and faith, and joy and gratitude, we wait for the last.
Quickly upon the footsteps of emancipation have followed the “fruits of righteousness” promised to those who execute justice towards the oppressed. In Louisiana a common-school system, that great educator of a Free People, is established; in Missouri this blessing is extended to a class of its children hitherto denied it; and a steady stream of immigration is pouring into Maryland, to enrich her population, and “build her old waste places.”
The danger to the nation which is now to be feared and avoided lies in the path of reconstruction. The madness of the Slave Power, which sought the overthrow of the Government, and which accomplished the secession of ten States from the Union, has armed the nation with weapons for the defence and maintenance of liberty, which it has not before possessed since the adoption of the Federal Constitution. These ten States are asking, or will soon be asking, re-admission to our Union; and the voice of the people, through the Congress of the United Suites, will prescribe the conditions of their return. Once before in the history of this Nation, its Representatives assembled solemnly to deliberate and decide upon conditions of Union, and seal the destinies of coming generations. Sitting in judgment upon slavery, holding its doom in their hands, they did not execute its death-sentence; but for the sake of peace, of conciliation, of UNION, they gave it what they regarded as a short lease of life. The terrible consequences of their fatal mistake have culminated in the tragedy of our civil war. To day, the Providence of God gives the Nation another opportunity to decide this momentous question, and to retrieve, partially, the mistakes of the past. With the lessons of eighty years to warn and guide them, with the consciousness that the extraordinary power which resides in the Federal Government to-day will soon pass from it, perhaps never to return, will they repeat the error of the fathers, and fail to establish universal liberty, and hedge it about with every possible defence? If they have read those lessons; if they are not deaf to the voice of God in his warnings, and insensible to the mercy which gives them this opportunity of salvation, they will require of every revolted State which would return to this Union a form of State Government which shall secure, by his own right of suffrage, the liberty of the black man. Only with this weapon is his hand can he be safely left in a community of proud, defeated tyrants, so recently his masters. Now the United States can protect him with its military power. The moment that those revolted States are admitted into the Union, he must pass under the control of their governments, and the shield of Federal authority can no longer come between him and the cruel oppression which, in countless forms, they may inflict, without reducing him to chattel slavery. In enfranchising a race, in restoring the liberty it has so long wickedly withheld, the Nation is surely under the highest obligation to restore with it that, safeguard of freedom which it regards as so necessary to the protection of its white citizens. In its hour of repentance and restitution, a noble and generous people would hasten to offer every atonement is its power, and would mourn over the impossibility of full reparation.
We rejoice to believe that in both Houses of Congress there are men who will urge the Nation to the full measure of its duty in this respect; and we record, with pleasure, the fact that the necessity of protecting the enfranchised slave with the suffrage has been ably and eloquently defended by a Representative of our own State and city. 
Since the presentation of this Report, Indians, Nevada, Wisconsin, and Connecticut, have ratified the amendment.
Hon. Wm. D. Kelley. 
<c03>
We rejoice, too, that among the daily journals of our city there are stanch champions for freedom and the rights of man, irrespective of color. Of these, the Press, the North America, and the Evening Bulletin deserve honorable notice.
The duty which yet remains for the abolitionists to perform is to stand at their posts a little longer, watching with jealous care the interests of the slave, until his last fetter shall be broken, and the Constitutional prohibition of slavery shall become the law of the land. It was this jealousy for his interests, this fidelity to his cause, which created a diversity of opinion and sentiment among us relative to the last Presidential election. Those who feared to entrust the protection of the slave’s rights to the care of Abraham Lincoln and his Cabinet withheld from him their support; and those who believed that the interests of freedom would be safe under his administration advocated his re-election.
Our work is almost done. As we look into each other’s faces to-day, our hearts in voluntarily exclaim: “The Lord is risen indeed!” Fit greeting for this glad anniversary! Some whom we miss from our ranks are, doubtless, mingling in our joy. Two valiant champion of freedom, * whose names will occupy an honorable place in our Congressional annals, for their fidelity to the Anti-Slavery cause in its martyr-age, have, during the past year, finished their earthly labors, and gone to their reward. And he whose name shines brightly on a more glorious page of History, + first in the roll of signatures to the Declaration of Anti-Slavery sentiments, proclaimed in this city in 1833, has filled up the measure of his well-spent days, and bowed his hoary head in death, just as the trumpet blast of victory burst upon his ear.
From these seats, to-day, we miss familiar faces of fellow-laborers, who on our last anniversary greeted, with us, the bright promise of the opening year. The most venerable of our band,‡ whose heart beat warm and true towards the oppressed, has passed away. And one who was not a less faithful and earnest coadjutor of ours, because her name is not enrolled in our Association, || has left us, in the prime of life, to mourn her departure and cherish her memory.
And many, many more, the year has borne from us, of illustrious or unknown names, who, in camp, or field, or hospital, have given their lives to the cause of Human Liberty, content to die that the nation might truly live.
These, our fellow-laborers, who have received their discharge before us, wait in heaven as we on earth, with ear attent, to catch the first tones of our new, unflawed Liberty Bell, (sweetest music that ever went up to God from America,) which shall
“Ring out the darkness of the Land;
Ring in the Christ that is to be.”
*Joshua R. Giddings and Owen Lovejoy.
†Thomas Whitson.
‡Sarah Jackson.
||Elizabeth II. Newbold. 

TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES,
AND THE FRIENDS OF FREEDOM EVERYWHERE.
The great problem of the country is solved. It has been demonstrated that chattel slaves may be at once converted into American freemen without damage to any just interest. The superiority of Freedom to Slavery, as a condition for all classes, of free labor to slave labor, of free society to slave society, of a free republic to a slave republic, has been made clear to the understanding of the most obtuse.
The completeness of this demonstration is due in large measure to the FREEDMEN’S AID ASSOCIATIONS. These bodies have thrown a flood of light on mooted questions, and made to the world most valuable revelations. They have brought out, in strong relief, the capabilities of the black man, and proved him to possess powers of self-elevation and resources for his country’s benefit for which he had not before received credit; they have demonstrated that, under the incentives of Freedom, the Blacks, as a race, are the most docile and easily governed of all untutored classes; that, by nature, law-abiding and indisposed to faction, with loyal attachments in strong contrast with those of others more favored, they have shown themselves fit for any position which has as yet been assigned them, and equal to all the responsibilities which they have thus far been called to assume; and that all they need to make them altogether happy in themselves, and a source of unmeasured greatness to the nation, is the advantage of training and development.
It is the purpose of the country that this advantage shall not be wanting. In proof of which, witness the multiplication and spread of the Associations already referred to. Their object is implied in their name. It is to relieve the present distresses of the Black man of the South, and enable him to overcome the difficulties which confront him; to train him for the duties of his new condition, and to fit him for all the franchises of unconditional freedom. It is also to disembarrass the Government in the prosecution of the war, and aid it in readjusting, on a better basis, the civil, social and industrial relations of Southern society.
The success of these Associations, thus far, has exceeded all expectation. Under their influence, very considerable districts of the South have been reorganized and reconstructed. In the Sea Islands of South Carolina, where the experiment was first made, and where the subjects were the least promising, large herds of imbruted slaves have been converted into orderly communities of law-abiding freemen. Under a system of elementary instruction improvised for their benefit, blank ignorance has given place to comparative intelligence, chattel slaves have become landed proprietors, black men are tilling the soil on their own account, agriculture has received a new impulse, and trade has added materilly to the number of her customers.
What is true of the Sea Islands of South Carolina is true also of other parts of the Southern States. Wherever these Associations have bestowed their labor, there assured success has been given to the experiment of freedom.
But, much as they have done in times past, a still greater work is reserved for them in the future. No Government Bureau can take their place, or supersede the necessity of their existence. As the U. S. Sanitary and Christian Commissions were needed to supplement the deficiencies of the Government’s Medical Bureau, so—during this revolutionary epoch —will a U. S. FREEDMEN’S COMMISSION be needed to supply the inevitable wants of the Government’s Freedmen’s Bureau.
Recognising this fact, the Associations with which the undersigned are connected have taken steps to establish their movement on a broader basis, and to give to its action increased effectiveness. To this end, the NEW ENGLAND FREEDMEN’S AID SOCIETY, the PENNSYLVANIA FREEDMEN’S RELIEF ASSOCIATION, and the BALTIMORE ASSOCIATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT AND EDUCATION OF THE COLORED PEOPLE have united in an organization, to which they have given the name of the AMERICAN FREEDMEN’S AID UNION. Their specific reasons for this action are described in the Preamble to their Constitution to be:-
“To promote a general union and seems greater harmony of action among the friends of the Black man; to give unity and added effectiveness to the movement now on foot in his behalf; and to ensure a more judicious and economical expenditure of the means employed for his benefit.”
The ends to be accomplished and the means to be employed are thus set forth in the same document:-
“The objects of this Association shall be to aid the Colored man to overcome the difficulties of his new position; to assist him is his efforts to rise from the degradation to which slavery has reduced him; and to fit him for the full enjoyment of all the blessings and the wisest exercise of all the rights that belong to the condition of Freedom. The means which they shall favor for toe accomplishment of this object shall be the distribution of material supplies for the relief of physical want; the establishment of rudimentary schools for the promotion of useful knowledge; and the encouragement and support of all proper measures
<c04>
and institution having for their aim the good of the Colored man. They will also seek, by the diffusion of information and the correction of false opinion, to remove from the public mind the prejudice engendered by slavery, which now stand in the way of the Colored man’s elevation.”
The powers of this Union are confided to a Board of Managers, whose duties and prerogatives are thus described: —
“They shall seek to promote unity, harmony, and efficiency of action among the friends of the Black man. To this end, they shall respect the rights and regard the wishes of the constituent associations; they shall cultivate friendly relations with other societies having in view the same object; they shall define the field from which each constituent association shall collect funds and supplies; they shall assist, by their counsel and otherwise, to the extent of their ability, in the dispensation of material aid—in their arrangement of schools, the appointment of superintendents, and the like—so as to ensure the most judicious expenditure of labor and money; they shall have power to establish and maintain a newspaper which shall be the common organ of the Union; and to put into the field, outside of the limits of the constituent associations, financial and other agents for the diffusion of information, and the collection of funds for the common interest; and to do such other acts and things as may be deemed expedient for the promotion of the objects of the Union.”
The Board of Managers thus provided for consists of the subscribers to this address. They have just been holding their first regular meeting. They have invited other associations to join them, either as equal members of the Union, or in such other way as will ensure their cooperation. They have suggested to their brethren of the West the propriety of a similar organization in that region, with a view to such ultimate connection of both as will give to the whole movement the advantages of substantial unity. They have adjusted, to their mutual satisfaction, the interests and spheres of effort of the several constituent associations. They have made arrangements for more economical and energetic effort than would have been possible under their previous isolation. They have taken measures for the establishment of a weekly newspaper, which they have reason to believe will be a journal of general interest, as well as a useful auxiliary of the cause.
Meanwhile, they commend their enterprise to all whom it concerns. They rest its claims not so much on the grounds of humanity as of patriotism and public utility. While its primary object is to aid the Black man, its ultimate end is to benefit the State. It is eminently a reconstructive movement. It is to build up the South on a new foundation, with the materials which lie there ready for use. It is to readjust the relations of Southern society on a basis of impartial liberty.
Assuming, as an inevitable result of causes now at work, that the future status of all loyal people in the South will be that of full equality before the law, it aims to secure to the Black man the advantages of education, and, through him, to the country the benefits to be derived from the new order of things. It is an enterprise founded in the interest of Humanity, and conducted for the promotion of civilization. As such, it is commended to public favor.
A central office of the Union will be established in this city without delay, with a secretary and others to attend to its duties. Meanwhile, communications relating to its business or funds intended for its benefit should be sent to Mr. WENDELL P. GARRISON, NO. 5. Beekman street, who has kindly consented to act as secretary ad interim.
HUGH L. BOND, President,
ARCHIBALD STERLING,
EVANS ROGERS,
Baltimore, Md.
STEPHEN COLWELL,
FRANCIS R. COPE,
J. MILLER MCKIM,
Philadelphia, Pa.
JOHN PARKMAN,
J. B. THAYER,
E. L. PIERCE,
Boston, Mass.
New York, March 16, 1865.
READ THE CORRESPONDENCE. The letter from T. J. Durant, Esq., of New Orleans, which we give in another column, (who has been specially inimical to General Banks’s administration, and who now assumes to be a radical of the radicals in that section,) is an official copy from the State Department of Washington, and may be relied upon as correct. The President’s letter, in reply to this cunningly prepared epistle in behalf of the Louisiana semi-traitorous slaveholders, is one of the most sensible letters that he has written, and shows well the difficulties which he has had to encounter. It has not been published till now, and has never been seen except by a very few persons. It will be interesting to our readers as an original letter from the President in the early part of his administration, especially as he has given his consent that it should be published. The italics are ours.
ANNA E. DICKINSON. Miss Dickinson, the eloquent female orator, has been invited by some of our most prominent citizens to lecture in this city upon Woman’s Work and Wages, and the invitation has been accepted. She will accordingly speak this evening at the Tremont Temple; and as we have heard this lecture elsewhere, we can assure all who shall attend that it is one of thrilling power and interest [See notice in another column.]

REJOICING IN BOSTON OVER THE NEWS.
The news of the capture of Richmond, shortly after eleven o’clock this forenoon, produced the wildest excitement on ‘Change, and the large crowd assembled at the Merchants’ Exchange Room gave expression to their feelings in prolonged cheers, which were repeated again and again amid the most enthusiastic demonstrations of applause. Every one was overjoyed, and was ready to embrace his neighbor in a fervor of patriotic feeling. The loud cheers brought crowds from the street into the Room, who joined in the grand chorus of victory. The glorious news was again read, and then followed another scene of wild delight.
It was some time before people could repress their feelings and settle into quiet, so entirely were they absorbed in giving vent to the joy that filled every heart. After a short delay order was restored, and as all present were evidently overflowing with gratitude, it was considered proper that some expression should be given to the feelings of thankfulness which lit up the throng of radiant faces.
The Rev. Mr. Hepworth, who happened to be present, was called upon to offer prayer. The crowd reverently bowed their heads, and listened to the outpouring of gratitude for the signal victory that had crowned our arms, and for the prospect of peace which such an event so strongly foreshadows. It was a very fervent petition to the Giver of all Good, and created a strong impression on the auditory. At the conclusion of the prayer, all joined in singing the hymn America. The appearance of the meeting in that mart of commerce was an extraordinary one, and one long to be remembered by those who participated in the pleasures and solemnities of the occasion.
During the whole forenoon, the desk of the Christian Commission, at which Messrs. Tobey, Demond and Hill are standing, has been crowded by those desirous of contributing to the relief of our gallant wounded soldiers. At 1 o’clock the subscriptions had reached $9000, in sums from $1 to $1000, and the stream was still flowing uninterruptedly. We hope that at least $25,000 will be contributed before to-morrow night. It will all be needed.
As soon as the official dispatch announcing our troops in Richmond was received, it was placed on the Journal Bulletin, and was greeted with the most enthusiastic cheers by the hundreds who in a few moments gathered in front of the office. It was amusing to watch the faces of the different individuals, and see the expressions of joy which beamed from them as they learned the glorious news. Some stood and read and cheered; others rejoiced reverently and in silence, and others read, buttoned up their coats and ran at the top of their speed to bear the good news to their neighbors and friends. The occupants of the horse cars, the teamsters on their teams, caught up the cheers, and make the welkin ring again.
All over the city the stars and stripes were thrown to the breeze, from public and private building, and the whole city is in a fever of enthusiastic joy.
At about noon the crowd in State street had reached its height. All the way from Washington, nearly as far down as Broad street the sidewalks were packed with an eager multitude. Washington street, too, was filled with people discussing and congratulating each other upon the good news. “How are you,
<c05>
Richmond?” “How’s gold?” and other significant inquiries were numerous as friend and acquaintance saluted each other. Occasionally one would be met who had just come down town, and his acquaintance would proceed to make known the good news which he had obtained from the newspaper extras, and, perhaps, produce one for his friend to peruse. The latter would express his enthusiasm at the definite announcement of the evacuation of Petersburg, but as the possession of Richmond was only a matter of reasonable conjecture, some doubts would be expressed.
Farther along, however, when he would read the announcement that General Weitzel end hi command had entered the rebel capital early this morning, all doubts were removed, and the congratulations were hearty and mutual.
The newspaper offices, the hotels, the bar-rooms and every place of public resort were crowded for several hours during the middle of the day with men anxious to obtain the latest intelligence, and rejoice over the same. Public buildings and private residences were decorated, the bell were rung for an hour at noon, a salute was fired on the Common, and everywhere there were demonstrations of the patriotic jubilant feeling of the people. —Boston Journal of Monday.

REJOICINGS AT THE STATE HOUSE.
The glorious news of the downfall of Petersburg and Richmond was nowhere received with more enthusiastic satisfaction than at the State House. If the departments were not closed altogether, there was certainly very little business transacted. All the officials, messengers and employees in every capacity united in the general jubilee over the fate of the rebellion.
Both branches of the Legislature yielded to their patriotic impulses by a spontaneous adjournment, and a general jubilee meeting.
The Senate adjourned almost immediately, and the members rushed into the House. Here the session was also cut abort, not lasting more than five or tea minutes.
After the prayer by the Chaplain, Speaker Bullock said that the chair could not refrain from congratulating the members of the House upon the inspiring intelligence which comes to us in the simple and unadorned language of the President of the United States, of the wonderful success of the Union arms, and the final fall of the capitol of the rebellion.
At such a moment, gentlemen, he said, when every heart dilates with pride and gratitude and confidence at the assurance of the restoration of this government, and of the benefits which shall follow there from to the entire human race, the ordinary routine of our business pauses before the illumination of victory that are reflected to us from the very heavens to-day.
The remarks of the speaker were greeted with loud and prolonged applause, and when it had subsided, a motion to adjourn by Mr. Pond of Wrentham was carried unanimously.
The members did not leave their seats, but immediately organized a meeting to express their feeling by the choice of Mr. Stone of Charlestown for Chairman. By this time the hall was crowded in every part with State House employees who had been attracted by the shouts and cheers of the members. The galleries, too, were thronged, and among the number were many ladies who joined in the enthusiastic plaudits by waving of handkerchiefs, &c.
As soon as Mr. Stone had taken the Chair, a proposition to sing “America” found a hearty response by all the members rising, and joining in the grand national hymn. At its conclusion cheers loud and numerous were given in turn for General Grant, the President, the army and navy of the United State triumphant, and the old Bay State.
Then came a proposition to unite in singing the John Brown song, which also found a hearty response, every one present uniting with great emphasis in the chorus. At the close, three hearty cheers were given for John Brown as the forerunner of universal liberty. “Old Hundred” was then sung with fine effect at the conclusion of which there were loud and numerous cheers for General Weitzel and his colored troops, and General Sheridan and his brave soldiers.
Gov. Andrew then entered the hall, and was greeted with enthusiastic applause. As soon as it had subsided, the John Brown song was repeated, the Governor uniting in the chorus.
Rev. Mr. Upham, the Chaplain of the House, was then called upon to make a few remarks. He said that he was too full of gratitude to say anything, but he must say “Glory, Hallelujah!” He said they all felt like shouting Glory to God, for it was His work. During the past four years, he had never had any doubt of our success, for he had trusted in God for the final result. All the way through he had seen the hand of Divine Providence, and his faith had been not in the wisdom of man but in the power of God. He was like the old man who did not take the daily papers, for he knew how the thing was coming out, and did not care to keep posted up in the details. In concluding he said it was a day of joy; let the cannon boom, let the bells ring, let the flags wave and the people shout, for God has done it. Let us all catch up the echo, and sing “Glory, Hallelujah!”
Col. Jones of Pepperell, a member of the House, who was in command of the renowned Sixth Massachusetts regiment upon its passage “through Baltimore” in April, 1861, then made a few remarks, and was followed by Rev. Mr. Coburn of Clinton, and Rev. Mr. Grimes of Boston.
During the day, Governor Andrew sent the following congratulatory dispatch to Secretary Stanton: 
“COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, BOSTON, April 3,1865.)
To Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War, Washington, D. C.:
I give you joy on these triumphant victories. Our people, by a common impulse, abandoned business to-day for thanksgiving and rejoicing. The colored men, received late, got in first, and thus is the Scripture fulfilled. JOHN A. ANDREW.
WASHINGTON, April 3. An immense crowd gathered in the park on the north side of the War Department, and there received the first confirmatory intelligence of the victory, which was greeted, with deafening cheers. There were loud calls for the Secretary of War, who delivered the following brief address:
Friend and Fellow Citizens: In this great hour of triumph, my heart as well as yours is penetrated with gratitude to Almighty God for his deliverance of the nation. (Tremendous and prolonged cheering.) Our thanks are due to the President (cheers), to the Army and Navy (cheers), to the great commanders by sea and land (cheers), to the gallant officers and men who have periled their lives upon the battle-field, and drenched the soil with their blood. (Great cheering.) Henceforth our commiseration and our aid should be given to the wounded, the maimed and the suffering, who bear the mark of their great suffering in the mighty struggle. Let us humbly offer up our thanks to divine Providence for His care over us, and beseech Him to guide and govern us in our duties hereafter as he has carried us forward to victory, to teach us how to be humble in the midst of triumph, and how to be just in the hour of victory, and help us to secure the foundations of this Republic, soaked as they have been in blood, so that it shall live forever and ever. (Enthusiastic cheers.) Let us also not forget the laboring millions in other lands, who in this struggle have given us their sympathies, their aid and their prayers, and let us bid them rejoice with us in our great triumph. Then, having done this; let us trust the future to Him who will guide us as heretofore, according to his own good will. (Loud cheers.)
The Secretary then read the dispatch from Gen. Grant announcing the capture at 8.15 this morning of Richmond by Gen. Weitzel’s command, and that he (Grant) was moving the army up to capture the Danville railroad and Lee’s retreating forces. It was received with long-continued cheering.
Vice President Johnson, Senator John Sherman, ex Senator Preston King and others addressed the assemblage.
Secretary Seward, after humorously predicting that the war would be ended in ninety days, said:
“I cannot make you a long speech at this time. I am to-day to write my dispatches to go abroad, and what shall I say to the Emperor of Austria? I shall thank him, for he is a wise man, and did not think resolutions were the things any way. What shall I say to the Emperor of China? I shall thank him, for he never allowed a rebel flag to be raised in any of his ports. What shall I say to the Emperor of France? I shall say to him that if the rebels have not consumed their tobacco by to-morrow, he will not find it safely stored in Richmond. And now what shall I say to John Bull? I shall tell him that cotton is bought cheaper by paying duty for it to the United States than by running the blockade.”
Mr. Seward concluded this remarks by saying:
“Peace and good will to all mankind, and no interference in our affairs by any one!”
General Butler has had to speak twice. When first called: upon at Willard’ Hotel, he said:
“Fellow-Citizens: Nothing could give me greater pleasure than to meet you at any time. How much more then to mingle any congratulations with yours upon the glorious triumph of the American arms. All honor to the brave soldiers who have purchased by their blood this success to our arms and assurance of peace. In the hour of triumph, let us remember that the deluded masses of the South are, and must be, a portion of our countrymen and of ourselves, but let us also pledge ourselves that the leaders of the rebellion, who have cost the country all this blood and treasure, shall never hereafter nave any political privileges or power (the General was here interrupted by loud and long continued cheering) again to tear down the glorious flag which waves over us. (Great cheering.)
The God of Justice works by means, and perhaps
<c06>
there can be no more suggestive instance of his retribution than the fact that a corps of colored troops under the gallant Weitzel, was the first to plant the flag of freedom over the rebel capital. (Load cheering.) Let us in this hour of high congratulation, with the eye of a good God upon us, joy on our lips speaking gladness, each to each, our hands joined in union, our hearts filled with joy, our souls with gratitude to Him who has protected us as he did our fathers, swear to each other that our country thus regenerated and disenthralled, shall he forever the hone of Liberty. Freedom. Equal Rights to all in the Union, one and inseparable. (Applause and cheering) Let us thank God that we have obtained peace, not by negotiation or compromise with treason and rebellion, bat by the strong right arm of oar soldiers, and that the terms which we shall give will be consonant with the dignity, clemency and justice of the nation.”
WAR DEPARTMENT,
WASHINGTON, 12 M., April 3.
Major Gen. Dix:
The following official confirmation of the capture of Richmond, and announcing that the city is on fire, has just been received by this Department:
“CITY POINT, Va. April 3—11 A. M. General Weitzel telegraphs as follows:
We took Richmond at 8 15 this morning. I captured many guns. The enemy left in great haste. The city is on fire in one place, and I am making every effort to put it out.
The people received as with enthusiastic expressions of joy.
Gen. Grant started early this morning with the army toward the Danville road to cut off, if possible, Low’s retreating army.
President Lincoln has gone to the front.
J. S. BOWERS, A. A. G.”
(Signed) EDWIN M. STANTON.
“CITY POINT, Va., April 2-3 P. M.
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
At 10.46 A. M. Gen. Grant telegraphs as follows:
Everything has been carried from the left of the 9th corps. The 6th corps alone captured more than 3000 prisoners. The 2d and 25th corps captured forts, guns and prisoners from the enemy, bat I cannot tell the number. We are now closing around the works of the line immediately enveloping Petersburg. All looks remarkably wall. I have not yet heard from Sheridan. His headquarters have been moved up to Banks’s House, near the Boydtown road, about three miles southwest of Petersburg.
A. LINCOLN.”
CITY POINT, Va., April 2—8.30 P. M.
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
At 4.30 P. M. to-day General Grant telegraphs as follows :
We are now up and have a continuous line of troops, and in a few hours will be intrenched from the Appomattox below Petersburg to the river above. The whole captures since the army started out will not amount to leas than 12.000 men. and probably fifty pieces of artillery. I do not know the number of men and guns accurately, however. A portion of Foster’s division, 24th corps, made a most gallant charge this afternoon, and captured a very important fort from the enemy with its entire garrison. All seems well with us, and everything is quiet just now.
A. LINCOLN.”
WASHINGTON, 12 M.—April 3.
Washington is wild over the war news. In addition to the official accounts of the capture of Petersburg, we have information brought by some wounded officers who came up in the mail boat, whose conjectures have been coined into facts by those not content with the glorious tidings. Certain it is that the fighting yesterday was terrific, and earthwork after earthwork was carried at the point or the bayonet by the Union troops. Brig. Gen. Potter was severely wounded while leading a charge.
Admiral Porter and his iron-dads were in action, the monitors pounding away at the rebel forts, while the return shots fell from their sides.
Saturday’s Richmond papers virtually admitted that the capital would fall, but denied that the Confederate cause was hopeless.
Mrs. Lincoln goes, down to-night or to-morrow to join the President.
Important events will follow the fall of Richmond.
Gen. Carl Schurz leaves this afternoon to assume command of the 20th corps under Sherman.

SECOND DESPATCH.
April 3—11.50, A. M. The certainty that Richmond has been taken, and taken by negro troops, is creating the wildest excitement here. The public offices and private places of business an deserted, and groups are on the avenue cheering for the victory, for Lincoln, for Grant, and for Weitzel and his darkies.
When the news of the fall of Richmond reached the District Supreme Court Room at the City Hall. Judge Carter adjourned the Court, Judge Olin remarking as lie left the bench, that no one could be convicted of a misdemeanor to-day.
Washington has never witnessed such a scene of jubilation as now. PERLEY.
April 3, 3.30 P. M. At noon, a salute of 500 guns was fired from Franklin square, in the heart of this city. Several regiments with their bands are parading the streets, and crowds of citizens are calling out prominent personages. Speeches have been made by Vice President Johnson, Secretary Seward, and several politicians, who profess to have known all about Grant’s plans.
The national flag has been hoisted over the Goddess of Liberty on the Capitol, and on all public and many private buildings. To-night we are to have an impromptu illumination PERLEY.
Gen. Grant estimates the extent of his loss to be 7000 in killed, wounded and prisoners.
HARTFORD, April 3. Governor Buckingham, is reelected by from 10.000 to 12,000 majority. The four Union candidates for Congress are elected by majorities ranging from 1500 to 4000 each. The Senate is all Union, and the Houses of Representatives is about three-quarters Union.
TERMONT TEMPLE.–By special invitation, ANNA E. DICKINSON will deliver her lecture on WOMAN’S WORK AND WAGES, AT TREMONT TEMPLE, on FRIDAY EVEINING, April 7, at 8 o’clock.
Admission 25 cents. Reserved seats 50 cents.
Tickets for sale at Ditson & Co’s, 277 Washington St., and at the Hall on the evening of the Lecture.
Copies of the Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society, (1860-61, or the year preceding the Rebellion,) will be sent by mail to any person desiring it, on application to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston, enclosing ten cents for Postage, &c.
DIED–At Point Lookout, Md., Tuesday, March 14, Q. M. Sergt. CHAS. C. FATAL, of Co. F., 5th Mass. Cavalry. The deceased was buried with full military honors, the whole regiment attending.
In Buffalo, (N. Y.,) March 20, of congestion of the brain, GEORGE WKIR, Jr., aged 42 years, 4 mos. And 18 days.
In this city, March 21, of consumption, Miss CATHARINE H. BELL, aged 22 years and 10 months.

CLEANSE THE BLOOD.
WITH corrupt, disordered or vitiated blood, you are sick all over. It may burst out in pimples, or sores, or in some active disease, or it may merely keep you listless, depressed, and good for nothing. But you cannot have good health while your blood is impure. AYER’S SAESAPARILLS ‘purges out these impurities, and stimulates the organs of life into vigorous action, restoring the health and expelling disease. Hence it rapidly cures a variety of as Scrofula, or King’s Evil, Tumors, Ulcers, Sores, Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches, Boils, St. Anthony’s Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ringworm, Cancer or Cancerous Tumors, Sore Eyes, Female Diseases, such as Retention, Irregularity, Suppression, Whites, Sterility; also, Syphilis or Venereal Diseases Liver Complaints, and Heart Diseases. Try AYER’S SARSAPARILLA, and see for yourself the surprising activity with which it cleanses the blood and cures these disorders.
During late years, the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick; for they not only contain little, if any, sarsaparilla often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound “Sarsaparilla and intend to supply such a remedy shall rescues the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. We think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. We can only insure the sick that we offer them the best reason to believe it is by far the most effectual purifier of the blood yet discovered by anybody.
AYER’S CHERY PECTONAL is so universally known to surpass every other remedy for the  cure of coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness Croup, Brechitis, Incipient consumption, and for the relief of <illegible> in advanced stages of the disease, that it is useless here to recount the evidence of its virtues; the world knows them.
Prepared by J.C. AYER & CO., Lewell Mass., and sold by all druggists.
March 15. 2m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON ON THE AUCTION-BLOCK,
EVENING OF NINTH MARCH, 1865.
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
Standing upon the Auction-Block! What, he, 
Of Anglo-Saxon mold ? That brow is white;
That tongue is smooth, and cultured accents speaks;
What does he here-"MART" gleaming o'er his head,
And ponderous locks frowning so near at hand?
He! he is the fierce incendiary,
Who, through a generation's course, menaced
"The sacred Institution of our land!
Locks are not new to him-a prison cell
Nurtured his restless and too dangerous youth, 
And gave brief calm to quailing Southern hearts!
A hempen cord, held by a Boston mob,
Bound for a space his too determined words, 
And gave brief rest to cringing Northern souls!
But, ah! the cell-door burst, the cord unloosed,
The made fanatic, step and tongue, was free;
And, lo! regardless of his chastisement,
He plants the free foot firm, as firmly says,
"I WILL NOT COMPROMISE-I WILL BE HEARD"!
Is it not time such wild career should end?
Come, Baltimoreans, bid! That head is worth
A handsome sum. 'Tis true, the thought-bared brow
Is not as youthful as when lighting up
Your dreary dungeon gloom; yet is there power,
The power of yore ripened and tested well,
Behind that calm and still unfurrowed front,
City of monuments, add this one more 
To teach the future all our country's past. 
What, silent, now! Too great the prize, or small?
Charleston has stronger claim? Then be it so.
Bid, Chevaliers! Time was when untold gold
Had not been balanced with a chance like this;
And yet I wait in vain-there comes no voice.
No voice? My heart is hushed with holy awe;
I try to join that glorious Battle Hymn,
And sink o' er mastered by the mighty hour.
No voice? The Monumental City speaks-
She stretches towards the North her blood-cleansed hands-
"My prison-cells are school-rooms; come to me,
And bring your free-born culture to the race
Your scourged and 'prisoned prophets have made free!
No voice? I hear the hungry, eager flames
Crunching the roof-trees of deserted homes;
I hear the piteous human-hunger wail
From outcast orphans of despairing pride;
Yes, Charleston speaks from her sad suicide
As through all time the "Cities of the Plain"
Deserted even by her vilest things,
The Slave-Block crouches down to Northern feet, 
And begs baptismal purging from its stains.
A down those steps souls plunged to deepest death;
Henceforth they are the ladder to full life.
The Prophet's feet have healed them with their touch;
His rev'rent words have brought the blessing down,
And Christ's own Teachers take the leper home!
Look on this scene, O, sin-stained Southern hearts, 
And seize the promise that it gives to you-
Not e' en your basest instruments cast out,
But through regeneration serving good.
Haste ye, then, to new life; lay down those arms
That vainly clash against Right's mighty shield;
We only ask allegiance of heart
And soul to Truth and Mother-land.
Not your abasement, but your high advance
We fain would find. Have we not shared your guilt?
Have we not drunk with you the bitter cup
Of expiation, due such hoarded crime?
Come, then, and share our joy; haste ye to join
Our blessed Freedmen's Aid Societies!
Together we have warred to do God's work,
Together let us work to end God's war;
Work for the elevation of our land;
Work for the Christianizing of our world;
Work to plant deep in all our hallowed soil
The vital roots of an Eternal Peace-
FREE SCHOOLS, FREE LABOR, CHURCH AND STATE FOR ALL!
That soil is loosened by our loved ones' graves;
That soil is moistened by our loved ones' blood;
The air is humid with our mutual tears;
Our gleaming swords, beaten to pruning-hooks,
Shall make our deserts blossom as the rose.
Bring your tried valor to these untried toils,
And not a good imagination paints
But this United People shall achieve;
All hues, all races, and all interests
Blending into the pure white light of Peace.
Then shall our motto have significance,
Not the dead language of a dead idea;
Then shall our glorious Banner symbolize
The snow and sun-belts of two teeming zones,
Lovingly guarded by the Host of Heaven.
Boston, March, 1865.
The steps were presented to, and accepted by, the 
Freedmen's Aid Society of Ward Eleven.

For the Liberator.
OUR STATESMAN-NO RETALIATION.
"He who to the lettered wealth
Of ages adds the lore unpriced,
The wisdom and the moral health,
The ethics of the school of Christ;
The statesman to his holy trust
As the Athenian archon just,
Struck down, exiled like him for truth alone." 
J. G. WHITTIER.
O thou with grace upon thy lips, and genius on thy brow
Not vainly prayed we, years agone, "God keep thee pure as now!"
O pure, pure hands that know no touch of bribe or wrongful gain-
O lips of eloquence, that know no wine-cup's cursed stain-
O brow, whose classic beauty the laurel well beseems,
Like that which rounded whitely through the Grecian sculptor's dreams?-
Great Tully's brow was stained with pride-Fame, first and last, he sought-
But thine, so "royal with the truth,"-ambition stains it not!
O soul forever fearless, O sight forever clear-
Well hath the gifted* said of thee, thou hast Ithuriel's spear!
Thanks for the words of grace and power, thanks for the manly will
That calmed the billows of revenge with Christ-like "Peace! be still!"
These walking dead, from living tombs of Southern dungeons, tell 
The "Barbarism of Slavery" thou hast described so well!
Who dragged young Brown, at horses' feet, o'er prairies many a mile?
Who shot young Thompson, pinioned fast, and weak with wounds the while?
In, halls to Law long dedicate, who with raised bludgeon stood,
And sprinkled Senate desk and floor with our true statesman's blood?
And now, with God and Truth and Right beside her, shall the North
Call madly from Hell's lower deeps this murder-spirit forth;-
Thrilled fiercely by the memory of her captive children's woe,
From her victorious chariot stoop to pierce a prostrate foe?
No! let her ride forth, freedom-crowned, on that triumphal car,
With gentle Mercy in her train, to heal the wounds of war;
Till southern hearts, twice-conquered, bless her new, benignant sway,
And strive with tears of penitence to wash the past away;
Rear free homes where the slaves' rude huts have mouldered in the flames, 
And "deem no marble white enough" to bear our heroes' names!
Boston, March, 1865. KATY CARLISLE.
Mrs. L. M. Child.
<c02>
The Liberator.
REPLY TO MAJOR GENERAL BANKS.
NATIONAL HOTEL, WASHINGTON, D. C. March 6, 1865.
DEAR SIR-The following paragraphs occur in a letter of Major General Nathaniel Prentiss Banks, published in your issue of the 24th ultimo, which I hope you will republish at length, so that they and the answer to them may go to the country together:-
"That there were cases of flogging, I have no doubt; but they were precisely like cases of forgery, of child-murder in Boston, or of assassination in Harvard College, in violation of law, and immediately and severely punished when discovered. The cases reported by Mr. Phillips, in the Spring of 1868, were without the slightest foundation. Col. Benedict, who commanded the New York regiment, and Colonel Kingman, who commanded the 15th New Hampshire, left in writing, at the time, an unqualified denial of the statements; and Colonel Benedict stated to me, a few days before his death, that he had denied it publicly in Albany, in presence of Mr. Phillips, who retracted his story as to him, but repeated it as to me. In answer to a letter of mine addressed to Gov. Andrew, Captain Herbert, from whom the story seemed to have originated, gave the name of Rev. Mr. Wheelock as his authority, who also denied the truth of the statement in writing.
The position of Captain Herbert will explain this and other reports of this character. He was a cotton-speculator. He belonged to Gen. Hamilton's staff, which was organized in New York specially for plunder. General Hamilton confessed to me that he had been obliged to put himself under obligations to the men who were upon his staff. The expedition to Galveston, in December, 1862, was forced upon me, in three or four days after my arrival at New Orleans, by these men, although it was justified by the advice of Admiral Farragut and General Butler. These men accompanied the expedition, (without reason,) which resulted in the capture of two companies of Colonel Burrill's Massachusetts regiment, and subjected them to a captivity in rebel prisons for more than a year; and during the whole voyage, they had no talk except upon the cotton of Texas, and their plans of disposing of it. This Captain Herbert denounced to me, in person, the President of the United States, and all the officers of the Government, until I was compelled to silence him, because we opened the campaign for the freedom of the Mississippi instead of the conquest of Texas. When I entered upon the Texas campaign again in the autumn of 1863, this man appeared again, with General Hamilton. General N. I. T. Dana, commanding on the Rio Grande, reported that this Captain Herbert, in his greed for cotton, had entered into a conspiracy with the enemies of the country, as a condition of his cotton speculations, to deliver up the lives of certain proscribed men; thus adding, as General Dana described it, the crime of treachery and murder to that of unlawful speculation and plunder. His reports are on file in the Department. It was this man and his associates who set afloat these stories, which have been denied by every man ever named in connection therewith. Their reason was, that I refused them, as I did all men, of whatever character, the liberty of plundering either the Government or the people. In the Port Hudson campaign, I put three million dollars into the treasury of the United States, securing by that act the friendship of the people, while it defrayed the expenses of the war for the Union. My correspondence with the Department of War will show, that what I proposed, sustained by what I had done, would at the same moment have reconciled the people to the success of our cause, and paid the expenses of the army entirely. Had I given to Captain Herbert and the flood of speculators that followed the army, the three millions collected and paid over, and promised them the handling of twenty or thirty millions more, with a chance at the public property in Texas, my administration would have been of sky-blue color. All the trouble has grown out of my appropriation of public property to the Government, instead of sharing it myself with individuals. These men found ready listeners to their denunciations; but, in a little time, the truth will speak ' with most miraculous organ.'
This is the first time I have ever alluded to this subject, in private or in public. I have been silent because I have been strong. Had I been as infamous as some men, I might have been as noisy."
I proceed to answer in detail. First in order is the case of Col. Benedict, 162nd N. Y. V. Gen. Banks admits that there were cases of "flogging "and "abuses." I have only instanced two, and those on good authority. I saw one, and have a preacher's (Col. Benedict's) word for the other. Wendell Phillips stated a case on my authority, in a speech in Brooklyn, which may have been repeated elsewhere. Gen. B. contradicted it in a letter to Gov. Andrew. The contradiction was published in the Boston Traveller. I then repeated the statement over my official signature, reciting the substance of a letter from memory, which I am now able to publish from a copy furnished me through Mr. Phillips, by Col. B's Albany friend; and my statement was published in the Traveller. The following is the letter, the first sentence of which, if true, discloses an act of Col. B. that would have cost him his Commission, under Special Regulation:-
LA PREMIERE PLANTATION, 1st Jan. 1863.
COL. BENEDICT:
DEAR SIR- I recollect you told me, if I should need aid to control my contrabands, to call on you. They have nearly all struck work this morning, and left me so crippled that I fear I way have to cool down, and stop.
I have written a note to Capt. Brown, that, if convenient, he might come up, as all those who have done as they please to-day might be made to leave; and would be happy to have the influence of your presence at the same time, if perfectly convenient. Besides, I hope to have your company to dinner, as agreed on, with any of your staff that can absent themselves so long from duty; and with the compliments of the season, remain, dear sir,
Your obedient servant, JAMES PEDDIE.
And I now repeat again, that I saw the men after they were detailed by Col. B. for the duty, and saw the commissioned officer at Col. B's tent, receiving verbal instructions. I also repeat that Major, now Col. H. Robinson saw and heard the same; and that though I do not remember to have spoken to him since on the subject, I am confident he will testify to the substance of this statement, if called upon to day.
Now as to Col. Kingman's case. That was reported to me by Rev. E. M. Wheelock. I have a letter from that gentleman, marked " private and confidential," from which I venture to extract so much as relates to this case, knowing that that is not the confidential part of the document:-"The matter of negro whipping is a tangled up thing, and I can best explain it when we meet I refer to the matter in the Traveller." That does not look much like a denial; and especially so as, in the Traveller, I gave him as my authority. When we met, he explained that Colonel Kingman had denied the fact in writing, but without investigation; that the men were detailed for Provost duty, and so were not under Col. Kingman's immediate command; but that the statement was substantially true, notwithstanding; and I do not believe Mr. Wheelock has denied or varied this statement in writing. At least, the document itself would be more satisfactory to the public and to me than Gen. Banks's word as to its contents, against the veracity of so distinguished a New England minister.
Next he says, "he was a cotton speculator." Now as to that, I aver that I never was directly nor indirectly interested in the purchase, sale, or theft of a single bale or fibre of cotton, whilst in the service or out of it. Gen. Banks holds the affirmative of this issue, and I challenge him and the rest of mankind to prove his assertion. That I belonged to Gen. Hamilton's staff is true. As I did not organize Gen. Hamilton's staff, the next item does not interest me.
As to the Galveston expedition, which, he says, was "forced upon him by those men," &c., I reply, first that in confessing that an expedition was forced upon him by his subordinates, especially so low as a Captain, he confesses his utter inability and unfitness to command, which the Government seems to have discovered at last, or taken upon his confession. But, secondly, I think the country will be disposed to follow the advice of Admiral Farragut and General Butler, who had already taken Galveston, and knew what they were advising; and hold General Banks responsible for the failure of an expedition which, in the hands of the men who advised it, would have given Texas to the Union long ago, and gladdened the eyes of thousands of martyrs to liberty, whose bones bleach upon the plains of that ill-starred State to-day.
This Galveston expedition was a fit apprentice effort to be followed by the masterly disaster of Red River.
<c03>
I am entirely content that any counsel of mine should accord with that of the heroes of New Orleans and Mobile, and be disapproved by the inglorious hero of the famous Shenandoah Valley retreat, the Galveston and Sabine Pass flascos, and the terrible calamity of Red River.
I did not accompany the expedition to Galveston, and so certainly did not "talk of Texas cotton, and how to dispose of it by the way." The only man who did accompany the expedition for Gen. Hamilton was your fellow-townsman, Major W. L. Burt, Judge Advocate General of the State of Massachusetts; and he, being under orders, could not be said to be there "without reason."
I never denounced the President nor any officer of the Government to Gen. Banks. As to the President, I may say that, as the only delegate present from Mercer county in the State Convention at Springfield, Illinois, June 16, 1858, I cast five votes for the nomination of Mr. Lincoln for United States Senator, and thus helped to initiate the famous Lincoln and Douglas campaign of that year for the Senatorship. In 1860, I labored, talked, and voted for him. In 1864, I did the same.
That I have indulged in strictures, sometimes very severe, but always in my judgment just, upon some officers of the Government, General Banks included, is true. But, so far from it being true that General Banks ever " silenced." me for such or any other remarks, he, on the contrary, rather encouraged them; and when they might seem to reach him, as in the case of opening the Mississippi before going to Texas, he pleaded orders of his superiors for excuse. I do not need to say to one so well acquainted with General Banks as yourself, that he is not a "silencing." man. His constitutional urbanity, no less than his experience as a dancing-master, quite unfits him for any such rudeness, however strongly urged by duty.
I come, now, to the main charge of "treachery and murder"; and as it is said, "a fool can ask more questions in a minute than a philosopher can answer in a year," so it may well be said that a desperate and unscrupulous Major General, seeking a scape-goat for his iniquities and disasters, may cast more imputations upon an obscure and helpless Captain in paragraphs, than can be thoroughly refuted in columns. I must, therefore, be indulged a moment before introducing the record.
There had been, for many months, an average of from one thousand to twenty-five hundred bales of cotton within and around the city of Matamoras, Mexico, seeking that avenue around our blockade to foreign markets. That cotton was almost entirely owned, either by the Rebel Government, or by conspicuous Rebel officers and citizens. I have documentary evidence in my possession, by which I could show many of, them and their interests; but it is not material to my defence to do so, and I forbear.
The Republic of Mexico was then and is now most friendly to the Union cause, furnishing asylum for our refugees from the barbarism and tyranny of the rebellion in Texas; manifesting sympathy for our troubles and misfortunes; and, in individual instances, not a few enlisting in our ranks-thus perilling life and limb for our cause.
The rebels were allies of the French to the extent of both sympathy and action, and so public enemies of Mexico; and, therefore, their property confiscable by Mexican law. There was then, and is now, no such Government recognized in the Commonwealth of nations as "The Confederate States of America;" therefore Confederate titles to cotton were mere fictions; and as it was stolen from the good people of Texas, it certainly lay upon the sands of Mexico as a waif, and by well-settled law belonged to Mexico, nobody but the original owner being able even to question the title. In addition to this cotton, there were large deposits of gold in Matamoras, belonging to the rebel General Bee, Collector Latham, and others; there were also stores owned by conspicuous rebels, who loaded teams back to Texas, that had brought cotton out; and there were rebel agents there, consignees of arms, and so forth, for the rebel Government.
Before our forces occupied the Rio Grande at Brownsville, and interrupted this trade, the Texas refugees had urged the Mexican Government to seize and confiscate this rebel gold and property. I am informed and believe, that when General Banks was at Brownsville, he addressed a note to Gov. Jesus de la Serna, of Tamaulipas, urging the same action. When Gen. H. and I came there, Gen. H. saw and conversed with Gov. Serna, urging the same action. General H. informed me that Serna would make the seizure, if a proper legal mode were pointed out for him,- Serna himself not being familiar with the law. We concluded to assist him so much, and accordingly I drew a proclamation, and other papers, intending to deliver them to Governor Serna; but before that was done, I was arrested, and closely confined, by order of the said Napoleon Jackson Tecumseh Dana.
My person was searched-my trunks opened and searched, not excepting private sealed letters intrusted to me as carrier by courtesy; and that fact, as usual, appearing upon their face. I was kept in dose confinement, under a double guard with shotted guns and fixed bayonets-two men in the room with me, two men on the outside of the doors, and eight men in an adjoining room as reliefs-until one hour before trial. Charges and specifications preferred against me by this same Napoleon Jackson Tecumseh, who, as I have said, ordered the arrest and a1so convened the court, were delivered to me at half past ten o'clock on Sunday night, with an order to appear for trial at 9 o'clock next morning-without a list of the members of the court, without a list of the witnesses for the prosecution, and without liberty to see or consult with Judge Advocate, or even a friend. But these latter items were all either legal rights, or almost universally conceded courtesies.
It will not be deemed strange that manufacturing testimony, making the arrest, preferring the charge, and selecting the Court, he had me convicted. Though there was a General Court Martial then in session in Brownsville, before which, according to Regulation and Usage, I should have been sent for trial, a special court was convened to try me, and dissolved when my case was disposed of. I have in my possession the official certificate of an officer who was present, and heard Gen. Dana make a "violent." speech against me, which he says was " quite sufficient to create prejudice in the minds of all present. However," he adds, "the Gen. (D.) and nearly the whole party had been drinking wine rather freely, (it was New Year's evening,) and perhaps the disclosures would not otherwise have been made. Col. Black (having heard this "violent" speech, "quite sufficient to prejudice all present") was afterwards detailed as a member of the court before which you were tried." This circumstance would set aside a verdict in a civil court.
If the effort had succeeded, the immediate result would have been the taking from the Rebel cause of from five to seven millions of dollars, gold value, which has now gone to aid in equipping British corsairs to prey upon our innocent commerce on the seas; to pamper disloyal emissaries at the courts of Europe; to purchase contraband goods, possibly Armstrong guns and Enfield rifles, to be carried through our blockade; or it Is hoarded abroad as fortunes for traitors, when the inevitable day of their exile comes-and the converting of it into arms, ammunition, and supplies for the Mexicans, who were and are our friends, to fight the French, who were and are both their enemies and ours. And a further and more important result would have been, the stopping of this illicit trade through Matamoras. But now to the record.
Gen. Dana preferred the omnibus charge of " conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman " against me, and specified as follows, dropping all legal verbiage, and giving the substance in a sentence.
1st. Specification-"That I had entered into an agreement with Governor Jesus de la Serna, of the State of Tamaulipas, Mexico, to seize, kidnap, and convey from Brownsville, Texas, to Matamoras, Mexico, certain refugees from Mexico, who were residing 
<c04>
in Brownsville, and to receive for my services an Interest in the Rebel cotton that would be seized, and confiscated in Mexico."
Of this specification, the Court acquitted me.
2nd. Specification-That I had proposed to L. Pierce, Jr., the United States Consul at Matamoras, Mexico, to give him an interest in the same cotton, if he would become an accomplice in the same enterprise.
Of this specification, with some exception to details as it is drawn, they found me "guilty." On the charge "guilty," they sentenced me to be dismissed from the service; and this upon the following testimony.
The deposition of GOV. Serna was taken, used in the trial, is part of the record on file in the War Department, and is materially as follows:-
Jesus de la Serna, Governor of Tamaulipas, [Mexico,] being duly sworn, deposes and says * * * * some time after this, I made a requisition on Gen. Hamilton, as military Governor of the State of Texas U. S. A., under the Extradition treaty, for two refugees from justice-to wit: Frederick O' Boyle and Garza Chappa. The fugitives were not returned; Gen. Hamilton replying that Gen. Dana was his superior officer, and that he had no right to act in the case.
A short time after this I spoke of two other persons whom I wished delivered-Alvino Lopez and Joseph L. Christo, who, Capt. H. said, could not be delivered, as the charges were of a political nature. I never at any time offered or proposed to Capt. H. any remuneration for any services he might do or perform for me, and I never at any time offered or proposed to give him a share or an interest in the proceeds of the cotton which was on this side of the river belonging to citizens of the so-called Confederate States, nor was there any such agreement between us. I never had any conversation with Capt H in regard to the cotton on this side of the river. The service Capt. H. proposed to do or render me was to speak to Gen. Dana in relation to returning me the persons that I claimed under the Extradition Treaty, he, Capt. H. feeling that he owed me some service in this matter, as I had returned Dick Hamilton, the murderer of Capt. Montgomery, on a requisition from Gen. Hamilton.
(Signed) JESUS DE LA SERNA.
City of Matamoras, Tamaulipas, Mexico, Jan. 5, 1864.
The deposition of L. Pierce, Jr. U. S. Consul at Matamoras, was also used, and I quote from it the following as material in this reply:-
"L. Pierce, Jr., United States Consul at Matamoras, being duly sworn, deposes and says 
The last conversation was, that Capt. H. should receive Serna's demand, and have them [Chappa and O'Boyle] arrested, and kept in confinement until Gen. H. should return."
E. B. Turner, Esq., Prosecuting Attorney of the Provisional Court of Texas, being called, sworn and examined by the Judge Advocate, under oath said:-
Capt. H., or some one for him, requested me to come to his room. I went, and met there Judge Mc Farland and the Capt. 
Capt. H. propounded to Judge McFarland and myself this question:-If Gov. Serna were to make a requisition for certain parties who were then on this side of the river, supported by proper affidavits, charging them with an offence, whether he, (Capt. H.) as the Assistant Adjutant General of the Military Governor of the State of Texas, would have the right, in the absence of Gen. H., to order their arrest and delivery. He had some conversation about it, and I spoke first, and told him he had not, in my opinion.  Judge McFarland coincided with me. Capt H. seemed to have no doubt but that he had authority to issue the order, running in the authority of Brig. Gen. H.
He then suggested that, perhaps, he had better order their arrest, and let them remain in that condition until Gen. H. came home (Gen. H. being then in New Orleans). He said that then Gen. H. could act for himself in the matter; that if it was wrong, there was no irreparable injury, and General Hamilton could release them. I then suggested to Capt. H. to go and see Gen. Dana on the subject; and the reply to that, coming from Capt. Herbert, was, that Gen. Dana doubted the propriety of recognizing Serna as the legitimate Governor over there, and would decline to act on that ground. He seemed to know the status of Gen. D. on this subject, and said, in that connection, that it was too late to discuss the legality of Serna's right to the Governorship, as we had made a requisition, and received from him a person who had committed a crime on this side. I learned that Governor Serna had made a requisition for two persons in this place, who, I think, were Garza Chappa and O' Boyle, who were charged with embezzling the public money; and that General Dana had decided that it was a political offence, and would not deliver them to Serna; and that Serna was anxious to have a legal charge drawn up against them-one which the authorities here would recognize.
[The Extradition Treaty between the United States and the Republic of Mexico, in its catalogue of crimes for which parties are mutually stipulated to be delivered, enumerates "embezzlement" as one, and therefore General Dana's objection was bad under the Treaty. But the Treaty requires that such testimony shall accompany the demand as would put the party upon trial in the country from which he is demanded; and in this respect Governor Serna's papers were defective, which was the real reason that General H. refused to act, and turned the case over, to Dana.]
(Cross-examined.
Was it, or was it not, for the purpose of obtaining the professional opinion of yourself and Judge McFarland, In reference to the measure of my power as Adjutant in the absence of General Hamilton, that the conversation was had?
Answer-I so understood it then, and so understand it now.
Was there, in any conversation ever had between yourself and myself, any disposition manifested on my part to evade or violate the law in any manner whatever?
Answer-His inquiries in these conversations were all made in reference to legal rights. My answers, in my opinion, were all made in reference to the same.
Hon. J. B. McFarland, Judge of the Provisional Court of Texas, sworn-testified substantially as Mr. Turner above; and I only quote a single question and answer of this witness to show how conspicuous I chose to make my "treachery and murder." Could such a charge be more fully refuted?
Question-Did accused ask you to consult with Gen. D. in reference to the matter of the arrest, [of Chappa and O'Boyle,] and ask you to explain to him (Gen. D.) that if a proper demand were made by Governor Serna, accused would deem it prudent to arrest the parties, and hold them until Gen. H's return; and to procure, if possible, Gen. D's consent that that course should be adopted?
-Asw Hederdi
General Dana was, in Gen. H's absence, the only superior officer to whom I was responsible.
Turner and Pierce, be it remembered, were witnesses for the prosecution-Governor Serna and Judge McFarland for the defence; and no other witnesses were called.
Now, the worst feature of this whole case for General Banks is, that he officially passed upon this record, approved it, and, in execution of the sentence of the court, published an order from his Headquarters, dismissing me from the service.
What epithet that could be applied to him would be too severe for a Major General, who, in the teeth of such a record as I have recited, and which he must have known, or be guilty of passing upon a record dismissing an officer without reading it, should cast such imputations upon one so much his inferior in age, rank, and position, as by the very force of these circumstances to throw the presumption in favor of the calumniator? I have in my possession a private letter written by an officer then under Gen. Banks's command, in which he says, "for the least of the truths I have written, if the thing leaks out, would get for me an arrest and court martial. It is an offence of the first order to disclose any unpalatable fact." My offence is, that I have told too much truth on General Banks, and furnished the means of proving it. He has no refuge in the facts from the public condemnation which has overtaken him; and hence he stands like a notorious pest of the forest, and throws his filth upon patriots who have the courage to tell the truth upon him, and take the consequences.
I might reply to many of the other boasts, false statements, and assumptions of his wicked school-boy composition, and contradict them out of the official records, including his own; but sympathy for a fallen brother saves him. I might call him cotton speculator upon the authority of men who ought to knew; but as I have not seen the trans-
<c05>
action made, and have not in my possession the documents to prove the assertion, which probably exist, I forbear. I might reply to his allegation, that he placed three millions in the Treasury, that he had in the Valley of the Shenandoah, at Galveston, at Sabine Pass, at Brashear City, and in the Tesche country, unpardonably lost to the Government many times that amount; but every patriot who reads may know that. I might say upon authority, that he reported less than half the slaughter of his charge upon Port Hudson, May 27th, 1863, in order to screen himself from public execration as a "murderer;" but history will take care of that. I might call him a failure; but the Government and the people have so adjudged, and it need not be re affirmed until it shall be disputed. I said he might be called a failure; but his friends would borrow his Confederate title-call him Rebel Commissary of Subsistence, and unimpeachably proclaim him a success.
But I must add that, on review by the President, the record was held void ab initio, on technical grounds, without reaching the merit; and I was sent back to duty, with all rank, pay, and so forth, as though I had not been dismissed. The President said there was "nothing against me, either morally or as a soldier, in the record, but that politically (meaning, as I understood him to use the word, internationally) it was such an offence as he could not consistently overlook, and therefore he ordered me to be reprimanded." I supposed he would rather offend me a little by reprimanding me, than Napoleon III. a good deal, by not doing it.
I shall be pardoned, I trust, for adding the extract and letter which follow. When leaving Brownsville, one year ago, Don Manuel Trevino, Mexican Consul at that port, and a most wealthy and accomplished gentleman, was kind enough to give me a letter of introduction to his friend, Senor Romero, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Republic at Mexico at Washington. Having kept a copy of the translation, I take the liberty of publishing so much as reaches, directly, the calumny of Gen. Banks.
Mr. Trevino, in speaking of the "General Government," means the Republic of Mexico, of course; and in speaking of "the affairs," &c., the battle of Matamoras in the contest for the Governorship.
BROWNSVILLE, Feb. 22, 1864.
TO His EXCELLENCY M. ROMERO.,
Washington, D. C.:
MY DEAR FRIEND- 
Capt. Herbert has lately been tried by a Court Martial. It seems that one of the charges of which he has been accused is that of having offered to deliver to the Mexican authorities, several persons who had moved over here temporarily, in consequence of their having taken part in the affairs which, a short time ago, took place in Matamoras, in consequence of being indemnified with certain cotton which belonged to citizens of the Confederacy who are now living in our country.
Notwithstanding that I have not participated with either of the contending parties, because, in the present time more than any other, it is necessary to respect the authority of the General Government, without opposing those who are appointed by it., I have been watching what has passed; and in justice to Capt. H. I would say, that I have no knowledge of the offers which are said to have been made by him; and much less do I believe them to be true, because that, at different times at which we have spoken of affairs in the country, he has never indicated anything which would simulate to the charges preferred against him; and I do believe that these have been founded on some good wishes that he has expressed towards the welfare of our country; and, likewise, that, owing to his behavior as a gentleman, he has made the acquaintance of several Mexicans, who have paid him the attentions due to every gentleman."
(Signed,) M. TREVINO.
The following is a letter of Major General F. J. Herron, who succeeded Gen. Dana, in command at Brownsville, voluntarily given me, and which I never presented, as I chose to stand upon the record alone:-
Headquarters, U. S. Forces on the Rio Grande.  BROWNSVILLE, Texas, Feb. 21, 1864. 
DEAR SIR-I learn from Capt. J K. Herbert, Asst. Adjt. General on General Hamilton's staff, that he visits Washington city to have a case reviewed in which he is interested. I can say for Capt. Herbert, that since I have been in command at this point, his conduct has been that of a gentleman and a soldier. Not having seen the record in his case, I cannot give an opinion as to the justness of the verdict; but I find that public opinion here is with him. He will, however, present the points of the case to you fully; and I would merely say that it is well worthy of a close review. I have the honor to be, sir,
Your ob't servant, 
F. J HERRON.
Col. Jos. Holt, Judge Advocate General.
In conclusion, it is useless to add any comment upon a case in which the record is so plain, pertinent, and overwhelming. The facts I think show a clear case of malicious prosecution on the part of General Dana; but when that can be said of General Dana, what would be 	justice to General Banks? He calls me speculator, plunderer, traitor, murderer," or words to that effect," having or having had in his possession the evidence to disprove every count in his indictment.
Instead of playing a teacherous part, the testimony shows that I called the two highest law officers of the State to my office, and consulted them as to my power. Instead of "delivering up the lives of certain proscribed men," the testimony shows that I would not deliver up the bodies of criminals on a clear paper case under Treaty, but would only arrest them so that they could not escape, and hold them for the action of my superior when he should return. Instead of agreeing for a consideration in cotton, the testimony shows that cotton was never mentioned even, between Governor Serna and myself, nor any other consideration. Would not an "eager" man as Gen. Banks describes me to have been, with a consideration in cotton pending, have turned these men over, and then pleaded ignorance of the law for having exceeded his proper power? But enough!
I have now patiently gone through the case, defending myself only; but if General Bunks is dissatisfied with this, and seeks as public expression for his dissatisfaction as in the letter to which I reply, I shall not deem it my duty, in a second effort, to confine myself to the defensive. But as he will have discovered, by this time, that I have more faith in record and proof than in mere assertion, he will probably not feel justified in provoking further disclosures.
I am, sir, faithfully yours,
J. K. HERBERT.
William Lloyd Garrison, Esq., Boston.

SHARP DISCOURSE BY BEECHER.
Sabbath last, says the New York Times, was a field day at Plymouth Church, which was thronged by thousands to hear Henry Ward Beecher. Taking for his text the words, "For your field is the world." Mr. Beecher commenced by defining his position, in regard to creeds written or unwritten, to doctrines old or new, and to theology in general. He contended that creeds were of use, but by no means sacred; that doctrines; and forms were serviceable, and that liturgies and robes were not to be despised, for the very reason that plows and hoes and rakes are of use and service to the farmer, simply because he needs them; but further than this he could not admit. To him a gown would be an embarrassment physical, as a liturgy would be a hindrance mental, but so long as other people used and enjoy them, it was not his business to ridicule or despise them. Branching from this, he alluded to the sacredness of days and ordinances, such as Sunday, fast days, peculiar modes of baptism, and so on, are of use simply to educate and assist Christians in their several lines of spiritual development, while there is and should be no intelligent recognition of sacredness or holiness about them. "This," said he, "is an era of progress, and the church must be prepared for changes and improvements as the body public is, and as all human organizations have, been since the dawn of Eden's sun. It has been customary for the great body of Christians to regard the church, and its days and ordinances, and its ministers as something different from everything and everybody. This is changing some what, and will change still more. Far be it from me to say a word or suggest a theory which can, move one of Christ's littlest ones from the rock of ages, or this firmest landmark of all time, the Bible; and I only
<c06>
fear lest I may be misunderstood when I say that from these old superstitions of our infancy, from this reverence of means, we must move, and that right speedily. Young men, you who are casting about for employment, and who seek to know by what avenue of life's, labor you are to become useful, avoid, I beseech you, the overcrowded pursuits of the law, the bestuffed hospitals of medicine, the hot and dreary and unsatisfactory roads of merchandise. Remember, that your "field is the world," and look with me for a moment at the grandeur of your opportunities. No place in life is so full of possibility, so rich in promise, so powerful, so full of liberty as the pulpit. "Oh," says some good pious soul, "now you are going to advise preaching politics," Preaching politics! And why not? You have your little men in pulpits, who can preach of Moses and the prophets, who can show you the length and breadth of their creed, who can explain the meaning of this term and that text, who can talk learnedly of original sin and the wickedness of men who lived two thousand years ago; but where is the minister who teaches you the duty of the day-who exposes the corruptions of the time in which you live-who expounds the duty of the men before him? In what book or newspaper can you find aught concerning the manner of using a vote? With the exception of Dr. Lieber, a man born in Germany, but bred in America, I know of no publicist who has taught the people understandingly on this vital question of American life. I have attended many councils where learned divines examined youthful candidates for orders, but I have never yet attended or heard of one where a single question was put to test the fitness of the man as a teacher on the point most vital to his congregation. They ask him all about original sin and the fall of Adam, and the superlapsus, and the sublapsus, and test him as to whether he believes in natural grace or acquired grace, whether man is wholly depraved, or only in part, and if the latter, where the depravity stops, and what relation it bears to the rest of his nature-but they never, never suggest a question which would indicate that the souls or bodies of men of the nineteenth century are of the least possible moment. These ministers are easy made. The doctors take a little of the regulation dough, they mould it into a pretty little cake of exactly the right shape, pinhole it with exactly the right number of orthodox holes, put it on a patty pan, shove it into a properly built oven, and, when it is baked, you have your pretty cracker ministers. Out on them, and out on such a system! We are living in a land and in a time of peculiar temptation. We are, as a people, given greatly to lying. Why, the range of white lies alone is wonderfully long, running not only through the highest octaves, but way up into the harmonies, while the sub-base of black lies is simply tremendous. We must have a change in our public men, and not only in the lower classes of officials, but even in the balls of our most exalted national council. I do not propose to make charges, but I cannot forbear saying that the tone of public morals is low indeed, when we hear glibly spoken of the bartering of matters of great moral purport, making our Legislatures literal shambles of infamy and disgrace. 
We may well congratulate ourselves that, at, the present time, our public men in Washington are such as to not make us blush. In the main they are truthful, faithful, efficient, and honest. Such has not always been the case, nor is it so everywhere even now. Look at that disgrace to the country, the Common Council of New York, with the Mayor thrown in besides! Look at them and their unblushing outrages, and then pretend to say that the teachers of public morals have no task before them. Look at New York with its million of inhabitants, its light meaner than that of any city of equal size, its streets reeking with filth, its sewers a pretence, and its judiciary a laughing-stock. A nest of robbers, a den of thieves whose example familiarizes our citizens with pillage, and prostitutes the morality of our youth; these are but to be met, to be denounced and exposed, and changed for the better. Public men should feel that the people demand of them a price for their elevation: they should set before our young men examples of integrity, of honor, of fairness, and of decency. Oh, young men, it is for this work I entreat you to forsake the paths that lead to the vexations of commerce, and the uncertainties of traffic. It is to be a minister in the highest significance of the title. I would not confine you to creeds nor doctrines, nor to narrow pulpits, but would place you on broad platforms, where, from the corners of the street, you could help and assist your fellow-man, having for the life even that now is all honor and profit, and in the life to come an enduring crown of joy and blessedness in the presence of your Father that is in Heaven.

AFFAIRS AT CHARLESTON.
The Tribune's correspondent at Charleston, S. C, writes as follows:
"If a willingness to take the oath of allegiance be a true test of loyalty, Charleston is very far from being a 'hot bed of reason.' Thirty-two hundred persons have already held up their right hands, kissed the Bible, and solemnly declared that they would ' true allegiance bear' to the government of the United States. There are more Union flags suspended from residences, and displayed in the shop windows, here in the birth-place of the Confederacy, than can be seen in loyal Boston or New city. During the last three weeks, more and more radical, anti-slavery speeches have been delivered in the city of Hayne and Calhoun than in the home of Phillips and Garrison. The authorities have been obliged to increase the number of officers who are detailed to administer the oath.
The schools have been opened to white and black children alike, and are largely attended by both classes. Colored congregations have been addressed by a Major General, a Brigadier General, the Colonel commanding, and representatives of the most decided Abolitionists of the North; a brother of Henry Ward Beecher has preached here; a sister-in-law of Mrs. Stowe has acted as the principal of the largest school; the home of Barnwell Rhett is a negro hospital; the workhouse, where our officers were imprisoned, is a Federal garrison; the old mansions of the aristocracy are tenanted by our soldiers and by freedmen; the lingering representatives have failed in their efforts to turn their recent bondmen out of the public educational buildings; no treasonable utterance is tolerated, no violence is done to personal rights, trade is rapidly reviving, and permission to ship $1,100,000 worth of goods here has already been approved or indorsed. 
Although we know here that perjury is no test of loyalty, we do not feel disposed to carp at the frequency of it here. It cannot be prevented unless the President limits the time in which traitors can return to their allegiance, and yet retain or recover their rights of property. By doing so, he will assuredly injure no loyal man, nor the national cause, and he will prevent an enormous increase of false swearing.
I repeat (and I will prove my assertion at any length when the right time comes) that, as a class, the best of the white Unionists here would be regarded as the worst of Copperheads in the Northern States, and that unless we encourage and invite a large emigration, and enfranchise the Negro, we shall have trouble with this State again.
A SLAVE'S THEORY OF THE WAR. The Raleigh (N.C) Standard, talking about arming the slaves, reports the following as a veritable conversation:
Master-Well, Sam, the white men are not able to whip the Yankees, and we want you to help us.
Sam-Golly, master, what I got to do wid it? No fight o' mine. De Norf want to make me free nigger, and I spee' I be killed 'fore its done wid.
Master-Oh, no Sam, you must fight for your country, Ges. Less says you must.
Bress de Lord, master, Sam got no country here. Sam's country in Africa. Sam had no power to declar' war. The good book says, master, dat de nations dat declar' war must do so afore God, and fight in his name. Ef dey don't do so, he'll turn a deef ear unto 'em, and 'cuss'em. Dars two sorts of wars, master, God's wars and de devil's wars. Ef Sam can't declar' war like de white man dat's got a country to country to fight for, den ef he's forced to fight, he'll fight in de devil's war. De minister teeched me to run from de devil, and Sam 'specs to run from de devil's war.
Master-Ab, Sam, you don't understand. We want to put the negroes in, and have a glorious winding up of the war. We shall do it, if the negroes will only help us. in a blaze of glory.
Sam-Golly, master, dat's jes' like de sirkus. Dey always winds up de sirkus wid de nigger. De ole clown he git our money, and den trow de ole close and de flour barrels 'mong de niggers. He! he! he! 'Spec Sam don't go to dat sirkus.
