THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMOND JACESON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q. ADAMS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 14.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1632.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
THE OBJECTS OF THE WAR.
Those who have deceived the people of Southern Kentucky into rebellion by asserting that the war was waged against slavery will find many convincing proofs of the <illegible> of the allegation. When the rebels left Hopkinsville, one of their army officers carried off, or rather stole, a slave belonging to Dr. Webber, a well-known citizen of Christian county. The negro was taken by his Confederate abductor to Fort Donelson, where they both fell into the hands of the Federal forces at the capitulation. From thence they were taken with the other prisoners to Indianapolis. When Dr. Webber was informed of their whereabouts, he went immediately to Indianapolis, and stating the case to the commanding officer, requested the surrender of his slave. "Certainly, sir," was the short and efficient answer; and the Doctor returned home with his property, stolen from him by the secessionists and returned to him by "one of the Lincoln Hessians."
We narrate the circumstances as prefatory to the publication of the following correspondence between the venerable Judge Underwood, of Warren county, and General Buell, on the subject of fugitive slaves in the Federal Camps. Since the forces of the United States were organized in our State to repel the invasion attempted by the renegade Buckner and his Confederate allies, there has been no single instance of any violation of the rights of any citizen in his slave property, committed by them, while on the other hand there is not a county south of Green river in which the rebel held their temporary ascendancy that has not suffered severely from the loss of its negroes. Careful estimates show that Christian, and other large tobacco producing counties have each lost slave property of much greater value than all the fugitives who have heretofore escaped from service, despite the operations of the Federal law for their reclamation. With these undeniable facts staring us in the face, it is monstrous impertinence and mendacity on the part of the rebel leaders to keep alive the embers of their subjugated rebellion by asserting that the purpose of the Federal arms is not the re-assertion of the supremacy of the Constitution and the maintenance of the laws, but that the sole aim is either directly or indirectly to subvert the domestic institutions of the South.
"As the Federal army advances the sway of the national authority into the very heart of the seceded Stated, the people will be able to know the truth, and then the scales of delusion will fall from their eyes. The letters of General Buell. We venture to say, will go very far toward bringing about this most desirable result, and we ask the attention of our Southern friends to the correspondence as a convincing evidence of the base arts by which they have bee betrayed into rebellion.
To the Editors of the Louisville Journal.
LOUISVILLE March 17, 1862.
GENTLEMENT:- Be pleased to publish the enclosed letter received to-day from Gen. Buell. I am sure it will meet the hearty approval of every Kentuckian.
The rebellion is now kept alive by the apprehension that the National Government and its armies intend to destroy the institution of slavery in the southern States; and for that purpose the Constitution of the United States is to be utterly disregarded. In my judgment, the people of the South engaged in the rebellion will readily lay down their arms ad submit to the re-establishment of our National Constitution over the whole country whenever they are convinced that the General Government and the non-slaveholding States will in good faith adhere to the principles of the Constitution in relation to slavery. I hail Gen. Buell's letter as a manifestation of the right spirit. Respectfully, yours,
J.R UNDERWOOD.
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE OHIO.
NASHVILLE, March 6, 1862.
DEAR SIR;-I have had the honor to receive your communication of the 1st inst., on the subject of fugitive slaves in the campus of the army.
It has come to my knowledge that slaves sometimes make their way improperly into our lines, and in some instances they may be enticed there, but I think the number has been magnified by report. Several applications have been made to me by persons whose servants have been found in our camps, and in every instance that I know of the master has recovered "his servant and taken him away.
I need hardly remind you that there will always be found some lawless and mischievous persons in every army; but I assure you that the mass of this army is law-abiding, and that it is neither its disposition nor its policy to violate law or the rights of individuals in any particular. With great respect, your obedient servant,
D.C. BUELL.
Brig-Gen Commanding Department.
Hon. J.R UNDERWOOD, Chairman of Military Committee, Frankfort, Ky.
RADICAL ABOLITION VIEW OF THE PRESIDENT'S EMANCIPATION MESSAGE.
We were right. The radical abolitionists can find nothing to admire, but everything to denounce, in President Lincoln's late emancipation message. Wm. Lloyd Garrison, through his Boston Liberator, very flatly speaks out his mind upon the subject, in behalf of the whole abolition fraternity. Upon half a dozen specifications in this matter be arraigns the President, examines him, and condemns him in very short metre.
First, the style of the message grates harshly upon the dainty ear of Garrison, and he calls upon the Cabinet to "help the Presidents to mend his phraseology." Let the Cabinet take heed. Secondly, we are told that the resolution proposed by the President "gives no reason for such an anomalous overture to the slave States;" says nothing about any special exigency "rendering the measure necessary or expedient," and that "upon the face of it it has no relation to the war," is "without limitation," and in all these particulars "is radically defective." "No relation to the war"! Garrison is very wide of the mark. The whole argument of the Message is directed to this scheme of voluntary and compensated emancipation in the border slave States, as a measure for the speedy suffocation of the rebellion in the cotton States; and Mr. Lincoln's view upon the subject are so very consistent and convincing that we cannot avoid the suspicion of a deliberate perversion of them by Garrison.
Third, "it (the Message) offers a bounty to all the States that are in Confederate rebellion against the government;" but "treason is not a purchasable or negotiable article, and traitors are not to be allowed to make terms, with a profit to themselves, by the Government they are seeking to overturn." So says Garrison. But the experience of every nation, past or present, is against him in its concessions for the sake of domestic peace and harmony. Doubtless he would prefer the bloody extermination of all persons in the South committed in any way to this rebellion, except the slaves, and would have them elevated to the exclusive possession and political control of our Southern States upon the abolition basis of "human equality."
<c02>
In the fourth place and in the fifth, Mr. Lincoln's "gradual abolishment" does not suit our Boston high priest of abolition. He will be satisfied with nothing short of "immediate emancipation," be the consequences what they may. St. Domingo is all the answer that is needed upon this point. Garrison may prate from morning till night that "the President is at war with common sense, sound reason, the teachings of history, the instincts and aspirations of human nature, the laws of political economy, and the uniform results of emancipation;" but still the tree will be judged by its fruit. Of the fruits of Boston abolitionism we have had enough, in the ferocious and blood-thirsty disunion demagogues and fanatics, and in the silly and disgusting long-haired men in petticoats and strong-minded women in breeches, with which the country is infested.
Lastly, the outspoken Garrison decrees that "the President, as well as Congress, in consequence of this slaveholder's rebellion, and the dire extremity into which it has brought the nation, has now the constitutional right, power and opportunity to 'proclaim liberty throughout all the land, and to all the inhabitants thereof," and that "either the President nor Congress must be allowed to evade this solemn duty by any dodge of this kind"- (meaning this Emancipation Message). Here we have the whole case in a nutshell. In the outset of this rebellion, the abolition war-cry was "emancipation or separation," and the radicals of the republican party, headed by the New York Tribune, advocated "separation," and simply because they believed it to be the cheapest and shortest way to emancipation. "No union with slaveholders," is still the motto flaunted at the head of the Boston Liberator's editorial matter; but now, with the backbone of this rebellion broken, the abolition alternative of separation is abandoned, in view of the opportunity and the power to enforce emancipation by converting this war into an armed crusade for the extirpation of slavery. 
Of course, then, the President's emancipation message is scouted and "execrated and spit upon" by our abolition disorganizers, and they command him and congress to "proclaim liberty throughout all the land, and to all the inhabitants thereof," or to take the consequences. This is thee issue between our disunion abolition faction and the administration. We stand by the President, we are in for the war, and we expect that the end of it will be the burial of secession and radical abolitionism in the same grave.- New York Herald.
JOHN BROWN-ISM.
Since the occupation of Charleston, in Virginia by the Union forces, we hear much in the papers about the fearful tragedy which resulted in the trial and execution of certain men at that place. The tone of some papers is such that they speak of our army as the vindicators of John Brown's memory. They openly exult over the fact that our soldiers occupy the Court House where he was tried and convicted, and record it as a triumph over "the enemies" of a martyr!
We notice that some papers, not specially radical speak with a show of indignation of the discovery, in a medical college at Winchester, of portions of the remains of criminals who were executed for participation in the murders at Harper's Ferry. How ever unpleasant such "preparations" are to the sensibilities of the public, it is nevertheless true that medical college throughout the country possess very many specimens of the bodies of pirates and murderers, which it was formerly customary to hand over to the surgeons for the benefit of science; and the fact that a Virginia medical college contains some such relics of a criminal of the same kind need not excite remark as anything either unusual, or any more horrible than our own city contains.
It has been one of the efforts of the abolitionists, during the excitement of the past year, to elevate the crime of John Brown-ism to the level of pure morality and to exalt his memory from its position as that of a murderer, to esteem and respect as that of a saint. The effort has been to a certain extent successful, because we are now at war with a part of the Virginians who were then the object of Brown's infamous raid; and thoughtless persons, whose animosity against the rebels extends backwards to periods when we were friends, and forward to a future of undying enmity, are apt to fall into the trap set by men who would gladly see blazing homes, outraged women, and murdered children, of the South, in preference to the restoration of that Union of hearts which once blessed, and which may again bless the land. Songs have been sung in the streets by Massachusetts soldiers, praising the name of the criminal, and not a few newspapers have adopted the plan of referring to "John Brown's soul" as the guiding spirit of the war.
It is well to speak plainly of these matters once in a while, that men may reflect on the past with true light, and not by the false glare of exciting times like the present. How far the John Brown raid, and its approval by Northern papers of large circulation, like the Tribune of this city, contributed to the present civil war, it is perhaps impossible to measure, It was one of the alienating causes, and a great one, and no one can doubt that the great crime against law, humanity and religion has been rendered greater, in correct human estimation, from day to day, by all the horrors resulting from the civil war. For every victim, Northern or Southern, sent from battle-fields to the bar of God, John Brown-ism at the North must render part at least of the fearful account, in the person of those who shall hereafter passed on his deeds done in the body.
"John Brown's soul is marching on," says a radical paper, once in a while. In what direction that soul is pursuing its course is known only beyond the veil which human eyes cannot penetrate. But shall Christian mothers, teaching their children the names of saints and martyrs, add to the list the name of the Virginian murderer, and tell the story of his attempt to destroy peaceful homes, and massacre women and children? English women, who had that terrible experience of the rebellion in India, shrink with horror from the name of Nena Sahib, and the same shudder passes over the Virginian mother when she remembers John Brown. Nor is the latter one grade above the former in the scale of civilization or Christianity, if measured by his deeds. The one, to overthrow what he regarded as a tyrannous oppression of his race by foreign invaders, perpetrated horrors from which humanity shrinks appalled. The other, to carry out a <illegible> idea of his own with reference to a race that has no connection with him, proposed to enact in Virginia the same horrors, in all their details, which make the memory of Delhi and Lucknow so terrible.
John Brown was condemned and hung, with the approval of the civilized world, and his memory will not in spite of the attempt to save it now. John Brown's soul went to God, and unless it went penitent for the sins of Harper's Ferry, it was condemnned there, and its marching on must be forever in the blackness of outer darkness; else is all preaching vain and all faith vain. The decrees of God are no respecters of persons, and a marching song of a
<c03>
Massachusetts regiment, or a strolling band of abolition songsters, will not reverse those decrees, nor restore to salvation the condemned. Let us hope that he went penitent to the throne of Mercy, but every man who would preserve in America the honor and the supremacy of law must with the voice and pen condemn his life and its fruit.
We speak plainly. There are men who for years, professing Christianity, have adopted as their creed one solitary dogma, anti slavery. To these men religion is abolitionism, abolitionism is a passport to heaven, even through murder, and al horrible shames and crimes. Is the main an abolitionist? It is enough through he be otherwise a wretch worthy the gallows. Is he a false-swearer? It is nothing so he is right on the slave question. Is he a thief of the public money, or a robber of the private citizen? It is a trifle, so he goes for freeing the slave. Is he an infidel, a fool who saith there is no God, it is of no account, and Congregational, Episcopal, Presbyterian, Methodist clergymen can be found to give him the right hand of fellowship, call him "my brother," and promise him the reward of his works in heaven, so he only favors man-stealing from Southerners, and advocates equality and fraternity with the negro race. Let no one say that this is an exaggerated statement of the effect of negro-philism on the moral senses of some nominally Christian men. Every word that we have written can be established with too fatal evidence. Nay, more. Radical abolitionism always blunts the moral susceptibilities of its devotee. The very foundation of the creed is, that no possible circumstance can justify slaveholding, and the next and necessary argument is, that the freedom of the slave may, and must be accomplished at any sacrifice of life and property. Hence follows the dogma that, the right to freedom being a superior right, all that stands in its way is to be regarded as inferior, and must succumb. Therefore if, to free slaves, it is necessary to rob and murder, all this is justified. If it be necessary to threaten the nameless horrors of servile insurrection, to frighten slaveholders, the threat must be used, and the use of the threat implies a moral willingness to permit and encourage everything in the treatment of a whole population including women and children which such an insurrection would produce.
If we are wrong in our estimate of abolition morality, we will correct the error whenever the radical abolitionists will say that the life of a man, or the honor of a woman, is sufficient bar to the freedom of a slave, and that if it cannot be accomplished without sacrificing these, then he should remain a slave. Where is the abolitionist that will say this? It is easy to discuss the question of slavery in generalities, and to talk of human "freedom" as above all other "rights of man," but true morality true religion, and above all, true Christianity, teach that the "freedom" of every man is and must be limited by the good of his fellow-men; and the right of a slave or even of a prisoner of war to his liberty, is a right that he may not claim at too great a cost to others.
It is, therefore, with profound regret that we notice a tendency in some directions to lead the public into a mild view of the character and offences of John Brown and his aiders and abettors. that they were murderers, the law of old, and the gospel of love and peace, alike teach, and to speak with approval of their acts, or to attempt the whitening of their black crimes can only result in a blot on our character as a Christian and civilized nation.- New York Journal of Commerce.
[As an offset to this dastardly, malignant and characteristic attach of the Journal of Commerce, read the article on our last page from the Congregationalist, by "Gail Hamilton."]
WENDELL PHILLIPS AT CINCINNATI.
It is but a few days since the announcement was largely bruited through the sympathizing journals that this man, known throughout the country as a pestilent disseminator of treason, was to begin a grand tour of public discourse through the Western States. The people discourse through the Western States. The people of the chief cities were to be entertained by his graphic denunciations of the Union, the Constitution and the regularly constituted authorities. Nothing could surely be more innocent, more "patriotic," more beneficial to the public welfare than this-especially in the very height and fever of a rebellion against the Union and the Constitution. In this plan and practical way Mr. Phillips was to serve his country; or serve - some other influential agency in the affairs of this world. In pursuance of the plan for the proposed capital of the country-a most appropriate sphere, indeed for one who had devoted all his life to active efforts for the overthrow of its government, by making such as saw fit to listen to him dissatisfied with its institutions. The result of all this had been, through his instrumentality, in concert with that of others either directly or indirectly acting with him, to plunge the country into a deadly civil conflict, demanding all the best faculties and energies of every loyal citizen in it, and the blood of its harmony and prosperity.
Thus recommended, Mr. Phillips actually did appear in Washington, and deliver a lecture at the Smithsonian Institute. We thought his discourse was that upon the character and fortunes of Toussaint L Ouverture, the insurrectionary negro chief of St. Domingo, a subject affording a fair opportunity for all those allusions so appropriate to the circumstances of our own country, which Mr. Phillips knows so well how to throw in. But we see it stated to have had the more pointed text,-" Seize your opportunity." In either case, there was no offence in the world,-only murder in jest. The lecture appears to have been "a success." The noodles who listened at the Smithsonian, we suppose, were gratified, for we have heard of no complaint. Mr. Phillips took occasion to compliment those present and in his immediate vicinity, by telling them that "Old John Brown's labors were of more value to the country than those of any other living man, except William Lloyd Garrison." He told them he "had labored for nineteen years to take nineteen States out of the Union," and that-and that "he cared very little about the technicalities of the Constitution," and, finally, as a regular coup d’elat to slavery,-"he would send a hundred thousand men into South Carolina, and force the Government into a policy; and when the yellow fever of the South broke out among our men, he would garrison the forts with acclimated negroes under white officers, and hold them against the world."
After all this avowal of devotion to the destruction of the Union, and of contempt for the Constitution, and of generous sacrifice of a hundred thousand lives of other men, in order to hold forts in South Carolina, by means of acclimated negroes, "against the world," Mr. Phillips naturally found himself a welcome guest almost anywhere within the precincts of the Capital of the country. Accordingly, he is dined and feted, as we observe, "by the Vice-President, by Fremont, Sumner & Co."-and making his gracious presence known at the
<c04>
place of legislative deliberation, he is received upon the floor of the Senate, from which merely loyal citizens are scrupulously excluded; is welcomed by Senators of a kindred spirit; and the Vice-President aforesaid descends from his dignified seat, at the very fountain-head of constitutional legislation itself, in order to do honor to this eminent derider of the laws, the Constitution, and whatever else does not jump with his notions of human rights, duties and liabilities. 
Thus so deservedly feted and petted, and filled with praises and patriotism, Mr. Phillips started upon his Western tour. The journals above referred to all seemed to exult in the idea of a perfect harvest of abolition triumphs-to culminate at last in the crashing downfall of the "Old Union," as the Tribune styled it, and in the utter discomfiture of the "traitorous" beings in it, who had been so ridiculously priding themselves upon the part they thought they had in 
"The land of the free and the home of the brave."
Oh his way, Mr. Phillips lectured at Philadelphia, in which city hisses assailed him-whereupon, it is said, he changed his tone so as to escape any more decisive demonstration-and the next thing we hear of him is at Cincinnati, under not very encouraging circumstances for the further prosecution of his Western tour. We forbear from all comments upon the scene in the Opera House at Cincinnati; they are unnecessary. We will only say that, in all reasonable probability, hundreds of those present were suffering, deeply suffering, from the consequences of the strife engendered by just such discourses as those delivered by Mr. Phillips; and if such a class of citizens of Cincinnati were to be supposed likely to be present on the occasion, there would be thousands of others wanting bread for the same precise cause. Is it unnatural that they should feel and manifest a little indignation at the shameless repetition of such sentiments?
Leaving this point, let us say, that the civil authorities of the country have a clear and plain duty to perform in this matter, with which they ought not any longer to dally. Why should Wendell Phillips or any kindred spirit be permitted to roam the country, a "chartered libertine" of treason? Is it not as much treason for an abolitionist to proclaim his purpose to break up the Union and to destroy the Constitution, as for a man who is not an abolitionist? Does it make any difference with what motive he tries to pull down the pillars of the Government? No man in the North, who actually abhors the doctrines of Phillips, could use his means to propagate opinions calculated to produce the same effects-though not prompted by a mad fanaticism for the liberation of negroes-could deliver such a speech once, without justly finding his sphere of action circumscribed by the intervention of prison walls.
We should scorn to recommend the imprisonment of any man for mere difference of political opinion, for mere disapproval of the policy or acts of the Government, for mere dislike either of the public or private conduct of the Administration or its members. All these things, in a free country, are, ought to be, free; and where free discussion, within the bounds of reason and decency ends, there tyranny begins, and freedom is lost. But Wendell Phillips and men of the same stamp aim their blows at the very foundation of our civil structure. If they
succeed, that structure falls. They do give open aid and comfort to the enemy. They embitter him against-the Government, against the Union, against every hope of reviving fraternity. They strengthen his hands, they weaken our own. If they kept quiet, we would not meddle with them in their madness and folly; but the tour of Phillips, with his object in view, is a crime against the country, which if not punished, at least should be checked-and Fort Lafayette, or any fort, where there is no manful fighting to do, is the fitting "obstacle" to the efforts of such a seditious incendiary.-Boston Courier.
WENDELL PHILLIPS TREATED TO ROTTEN EGGS IN CINCINNATI.
By a telegraphic despatch from Cincinnati, which we published yesterday, our readers have seen that Wendell Phillips, in attempting to deliver one of his revolutionary lectures in that city, created a riot which resulted in his being pelted with rotten eggs, driven from the hall where he would not be permitted to speak, and finally escaped narrowly from a coat of tar and feathers, if not from loss of life at the hands of the excited audience. It is worthy of remark that the people in the Eastern and Western States deal with the abolition demagogues in a very different manner. Here where they are best known, they are regarded as no longer dangerous, and are accordingly treated with contempt, and are allowed to lecture to thin houses. This is the case at Washington, Albany and New York. The abolition lectures in this city were not attended by the people. Cheever, Garrison and the rest have been only beating the air. They could make no impression whatever, and were regarded as of little consequence. In the Western States, which have sent so many men to our war, and whose troops have accomplished such brilliant results on the Cumberland and the Tennessee, the disunion agitators are viewed in a different light, and particularly Phillips, who has been more talked of in the newspapers than the rest, and is the chieftain of the disloyal faction. In the West they are regarded as dangerous lunatics, who ought not to be allowed to be at large. Here, for the most part, they are regarded as harmless monomaniacs, whose tom-foolery is only laughed at by the bulk of the community. One thing is very clear, and that is that neither in the East nor the West is revolutionary abolitionism regarded with favor; nor can is destructive, bloody purposes ever be carried out while the conservative common sense of the whole country is so decidedly opposed to it.
-New York Herald.
Wendell Phillips, like Meddle, has enjoyed the luxury of being kicked. We are sorry that Phillips's insolent and treasonable sentiments should have excited public indignation to a degree which led to a violation of law; for he appears to us to be a monomaniac, and, if allowed to remain outside of a lunatic asylum, entitled to pity and compassion. The poor man must have felt very bad, for he is always extremely pale when he apprehends danger.-Boston Post.
We do not, cannot approve of mob law, at any time or any where-but is it not "reaping as he sowed," for Wendell Phillips to be mobbed? No man in the country has done or tried to do more to corrupt the minds of the people towards our rulers, to lessen the esteem felt for "the powers that be," and the regard for our flag, our Union and our Constitution, than Phillips, We also go in for free speech; but when the press is muzzled, and Forts Warren and Lafayette are filled with men who certainly talk no ranker treason than Garrison and Phillips, why should not they be bushed up too?-Portsmouth (N.H.) Chronicle.
<c05>
Selections.
THE MOBBING OF WENDELL PHILLIPS IN CINCINNATI.
We take the following account of this disturbance (says the New York Tribune) form the Cincinnati Enquirer, that being the paper least likely to sympathize with Mr. Phillips. The accounts in the Gazette and the Commercial are substantially the same. The reader will observe that the telegraphic dispatch in Tuesday's New York papers was wide of the truth. Mr. Phillips did not say that he was a Disunionist, but that he had been one, yet was now for the Union, and in favor of the efforts now being made to restore and preserve it. There is but one opinion in the Cincinnati papers, and that is that the city has been deeply disgraced by an unpardonable outrage, and that the Mayor and police shamefully neglected their duty, if they did not actually instigate the mob. 
From the Cincinnati Enquirer, March 25.
The announcement that Wendell Phillips would speak at the Opera-House caused much speculation upon the streets. Threats of disturbance were common, and the prediction that he would not be permitted to address his audience was in the mouth of everybody. Yet it is apparent that no one believed that any serious attempt to molest him would be made, for a large audience of ladies and gentlemen, representing all shades of political faith, were gathered soon after the doors were opened. How soon these hopes were crushed, and how outrageous the disturbance, will soon be seen.
Mr. Phillips was accompanied by the following gentlemen, who occupied seats upon the stage: Messrs. Samuel Reed, Editor of the Gazette; John P. Foote, WM. Goodman, Judge Stallo, Orson Murray and William Green.
When Mr. Phillips stepped upon the stage, he was greeted with a tumult of mingled groans, hisses and cheers, the latter greatly predominating, and subduing the former.
When they had subsided, Judge Stallo walked to the stand, and began to introduce the speaker to his audience. The remarks of the Judge were facetious and full of pleasantry, comparing Mr. Phillips to a piece of artillery, the report of which had disturbed the quiet of the Potomac.
When Mr. Phillips arose to speak, he walked to the foot amid a volley of hisses, which, like the first, was drowned in the cheers of his friends. He said:
"I have been invited, ladies and gentlemen, to speak to you on the war-the convulsion which has divided the Union for a year, and threatens, in the opinion of some, to divide it forever. No more serious subject can engage the attention of the American people, for I believe that within six months, perhaps within the coming hundred days, we, the people, are to decide what the future of these thirty-four States is to be. Certainly no question of deeper import can be presented to an American audience. It is easy to say that the war came no man knows how, and that it was the fault of this man or of that party, or that it will end in ninety days or a year. But I believe that the war is no man's fault, that it is the work of neither section. It will not end in our day, and it will be a fortunate Providence if our children can look around upon a clear sky and a united country.
"I believe the war to be the result of a seventy years struggle with one idea. It comes to us as a duty which God lays upon this generation. Two or three questions spring out of the present state of things. How long will the war last? What will become of slavery? What will become of the Union? In regard to the first question, none can answer. We are entering upon the great struggle which no people have ever avoided-a struggle between the few and the many-a struggle between aristocracy and democracy. The North represents a democracy, founded on industry, brains, and money; the South an aristocracy, founded on slave labor-an aristocracy whose right hand is negro slavery, and whose left is the ignorant white man."
At this point a heavy boulder was thrown from the third tier of boxes. It struck a few feet from the speaker. It came crashing among the foot-lights like a cannon shot. Simultaneously with the boulder came a couple of eggs, that burst like bombs, dispensing a perfume more potent than fragrant. One of these odorous missiles struck the speaker. The eggs were thrown from the left of the second tier, and were accompanied by a series of yells, like nothing unless it be the war-whoop of a score of infuriated Indians: "Down with the traitor!" "Egg the nigger Phillips!" and a dozen other opprobrious epithets. It is due to Mr. Phillips to say that he stood calm and collected, without moving a muscle or flinching an inch.
When the tumult had somewhat subsided, the speaker resumed his discourse:
"Allow me one word more. I do not know what the person meant who sent that stone, but I meant no insult to the non-slaveholding white men of the South. I sympathize with them, for they suffer from a despotism whose right hand is power, and whose left hand is ignorance. If South Carolina ever sees the utmost exaltation of her masses, it will be when the stars and stripes guarantee freedom to every member of the thirty-four States. There are many things which American citizens cannot do, and one thing which I know they cannot do, and that is to prevent the belt of the American continent from being, in seventy years or less time, one country, governed by one sceptre, indissoluble as granite. For thirty years I have been an Abolitionist, and nothing else.”
The hisses, which had been intermittent, here became like a perfect hurricane.
As soon as his voice became audible, Mr. Phillips retorted:
"Before we Yankees went to the Roanoke and Potomac, we tutored ourselves to respect free speech, and I know that you will grant it to me. For sixteen years I have been a Disunionist."
At this word the row became general; eggs were thrown ad libitum, and the stage was odorous with their disgusting fragrance. Sulphuretted hydrogen was the popular perfume, and it was long before Mr. Phillips could gain a hearing. When he inaudible amid the general tumult that we could not report his words. He resumed:
"To-day, the contest takes the form of battle. The war is nothing to me as an abolitionist. It has no more interest to me as such than a novel has to you after you have found the hero and heroine happily married on the last page. Whatever your opinion may be, mine is that slavery has received its death-blow in the house of its friends. The American people have opened that page of their history which will record the death of slavery. In due time, and after a reasonable interval, slavery will die. The cry has been 'Cotton is King.' South Carolina dragged Lyons and Lancashire to her feet, and said, 'Babies, keep quiet.' She has starved them for eleven months, but at last accounts they were doing quite well.
"Another idea was that the North would not fight. South Carolina tried that on in miniature, when she pitted Missouri against Kansas. When their orchards were grubbed up, the Yankees went home to New England and begged rifles. Let the war continue twenty-four months, and McClellan will be a Jayhawker. The third idea of the death of slavery is de-
<c06>
rived from the message of the President. I believe the President is an honest man, but a very slow one. He desires to stand between the parties, and finding which way the tide was setting, he warned the Border States that now was their time to sell."
Mr. Phillips continued to speak for over an hour but the melee in the second tier created so much confusion that we should not be able to do him justice did we attempt to report him further.
Cries and execrations resounded from all parts of the house. Eggs were occasionally hurled at the stage, one of which struck Mr. Murray.
The cries were "Lynch the Traitor." "Hang the Nigger," "Tar and feather the Abolitionist." (We omit the profanity.) Ladies and timorous gentlemen made their escape.
The stage was in confusion, and gentlemen from the audience mounted it as a favorable stand-point from which to witness the row. The speaker vainly continued to speak, but could not be heard.
The rowdies came down stairs with cries of "Let us take the stage," "Lynch him," "Put out the gas." When they reached the middle aisle, the melee became general, stools and umbrellas were freely used. Some ladies fainted, and others scrambled ungracefully over bench-tops. Mr. Pike and other gentlemen were struck while endeavoring to keep the peace. It being probable that some of the evil-disposed would find the "gas stop" and put out the lights, in which case the loss of life would have been frightful, Mr. Phillips was induced to cease speaking, and the meeting was dispersed.
Both exits from the Opera House were beset by gangs determined to lynch the obnoxious speaker. After some delay he was disguised, and passed out through the crowd undetected; but it was well on to midnight before the rowdies left the vicinity of the Opera House.
Thus ended the attempt of Wendell Phillips to speak in Cincinnati. About eighteen or twenty eggs were thrown, and a bottle of vitriol was found in the vestibule; it was not used.
From the Cincinnati Times.
Such is a plain statement of the whole proceeding. There was a premeditated design to prevent Mr. Phillips from lecturing. It was participated in by many respectable citizens, but the task was committed to such degraded hands, that many who were anxious to have the lecture interfered with, became ashamed of the affair before the lecture was half over. 
The indecency of the mob destroyed the intended purpose. The lecture was delivered, and nobody hurt.
We make no report of Mr. Phillips's speech, and shall only add that his calmness of manner and mod-crate opinions surprised a great many, who expected to hear a raving fanatic. He avowed himself no longer a Disunionist, satisfied that slavery has already received its death-blow, and has only to "turn over and die." His efforts now, he said, are directed to the prevention of compromises, which, in his opinion, would only tend to prolong the contest between the intellectual democracy of the North and the aristocracy of the South. That is his lecture in a nutshell.
From the Cincinnati Press.
Every good citizen of Cincinnati regrets the occurrence of last night, and those persons who checked the utterance of free thoughts by a display of boulders and rotton eggs have east a stain upon the good reputation of our city, which it will be difficult to efface, however low the authors may be in the scale of society.
In their comments on the mobbing of Wendell Phillips, furnished by the journals of Cincinnati, are some important facts which were omitted in the telegraphic report of the Associated Press. The Gazette says:
"A gang of the baser sort of humanity, small compared with the large audience, determined that they were to be the censors of the sentiments which the respectable people of Cincinnati should be permitted to hear, and going there  with a conspiracy already arranged, and with missiles and weapons provided, they succeeded in creating a row. Various missiles were hurled upon the stage. One boulder, large enough to kill a man had it hit him, was thrown from the gallery, narrowly missing the speaker.
Probably no public performance at the Opera House, or anywhere else, has been so destitute of policemen as this meeting was. The people are given to understand by this that the police is for the purpose of drawing pay, levying black mail on grogshops, and arresting harmless men, but to be carefully absent whenever the rowdies see fit to take possession of the city."
The Commercial speaks still more decidedly:
"The Mayor was warned during the day that there was a purpose on the part of a gang of ruffians to commit a breach of public order at the Opera House in the evening, but he entirely disregarded the warning, and when the mob was doing its work, not a policeman was at hand, as the whole force had been carefully ordered elsewhere.
A policeman was hunted up by a gentleman, and requested to go to the house and attempt to preserve order. He replied that he had been told by Mayor Hatch to keep away, and not go near the scene of the riot during the evening.
The mob was composed of the vilest class of our population. The lowest of the gamblers, the pimps, the thieves-those whose trade it is to rob the public bullies in ward elections-the foulest-mouthed of the secesh sympathizers-were out in full force, tickets having been procured for them by the whole-sale, and distributed through all the sink-holes of the city. We never saw a baser cut-throats. [A portion of them gave cheers for Jeff. Davis.]
It is well known to our readers that we do not sympathize with the extreme views with which the name of Wendell Phillips is associated, and of which he is the ablest exponent. It is due to him to say, however, that his speech last night was in-offensive in terms, and was dispassionate, argumentative and patriotic.
It is remarkable that the most violent and long-continued outbreak that took place last night was commenced when the speaker was stating the proposition which no loyal and intelligent man, not blinded by old prejudices, can question, that the war now desolating the land is between the real democracy of the country and the sectional aristocracy that wields the power of African Slavery in one hand, and that of the ignorance of whites in the other, Nothing seemed so to stir the passions of the infuriate mob as the presentation of the fact which is clear as the sum, that the secession aristocracy who have hazarded their all in the revolutionary effort to rule or ruin the country, not only hold the negro race in slavery, but degrade and oppress the poor white men of their section, and use them to sustain the despotism by which they are debased."
The Enquirer concludes its condemnation of the mob as follows:
"Democrats, especially, have no right, and they


























































<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
<illegible> against their political friends when they lift their hands to strike down the liberty of speech. We repudiate, with the strongest feeling of disgust and detestation, all mob' violence, no matter against whom it is directed, or upon what pretext it is made."
The Commercial also declares that the same parties who instigated this disgraceful riot not long ago sympathized with Mr. Yancey when be addressed the citizens of Cincinnati, advocating the kindred principles of slavery and secession.-N.Y. Tribune.
THE CINCINNATI OUTRAGE. We give in another column copious extracts from our Cincinnati exchanges, showing the nature and source of the disgraceful outrage upon free speech, at Cincinnati on Monday night. We looked through these papers carefully to learn in any support could be given to the statement in the dispatch of the associated press, that the indignation of the community was called out by Mr. Phillip’s avowal that he stood before his audience "a disunionist." We are forced to believe that the Cincinnati reporter for the associated press sympathized more with the mob than he would now care to confess. It seems that the outrage was the result of a deliberate plan, and that a subscription was raised of $125, which passed into the Opera House some scores of shoulder-hitters at half a dollar per admittance. A poor tool of a Mayor, one Hatch, held the police aloof, and Cincinnati was disgraced. In Chicago it will not be thus. Not because there are not those here who are laboring to gather the materials for a similar disturbance, but because the city authorities will make any such attempt perilous and futile.-Chicago Tribune.
A correspondent of the Cincinnati Commercial furnishes the following graphic sketch:-
"Where are you going, Chance?" said a hard looking specimen, standing at the entrance of the Opera House on Monday evening. "Going on a flirt" "Hooray!" responded the big gambling-house keeper, recently liberated from jail.
"Come on boys, fun ahead," shouted a big mouthed fellow, fuming with whiskey, when twenty or thirty more whiskey, when twenty or thirty more whiskey sweats followed him up stairs, whooping as they went.
They made no secret of their purpose; a few remained on the first floor, but the most of them went up stairs; a dozen, perhaps, went up to the third tier; the larger number, however, remained in the second tier at the head of the stairway, and to the right of the speaker. This crowd seemed to be under the control of Bart. Smith.
Among those who remained on the first floor was a half-drunken fellow with a big dog; he succeeded once or twice in making his canine companion aid him in the uproar, but could howl and yell himself far louder than the dog.
At the time the eggs were thrown, the most of them came from the upper tier, but a boulder and one or two eggs were thrown from that part of the house where the Bart. Smith gang were gathered together.
After Mr. Phillips had spoken about an hour, this assemblage of ruffians, headed by Bart. Smith, became the most uproarious, and were soon joined by those from both the upper and lower part of the house who were bent upon a row. They had now got to the head of the stairway. "Go it, boys," shouted their ruffianly Captain, and go it they did.
"Three groans for Wendell Phillips," shouted a whiskey-nosed man. "Three groans," shouted Bart. Smith. Bo-oo-oo! "Three groans for Judge Stallo," shouted out the whiskey-nosed fellow again. "Go it, boys," shouted the leader. "Three cheers for Mayor Hatch," shouted the whiskey nosed man once more. "There cheers with a will", shouted their leader. "Three groans for Old Abe and the Black Republicans," howled out a big fellow at the top of his voice. "Into them, boys," shouted Smith. "Boo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo." "Don't shoot him, Bart.," shouted out a fellow with one eye. "Don't shoot," echoed the whiskey nosed man. "Don't shoot," bawled out the big fellow with the long hair and dirty face. "Don't shoot, boys," echoed Bart. Smith. "On to the stage," shouted a big bellied gambler. "On to the stage," echoed a bandy legged pimp. "On to the state," shouted their ruffianly leader. "Put out the ga-as," howled out a blear-eyed fellow with a hairy cap. "Put out the ga-as," echoed a long-legged toper in a slouched hat. "Begar, we'll clane them out.  Hooray for Jeff Davis," howled out half a dozen drunken voices together.
"You clean us out!" said a young soldier who was standing quietly by, "there are but five of my company here, but we'll put you through in short order, if the citizens here will only say the word." This had rather a cooling effect upon secesh. The people were fast leaving the house, and the drunken rowdies, headed by Bart. Smith, and a couple of big gamblers. Suddenly made their exit for the street.
W. GREENE, 66 Milton street.
Mr. Phillips next went to Chicago, where he lectured twice-the first time on Touissant L'Ouverture. Some rowdy threats of disturbance were made, but the Chicago Tribune says:-
Both the matter and manner of his lecture fully sustained the exalted reputation of the orator, and often elicited the most gratifying expressions of admiration from his appreciative listeners.  The address was replete with historical knowledge, freely spiced with anecdotes and vollies of original wit. Some of the speaker's telling hits, aimed at the ignorance and follies of the present day, were inimitable.
The closing sentences of the lecture were sublimely eloquent and soul-stirring and were received with a round of hearty applause.
During the delivery of the lecture, no attempt at a disturbance was made, and not the slightest incident occurred to mar the harmony and perfect decorum which prevailed throughout the hall.
The subject of Mr. Phillips's lecture this evening will be that of the war as viewed from his peculiar stand-point. The speaker is at all times interesting, at all times classical and scholarly, and whatever may be the general ground taken by him as a man, the matter of his discourse upon this absorbing topic will do no harm to any sane person, and it is very likely will prove of deep interest to all who may be so fortunate as to listen to it.
The fact that Wendell Phillips was mobbed the other day in Cincinnati while delivering this identical lecture, speaks badly for the moral character of that city, and worse for its police regulations. That city is either full and overflowing with rank secessionism and men without a vestige of moral principle, and who are intent upon having only their own selfish principles promulgated, or its municipal guardians are never present when needed, or if present, good for nothing and powerless for efficient action.
The prompt manner in which out Police Commissioners, under the supervision of C.P. Bradley, turned out last night, gives a foretaste of what may be expected this evening. We understand that, in addition to the members of the regular force of police, the Superintendent will have several hundred especial men sworn in to-day, and seated at night in different portions of the hall, ready at the first outbreak of any disorderly person to quietly and noiselessly take that person out of the audience into the cool air, where a chance for deliberation and a breath of pure atmosphere may have the effect of claming the ruffled and turbulent spirit. In fact, it is the determination of all good citizens, all well as the protectors of the public peace, to see that the right of free speech-so long as that speech is not treason-be protected in Chicago; and in spite of the had precedent set us by Cincinnati, and in spite of the goadings-on, and the huge efforts of certain parties, aided by a sheet whose own record is none of the fairest, if Wendell Phillips has a word to say on the war, and there are sensible people enough here to form an assemblage desirous of listening to him, both the speaker and the would-be hearers shall have a chance. Public opinion, public decency, must inevitably frown down any and all attempts to fetter free speech.
Wendell Phillips is to speak upon the war to-night at Bryan Hall. Wendell Phillips is to be heard through his entire address, by the people of Chicago, to-night at Bryan Hall.  Blackguardism and ruffianism are to have no place to-night at Bryan Hall.

MR. COX AND THE SLAVE WHO WAS WHIPPED TO DEATH.
To the Editor of the N.Y. Tribune:
SIR,-The case of "Negro Jack was is part published in the Christian Advocate and Journal of this city in December last, from a letter from Chaplain Boole of the 5th Excelsior. This gentleman informed me that the whole truth was not written, in order that certain persons of the regiment might escape censure; but that now, inasmuch as the flat denial in made by the friends of Cox to the facts of the case, there is not longer consistency in nor cause or concealment.
<c02>
Now for the facts: "Negro Jack" did inform the officers of the 5th Regiment Excelsior of the Secession sympathies of his cruel master, and through his information the discoveries were made-already noticed in this letter. He did not live with the regiment, as the jury represent, neither was he a constant guide to them. If he did drink whisky to excess, it was no more than members of that jury do (my eyes being witness); and, in one point, he was more respectable than they; the soldiers never saw Jack drunk publicly. Cox and Davis were generally so. For his patriotic and valuable services, Jack was promised, on the honor of an officer, by the Lieutenant under whose command the scout was made, that he should not be given up to his master to be punished, not should be (Cox) be permitted to injure him.
This was necessary, inasmuch as Cox had become terribly enraged at the negro for discovering the movements of Secessionists to the military. A detachment of the 5th regiment had left for Budd's Ferry some days before the remaining companies were ordered to join them. It was while this second detachment was on the march, that the capture of Jack took place. The detachment was under command of Acting Major Glass. "Ben Franklin" says that when the regiment (2nd detachment) left Port Tobacco, they were "followed by Mr. Cox in company with about 15 or 20 other citizens of the country, whose slaved had left with the said regiment."
Now, this latter assertion I pronounce and inexcusable falsehood-a plain, barefaced lie. Not a slave went with the regiment; and in proof of this, I assert that those "15 or 20" gentlemen took position in the square of the town, and closely inspected the companies as they filed past them on the march, on the look-out for their slaves, and failed to discover a single "chattel."
That their slaved did very ungratefully leave their kind-hearted masters, and come into camp expecting to fond freedom under the Union flag, is true, but whose was the blame? Why did they leave? Is the army to be censured for the outgushing inspiration of freedom in the heart of the oppressed blacks when they vainly imagine the stars of our glory and our shame are floating in their sight as the beacon of freedom? These slave vultures seeking their prey, had obtained an order from Gen. Hooker, requiring the commandant of the 5th Regiment to drive out from the camp all the Maryland negroes, fugitives. The order was presented to Major Glass by some of the same "fifteen or twenty citizens," who also asked of Major Glass that he drive them to the certain point where they could be surrounded by the drivers, and captured. This to the honor of Major Glass be it said, he refused to do "for Gen. Hooker or any other General," but would only issue a command for them to leave the camp, for the woods or anywhere else.
When the second detachment had marched about three or more miles from Port Tobacco, Cox, in company with others on horseback, drove furiously up to the centre of the battalion, and without a word of warning, he, Cox, rushed upon the ranks where be saw his negro. Jack had joined the regiment on the march. "Ben Franklin" says that Cox "was set upon by the soldiery." The fact is that Cox broke into the ranks, and with the butt-end of a heavy whip began to "set upon" Jack's head, and in doing this, being drunk, he struck several of the soldiers. It was for this that they "set upon" him, and when they saw the insolent slave vultures on horse heading for the ranks, some fixed bayonets and swore that if they drew a step nearer, they would run them through. Cox continued to use his heavy whip, striking indiscriminately soldiers and the negro, and in his drunken madness, his stout, closely knit, powerful frame, his eyes glaring all on fire with rage and whisky, he seemed more like an incarnate devil than a representative of human kind.
The officer in command at length quelled the disturbance, and brought the men to quiet; and it is true as asserted by "Franklin," that had it not been for his interference, Cox would have been killed. But why? Not because the soldiers thirsted for his blood, but in his insanity of passion he continued to strike at them with his fists and whip to obtain his negro, as though they, too-Americans all-were chattels, "mudsills." Major Glass did, in the presence of those soldiers, rebuke Cox in the strongest terms for his unwarranted and mad assault, and said, "You have insulted these men; they understand law as well as you, and they know that your attack is criminal. You should be thankful, sir, that you escaped with your life. I am commander of this battalion, and you and these gentlemen should have applied to me, and not have committed such an outrange." Now, it may quiet the consciences of some objectors to be informed that neither the officer in command nor one of the soldiers engaged in the fight was and Abolitionist nor Republican. This is asserted upon a personal knowledge of their politics and sentiments.
After order was restored, the regiment resumed its march. And now began the most shameful part of this odious transaction. Cox and his minions were accompanied by Capt. Morey of the 5th Regiment, Excelsior Brigade, who had been appointed Provost-Marshal of the town of Port Tobacco, and who in that capacity had enjoyed free intercourse with the inhabitants. The result was an intimacy with Cox and some others whose names appear among the jury in this case. He accompanied Cox from Port Tobacco, and stood by his side when he rushed upon the ranks and struck the soldiers. Capt. Morey rode in the same carriage with Cox, and although he doubtless did not anticipated the result, he encouraged Cox in attempting to drag out his negro. Morey's sympathies were with the slave vultures before Cox was beaten; before the fight he had offered to obtain his slave for Cox. The battalion marched on till nightfall. Meanwhile, Morey had counseled the defeated chivalry to retire, and wait for him at a certain point some distance in the rear. Under cover of the darkness, and by a false pretext made to allay the suspicion of his Lieutenant, who had promised protection to the negro for his services, Morey took Jack to the rear between a file of men, marched him to the place designated, where Cox and his comrades were in waiting, and delivered him to his master.
How many miles he was compelled to walk after Cox, I will not presume to say, nor is it of consequence. One thing in certain: Cox and his overseer beat the negro after getting him home, and he died immediately after the beating. The story of the Jury and doctor, that he was drunk the day he was captured, is a lie. I saw him upon the march-saw the poor old man, when the regiment came to a halt, crawl away under a tree off the roadside, and with anxious face watch to see whether he was pursued. What do the Jury mean by saying that he lived on less food, and poorer, than he had been accustomed to, and died from "exposure and excitement"? Do they insinuate that he fared poorly while with the regiment, and was hard worked while acting as guide? Why then did he not leave, and go back to his "indulgent" master? Where did Jack get the whisky which created the "excitement," which, as the Jury say, helped him on to his death? I challenge that Jury to repeat their libel in the presence of any of the 5th Regiment: an excitement would be raised without whisky.
The Jury were evidently reduced to straits, and "Ben. Franklin," the justice! "hard up" for testimony, when they admitted the evidence of slaves to make out their case, and relied upon it for substantiating their story. Slave testimony is not admissible in law-why did they take it in this case? Was it taken at all?
All the truth told by that Jury composed of the most upright citizens of C Charles County," is contained on one single clause of their report: "negro Jack died of exposure and excitement." The conclusion is correct, the premises false, all false! It was the "excitement" of an unmerciful whipping, and the "exposure" for hours tied by the hands to the death-post.
So true is it, and so well known, that Jack came to his death by ill treatment, that a movement was begun at the time by several officers which contemplated the arrest of Cox, and an appeal to the law, and to test the question whether the Maryland Slave Code would shield such a villain, and refuse to punish such and outrage against common humanity, because the victim happened to be only a "chattel." And this was only prevented by circumstances of duty placing them at too remote distance to prosecute their purpose.
The empanneling of the Jury was a screen behind which Cox hoped to hide the evidence of his barbarity. Why, if Jack died a natural death, and Cox was not frightened, was a Jury called to sit on the death of a slave? If "Ben. Franklin," the "upright" jurymen, or any other supporters of slave-murderers in Charles County desire the public to have knowledge of further revelations in that line, they are at hand, and can be given, for the "half has not been told. "Ex
New York, March 22, 1862.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTLON, FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1862
GEN. McCLELLAN'S ADDRESS
This "Address to the Army of the Potomac" was issued on the 14th ultimo. It commenced with the frank admission-"Soldiers, for a long time I have kept you inactive"-a fact too humiliating and too palpable to the country to need special proclamation, but which has caused unbounded satisfaction among those who desire to see the slave oligarchy and a satanic democracy in power again at Washington. The reason assigned by Gen McC. for this protracted inactivity was, that his troops might be "disciplined, armed and instructed." As if, at any time, they were not as competent to take the field as the degraded and miserable rank and file in the army opposed to them! As if half a year, and more, were necessary to make it safe to move with a hundred and fifty thousand men, half a dozen miles in the direction of the enemy! But and additional reason was assigned: "I have held you back [they were eager to go forward long ago] that your might give the death-blow to the rebellion." How such a blow could be given by holding back until compelled by the President to move forward, and then finding nothing to strike, is one of the mysteries belonging to what is funnily described by the Post the Courier as "masterly military strategy." It amounts to the same thing as "a tremendous letting alone." There is something very like this in Midsummer-Night's Dream:-
"Lion-(Gen. McC.)-You, ladies, you whose gentle hearts to fear
The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor,
May now, perchance, both quake and tremble here,
When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar.
Then know that I, one Snug the joiner, am
A lion fell, nor else no lion's dam:
For if I should as lion come in strife
Into this place, [Manassas,]'t were pit on my life.
Theseus-[the Democratic journals passim]-A very gentle beast, and of good conscience.
Demetrius-The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'cr I saw.
Lysander-This lion is very fox for his valor.
Theseus-True; and a goose for his discretion.
Demetrius-Not so, my lord: for his valor cannot carry his discretion; and the fox carried the goose.
Theseus-His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valor; for the goose carried snot the fox. It is well: leave it to his discretion."
And the pro-slavery democratic journals are still voluble in praise of Gen. McClellan's "discretion," which is again illustrated in the following scene in Much Ado About Nothing:-
"Dogberry-This is your charge: You shall comprehend all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand in the Prince's name.
watchman-How, if he will not stand?
Dogb.-Why then, take no note of him, but let him go; and presently call the rest of the watch together, and thank god you are rid of a knave.
Verg.-If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the Prince's subjects.
Dogb.-True, and they are to meddle with none but the Prince's subjects.
Watch.-Well, sir.
Dogb.-If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue of your office, to be no true man; and for such kind of men, the less you meddle or make with them, why, the more is for your honesty.
Watch-If we known him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on him?
Dogb.-Truly, by your office, you may; but I think, they that touch pitch will be defiled: the most peaceable way for you, if you do take a thief, is to let him show himself what he is, and steal out of your company."
That is, or has been up to this present time of writing, the "masterly strategy" of Gen, McClellan, in dealing with the rebels in Virginia: and that, at their own leisure and to accomplish their own plans, they have at last adroitly stolen away from the banks of the Potomac, is pronounced by this Northern secession eulogists full proof of wonderful genius on his part!.
Well,-by the admission of the General,-"the army of the Potomac is now a real army, magnificent in material, admirable in discipline and instruction, and excellently equipped and armed." It was so on the 14th of March, and his language then was, "The moment for action has arrived. The period for inaction [what a confession!] has passed. I will bring you face to face with the rebels. I shall demand of you great and heroic exertions, rapid and long marches, desperate combats and privations." Spasmodic rhetoric this and followed by-what? A repetition of one or two holiday reviews-no facing the enemy-no rapid or slow, now long or short marches-and three weeks have elapsed since these "brave words" were uttered! What a mockery! It is not fault of his army-O no! "I know," he says, "you wish to be on the decisive battle-field. It is my business to place you there." Why doesn't he do it, then? Nobody knows what he is about, or finds him confronting the enemy at any point. Every other department of the army, excepting that under him immediate control, is achieving victory, and driving the rebels before it. Why does he hold back? Is it because he really regards the brave men under him as mere children? "I am to watch over you," he tells them, "as a parent over his children"! This is not very complimentary to them, and it is very egotistical in him. In view of what he has done, or rather failed to do, since he took command of the army of the Potomac, a more ridiculous address than his own was never made by a military leader. The dastardly traitors of the South he describes as "brave foes"- "foemen well worthy of the steel you will use so well"-and sentimentally talks of "this sad war," as though he were a looker-on, and more than half converted to the doctrine of non-resistance!
No matter what Gen. McClellan may do in the way of successful effort hereafter: for the past he can make no atonement.
Mr. Bowles, of the Springfield Republican, who has recently visited Washington, hitherto a warm supporter of McClellan, publishes in his paper a more damaging criticism of him than has yet appeared, even in the New York Tribune. He says:-
"There is not doubt of a great abatement of confidence in Gen. McClellan, on the part of the Cabinet and Congress. The President, too measures what he before gave him without stint. It is not easy to see why, with nearly a quarter of a million of the oldest and best troops of the Union at his command, General McClellan permitted the rebels to press their lines in upon him at all points, and to hold the Potomac, both above and below Washington, all Winter,-why he refused to seize fine opportunities to cut off large detachments of their armies,-why he denied the navy department the cooperation it has for months asked to take Norfolk, and seize the Merrimac before she could execute the mischief that has since startled the country; or why he could not join the naval forces in clearing the Potomac of the rebel batteries, for which they were long ago ready,-why, in the only "stirring up" that he gave the enemy, the preparations for an advance and retreat were so feeble as to result in the Ball's Bluff tragedy,-why he kept Gen. Halleck in check for weeks after that officer was ready to move onward,-why he opposed Gen. Butler's southern expedition until overruled by the War Department,-why he kept promising to move onward, and never did until the President had repeated twice or thrice positive orders to do so,-and why, when he did so, he permitted himself to repeat the farce of the king of France in marching up the hill, and then marching down again? That all these and many more similar things are true of his course as commander-in-chief, I have the most abundant reason to believe. That he has almost sinned away, by postponement and inaction, his day of grace with President and Cabinet, those most cognizant of the opinions of the latter sufficiently know. The new Secretary of War, Mr. Stanton, has been growing in impatience with the estrangement from him ever since he assumed that office; and but for the President's cautious policy, it is quite likely Gen. McClellan would before to-day have been dethroned even from the headship of the army of the Potomac. There was a tremendous pressure from the Senate and a portion of the Cabinet for a change; but the President was firm, and said that though he has relieved him from the general command, in part because he was not satisfied with his course, he had confidence that now he had taken the field at the head of his especial division of the army, he would push forward the campaign as rapidly as possible, and prove worthy of the position."
The Traveller wittily says,-Gen. McClellan is getting on. He has reviewed Gen. McDowell's corps d'armee. When does he mean to view the enemy’s army?
<c04>
THE MOBBING OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
The Newburyport Herald comments upon the dastardly assault upon freedom of speech at Cincinnati, in the person of the noble and gifted Wendell Phillips, in the following characteristic manner:-
"Wendell Phillips has been mobbed at Cincinnati for declaring himself a disunionist. There was no demand for a mob in Cincinnati; there never is any Where; but for the life of us, we can't see why the Government, that fills the prisons with political off enders, should allow this man to be at large, advocating treason over the land. He makes no secret of his views, he declares them in Boston and New York, and in Washington under the very nose of the President. If it can’t take care of such a man, it should open the doors of Fort Warren to Buckner and Barron, and all the rebels great or small".
The Herald is as despicable a sheet, habitually, as comes under our examination. Its editor is George J. L. Colby, an apostate Abolitionist, once an Anti-Slavery lecturer, and editor of an Anti-Slavery paper published at Amesbury, we believe. In the Herald he has never missed an opportunity to stab the sacred cause which he formerly supported, or to spit out his venom at the negro, whose presence throws him into spasms, and for whose expatriation he lustily calls, colorphobia oozing out at every pore of his skin. It is not true, as this slanderer asserts, that Mr. Phillips was "mobbed for declaring himself a disunionist"; for he made no such declaration, but just the reverse, and gave his reasons for it-and the mob was instigated and organized before he uttered a word.
The New York Independent makes the following comments with reference to Mr. Phillips at Cincinnati:
"He went to Cincinnati from Washington, where his adhesion to the Union, his praise of President Lincoln, his earnest zeal for the success of this righteously retributive war, are yet fresh in the admiring memory of thousands. No, he did not recant in Cincinnati! It was his hatred of slavery that brought disfavor. Cincinnati is filled with a horde of secret sympathizers with the South. They are too mean and too selfish to dare an open avowal of their treason. But to egg Phillips was quite safe, and fed their secret hatred of every thing that favors liberty unclogged by slavery. 
"We say it was safe. Cincinnati is almost the nest in which anti-slavery doctrines were hatched in the West. It was in the days of that noble but unfortunate man, Charles Hammond, that Birney's press was mobbed and dragged into the Ohio river; that for days the city was under terror of rioters; that the lamented Dr. Bailey, since so long the pride of the editorial profession, was hated and hooted. There has always been there a noble band of witnesses standing. between the rioters and the timid respectable classes. There is a rotten Southern bottom, a conservative Northern top, and a Christian middle class in Cincinnati, that restrain the lower and stimulate the upper".
The New Hampshire Independent Democrat sensibly remarks:-
"The pretence that the disgraceful assault on Mr. Phillips was occasioned by anything he said is a most paltry one. Men do not go to public meetings already provided with stones and rotten eggs, unless with the previous determination to find something to be displeased at and made an excuse for a row. The assault on Mr. Phillips in Cincinnati was no doubt concocted by some of the pro-slavery men of 'respectability and standing', who put the mob up to their work there as they did last spring in Boston.
The affair can only reflect disgrace on those who continued it, and none on the object of it. Mr. Phillips stands far to high too be injured by such attacks. He has witnessed too many of them in his long experience to be deterred from his labors; and although he is sometimes too bitter, unjust and mistaken, yet he speaks too convincingly in behalf of justice and humanity-ideas that are sure to find their way to the popular heart sooner or later-to render it possible for the friends of slavery and 'oppression to prevent his gaining an audience at last.
The Boston Traveller revives a certain Faneuil Hall reminiscence for general edification as follows:-
"The good old times" would seem to be returning. Wendell Phillips has been mobbed and rotten-egged at Cincinnati; for attempting to speak against slavery. It has been sought to show that he was obnoxious to Hogopolis because of his anti-Union sentiments, but he is not opposed to the Union, as such, and declares that he is not opposed to the Union without slavery. Besides, whatever his opinions, freedom of speech ought to be maintained. Who thought of interfering with Mr. Yancey when he spoke in Faneuil Hall, though he was notoriously a disunionist of the dirtiest water? He was left to inoculate his democratic friends, at whose invitation he visited Boston; and those who liked not his opinions had the privilege of staying away from the meeting he addressed, and they exercised it".
Mr. Phillips has also given a lecture in West Chester, (Pa.) The Times of that place says:-
"Some of the 'Democrats' who attended Wendell Phillip's lecture, last week, may be likened to some other people who "went to scoff, and remained to pray", for they were immensely surprised at the ability, mildness and reasonableness of Mr. Phillips's discourse. They expected to hear a ranting, denunciatory appeal in behalf of unconditional emancipation; but they were disappointed, and their party organs proved to be great liars. We have heard 'Democrats' of the Breckinridge stock declare, that they could endorse nine-tenths of the sentiments. This is getting along 'right well', and if such men were not bound to a corrupt party, they would soon be upholding the Declaration of Independence, and maintaining it to be something more than 'a rhetorical flourish.
Proceeding from Cincinnati to Chicago, to fulfil an engagement there, the Daily Times (satanic democracy, of course) anticipated the delivery of his lecture by the following paragraphs, all designed to draw out the mobocratic element:-
"When Wendell Phillips shall, in his treasonable harangue to-night, argue in favor of the superiority of the black over the white race, it is expected that the Young Men's Association will, as some of their brother fanatics did in Washington, applaud their own degradation. It is expected that they will applaud rapturously when Phillips shall 'curse the Constitution and the Union' ".
"Only a few days ago, Abolitionists in Chicago demanded that certain women, whom they denounced as 'Secessionists', should be driven from the city by violence. We have never heard that any of these women had in public 'cursed the Constitution and the Union' ".
"It is announced that the police authorities of Chicago, instead of closing all the halls in the city against Wendell Phillips, as they should have done, have determined to stand guard around him while he shall 'curse the Constitution and the Union'".
"Who are responsible for the war and all its countless miseries but they, North and South, who 'for nineteen years' have 'cursed the Constitution and the Union' ?"
This villanous attempt to excite a riot utterly failed, and Mr. Phillips was received by a brilliant and crowded audience with the most flattering demonstrations of applause. It is thus that the God of the oppressed ever causes "the wrath of man to praise him", and "the remainder of wrath he restrains".
POSTPONEMENT. It was announced, in our last number, that Miss ANNA R. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, would address the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, in Music Hall, on Sunday next, April 6th. To enable Rev. Mr. CONWAY, of Cincinnati, before his return home, to deliver a discourse on the Death and Resurrection of John Brown, at that time, the address by Miss Dickinson is postponed to the fourth Sunday in April. Mr. Conway and his theme, no doubt, will attract a large audience. A native of Virginia, surrounded by all the perverting influences of slavery from childhood to adult age, for several years past he has been faithful and fearless, as well as able and eloquent, in his advocate of the Anti-Slavery cause; and, dead to all geographical prejudices and influences, he is nobly contending for universal freedom and a truly democratic government, and against slavery and secession "to the death".
GOVERNORS OF NEW ENGLAND STATES. B. B. Russell, 515 Washington street, has published a fine steel engraving containing excellent likenesses of the present Governors of the New England States. The picture consists of an oval centre, representing Bunker Hill Monument, with the likenesses in oval form around it.
INFERNALISM. For as infernally malignant and murderous an article as could be concocted by the most depraved fiend in the bottomless pit, read the most depraved fiend in the bottomless pit, read the article from the NEW YORIK Journal of commerce, in the "Refuge of Oppression", headed "John Brownism". Where can it be matched?
<c05>
CROSS-EXAMINATION.
The Baltimore American of Feb. 19th publishes a letter from "Ben. Franklin", who represents himself as a Justice of the Peace, and denies the statements recently made in various papers respecting the deliberate killing of the slave Jack by his master, Samuel Cox.
Now-setting aside for a moment the well-known fact that slavery cultivates a habit of falsehood alike in the master and the slave. so that the exculpatory statement of a slaveholder in a matter of this sort is not for a moment to be trusted-let us see what portions of this terrible narrative remain undenied, even by the apologist, and what portions are expressly admitted.
It is not denied that the slave accused his master of the concealment of arms in aid of the rebellion, nor that these arms were found and seized in consequence of Jack's testimony.
It is expressly admitted that Jack acted as "guide" to the Federal soldiers, when he first went among them; that the soldiers protected the loyal slave, when his master was impudent enough to demand his surrender; and that a Captain of the regiment volunteered to kidnap the loyalist, and to deliver him up to the rebel, "dead or alive"!
It is not denied that the negro, kidnapped and bound, was "caused," by means of a rope, to follow a man on horseback about eleven miles, reaching Cox's home about 11 o'clock in the evening. The apologist represents that Cox "caused" only the latter part of this journey, and "caused" the slave only to walk, not to run. Suppose we admit that the brutal kidnapper dragged the pinioned man behind his horse the first six miles, then delivered him to his rebel master so far exhausted that he could go no faster than a walk. Does that help the matter very much?
It is expressly admitted that the negro was flogged "with a leather strap" that same Friday night; that on Saturday night a Justice of the peace was called to hold an inquest on his dead body; that the marks of the flogging were found upon him ; and that one of the negroes (it is to be remembered that no negro there is allowed to testify against a white man) declared, in evidence of the general kindness and moderation of him master, that he had never known him to whip one "thus". This bit of incidental evidence does not tally exactly with the testimony of the "physician in attendance," that not a mark, scratch or bruise was to be found upon his body, "save a few impression of the leather strap across the glutia muscles". This doctor does not tell us whether these impression were in flesh color or blood color; but he volunteers the sapient opinion that "he would have died about the same time if he had not received a single stripe".
The language of the verdict is noteworthy and remarkable. Its terms agree precisely with the facts alleged in the original accusation, yet are cautiously so framed as to admit and suggest a different meaning; and this selection of terms is precisely what would be made by slaveholders of the class called "respectable", on being compelled to take open and public action on an outrage of this sort, disgraceful to their whole class, as well as to the particular person accused.
This is the verdict: "Negro Jack came to his death from long-continued exposure, fatigue and excitement".
This is just what the original accuser said. The "exposure, fatigue and excitement" of being beaten three hours with a leather strap, by the alternate efforts of three men, is certainly enough to cause death, when avowedly intended to accomplish that purpose.
When we consider what sorts of men are called respectable and worthy in a slaveholding region, the ingenious selection of terms in this verdict, the preference of evasion to direct falsehood displayed in it, corroborates the testimony of "Ben. Franklin" that the jury of inquest were "twelve as upright men as the county affords".
That Cox, the accused, should be declared "one of our best citizens" by the apologist, is quite according to custom. Such certificates are readily given to any Southerner who is rich enough to own slaves. It will be remembered that the lynching of abolitionists and the burnings alive of slaves, at the South are generally performed by "our first and most respectable citizens".
The allegations that all the rest of Cox's negroes, when inquired of by him pro-slavery neighbor, declare themselves to be "happy and contented," and their master to be "one of the most indulgent and kind," are too much matters of course to be worth commenting on. Of course, they didn't wish another such inquest to be held upon them. In such circumstances, the precise testimony desired is given with great promptness. Slaves know very well how to take care of themselves in cases of that kind.
there seems but little chance of justice being done upon the murderer, in this world. But will not some of those humane soldiers who rescued Jack from the open attempt at capture now give us the name of the kidnapping "Captain," and the particulars of his baseness? Ought not Hooker's division to be purged of at least one of its Colonels and one of its Captains?-C. K. W.

TOUR OF WILLIAM WELLS BROWN.
William Wells Brown returned last week from a highly successful tour through the State of New York. Besides his lyceum engagements, he gave free lectures in a number of the places he visited, on "The War and its connection with Slavery." He has done a good work in some towns hitherto beyond the reach of the anti-slavery lecturer. Poughkeepsie, for instance, has always been considered a place where little or no impression could be made in favor of our cause. Mr. Brown's first lecture there was given in the colored people's church. At the conclusion of it, he was invited to repeat the lecture in the large Universalist Church, on the 12th ult. The house was filled in every part on the occasion, and of his effort the Evening Express speaks in terms of unqualified and hearty praise.
After delivering a second lecture to the citizens generally, Mr. Brown was requested to give a reading of his new Drama on "Life at the South." With this request he complied, and the (Poughkeepsie) Daily Eagle, in allusion to it, spoke as follows:-
"William Wells Brown is a competent witness to the evils of slavery, having been may years under the lash, and he has redeemed himself therefrom to speak in eloquent and effective words against the sum of all villanies. His lectures are among the best ever delivered on that subject here, as all who heard them testify, and his drama interested and amused his audience, bringing the subject before them more vividly seemed to have been highly relished by the audience."
At the close of the reading, a motion was made, and unanimously adopted, inviting Mr. Brown to address the people of Poughkeepsie on the present crisis. The Daily Eagle of the 18th ult. says of the lecture:
"The lecture by Wm. Wells Brown, last evening was attended by a very large audience. He thought the difficulty in settling our national difficulties was not so much what to do with the slaves as what to do with the masters. He argued that the rebellion could never be suppressed till slavery was abolished. His remarks were received with applause."
We rejoice to see that the people in a place like Poughkeepsie are beginning to wake up to their duty in regard to the oppressed of our land. Mr. Brown's lecture on "What shall we do with the Traitors, and What shall be done with their slaves?" is highly spoken of where it has been delivered. He has already been invited to give it in several places in this vicinity, and we trust he will have as many more invitations as he can possibly comply with. M.
It will be seen by her letter on our fourth page, that Mrs. HARRIET MARTINEAU has withdrawn as the foreign correspondent of the Anti-Slavery Standard for the reason therein set forth.  Some comments upon it, intended for our present number, must to deferred till next week.
<c06>
WILLIAM CARLOS MARTYN.
YALE COLLEGE, MARCH 29th, 1862.
MR. GARRISON:
MY DEAR SIR,-The Liberator came to me yesterday, containing a letter from WM. CARLOS MARTYN, with your endorsement of that gentleman as person worthy of the confidence of the public. Now, Sir, I deem it my duty to tell you my reasons for regarding him as entirely unworthy of confidence.
Mr. Martyn is an old acquaintance of mine, with whose character and abilities I have-been familiar for some five or six years.
During my Freshman year, I met a gentleman, one day, on the college grounds, who inquired for the room of WM. C. Martyn, of the freshman class. I informed him that there was no such person in College He then told me that he had made the acquaintance of Martyn sometime previous in Boston; that Martyn told him he was a member of my class at Yale, and gave him the number of his room, and invited him to call on him. The gentleman was passing through New Haven, and had called to see Martyn, and showed me the address "Which Martyn gave him, viz., "W. C. Martyn, No. 5, South Centre, Yale College." Now, Martyn has never been at Yale at all, and there is no such building here as South Centre. The gentleman was a man of intelligence, and seemed much grieved and chagrined at the faithlessness of Martyn.
A few months ago, Martyn made his appearance at Leroy, in Genesee County, N. Y., as an anti-slavery lecturer. He then stated that he was member of the Senior Class in Yale, and that his scholarship was so high that the Faculty had allowed him to be absent for an indefinite period, which he was anxious to improve in the cause of the slave. The friends of a classmate of mind, whose home is at Leroy, asked him if he knew that gentleman Fearing to involve himself, Martyn answered that he did not know him, because he was in another division, and the different divisions had nothing in common. This excited suspicion, and a letter was written to my classmate here, making inquiries about Martyn. They were informed that he was not a member of College, and that; "consequently, he had been guilty of deception.
Now, what are we to think of such conduct and such evidence? I knew you must be ignorant of the true character of Martyn, or you would never have endorsed him thus to the public. I have taken the pains to tell you some of the facts known to me, lest you should doubt the sufficiency of the grounds for my opinion.
you are at liberty to make any use of this letter, or to call upon me for any further information in my possession.
With great respect,
Your obedient servant,
REMARKS. The writer of the above letter (whose name is at the service of the accused) is a responsible member of Yale College, and we deem it due to all parties concerned to publish it trusting that Mr. Martyn will be able fully to exonerate himself from the imputation thus cast upon his integrity. What motive he could have-anti-slavery wise-in falsely assuming to be a student at Yale, we are utterly at a loss recommendation among Abolitionists. Knowing nothing to his discredit,-that he had repressed,-that he was a young man of unusual intellectual promise,-and being informed that it was his wish and intention to lecture in a few places in this State, during the present month, in furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause,-we gave him the brief but friendly introduction contained in our last number. It will be obvious to him, however, that, before going into the field, it will be his first duty to reply to the damaging charges brought against him by our New Haven correspondent; and; of course, we shall promptly publish what ever defence or explanation he may wish to make.

LITERARY TASTE OF THE COLORED PEOPLE.
Beside contributing liberally to the support of the various lectures and other library entertainments which have taken place in Boston during the past winter, the colored citizens have kept up a series of library and historical lectures and entertainments for their moral, social and mental elevation. On Monday evening of last week, the "Union Progressive Association" gave their first exhibition at the Joy Street Church, for the purpose of raising means to make additions to their library. The exhibition consisted of speeches, readings and recitations, original and selected, which reflected great credit upon the association. During the evening, Mr. George W. Potter read a very able and interesting essay on Crispus Attacks and John Brown, which was finely delivered, and received with marked applause. Seldom have we heard a better display of truly genuine eloquence than occurred in some of its passages. The essay was Mr. Potter's own production. The declamation by Mr. John A. Newby, on "Eloquence," was tastefully rendered. Mr. Wm. G. Butler did ample justice to "Hotspur’s Account of the Fop." The dialogue between "Edward and Warwick" was well represented by Richard T. Greener and Albert Jackson. William H. Simpson, the distinguished young artist, had a most difficult piece in the recitation of "The Maniac," but he did himself great credit, and showed that he possessed genius of a high order in the art of declaiming, as well as in the use of the brush and pallet. Their performance was concluded with a colloquy, written by Wm. C. Nell, which had in it considerable merit, and gave general satisfaction. The "Jonathan Gamut" of Mr. J. H. Shaw was very good. He looked, walked, talked and acted the green down-easter, in genuine Yankee style, and history could not well be beat. Success to the "Progressive Union"!
On the following evening, (Tuesday,) at the same place, an entertainment was given for the benefit at the fugitives in Kansas. This consisted of dramatic and poetical readings by Mrs. Louisa De Mortie and Miss Susa Cluer. The first piece, a dialogue between "Old Fickle and Son," was finely read by both ladies on the "Shirt Button" gave Miss Cluer an excellent opportunity to show her comic powers. Whittier's "Maud Muller" was given in a superior manner by Mrs. DeMortie'. The same lady also read "The Leap from the Long Bridge," by Grace Greenwood, Whittier's Toussaint L'Ouverture, and his celebrated "stanzas for the Times," to the entice sati probation by frequent rounds of applause. Of Miss Cluer's ability as a reader we need say nothing, for her reputation in that line has long been established. Of Mrs. DeMortie's capabilities we must offer a few words. This was her first appearance in public, and her friends felt no little interest in her success. However, she soon dispelled all doubts, and convinced every one that she possessed rare genius, that needed only an opportunity for development. Mrs. DeMortie has a voice of great richness and expression, which tells effectively on an audience. She evinces talent for tragic and comic representations seldom combined. But her great powers lie in tragedy. We should like to hear her read "Hamlet," "The Tempest," "The Maniac," or "The Gambler's Wife." In reading "The Leap from the Long Bridge," she exhibited, in some of its passages, traits that called to mind the finest displays of Fanny Kemble, Miss Glinn, or Mrs. Barrow. Should Mrs. DeMortie make reading a profession, she will attain a high position. Thus one after another of the oppressed race rises up, Thus one after another of the oppressed race rises up; and testifies that 
"Flecey locks and dark complexion
"Cannot forfeit Nature's claim." B.
For a sketch of an eloquent and stirring speech "On the American Crisis," by HENEN VINCENT, of England, the popular orator in the cause of Reform, see next page.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE LIBERATOR.
HENRY VINCENT ON THE AMERICAN CRISIS.
On Monday evening, March 15th, an immense concourse of influential ladies and gentlemen overflowed the Assembly Rooms, Bedford, (England,) to listen to an oration from Henry Vincent on the present American Crisis. Tickets for the meeting were eagerly purchased, and crowds began to assemble as early as seven o'clock, although the chair was not to be taken until eight. Mr. Rowland Hill presided. It was remarkable to witness the deep interest manifested the great theme of the orator, and heart-stirring to listen to the enthusiastic and repeated cheers with which he was greeted. A more important meeting could not have been held. We regret we have only power to give the faintest outline of Mr. Vincent's remarkable oration. He spoke fully two hours. Mr. Vincent Commenced by warning his hearers of the impossibility of understanding the American subject in the light of Lincoln's election to the presidency, or of the question of a tariff, or of our own griefs, or of the scandalous falsehoods of the Times newspaper. It was necessary to know something of American history, of the structure of the American people, and of the formation, development, and character of their social and political institutions, Mr. Vincent then described the populations of America, their character and origin, the slave institution, the boundiese territory of the Union, with its vast rivers, stupendous lakes, extensive forests, &c. The war of independence was described, and the union of the States under the Constitution of a Federal Republic. At the convention which formed the Union, no difficulty was felt on the questions which convulse the Old World. Driven by the force of events upon the elective principle, the Republic was the only possible Government; the Republic sustained by an elective House and Senate, reflecting in its laws and usages the common and statute laws of the mother country. All parties had fought for independence; the colored man and the white man shoulder to shoulder; and there was an implied agreement as they marched under a common motto-"All men are born free and equal"-that white and black alike, freed from the rule of the mother country, should participate in the blessings of freedom, (Loud applause.) Free churches and free schools sprung like poetry from the fabled head of the Greeks, "mature at once," almost without debate. (Applause.) But the question that confronted the fathers of this Republic was the one question of slavery. "How can we found a Republic that gives legal guarantees for this horrid system of slavery?" Washington and Jefferson, though implicated in slavery, lifted up their voices against it; and the difficulty was only tided over by a "compromise." It was, after stormy debates, agreed that slavery never form part of the political Federal or Constitutional power. It was agreed that slavery should be local, exceptional, municipal; should depend for its life or death, not upon the Federal Government, but upon the separate States, as they chose to uphold or destroy it. Each State should come into the Union as it existed, "with all its social peculiarities"; with the full right to all freedom of action not incompatible with the safety of the Federal Union and Republic. (Cheers). Not a few of the founders of the Union expressed their belief that this Compromise was a high proof of wisdom, that slavery would be gradually abolished by State action; and to make plain to the world that slavery has no political status in the Union, the first clause of the Declaration of Independence affirmed that "all men are born free and equal" (Renewed applause.) The slaveholder, with their 700,000 slaves, acquiesced in this arrangement, fearing to challenge in the then revolutionary state of the public mind a debate on their infernal institution; and amid the roaring of artillery and shouts of the populace, and in the face of European absolution, the American Republic arose, a light to the oppressed nations, a new and eloquent chapter in the history of humanity. (Loud cheers.)
Mr. Vincent then explained how, after the excitement of the Revolutionary War, several of the States abolished slavery-how the application of steam to manufacturing industry gave a sudden and almost indefinite expansion to the cotton trade-how the South, with its growth of indigo, rice, tobacco, and especially cotton, rose with rapidity into the most important exporting part of the Union. He traced the growth of trade influence from South of North-showed how the desire for peace and trade led mercantile men in the North to deprecate any agitation on the slave question, until slavery was strongly upheld in the South as a social necessity, and winked at in the North as a commercial advantage. He gave a vigorous sketch of the slave institution, and of the slaveholders. He described how this Slave power was necessarily supreme in the slave’ States, and how it was able to make Presidents, and fill the Senate and Representative Assembly with slaveholders and their friends. He showed that the slaveocracy, acting in the presence of the farmers of the West and the traders and workers of the North, overwhelmed all opposition, and became (in spite of the Constitution) the one prevailing political power of the Union. He then traced its corrupting tendency upon the Northern mind-how it debauched the’ public conscience, invaded the pulpit and school, mastered the ballot-box, coiling itself like a serpent around the whole body politic, spitting its poison into the heart and brain of the Republic.
The rise of the Abolitionists was sketched, and their long heroic struggle to awaken the public conscience, and how they were brutally confronted by Southern demagogues and Northern rowdies. The steady growth of the North, the purchase of Louisiana and the expansion of the South, the rapid exhaustion of the soil by slave labor, the necessity for the South to find new territories, and the rise of the desire to encroach upon the free soil of the North, were all explained. The scandalous schemes of the South to take Cuba and to invade Mexico, how slavery was always bringing America into conflict with England on the right of search and other question incidental to the slave trade, were all set forth. "From the first," said the orator, emphatically, "slavery and slaveholders have been the curse of the nation, the root of all American difficulties-the dishonor of the Republic-the opprobrium of the world." (Loud cheering.)
Mr. Vincent next explained the rise of the "compromise parties, "North and South, "who endeavored to trim the balances between freedom and slavery," until the rise of the Free Soil party-the party that first felt that slavery was killing the Republic, and that it must be resisted. Standing upon the Constitution, the Free Soil party resolved to defend the free soil of America, and to limit slavery to its existing area. This led to new battles; but the growth of numbers and wealth in the North increased steadily the power of the Free Soldiers. The influence of time and education upon the slaves was explained-how the slaves, "when they found out they had heads, began to run away from the flag of a republic to the flag of a glorious old English monarchy." "The black," said Mr. Vincent, "ran, but the whitey-browns galloped; for it is a fact that a single drop of Anglo-Saxon blood infects a colored man with a tingling in his toes and knees, and he gallops away." (Laughter and cheers.)
Mr. Vincent then described the agitation for a "Fugitive Slave Bill" -a bill that sought to violate the constitutional pact by compelling the Federal Power to undertake the defence of slavery by arresting runaway slaves. This, though a blow at liberty, stuck a pin in the very vitality of the Slave Power. The North roused itself; and, though the Fugitive Slave Bill was passed, the conviction was deepened, in all the Northern States, that the hour of an American crisis was at hand. Harriet Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin" deepened this conviction, (immense applause,) and the whole Union moved under the influence of a new conscientious and mental life.
Mr. Vincent then advanced to Buchanan's election
<c02>
to the Presidency against Col. Fremont, the Free Soil candidate, the numbers voting for Col. Fremont giving an ominous warning to the slaveholders and their minions that their long lease of power was drawing to a close. The conspiracies of the Southern leaders, who were in office under Buchanan, all proved that the South, feeling the ground of its supremacy slipping away, prepared for any crime, for any treason or rebellion for the overthrow of the Republic, for the preservation of their ascendancy in the Union, or for the defence of their slave institutions under a separate government. The plunder of the arsenals-the scattering of the fleet-the pilfering of the treasury-the villany of Floyd and other vile men-was denounced. Floyd, Buchanan's late Secretary, was one of the greatest scamps in the Union-excepting, perhaps, Bennett, of New York, a fellow whose paper was so often quoted by the Times, when the Times (so long anxious for a war with France, and the bitter opponent of the French treaty of Commerce) wanted, in its diabolical fury, to promote a war with America. (Prolonged applause.)
Mr. Vincent next described the union of Northern parties for the choice of the next President, and the choice feel upon tough Abe Lincoln, as fine a piece of oak as you will find in the whole Union. "I perceive," said Mr. Vincent, "that a learned orator in Kent, Mr. Beresford Hope, in addressing an audience sometime ago, called him, amid the laughter of a stupid assembly, "a wood-splitter.' Yes; he began life at the foot of the tree, working his way upwards, carving A. L. upon the rind, as boys are apt to do, until by a marvellous growth, the carving has swelled into A. Lincoln, President of the American Republic. (Loud cheers.) I caution you against accepting the Times' portraiture of Lincoln-at least, until the Times puts in the "finishing touch." (Loud laughter.) The Times will yet turn gracefully round, without a single word of apology for all its falsehoods. (Cheers.) I could write the article in which the "turn" will be performed, only I should not like to take the fee out of the pocket of the gentleman who will have to write it. (Laughter.) I see the article before me in my mind's eye. I see the small capitals in the first line: "AMERICA HAS PASSED THORUGH A TRYING CRISIS IS HER CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY-LIKE ENGLAND IN HER ClVIL WARS, SHE HAS PASSED THIS CRISIS VICTORIOUSLY AND WITH HONOR.OUR READERS WILL REMEMBER, THAT DURING THE DARKEST PHASES OF THE LATE UNHAPPY STRUGGLE, WE NEVER DESPAIRED OF THE REPUBLIC. (Great and prolonged cheering.) To have despaired of America would have been to despair of the Anglo-Saxon race. But while we do honor to the greatness of the American people, we must never forget that remarkable man, who, called to the Presidency at so critical a period, has, by his good sense, rare modesty, firm will, incorruptible integrity, and lofty sagacity, carried the Union over all difficulties; entitling himself to receive the hearty homage of the friends of self-government throughout the world." (Cheers.)
Mr. Vincent then described Lincoln's election, and the immediate revolt of South Carolina and the other slave States, and the Constitution of the Slave Confederacy "upon the basis of slavery." Buchanan's timidity or treachery was explained, and Lincoln's quiet "walk" to the Presidential chair to face a great rebellion, without army or navy, and with an empty purse. Lincoln took the oath to the Union, stood upon the conservative ground of the Constitution, expressed his sorrow at the strife raging, and stated that he was ready to cover the property of the Union with the flag of the Government, but equally ready to listen to any proposition for the peaceful adjustment of existing difficulties. The South was quick in her movements. The dregs of her buccaneering expeditions were in motion, an army quickly improvised, pushed upon Washington, and the Southern leaders were speculating upon division in the North, and upon the certainty that England and France would, for the sake of Cotton, enter into a compact with the Devil, and acknowledge their criminal slave confederacy, or break any blockade the North might be able to establish. They forgot one thing, that Earl Russell was at the head of the Foreign Office in England. (Great applause.) "I consider," said Mr. Vincent, "without Wishing to be irreverent, that the fact of Earl Russell being at the Foreign Office is quite Providential in the present crisis of European and American affairs. I have never flattered great men, and it his Lordship condescended to notice my poor opinion, he would never deem me sycophantic when I declare that I know of no man who could have acted with more honor towards Italy, (cheers,) with more wisdom and moderation and firmness towards America, than he has done. (Prolonged applause.) His lordship has been true to the traditions of his noble house. (Cheers.) He has vindicated in Italy, by references to our illustrious example in 1688, the right of an oppressed people to defend their honor and freedom, and to expel from their thrones their corrupt and oppressive rulers (great applause); and in the unhappy mistake made by the American captain in the Trent affair, he has with equal consistency upheld that right of asylum which never must be abandoned under the glorious English flag." (Enthusiastic cheers.)
Mr. Vincent explained the haste of the South in attacking Fort Sumter, how that event pricked the honor of the North, causing the entire population to rise behind Lincoln, shouting "The Union for ever!" The attempt to raise an army, the arrival of the three months' soldiers at Washington, the Bull's Run defeat, were vividly sketched. "Bull's Run," said Mr. Vincent, "saved the Republic-it taught the North it had its work to do, and from that moment commenced those vast preparations that are now coiling themselves round this criminal rebellion, and which must ultimately destroy it. The struggle at first is necessarily for the Border States. In a little time, the rebellion will be driven out of the Border States. The slaves of rebels will be confiscated by military law. The slaves of loyal masters in the Border States will be freed by compensation, and the insurrection will be cooped into the slave States proper. You will read in the Times rigmarole articles about the difficulties before the North. Wait and see! (Loud applause.) God's curse must rest upon the slaveholders-not upon the slaves. (Renewed applause.) In the nature of things, the South must be beaten-no human power can save it. It contains all the elements of ruin and demoralization in its own bosom. Vices that may not be named overwhelm its white people, partly introduced into families by the black servants who have been first degraded by slavery. Perjury, lust, murder, outraged humanity, destruction to all holy family ties, cry aloud to Heaven from the very heart of its social life. The North is not all that we could wish it to be, but the North contains a fine population, hardy, enterprising, heroic, virtuous! (Cheers.) In the midst of all its shortcomings, the North is instinct with real life. I have heard shallow men speak of the failure of American institutions! Gentlemen, the failure begins with slavery, and it will end there. (Great applause.) All nations have their peculiar difficulties. England has been severely tried by many combats. From the conflicts of the Heptarchy, through the era of the Norman kings, in the revolt under John, through the storms of the Reformation-through the wars of the Roses-through the stupendous Struggle between the Parliament and King Charles, in the days of gigantic Cromwell-through the vile reigns of the second Charles and James-to the glorious Revolution of 1688, she has marched in the upward career of freedom and glory, shaking all her difficulties, by God's great mercy, like dust from her feet (Loud applause.) Who will dare to talk of the failure of English institutions? (Loud cheers.) America is a part of ourselves. (Cheers.) We can bear to hear Austria, or the Pope, drivel about the failure of liberty in America; but that Englishmen should speak this political blasphemy is a treason against the law of progress and the dearest interests of the human race. (Prolonged applause.) It is the weakest drivel to suppose that America, will not survive her constitutional crisis. She will do it-she
<c03>
must do it. (Renewed applause.) Out of this conflict she will come stronger in her moral and intellectual life—more worthy of her Anglo-Saxon origin— more worthy of her industrial power and of her political liberty. (Load applause.) I lift my prophecy, arrogant though it may seem, against all comers—against dilletante politicians, slaveholders, and conspirators against human freedom—against time-servers, dandies, and weak-minded believers in "reaction" against the progress of the world. (Great applause.) I believe in God; therefore I believe that slavery must fall! I believe in Christianity; therefore I know that the Southern rebellion must fall. (Renewed applause.) Failure of American institutions! Yes, they who have thus drivelled have a hard file to bite. I go further! The whole earth is filled with commotion—a clashing of opinions, a movement of mind, indicating the steady decline of superstition and despotism, and the rapid growth of intelligence and liberty; and in America it shall be seen that a Republic can not only be founded and upheld, but that that Republic can triumph over the foulest treason, and vindicate by its successes the cause of justice and the rights of men.
Mr. Vincent resumed his seat amidst the loudest demonstrations of applause, which rung again and again throughout the vast assembly.
Mr. Vincent again rose, with the whole meeting, which joined in singing "God Save the Queen."
Three times three cheers were given "for the triumph of liberty all the world over."
Three cheers were also heartily given for Henry Vincent, and the meeting quietly dispersed.
LIFE PICTURES AT WASHINGTON.
A few weeks since, the Fraternity enjoyed a mental feast in listening to the lecture of CHARLES H. BRAINARD, Esq., on "Life Pictures at Washington." His graphic delineation of men and manners, as observed during his several years' sojournings at the capital, should be heard on every lyceum platform in New England—possessing as it does a varied interest for those who have, as well as those who have not, been residents at Washington.
His chapter on the distinguished men of the nation, with reminiscences of their sayings and doings, both within and outside the Senate Chamber and House of Representatives, is, alone, abundant in the materials which always amuse as well as instruct an audience.
The "peculiar institution" receives from him such rebukes, en passant, as give assurance of a heart beating active for its immediate removal; and by the way, the progress of events indicates that at least as far as the National Capital is concerned, slavery is fast becoming a dissolving view.
Mr. Brainard has kindly consented to repeat this lecture at the Joy Street Church on Tuesday evening, April 8th, for the benefit of the Fugitive Aid Society. Their course, thus far, has been quite successful, consisting of a lecture by Rev. J. Sella Martin, select readings by Miss Susa Cluer and Mrs. Louisa DeMortie, and a lecture from Rev. Wm. R. Alger. The Boston Quartette Club will also sing in connection with the lecture of Mr. Brainard. The ladies, under whose auspices this benevolent mission is being promoted, deserve warm commendation.
Boston, March 31st, 1862. W.C.N.
GENERAL McCLELLAN.
Some of those persons who have assumed that no remarks should be made concerning General McClellan's military conduct have, with equal ignorance and complacency, pointed to the censures that were passed upon Washington, adding, that as those who criticised Washington's conduct are now remembered only to be laughed at, so will the men who have questioned General McClellan's wisdom in some respects be embalmed only in contempt. General McClellan is said to be a gentleman of very extensive knowledge, and he must have read these observations of his friends with a smile of derision on his face. There can be no comparison made between his case and that of Washington, for he stands, so far as military matters go, in a position the reverse of Washington's, and much resembling that which was held, first by Sir William Howe, and then by Sir Henry Clinton. Those English Generals had at their command the resources of a great empire, and it was expected of them that they should conquer the Americans, who occupied, technically, the position of rebels. Washington was the commander of an army that was contending for freedom, and that army was but ill supplied with everything that is necessary to render an army strong. It was badly armed, badly clothed, badly fed, and badly paid. It was almost always inferior to that of the enemy in numbers, when the scene of action was near to the enemy's headquarters at Philadelphia and New York. The men, therefore, who censured Washington for not attacking the English were exceeding foolish men, and they are now estimated at their proper value, as probably they were then, by all reflecting people. General McClellan never has labored under any of those disadvantages, the existence of which prevented Washington from acting, and forced him to remain upon a watchful defensive throughout the greater part of his career as American commander. He has always been superior in numbers to the secessionists, and for most of his time he has had three soldiers for every one possessed by the Generals opposed to him. He has had the most and the best artillery, the best infantry weapons, and as good cavalry as the enemy have had. The sea has been at his command. His army has never suffered from the want of money, of arms, of clothing, of food, or of shelter. The entire resources of a nation at once patriotic and rich have been lavishly poured out at his feet, and for months no man so much as dared to question his superhuman ability, the criticism to which objection is made being of recent exhibition, and when the country had become tired of nothing being done with means so enormous, and with abilities said to be so gigantic. There can be no comparison made between his position and that of Washington, though of contrast between the two there might everything be said. Washington did strike effective blows at the enemy at times when his means were very limited, as witness Trenton and Princeton, gained over a victorious, advancing foe, while General McClellan gains no victories over a retreating foe. Washington was always ready to take the offensive when he had the means of delivering battle effectively. He did so at Germantown, and though he lost the field, his vigor had a beneficial effect. He did so when the enemy left Philadelphia, harassing their retreat, and fighting the battle of Mon-mouth. When he was enabled to get a strong army together, and to acquire temporary command of the sea, he marched several hundred miles to meet the best General and the best army the English had in America, and defeated and captured them. That is the way Washington, having an army, answered the men who condemned his inaction when he had no army that could face the enemy. Let General McClellan do half as much, he having forty times Washington's means, and his contemporaries and history will do him ample justice.—Boston Traveller.
General McClellan has so much to do in the business of reviewing troops, that he can't get them into the field. It is a most extraordinary circumstance that, though it is now eight months since he began his labors at Washington, and he has been supported and supplied as never before was a commander, he has done nothing to damage the enemy, and that the secession soldiery seem to have the same control over his mind that they used to have, as civilians, over the minds of our political leaders. He is afraid of something, but of what, it is not in human power to say. We can but guess, and our guess is that, while he is personally brave, he is deficient in that moral courage which enables men to "take the responsibility,' and to attempt great actions. He thinks much of the consequences of defeat, and but little of the effects of victory. A bold and skilful commander would have had possession of Norfolk weeks ago, and, instead of passing his time in the foppery of reviews, he would have employed his troops in the real work of war. It is not by inviting the English Minister and distinguished Canadians to look at a parade that foreign respect is to be gained for the Union, but by beating the enemy,—and the enemy are not to be beaten by armies that are kept busy doing nothing at the capital.—Ibid.
The Pro-Slavery, Secession-sympathizing Democratic press is much exercised lest somebody will do injustice to Gen. McClellan. We guess he won't be wronged. People have a right to inquire why he let the enemy slip away so sleek from Manassas, after threatening so audaciously the capital of the nation for ten months. Gen. McClellan has his true and lasting fame to make as a great commander yet; he has not made it. Who is to blame for that? He has a chance to make it, for he has the best army in the world, with some of the best officers in the country as his subordinates. We hope he will prove himself a great commander, for such a one the country wants in the place he occupies. Why don't some of these newspapers that so take Gen. McClellan under their patronage, and that hare been abusing Fremont, just
<c04>
stop off a little of their abuse, now that’ the Pathfinder' stands entirely exonerated from this false charges, and has been assigned one of the most important commands in the army?-Concord, [N.H.] Independent Democrat.
RIOT IN BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY.
ANOTHER ATTACK ON FREE SPEECH.
BURLINGTON, MARCH 28, 1862.
A riot of magnitude was expected here last night, but the timely precautions of Mayor Allen prevented serious disturbances. The origin of the difficulty and its results will be ascertained by the perusal of the following facts, gleaned from official sources:
On the 22nd of February, Col. James W. Wall was invited by the common Council of Burlington to deliver an address on the “Compromises of the Constitution”. 
Col. Wall in will be recollected, was arrested here as a Rebel sympathizer, incarcerated in Fort Lafayette, and subsequently released without parole. In his address he took the ground that the Constitution was a compromise. The hall was crowded, many Republicans who opposed his views being present. There was no disturbance.
To answer the address of Col. Wall, Rev. Samuel Aaron, a clergyman of Mount Holley, was invited. The following is a copy of the notice published in the Burlington papers;-
“The Rev. Samuel Aaron is to give a lecture, admittance free, at the City Hall, next Thursday evening, the 27th inst., at 7 1-2 o'clock. Subject: 'Our Constitution.' He means to elaborate the idea that the Constitution of the United States is not a compromise between right and wrong, but a covenant between the whole nation and all its parts to establish justice and secure and cherish liberty, to protect patriotism and punish traitors.'
The invitation was extended by the Mayor of Burlington and other prominent citizens of the place, and it was understood to be a reply to the arguments of Col. Wall.
Last night, when the lecturer commenced his discourse, the hall was crowded, two thirds of the congregation being ladies. There were no indications of disturbance. Mr. Aaron proceeded, and among his first declamatory remarks was an assault upon Gen. McClellan, who, he said, had been frightened by wooden guns. 
A voice demanded, "what have you to say against McClellan?" The speaker said he was only commenting upon facts. "Yes," replied his interrogator, "if McClellan had a black stripe down his back he would suit you better." Mr. Aaron proceeded again for some ten minutes. He spoke of John Brown as being a martyr to principle-as a week, heavenly minded man, who went down South with peaceful intentions; whose sole object was to free the bondman from his shackles, and the bloody assassins murdered him.
He went on to say Colonel Wall had recently delivered a lecture in this hall, in which he had charged the Abolitionists with denouncing the Constitution as a “league with hell, and a covenant with death." He did not believe this, unless the declaration of judge Taney was correct-that the negro was not a citizen. If that decision was true, then he [the Rev. Mr. Aaron did not hesitate to declare that the constitution was a league with hell, and a covenant with death,” and sooner it was abolished the better.
Here there was a blast of eggs aimed at the speaker, but none of which touched him. The confusion which followed was almost undesirable. Ladies became frantic with alarm, and some jumped from the hall windows, about eight feet from the ground. None were, however, seriously injured, a sprained ankle being about the most serious damage. The lecturer stopped during the most serious damage. The lecturer stopped during the occurrence, but subsequently resumed his remarks. 
He dwelt with severity upon the last administration, denouncing with particular vehemence president Buchanan. He spoke of William Lloyd Garrison as a very much abused man, and des him as a great defender of liberty. He declared that the men who abused Wendell Phillips were unworthy to tie his shoe-latches, and said that he (Mr. Aaron) had been for years laboring to bring the public mind to a right way of thinking on this subject, and that the people of the North, he was proud to say, where now flocking to the platform he had stood upon for so many years. 
Here there was another volley of eggs, and intense excitement. The Mayor, who was on the platform with the speaker, left it for the purpose of suppressing the disturbance. As he proceeded to the entrance of the hall, he found it blocked up by exasperated people. A city constable was discovered in the condition of being throttled by one of the rioters. Constables Charles Williams and Thomas Richardson were in the melee.
The Mayor interfered with energy, separating the combatants, and succeeded in arresting and securing of the offender, a shoemaker named John Firing, in the employ of William Bunting.
In the meantime, the rioters attempted to reach the gas meter, and turn off the gas. In this effort they failed. The audience was then dispersing, and had the rioters succeeded in their intentions, loss of life would undoubtedly have been the consequence. It is proper to state that extreme violence was prevented by the attendance of a special police, detailed for the service by Mayor Allen, the city constabulary not being under his orders or control.
Firing has given recognizance to answer the charge of disturbing the peace.
STATEMENT OF MAYOR ALLEN.
On Thursday evening there was a call for a meeting at the city Hall, issued by the friends of the Rev. Samuel Aaron, of Mount Holley, to hear a lecture from that gentleman in explanation of the proper construction of the Constitution. The attendance was large, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Allen opened his discourse by laying down the proposition that the Constitution was a plain, simple instrument, designed by its framers to be as plain as the New Testament; that it did not require lawyers or doctors of divinity to expound it.
There were only three parts of the Constitution not easily comprehended by men of ordinary attainments, viz: First, The ex post facto law; second, Letters of marque and reprisal; third, That congress should not pass bills of attainder. There were only 120 sentences in the Constitution. They were only 120 sentences in the Constitution. They were short and concise. Every part of it was expressed with clearness, although at the present day many might be at a loss to know what some of its provisions meant. The framers of the Constitution had designedly omitted to use the word "slave". 
Mr. Aaron had probably spoken half an hour, when he said: "What I state is true-does any one deny it?" Some person near the door replied. "I deny it.” Confusion followed. The speaker continued, and repeated his inquiry, "Does any one deny it?" Here there was another interruption, garnished with eggs. The Mayor, sitting on the platform, observed the person who made it. He proceeded at once toward the offender, and said there should be free speech, and no person should be interrupted. If anybody was opposed to him, they should leave the hall. As the lecturer was about closing, some person from the back of the gallery threw an egg toward the speaker. It did not hit him, but fell within a few feet of the Mayor. The gallery was filled with men. The Mayor made his way thither, and demanded to know who committed the disturbance-in his own words, "Who threw that egg?" Hearing scuffling below, he went down, and found the constables and people fighting, as before mentioned.-Burlington corr. of the N.Y. Tribune.
CONFISCATION AND EMANCIPATION OF CONTRABANDS. St. Louis, March 31. Gen. Curtis has issued the following special order:-
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY OF THE SOUTH-WEST, March 26, 1862.
Charles Morton, Hamilton Kennedy, Alexander Lewis, colored men, formerly slaves, employed in the rebel service and taken as contraband of war, are here by confiscated, and not being needed for the public service, are permitted to pass the pickets of the command northward without let or hindrance, and are forever emancipated from the service of their masters, who allowed them to aid in the efforts to break up the Government and the laws of our country.
MESSRS. EWING AND BELL, OF TENNESSEE. The Memphis Avalanche has a letter from Huntsville, Alabama, written on the 5th ult., which says that Hons. Andrew Ewing and John Bell made speeches there on that day. The former declared that Middle Tennessee would not submit to the North, and recommended the massing of the Southern troops in three grand divisions, which should invade the free States. Mr. Bell is represented to have spoken as follows:-
"The people of Middle Tennessee are not submissionists, and although they be compelled to keep quiet for a while, yet the flame of Southern independence is steadily burning, and so soon as an opportunity presents itself, it will increase to such a fury that every foe upon Tennessee soil will be consumed before he can make his escape."
The Schoolmaster Abroad-Albert Pike, who commands the Indians in the rebel service, and who used to keep school in Massachusetts, of which State he is a "native." He was a bitter bad Whig in polities. He would then have scalped all Democrats with his own hands, as he now has Union men scalped. This ruffian and Yankee Squeers was born in Boston almost fifty-three years ago. He ought to be caught and sent to Boston, that is, to Fort Warren and the gallows. It is not at all unlikely that he scalped the dead Unionists with his own hands, for he is quite base enough to perpetrate so vile a deed.-Boston Traveller.
The silliest business of the day is Government’s interference with the press, to prevent it from publishing intelligence that is sold by some of its own officers a fortnight before it is heard of in the North.
<c05>
WENDELL PHILLIPS IN HARRISBURG.
On Wednesday of last week, Wendell Phillips, Esq., delivered a lecture to an immense audience in Harrisburg. The Stage organ of the semi-rebels made a most infamous attack on him as well as the Hutchinson family, who were there at the same time, and a day or two before his lecture. It was embellished by the usual number of “Democratic” falsehoods, and the usual appeals to grog-shop and bar-room prejudice, all for the purpose of preventing a candid and unprejudiced hearing. So far as an audience was concerned, the ravings of the Patriot and Union had no effect, other than to advertise the lecture. It was a complete success in every way. What the effect was, is set forth in the following article from the Harrisburg Telegraph:-
WENDELL PHILLIPS AT BRANT'S HALL. The announcement that Wendell Phillips would lecture in Brant's Hall last evening, drew together a very large audience. Before the lecture appeared on the stage, the audience were entertained by the Hutchinson Family, with several of their most patriotic songs. Mr. Phillips was then introduced by Senator Irish, when he at once proceeded to the discussion of his subject, The War. This was done in a masterly and unequivocal manner, and in a style of sentiment and language, to which no man, (unless it be a notorious pro-slavery adherent,) who heard him, could take exception. He traced effects to causes, leaving his audience to judge their merits for themselves. While he, with an argument at once overwhelming and irrefutable, held up the cause of that freedom which is inimical to truth, and which no man can disregard without proving himself in ruder bondage to error than even that in which the slave of the South has been degenerating in body and soul for many years. Whatever Mr. Phillips may have uttered in other localities, and however radical he may have been heretofore in his opposition to slavery and his denunciation of the Constitution, his lecture last evening proved at least that he now regards our difficulties with the mind and estimation of statesman, and proposes to meet them, with a practical good sense and influence, and not with theories and party platforms. So far as the subject of slavery was concerned, that in his opinion, needed no agitation. Its doom was proclaimed in its own position; and its end, with the fearful enormities of which it had been the author, would go down into darkness and disgrace. How soon the end would come, was not for him to estimate. It might be five years, ten years, or even twenty years. The time was immaterial. The fact was sufficient that it could not be perpetuated; hence the subject of the rebellion had failed, and hence, too, the advocates of freedom were satisfied. The lecturer endorsed the policy of the administration on the subject of emancipation-he endorsed its military operations, and drew a vivid picture as a comparison between the military resources and business interest of the free and slave States. By these arguments he disappointed more than one who had gone to hear his lecture for the purpose of being dissatisfied, and delighted others who feared that his burning zeal, so often aroused to furious assault by the vindictive persecution of the doughfaces of the North, would lead him into expressions which might wound the delicate feelings of some of the fastidious sticklers for those constructions and compromises of the Constitution, which the slave power heretofore wrung from the intimidated legislators of the nation.
We repeat that the lecture of Mr. Phillips last evening was in all respects an argument such as could and did not fail to have the happiest effects, and wherever it is repeated in the same strain and spirit, Mr. Phillips will not only contribute to the success of justice and order, but he will cleanse himself of much of that odium which it is unnecessary to deny now attaches to his name.
THE GLOUCESTER CALAMITY. A carefully compiled list of the crews on board the portion of the Gloucester fishing fleet lost off the Georges in the late January and February gales, published in the Cape Ann Advertiser of the 18th instant, shows that 138 men have been drowned, leaving 70 widows and 140 children fatherless. The value of the vessels lost is estimated at $69,700, and the insurance on all but one (the schooner Life Boat) is $57,225.
PROVIDENCE R. L., March 31. The display at the military funeral of Colonel Slocum, Major Ballou and Captain Tower, was very imposing. Business was generally suspended; buildings were hung in mourning and flags draped. The chartered companies and the National Guards of this city, and companies from several towns in the State, Gov. Sprague and staff and Lieut.-Gov. Andrew formed the escort. The bodies of the deceased officers were borne to Grace Church Cemetery, where Bishop Clark read the burial service, and vollies were fired over the graves.
Gen. Burnside captured the newspaper office of the Newbern Progress, a pestilent secession sheet, and a new Union newspaper may be expected there from. At Port Royal our soldiers have started a well filled newspaper entitled the New South. Wherever our armies go, the rebels will have a chance to get Northern light- Salem Observer.
William Hadwin, a wealthy and influential citizen of Nantucket, formerly an oil manufacturer, died on Saturday at the age of 71 years.
The New York Evening Post says Prince Napoleon, writing to an eminent person in this country, recently, on American affairs in which he takes great interest, concluded his letter with the expression:" Mais finissez avec Esclavage"-make an end of slavery. He and other foreigners friendly to America see very clearly that we can have so permanent peace while slavery exists on this continent.
A dispatch to the New York Herald, says the relatives of Capt. Franklin Buchanan, who commanded the Merrimac, have written to his relatives in that city from Baltimore that he is dead, and that his body is to be brought to the old homestead, on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, for interment.
The rebels have lost seventeen of their Generals by wounds, resignation and suicide, during the war. The Union army has lost but two-one was killed in saddle, the other died of sickness produced by wounds.
OBITUARY
DIED-At Byberry, (Pa.) on Wednesday evening, 19th ult., ROBERT PURVIS, Jr., in the 28th year of his age.
It is with no ordinary feelings of emotion that we make this sad announcement. Every way fitted to adorn life, he has been mysteriously called away to the "spirit land." To those who knew him we need not recall his worth. Upright, prompt, persevering in business, a long career of usefulness was apparently opening before him. Friendship pays the tribute to his sincerity and truth, to his courteous manners, which rendered his society ever where welcome, and enabled him to overcome the obstacles of prejudice and caste. A heart-stricken and bereaved family circle mourn the loss of their highest hopes, for he was all that his fond parents could desire-an affectionate and dutiful son, a loving, kind brother, a judicious, trusty counsellor. His death adds to the void which time had scarcely healed for the "loved ones gone before."
"Insatiate archer! could not one suffice?
Thy dart sped thrice,
And thrice our peace was slain."
The death of Robert Purvis has not only caused a void, never to be filled, in the hearts of the household to which he was all that could be desired as son and brother; it is a loss to the community, a loss to the race with which he was identified. His excellent principles, his high sense of honor, his energy, perseverence and strict integrity in all his business relations, caused him to be admired and respected by all who knew him; while the healthy, cheerful tone of his mind, and the geniality of his disposition, which never, even during a long and painful illness, entirely deserted him, endeared him to many hearts. In the position to which he attained, he has left to his race a bright example of what a truly aspiring soul, a resolute and persevering spirit may accomplish, despite the difficulties and discouragements which beset its path. To him, these difficulties, far from causing him to despond, were but an incentive to more earnest and energetic section. He fought the life-battle bravely and well, and compelled the respect which high principles and a courageous self-assertion must ever compel-even from the most prejudiced. To the bereaved hearts which he has left behind, may it be, if not a consolation, at least a pleasing thought, that parents had never greater cause to be proud of their son. His mind was clear and vigorous, and to the last he retained his interest in the all-absorbing topics of the day. He is gone-not dead-only gone for a little while to Him" who giveth His beloved sleep." His end was singularly peaceful and beautiful; he did not fear to die.
Le the hope that we, by so living and so dying, may meet him again, when we, too, have "passed behind the veil," be some consolation to us who knew and loved him so well on earth. E
The funeral took place on Sunday, at 1 o'clock;-the ground of Friends' meeting-house in Byberry being the place of burial. It was largely attended, not only by the people of the neighborhood, but by friends and acquaintances from a distance, especially from Philadelphia. Remarks appropriate to the occasion, and at considerable length, were made at the house, by Lucretia Mott, J. M. McKim, Thomas MeClintock, and Elizabeth Paxson.
<c06>
THE REJECTED STONE.-The new edition of this book, by Mr. CONWAY, of which we recently spoke, may be expected in about a fortnight. We are desired to say that Walker, Wise & Co. will continue to be the publishers. Messrs. Ticknor & Fields are soon to be the publishers of another work by the same author. We were incorrectly informed as to the retail price of the first edition, which we are assured was sixty cents, and not seventy five cents, as stated last week.
We repeat our last week's announcement respecting the "Rejected Stone," via., that an arrangement has been made by which copies may be obtained for gratuitous distribution as low as twenty cents a copy, in cloth, provided twenty or more copies are taken at once. Those who wish the book, for this purpose, should apply, in person or by letter, to HENERY G. DENNY, Esq., 42 Court Street, Boston.
The attention of our friends everywhere is earnestly called to this great opportunity of promoting the abolition of United States slavery. NOTICE - All communications relating to the business of the Massachusetts 
Anti-Slavery Society, and with regard to the Publications and Lecturing Agencies of the American Anti-Slavery Society, should be addressed for the present to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington St., Boston.
Many of the best and most recent publication of the American Anti-Slavery Society are for gratuitous distribution. Application for them to be made as above, which should be accompanied with directions how to send them.
AARON M. POWELL, Agent of the American A. S. Society, will speak at
New Rochelle, N. Y., Friday, April 4.
Boonton, N.J., Tuesday, April 8.
Boonton, N.J., Wednesday, April " 9.
Milburn, N.J., Friday, April " 11.

HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Essex, on Sunday next, April 6.
REV. MONCURE D. CONWAY, a native of Virginia, will give a discourse "On the Death and Resurrection Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon next, April 6.
REMOVAL - DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. - MARGARET B. BROWN, M.D., and WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M.D., have removed to No. 23, Chauncy Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A. M., to 4 o'clock, P.M.
March 28. 3m
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference.-Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M. D. 
Office hours from 2 to 4 P. M.
DIED - In this city, March 28, GARRISON, son of John B. and Eliza Bailey, aged 4 years, 8 months and 9 days. Deceased was an uncommonly bright child, and we deeply sympathize with the bereaved parents. B.
INDUCEMENTS TO SUBSCRIBE.
To New Subscribers he present year, the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER & ATLANTIC MONTHLY will be furnished for $5.00 a year; the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER AND NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW will be furnished for $7.00 a year; the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, and ATLANTIC MONTLY, will be furnished for $9.00 a year.
Payment in advance to accompany the order in all cases.
A few subscriptions can be received on the above terms, beginning with THE EXAMINER for January, 1862, the first number of the current volume.
March 1, 1862.
CLV The Oldest House in Boston CLV.
BUILT IN 1656.
PRICES REDUCED
T 43 FO LLOWING VALUABLE BOOKS:
Echoes of Harper's Ferry.
This volume is a collection of the greatest Speeches, Sermons, Lectures, Letters, Poems, and other Utterances of the leading minds of America and Europe, called forth by John Brown's Invasion of Virginia. They are all given-mostly for the first time-unabridged; and they have all been corrected by their authors for this edition. or re-printed with their permission from duly authorized copies. That this volume is justly entitled to the claim of being the first collection of worthy specimens of American Eloquence, the following brief summary of its contents will show:-It contains Speeches and Sermons-by Wendell Phillips, (two,) Ralph Waldo Emerson, (two,) Edward Everett, Henry D. Thoreau, Dr. Cheever, (two,) Hon, Chas. O'Conor, Henry Ward Beecher, Theodore Tilton, Colonel Philips, Rev. Gilbert Haven, James Freeman Clarke, Fales Henry Newhall, M. D. Conway, (of Cincinnati,) and Edwin M. Wheelock; Letters-by Theodore Parker, (two,) Victor Hugo, (two,) Mrs. Mason of Virginia and Lydia Maria Child; Poems and other Contributions-by William Allinghame, John G. Whittier, William Lloyd Garrison, Judge Tilden, F. B. Sanborn, Hon. A. G. Riddle, Richard Realf, C. K. Whipple, Rev. Mr. Belcher, Rev. Dr. Furness, Rev. Mr. Sears, Edna Dean Proctor, L. M. Alcott, Wm. D. Howells, Elizur Wright, & e &e. &e. Also, all the Letters sent to John Brown when in prison at Charlestown by Northern men and women, and his own relatives; " one of the most tenderly-pathetic and remarkable collections of letters in all Literature." Also, the Services at Concord, or "Liturgy for a Martyr"; composed by Emerson, Thoreau, Alcott, Sanborn, &c.; "unsurpassed in beauty even by the Book of Common Prayer." With an Appendix, containing the widely-celebrated Essays of Henry C. Carey on the Value of the Union to the North.
Appended to the various contributions are the Autographs of the authors.
EDITED BY JAMES REDPATH.
I volume, 514 pages, handsomely bound in muslin. Price 50c.-former price $1.25.
THE PUBLIC LIFE OF
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN.
BY JAMES REDPATH.
With an Autobiography of his Childhood and Youth:
With a Steel Portrait and Illustrations. pp. 408.
This volume has been the most successful of the season having already reached its FORTIETH THOUSAND, and the demand still continues very large. It has also been re-published in England, and widely noticed by the British press. The Autobiography (of which no reprint will be permitted) has been universally pronounced to be one of the most remarkable compositions of the kind in the English language. In addition to being the authentic biography of John Brown, and containing a complete collection of his celebrated prison letters-which can nowhere else be found-this volume has also the only correct and connected history of Kansas,-from its opening for settlement to the close of the struggle for freedom there,-to be found in American literature, whether periodical or standard. It treats, therefore, of topics which must be largely discussed in political life for many years. A handsome percentage, on every copy sold, is secured by contract to the family of Capt. Brown. Copies mailed to any address, post paid, on the receipt of the retail price. Price 50c. Former price $1.00
SOUTHERN NOTES
FOR NATIONAL CIRCULATION.
This is a volume of facts of recent Southern life, as related by the Southern and Metropolitan press. It is not too much to say that, next to Charles Sumner's Speech, it is the most unanswerable and exhaustive impeachment of the Slave Power that has hitherto been published. Although treating of different topics, it extends, completes, and Strengthens the argument of the Senator. It is a history of the Southern States for six months subsequent to John Browns Invasion of Virginia. No one who has read Sumner's speech should fail to procure this pamphlet. The diversity of its contents may be judged from the titles of its chapters:-Key Notes, Free Speech south, Free Press South, Law of the Suspected, Southern Gospel Freedom, Southern Hospitality. Post-Office South, Our Adopted Fellow-Citizens South, Persecutions of Southern Citizens, The Shivering Chivalry, Sports of Heathen Gentlemen, & c., &c., &c., As a manual for Anti-Slavery and Republican orators and editors, it is invaluable.
A handsome pamphlet of 128 pages. Price 12c. Former price 25c.
Copies mailed to any address on receipt of price.
LEE & SHEPARD,
155 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
March 21.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No.6, TREMONT STREET,::;

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TRUE RELIGION.
Nor for one day in seven, but for every day,
Was Religion, God's minister, sent from His throne;
She came to be ever directress and stay;
In the heart she must dwell, and most make it her own.
Well disciplined minds, loving hearts, active hands,
Must hall her as queen, and obey with delight!
Not wayward, or harsh, are her gentle commands;
Her control it is wild, and her burden is light.
Let Religion's sweet voice wake the morning with prayer,
Let her still be thy guide through the business of day,
And in the calm ere bust thy every care,
While her glad praise ascends to thy Father, thy stay.
Religion's fair face may be wet by the tear
Of pity for woe, or of sorrow for sin;
But Religion's kind smile never turns to a sneer,
For brightly burnt Charity's fervor within.
Stern Bigotry sometimes may steal her white dress,
Pride, cruelty, malice may borrow her name,
While her truest disciples and friends they oppress;
But Truth's piercing light clears Religion from blame.
For "every tree shall be known by its fruit,"
Was the clearly defined, simple test of the Lord;
So Religion leaves dogmas for such to dispute
As forget that the deed is preferred to the word.
Tenterden, (Eng.)
JANE ASHBY.

For the Liberator.
HEROIC SOULS.
I've seen them by the highway side,
In threadbare garb, and pennyless,
Bearing the jeers and taunts of pride,
Without a murmur. Few would guess
That they were of heroic mould,
God-sent to cheer and bless mankind,
Of lifty aim, unbought, unsold,
Of earnest heart and active mind!
I've seen them in the prison's cell,
Teaching the erring of their race;
Seen them where want and misery dwell,
While heaven seem'd beaming in their face;
I've seen them spread the feast of love—
They gave the bread, they filled the cup
They seem'd like angels from above,
Who came to raise the lowly up.
I've seen them Freedom's flag unfurl,
And, armed with truth, go forth alone;
I've seen them rise, like gods, to hurl
The proud oppressor from his throne!
I've seen them tyrant hosts defy-
I‘ve seen them scorn the bigot's ban-
I've seen them mount the scaffold high,
And bravely, nobly die for man!
Andover. RICHARD HINCHOLIFFE.

FRIEND GARRISON—The following inimitably beautiful lines were kindly copied for me by an esteemed friend, whose acquaintance I made while travelling, some months since, in our sister State of Vermont. They are to me like "apples of gold in pictures of silver." Were their sentiment practically heeded by mankind, how much it would lessen the sum of evils which afflict, and prevent the progress of our race, and bring nearer the "good time coming," for which all nature seems yearning!
Will you do me the favor to give them a place in your columns, that they may give others at much pleasure as they have afforded me, and oblige
Yours, fraternally,
R. THAYER.
Boston, April 1st, 1862.

SPURN NOT THE GUILTY.
BY CAROLINE M.SAWYER
Spurn not the man whose spirit feels
The curse of guilt upon it rest; 
Upon whose brain the hideous seals
Of crime and infamy are prest!
Spurn not the lost one-nor in speech
More cold and withering than despair,
Of stern, relentless vengeance preach—
For be thy lesson will not bear!
Twill rouse a demon in his heart,
Which thou too late would'st strive to chain,
And bid a thousand furies start
To life which ne'er may sleep again.
No! better, from her forest lair,
The famished lioness to goad,
Than, in his guilt, remorse, despair,
With wrathful threats the sinner load!
But if a soul thou would'st redeem,
And lead a lost one back to God-
Would'st thou a guardian angel seem
To one who long in guilt hath trod-
Go kindly to him-take his hand,
With gentlest words, within thine own,
And by his side a brother stand
Till thou the demon sin dethrone.
He is a man, and he will yield
Like snows beneath the torrid ray,
And hit strong heart, though fiercely steel'd,
Before the breath of love give way!
He had a mother once, and felt
A mother's kiss upon his cheek,
And at her knee at evening knelt,
The prayer of innocence to speak!
A mother!—aye! and who shall say,
Though sunk, debased, he now may be,
That spirit may not wake to-day,
Which filled him at that mother's knee?
No guilt so utter e'er became
But 'mid it we some good might find,
And virtue through the deepest shame
Still feebly lights the darkest mind.
Scorn not the guilty, then, but plead
With him in kindest, gentlest mood,
And back the lost one thou may'st lead
To God, humanity and good!
Thou art thyself but man, and thou
Art weak, perchance, to fall as he;-
Then merry to the fallen show,
That mercy may be shown to thee!

From the Atlantic Monthly for April.
EXODUS.
Hear ye not how, from all high points of Time,-
From peak to peak adown the mighty chain
That links the ages,-echoing sublime,
A Voice Almighty leaps one grand refrain,
Wakening the generations with a shout,
And trumpet-call of thunder,—Come ye out!
Out from old forms and dead idolatries;
From fading myth and superstitions dreams;
From Pharisaic rituals and lies,
And all the bondage of the life that seems!
Out,-on the pilgrim path, of heroes trod,
Over earth's wastes, to reach forth after God!
The Lord hath bowed his heaven, and come down!
Now, in this latter century of time,
Once more His tent is pitched on Sinai's crown!
Once more in clouds must faith to meet him climb!
Once more His thunder crashes on our doubt
And fear and sin,-"My people! come ye out!
"From false ambitions and base luxuries;
From puny aims and indolent self-ends;
From cant of faith, and shams of liberties,
And mist of ill that Truth's pare daybeam beads:
Out, from all darkness of the Egypt-land,
Into My sun-blaze on the desert sand!
"Leave ye your flesh-pots; turn from filthy greed
Of gain that doth the thirsting spirit mock;
And heaven shall drop sweet manna for your need,
And rain clear rivers from the unhewn rock!
That saith the Lord!" And Moses-meek, unshod-
Within the cloud stands hearkening to his God!
Show us our Aaron, with his rod in flower!
Our Miriam, with her timbrel-soul in tune!
And call some Joshua, in the Spirit's power,
To poise our sun of strength at point of noon!
God of our fathers! over sand and sea,
Still keep our struggling footsteps close to Thee!
<c02>
The Liberator.
SLAVEHOLDER'S SOLILOQUY;
[AFTER READING THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.]
To sell, or not to sell! that is the question!
Whether 'tis best for slaveholders to suffer
Yet more inflictions from outrageous fortune,
Or to take offered cash instead of kicks,
And grasping that, end them! To sell? To gain!
Yet more! And by that gain, to say we end
All insurrections, and the thousand fears
Our tribe is heir to! ‘Tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wished! To fight? To lose!
Lose e'en the chance to sell! Ay, there's the rub.
For in that fight what worse defeats may come,
When we have shuffled off this first-rate offer,
Must give us pause! There's the respect
That moves us to this final compromise!
For who would yield to Lincoln and his gang,
To Yankees and to Black Republicans,
To Abolitionists and mud-siils base,
If he himself could their quietus give them
With sword and pistol? Who would treaties make,
To be mere equals where we would be masters,
But that the dread of how this fight may turn,
How "Wide-Awakes" may conquer, from whose pouch
No "compensation" comes, puzzles the will,
And makes us rather take this chance we have,
Than fly to others that we know not of.
Thus chivalry evaporates from us all;
And thus our native strain of blood and thunder
Is sicklied o'er with mean debates and bargains;
And e'en "Confederacies" of mightiest bluster
With this regard, their currents turn awry,
And sink, disgraced, to nothing!
C. K. W.

THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.
From a Letter to a U. S. Senator.
March 11, 1862.
I send for your consideration a few objections to the recent Resolution and Message of the President.
1st. The Resolution recognizes slavery as an existing institution. Inasmuch as slavery died with the dissolution of the loyal governments in the seceded States, and exists there now only because re-created and maintained by rebel arms; and as, wherever the U. S. forces reconquer and hold rebel territory, the Constitution becomes the supreme and sole law; neither the President nor Congress can establish any law or institution incompatible with it, nor can they recognize any institution established by the rebel government without a virtual recognition of said government.
2d. The President makes no mention of the pecuniary sacrifices, the suffering and bereavements of the people of the free States, but is only concerned about the losses and inconvenience that slaveholders may suffer.
3d. He makes no allusion to the fact that all property of rebels is justly forfeited, and that the people have a right to demand that it be confiscated to pay the expenses of the war.
4th. The proposition to purchase the loyalty of rebels is, to some extent, an acknowledgment of the justice of the rebellion. The motto of the President and the people should be-"Millions for a vigorous suppression of the rebellion, but not a cent to purchase the loyalty of traitors."
5th. The President leaves it to be inferred, that it is the duty of Congress to compensate those persons who may emancipate their slaves. No such legal or moral obligation exists. The people may, as an act of charity, aid such persons as may ultimately suffer from emancipation, whether slave-owners or slaves. It is the plain duty of the President, inasmuch as the slaves owe allegiance to the government and are loyal, to make their loyalty available to the country, and to protect them from the traitors who compel them to aid the rebellion.
6th. The proposition to purchase the slaves as a "most efficient means for the preservation of the Government," is a virtual confession of the weakness of the North, "not fit to be made" under any circumstances, and especially improper in view of our recent successes, and while the season is favorable for action, and our forces are in the field. It looks a little too much as though Mr. Lincoln feared that some of his "misguided fellow-countrymen" might get hurt.
7th. Estimating the cost of emancipation at $1,200,000,000, and the increased value of real estate in the slave States at an equal sum, (which is below the usual estimate,) the slaveholders pocket the sum of $2,400,000,000, as the result of the rebellion-a very pretty speculation. (No one supposes they vill erer redeem their shin-plasters.)
The cost of the war to the North, if ended now, cannot be less (when all claims are paid) than $1,000,000,000; so that the North would be out of pocket $2,200,000,000.Now, what guaranty could the North obtain, disgraced, impoverished, bankrupt as it would be, that slavery would not be re-established? What, except the good faith of slaveholders? Would the guaranty be worth anything? The alternative offered by slavery to the Government (according to the President) is that of the highwayman: "Your money or your life!"
But I derive some encouragement from the message. The President at last admits that there are efficient means for suppressing the rebellion which will yet be tried, if indispensable. And the conviction seems to be penetrating even his mind, that Border State Unionism prefers the security of slavery to the integrity of the Government. I have never believed that Border State Unionism was any thing else than a secret ally of slavery. Had we had a government of men instead of compromisers, when Kentucky and Maryland refused to answer the requisition of the President, they would have been treated as rebellious States, and the North would, at once, have been a unit. The plausible party-cry of "the restoration of the Constitution," which means the restoration of the supremacy of the Slave Power, can only be effectually met by those measures which possibly the President alluded to towards the close of his message-emancipation and the confiscation of the property of the rebels to pay the expenses of the war.
8th. The President admits that but few, if any, of the slave states will accept his proposition. Why, then, does he not at once use those means which he thinks will put an end to the war? Every day is important. There is yet danger of foreign intervention. Already Mason and Slidell have appealed to the humanity of foreign powers by offering the recognition of the marriage relation among slaves, with prospective emancipation-thus acknowledging the wrong of slavery; while the message of Mr. Lincoln makes no allusion to slavery as unjust or impolitic, and its extorted from him by his fears for the safety of the government. I should not be surprised if the pure selfishness of the proposition brought upon us the contempt of foreign powers. But, if Mason and Slidell find themselves check-mated, what will prevent them-"taking a hint from the intervention" in Mexico-from offering the establishment of a monarchy, with a foreign prince as the incumbent? Southern hatred of the North is equal to any measure that will insure success.
But should any of the Border States "initiate emancipation," and should the more Southern return to their allegiance, what may we reasonably anticipate? In three years, we should have a pro-slavery government, which would immediately "initiate" the "crushing out" of Abolition. Northern traitors, who told us that, if there were to be a civil war, the fighting would be, not between the Northern and Southern states-that they would be the first to seize the traitors (Abolitionists) by the throat, [ see Cushing's speech in Faneuil Hall]-that the gutters of our cities would run blood. Those traitors who attempted the assassination of Phillips in Boston, and of the president in Baltimore-who by the promise of aid encouraged the south to the point of rebellion, and
<c03>
then basely deserted them-who threatened to make New York a free city, and leave New England out of the reconstructed union, "still live." Cowed by the uprising of the people for freedom-in our armies they seek the lives of their former allies-in our legislatures they deprecate emancipation-in Congress they rail at every man as a traitor to be his only constitutional duty. But once let them have the power of government to back them, and their instinct for blood, the sole courage of cowards, will lead to atrocities such as the world has seldom seen; for only by such acts, by the entire “crushing out” of freedom, can they conciliate their former allies and masters.
Mr. Greeley, who commends the policy, may yet find the mob of the Herald office at his doors, and the President be compelled to leave Washington as he entered it, secretly and at midnight.
REPUBLICAN.

RECEPTION OF THE MESSAGE.
PATERSON, (N.J) March 22, 1862.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
The last message of the president met with such a hearty reception from the mass of our citizens who wish well to freedom, received such fulsome adulations from the New York Tribune, and elicited such expressions of devout thankfulness to god from pulpits which usually lean to the side of human freedom, that I really wondered what it all meant.
I could not discover the profound wisdom, the eminent statesmanship, the ardent love of liberty, the broad humanity, or the well-directed and successful blow at slavery, which were said to be the constituent elements of the message.
To me, that message seemed rather the timorous and evasive manifesto of one who could not comprehend the exigencies of the times, or dare not propose the radical measures which those exigencies demand: and I astonished my friends who were glorying over the "advance movement" (as they termed it,) by declaring my opinion that it was a message to be deprecated rather than rejoiced over; that it looked like a weak and wicked attempt to escape a plain and palpable duty: that nothing less than a declaration of emancipation in all the rebel states could meet the imperative necessities of the nation; that, instead of attempting to buy over the border states to the gradual abolition of slavery at some remote period, so that the Gulf States might cease to entertain any hopes of alliance with the Border, the only true policy was to issue a proclamation giving freedom, immediate and unconditional, so all the slaves in rebeldom; a proclamation which would be self-executing; which would strike a decisive and effective blow at the root of the rebellion; which would inaugurate justice as our national policy, compel the Border States not merely to "initiate emancipation," but to carry it forward to completion, and thus do more than anything else to hasten the reconstruction of our nation upon the eternal principles of righteousness, which alone can exalt a nation, and give permanent peace and security.
I found no echo to those sentiments and opinions until your Liberator of the 14th reached me: and I was happy in finding the views which you therein express fully endorsing and sustaining mine.
To Abraham Lincoln, God in his providence has given an opportunity to perform an act of justice and humanity, which the highest archangel who attends the eternal throne might well covet; nay-has not only given him the opportunity, but has imposed on him the duty, of striking off the chains from millions of our race, lifting them at once from the miry pit of chattelism, and placing their feet upon the rock of freedom. To-day God speaks to him with a voice audible above the clang of arms and the fin of conflict, saying, "Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free!" But the President shrinks from the glorious task, and attempts to hide himself behind a feeble effort to bribe the Border States into a future gradual abolition of slavery!
Ah! Abraham, this subterfuge will not answer! this hiding-place is but a refuge of lies, and will furnish you no safe retreat from the consequences of a violation of God's command!
To-day, four millions of his children life up their fettered hands, and cry, "How long, O Lord! how long?" And the Lord commands you to rise up and execute judgment for Him, and to avenge the oppressed. He has given you the undoubted power,-He has opened the way before you,-He has made the path straight,-He has urged it upon you,-He has made it easier to do it than to leave it undone. And why should you shrink from this duty which should be a delight? "To-day, if you will hear His voice, harden not your heart!" "Now is the accepted time, and to-day is the day of salvation."
Christ bleeds under the slave driver's lash to-day, and you can deliver him. He is to-day sold on the auction-block, and you can save him. His flesh is to-day torn by the cruel fangs of bloodhounds, and you can rescue him. Again he suffers the cruel scourgings and mockings of his enemies, and in the person of his suffering children he calls upon you to deliver him. Beware how you reject his entreaties and scorn his appeals for help! "Inasmuch as ye did it not to the least of these my brethren, ye did it not to me."
Let us hope and pray. Mr. Editor, that the grand march of events, or, in other words, the successive orderings of God's providence, may yet compel our President to adopt the only safe and wise policy-that of doing justice; and that our nation may be saved, before salvation is impossible, from the righteous incorrigibly rebellious against the divine Government.
Yours, truly,
A. GIBBS CAMPBELL.

VARIOUS INTERPRETATIONS.
EAST SOMERVILLE, March 25, 1862.
MR.GARRISON,-Various interpretations have been given of the president's design in offering his recent emancipation scheme, but none as I think have exactly hit the mark. Allow me to give my views on the subject.
From intimations given in more than one of his messages, I think, if he is sincere, the President is opposed to all measures for immediate emancipation, unless it shall become indispensable in quelling the rebellion. He sees, or thinks he does, that such an act would cause greater trouble for the Government than it has to contend with now. I do not judge him on that point, but simply state his position. I think, therefore, we may fairly conclude that he had some other object in view than would naturally be inferred from the language of his message. The President unquestionably shares with many other statesmen in the conviction that the leaders in the rebellion, who represent only the political interest of slavery, would resort to the extreme measure of emancipation themselves, if all other secession schemes fail, believing that "who gets the negro wins." But honest though shrewd Old Abe checkmates them on that move; for the slaveholders will say, "If we must part with our slaves, we had rather sell to Lincoln than give to Davis"; so what whenever that plan is seriously entertained, the States will swing back into the Union as by the law of gravitation, and "there will be the end" of that scheme.
I conclude, therefore, that no hopes can reasonably be indulged in, that the President intends any thing more towards the "abolishment" of slavery than what follows from suppressing the rebellion.
TYRO.
The following is a correspondent's account of an interview with a contraband:-
"We accosted one whose very intense blackness commended him as a genuine, unadulterated scion of Africa: 'Where do you hail from?' 'Culpepper Court-House, Sah.' 'What news do you bring?' 'Nothing, massa, 'cept dars a man lost a mighty good nigger dar dis mornin', and I guess he dun lose some more 'fore night.'"
<c04>
"GLORY, HALLELUJAH!"
BY GAIL HAMILTON.
I believe this lyric has a mission. I should not be surprised if the National Hymn which the thirteen wise men of Gotham went a-fishing for last May, baiting their hooks with golden eagles, and getting many nibbles, but no fish, should turn up gradually in this rousing song. It is a wonderful combination of incongruities, and can scarcely have been marked out for an ordinary career. There is a high, religious fervor; a sense of poetic justice and righteous retribution; a scorn of grammar, and rhetoric, and rhyme, and reason; an incoherence, a brutality, a diabolism, a patriotism, and a heroism which must make it go down the popular throat sweetly as the grapes of Beulah. It has something for everybody. It appeals to all the emotions. It sounds the gamut of humanity. It is like the great image which Nebuchadnezzar saw in his dream. Its head is of fine gold, its breast and its arms of silver, its belly and thighs of brass, its legs of iron, and its feet of clay. All this eminently fits it for a national song; for a national song is not a song of the poets, but the song of a people, and a people is heroic, and unreasonable, and incoherent, and brutal, and noble. Head of gold and feet of clay.
The origin of this song, also, like that of England's National Hymn, is somewhat foggy-or will be if it is let alone a little longer. "God save the Queen" is said to have been a song of the plotting Jacobites who, in the early days of the Hanoverian dynasty, were continually scheming its downfall, and the restoration of the Stuarts; and the King who was sung to and prayed for was the exiled Stuart, and not the "great George" actually on the throne. But the song somehow worked itself into the public taste, and by a summary, high-handed process was furbished up and handed over to the loyal Georgians "as good as new." Was not this “Glory, Hallelujah,” sung by Col. Ellsworth's Zouaves on their march from New York to Washington, and was it ever sung before? it seems about three hundred years since then, and after such a lapse of time one cannot, of course, certainly locate all events in the exact order of their occurrence, nor have I any documents at hand to verify my conjecture; but the "March till the battered gates of Sumter shall appear," savors of our honest and patriotic, but ignorant "on to Richmond" enthusiasm in those early days. That line surely cannot have been written since Bull Run, and the "pet lambs" point directly to the Caliban Zouaves, who, if I recollect right, christened themselves thus. Does any one know the author of the song, or the time of its first appearance?
Let us look at its head of gold:-
"John Brown's body lies a mouldering in the grave,
John Brown's body lies a mouldering in the grave,
John Brown's body lies a mouldering in the grave,
His soul is marching on."
There is a slight suggestion of John Brown and the little Indian of the fossiliferous ages that preceded Fort Sumter, but it fades away before the real grandeur of the idea. The rude genius which struck out this lyric has hit the bulls-eye of a sublime and stirring principle. It is Bryant's royal thought clad in peasant garb:-
"Truth crushed to earth shall rise again,
The eternal years of god are hers."
In homely phrase it recognizes, and seizes, and promulgates the immortality of right, the indestructibility of truth; and the people recognize and receive it with a unanimity and enthusiasm which reconcile one for a moment to that most capricious of all apothegms, Vox Populi vox Dei [ the voice of the people is the voice of god]. On that summer day set in the brow of winder, that June day lost amid December snows, when John Brown cast his eyes over the pleasant land which he had come to redeem, as he rode to the gallows which was to be his triumphal car down the centuries-when he stood guarded by an twenty-five hundred soldiers, and surrounded by an innumerable throng, himself the noblest Roman of them all-when throughout the South there were terror, and hatred, and exultation, and throughout the north admiration and sore regret-who foresaw-to-day? Who looked forward through these two memorable years, and beheld the bristling hosts of Freedom pressing down upon Virginian soil, and ringing out the "Glory! Hallelujah!" on the spot made forever sacred by that martyrdom? I know in history no retribution more swift, no justice more complete. Whatever may be the issue of war, Virginia, mother of Presidents, mother of abominations, the cruel and cowardly State that was frantic with terror before a handful of brave men, and frantic with lust for their blood, When other hands than hers had given them into her power; the traitorous and braggart people, fit offspring of fathers scummed from the offscouring of English cities, and mothers bought for a hundred pounds of tobacco, has felt by its own firesides the bitterness of death, and the sharper bitterness of desolation. John Brown violated law in this eagerness to dispense justice. Virginia violated law in her eagerness to dispense injustice, and "the curse shall be on her forever and ever." Virginia slew John Brown in the interests of slavery, and in her despite of freedom. A hundred thousand men, imbued with John Brown's spirit, and armed by the law which he broke, march past his gallows-tree, and freedom is avenged. He wrought ill for a noble cause. He confounded wrong with right. He would punish wrong by wrong. But the good that he did lives after him, and the evil is interred with his bones.
The people recognized his single eye, and his pure heart, and when he went, they felt that virtue was gone out from them. They forget now the illegality of his measures, and remember only the purity of his motives. His death atoned for his errors he was the forerunner of the great uprising. His hatred of slavery, his energy, and courage, and fortitude in attacking it, were the day-star of this year of our Lord; and so, because he wrought ill, his body lies a mouldering in the grave, and because he purposed well, his soul is marching on. The idea for which he laid down his life, like the stone which was cut out without hands, is becoming a great mountain, and filling the whole land. It shall yet smite the image before which John Brown was sacrificed, and break it to pieces, and grind it to powder. His solitary footstep in the wilds of Virginia heralded that grand army whose tramp is the death-warrant of slavery. Virginia has herself severed the cords that held back the knife from her throat, and now vengeance, and justice, and mercy, join hands to drive it in! Massachusetts men stand to-day where tow years ago he stood-the vanguard of the hosts of freedom. No longer covertly, stealthily, with veiled designs, by crooked ways, but it open day, of set purpose, with erect form and defiant mein, Freedom goes down to give light to them that sit in darkness and the shadow of death.
Glory! Hallelujah! that we live to see this day!
"Oh, sad for him whose light went out
Before this glory came,
Who could not live to feel his kin
To every noble name;
And sadder still to miss the joy
That twenty millions know,
In Human Nature's Holiday,
From all that makes life low."
I have space for only a glance at the less comely parts of this song. Here are its breast and arms of silver:-
"He's gone to be a soldier in the army of the Lord," &c.,
the popular recognition not only of the soul's immortality, but of its immortal activity. The life that battled so bravely, endured so constantly, and yielded so heroically, was not wasted but is working still in another sphere, and working for the Lord:-
"We mourn for the fallen one, we weep for the brave,
Who to this holy cause his noble life he gave;
Sadly, yet proudly, we shout fourth thy name,
As we go marching on!"
Pathetic, and a little pleonastic, but the profanum vulgus is not nice as to its ear, nor fastidious as to its taste, and the sorrow is sincere.
His belly and thighs of brass:-
"Gird in the warrior's armor, the battle ne'er give o'er,
March till the battered gates of Sumter shall appear;
Rest not by the way, till you plant the stars and stripes
Where the traitor's flag now waves."
A glorious impulse, but praise worthy and practicable only as it is consolidated into principle. It savors of indignation rather than determination; and determination only, fixed and fortified by prudence, and strengthened by obstacles, wins the day.
Legs of iron and feet of clay:-
"John Brown's knapsack is strapped upon his back," &c.
"His pet lambs will meet him on the way," &c., &c., &c.
A sudden and somewhat unaccountable return to the original subject. Evidently the author is more thoroughly at home with John Brown than
<c05>
with abstractions, and goes back to him with a spring. But the meaning is involved in doubt. There seems to be a blending of the literal and the figurative. His knapsack on his back may be but a vivid way of saying that he is still in good working order; but "his pet lambs" are in the flesh. How can the actual lambs meet the abstract John Brown? Or does it mean that they will fight to the death, and so meet him martyrs in the same good cause?
The next:-
"They will hang Jeff. Davis to a tree," &c., &c.,
brings out the small boys, the hard men, and the roughs, generally in full force. It is perfect brutality meter. When an assembly sings it, you shall see the civilized people look a little startled-as if they were getting rather more than they bargained for, but it is too late to do anything about it, so they lean upon each other for support, smile compromisingly, and conclude to "put it through"-but all the wild beasts are mad with delight. They find their blood-thirst suddenly legalized. Their tumultuousness is Orthodox, and they carry it to the extreme point of which their throats are susceptible.
The last:-
"Now three rousing cheers for the Union!"
is a universal solvent. Man and beast, rough and smooth, are melted down into a mere mass of swaying, sonorous patriotism, whose enormous pressure for the safety valve of the final, deafening (horresco referens) "Hip! hip! Hip! Hurrah!"
If, now, a song whose marvelous adaptation to the hoi polloi is shown by the universality of its reception, and the utter abandonment of its execution-if a song as coarse as England's, and a good deal finer-a song whose music is, at least to an magnificent-a song born, as it were, by accident, and left lying around loose, but working its way by its own inward energy into the public heart, so that it is sung by regiments marching through crowded New York, and through deserted Charlestown, and by all the girls they left behind them, and boys too-if this is not to be the National Hymn, I should like to know the reason why!-Congregationalist.

LETTER FROM HARRIET MARTINEAU.
FEBRUARY 7th, 1862.
To the Editor of the National A.S. Standard:
SIR,-The communications which I have lately seen in the Standard on the affair of the Trent show me what I ought now to do. I have to request space in your columns for a few words-not, certainly, by way of reply to anything that has been said, but as a key to my letters on that and other topics. It is a subject of strong regret to me, and to other friends of the Cause, that any key should be needed at all.
For a quarter of a century, the American Abolitionists have appealed to the world, and particularly to English Abolitionists, against the sins of their own government and people. By that lofty patriotism they secured our sympathy and services. In this sympathy my service, such as it is, has been rendered for five and twenty year; and in that spirit and confidence I have written to you, up to this hour. It now appears that you have descended from that lofty patriotism, to fall behind even your won non-Abolitionist government, by defending or excusing an outrage condemned by all Christendom; and this leaves me no choice but to withdraw from the Standard. It never could have entered the imagination of your friends here that Abolitionists, who were once so superior to pseudo-patriotism as to take for their motto, "Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind," could in the very crisis of their nation's virtue and hope, condescend to say, practically, "Our country, right or wrong"; but, as you have so chosen your stand-point, and consequently misapprehended my correspondence, that correspondence must cease.
I shall be careful not to imputer any such change to others than those who have avowed it. It know that some hold the old position, and are in sympathy with English Abolitionists accordingly; and I trust that there are many. While, however, you, sir, and some of your contributors, occupy a different stand-point from them and me, my letters would be, not only useless, but misleading, for they must appear as untrue to you recent articles and communications on the Trent affair do to us.
Happily, the larger part of my work for the antislavery cause lies here. In that, I hope to labor while I live; and I am sure that that Cause and its promoters will always have my heartfelt good wishes, as they have had my faithful service. It is the spirit of that service that I now bid you farewell.
HARRIET MARTINEAU.

MORE DIRTY WORK.
Correspondence of the N.Y. Tribune.
WASHINGTON, Thursday, March 20, 1862.
A few days ago,-some contrabands came into the camp of the 20th Massachusetts Regiment, and were taken by some of the company officers as servants. Upon reaching-, the officers were ordered to exclude "those persons" from camp. The officers concluded not to do so. The officer of the guard was ordered not to allow any persons, not officers' servants, to remain within the lines. "Those persons" being officers' servants did remain. But soon one of the officers of Company-was ordered to send away his man, but respectfully declined; for which he was put under arrest for "disobedience" of orders, and was made to march in the rear of his company without his sword and as a prisoner.
The servant was taken before the Lieut. Colonel, and by him put outside of the lines, and thus was made to fail into slavery once more! The other officers as yet retain their servants, but say, if obliged to give them up, they will-, &c.
The order for the exclusion of the fugitives came from Gen. Dana, the new Brigadier of this Brigade. It is not known that it was enforced in any other regiment in the Brigade, except the Twentieth. In at least two other regiments, it was openly disregarded, and contrabands were encouraged to come, without opposition of the officers.
Why the Twentieth should be selected for the dirty work no one can tell, unless it be for the reason that they fight (as at Ball's Bluff) to hurt somebody, and too earnestly to suit Pro-Slavery officers whose feelings are shocked by the imprisonment of Gen. Stone at Fort Lafayette for loving Secesh not wisely but too well!
X.X.
CONTRABANDS. A Port Royal correspondent of the Boston Journal relates the following:-
Quite an amusing story is told in connection with the affair at Brunswick. It seems that the gunboats, after reconnoitering a while in front of the rebel fortifications, got into "posish," and were about to "let slip the dogs," when they discovered a boat push off from the shore at the fort, and make directly for the gunboat, upon nearing which it was found to contain a couple of "contrabands," who commenced yelling, "Hold on, Massa Yankee, don't fire, der sogers all gone to Serwarner," "dase leff me all alone." And, sure enough they had gone, and the anticipated sport was "nipped."
The contrabands are getting organized into gangs, in view of the opening of the Spring's work, and under the direction of government agents will some commence cultivating cotton, corn, sweet potatoes, &c. Most of them are faithful and willing, and seem delighted with the free labor system offered them. Several philanthropic gentlemen have also commenced to "teach them the rudiments of civilization and Christianity-their relations to each other as social beings, and all that is necessary to render them competent to sustain themselves in social and business pursuits." The children are said to be very eager to learn to read, and their aptness is surprising, considering all circumstances. All these things are of great significance in their bearing on the future on the future of the south. It is a sort of hand-writing on the wall, and the rebel leaders cannot fail to see it.
HOW ABOLITIONISTS ARE MADE. At a social entertainment given recently by the officers of a regiment, one of the regimental officers, on being called on for a speech, spoke in substance as follows:-
"When we organized this regiment, gentlemen, coming as we did from different political organizations, we agreed to ignore politics. This evening I shall violate the rule. I am going to talk a little about politics. You all know that I was a full-blooded Douglas Democrat, dyed in the wool; and when Douglas was defeated for the Presidency, I thought our Government had been sunk out of sight, beyond the hope of resurrection. But when, after the bombardment of Fort Sumter, the President called for seventy-five thousand volunteers to fight for national existence and for the old flag, I said to myself on reading the proclamation, 'Old Abe, you are the man after all; I am glad you are President. From henceforth I am a supporter of your administration, and I shall volunteer forthwith.' After that you know we were ordered to Missouri, and you know what have been our experiences since. But in the very first fight which we had, when I saw Capt. M-shot out of his saddle, and when I saw three of our brave privates shot dead in their tracks, by the minions of slavery, I raised myself in my stirrups and said, God being my helper, from this forth, I am an Abolitionist."-Chicago Tribune.
The great question is, who stole the pillow upon which Buckner hoped to rest his weary head at Fort Donelson? The inevitable answer is-Floyd.
<c06>
PREMATURE BOASTING. A few weeks ago, the Norfolk Day Book, referring to the Burnside expedition, spoke in the following contemptuous, and braggart strain, which, in view of all that has since taken place, reads quite comically at the present time:-
"We are satisfied, from all the light that we have been able to get on this subject, that, through the interposition of a kind Providence, the backbone of this expedition has been broken, and that we now have nothing to dread from it. The remnant of it may make a feeble effort to strike, after a little time to recuperate; but for all effective purpose the thing is a failure, and it carries the war spirit down with it.
The Northern papers are talking very hard to keep, the spirits of the people up. They now say that the expedition was not intended for operation in the North Carolina Sounds, and that it may have only put into Hatteras from stress of weather. Gammon-gammon-gammon. We know all about that. We advise Old Abe and his tribe of Kangaroos that they had better be making tracks from the wrath that is setting in against them, or he may find that his long cloak and Scotch cap will not enable him to get out of Washington as easy as they enabled him to get in there.
In conclusion, we repeat that the Burnside expedition is a failure, a dead failure, and that almost the next news we receive from Europe will be that the Southern Confederacy has been recognized by France and England, and that those nations have determined to disregard the inefficient blockade."
TREASONABLE PLOT IN MICHIGAN. The Detroit Tribune publishes a curious document, revealing an attempt in that State, last fall, to organize a league for the purpose of overthrowing the Federal Government. This object is plainly avowed in a secret circular, which declares the purpose of the movement to be "to rise and unite, if necessary, with the A-[Army] of the S-[South], overrun the N-[North]like a hurricane, sweeping the A-[Administration] in to eternity, or at least driving them into complete and unconditioned submission." This document is dated October 5, 1861, and says the league is doing a noble work in Maryland, and among the soldiers at Fortress Monroe, and that "Presn't P-[President Pierce] in his passage has drawn many brave and influential men to the League." The Tribune says the original of the document is now in the State Department at Washington, and that it led to the arrest and imprisonment of several persons in Fort Lafayette. It was discovered that secret organizations existed in many towns in Michigan, and in numerous places in Canada West.
FROM TENNESSEE. A Washington dispatch to the New York Post says advices received there from Messrs. Johnson and Etheridge, in Nashville, represent that the Union sentiment is rapidly rising in Tennessee. Gov. Johnson writes in a hopeful strain. A Nashville letter in the same paper, however, presents matters in a very different light. According to the writer, the rebels stalk boldly in the streets, and talk loudly in public places of what they will do, and how they will yet subjugate the Yankees. So furious are they, that a secret league has been discovered, whose members have sworn to buy no goods from Northern men, or fraternize with Northern men under any circumstances. The merchants will not open their stores, and will not take United States treasury notes. A captain of the Tenth Ohio was lately shot in the street, and officers are daily insulted!
A PECULIAR INSTITUTION DESTROYED. A correspondent with the Burnside expedition writes that in one of the forays of our men in one North Carolina, they had temerity to make an assault upon a peculiar institution. He says:-
"Our men discovered one of the 'peculiar institutions' of the South in the shape of a whipping-post, the morning of their departure, and instantly destroyed it, to the great delight of a number of negroes, and the utter consternation of a few white men present."
The worst enemies of humanity are those who prefer the perpetuation of slavery to the preservation of the Republic.

PARKER.
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO.E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.

IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its tension easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal facility. The stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee State Fair, or its superiority.-Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisements, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines-first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have therefore been made in Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and so the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machine now in market-South Reading Gazette, Nov.24,1860.
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead in the market. For beauty and finish of its workmanship, it cannot be excelled. It is well and strongly made-strength and utility combined-and is emphatically the cheapest and best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it, and when consulted, invariably give Parker's machine the preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE E. LEONARD, ISS Washington street, Boston, has a large number of orders for these machines, and sells them as fast as they can be manufactured, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufactures have almost wholly suspended operations. This fact, of itself, speaks more strongly in its favor than any thing we can mention; for were it not for its superior merits, it would have suffered from the general depression, instead of flourishing among the wrecks of its rivals. What we tell you is no fiction; but go and buy one of them, and you will say that "half of its good qualities had never been told you." Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of these machines to assist her in lessening life's toilsome task.-Marlboro' Gazette, July 13, 1861.
