THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvatia, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, be are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WESDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDWARD JACKSON, and WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject where slavery, not only the PRESSIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding states become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it to be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." -J.Q. ADAMS.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 25.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 19, 1863.
WHOLE NO. 1689.
<c01>
Refuge Of Oppression.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Said Wendell Phillips, on Monday, in Tremont Temple, before the Emancipation League, “Thank for McClellan, for Cameron; thank God for befeat. With a man for President, we should have put down the rebellion in ninety days, and left slavery where it was."
This is freedom of speech in Massachusetts, and that without a squad of soldiers to drag him from the speaker's stand. What was the scene two or three days ago at the capital of Indiana? The Democrats held a Convention, where they desired to express their sentiments on the war. The soldiers of the Government, with fixed bayonets and loaded guns, did all in their power to suppress free speech. Speakers were crowded out of their places by soldiers, they were dragged from their stands, they were arrested and dragged off, and locked up, and Abolitionists made great noises, and prevented speakers being heard. A member of Congress was forced from a stand at the point of the bayonet. Swords, bayonets and cannon were used to awe men into speaking favorably of the Administration and its policy.
But how is it with Phillips in Boston? He thanks God for defeat, says the President is not a man, and he speaks in peace.
A year or more since, Mr Phillips, in Music Hall, quoted these words from Milton: “The right to think, to know and to utter, is the dearest of all liberties. Without this right there can be no liberty to any people; with it there can be no slavery. "He then quotes from Governor Andrew to be, "I care not for the truth or error of the opinions held or uttered, nor for the wisdom of the words or time of their attempted expression, when I consider this great question of fundamental significance, this great night which must first be secured before free society can be said to stand on any foundation, but only on temporary and capricious props.”
Well, Phillips and Andrew, as well as Milton, believe in free speech. They use the freedom also. That is, they use it here, but do they allow it to be used against them in the West? Can Valandigham have the same privileges in Ohio? Can the Democrats have the same privileges in Indian apolis? It seems not. They speak against the sentiments of Phillips and Andrew; and the bayonet and cannon are used to suppress them.
Are not these gentlemen laying up wrath against the day of wrath? Are they not sowing the wind? They tread on a volcano, but they have not got eyes to see it.- Boston Post.
THE FIFTY-FOURTH REGIMENT.
“There go a million of dollars!" Such was the remark of a looker-on, as the 54th regiment filed by on Thursday. At first, it might , have been referred to their value as "chattels." But it might be that it was only as it reminded him the more forcibly of the politico-economical views of labor. A regiment of white men would illustrate the same truth, only we have not been accustomed to value them at so much apiece. Yet truly every regiment sent out of Massachusetts has been so much wealth sent away, as their labor, now entirely wasted, would have produced at least $100,000 per annum over the cost of living. Now it is lost, and as regards those who are killed or die away from the State, lost forever. Every regiment that carried away its thousand men and returns with four hundred, brings back so much less of wealth than it carried away. And yet some superficially say we shall come out of the war stronger and wealthier than when we went in! It has ever been a sad sight to us to look upon a departing regiment, but never more so, than to see the 54th sent away to double risks, put forward by those who are afraid of climate and hostile weapons for themselves, to fight their battles. How many will return, and how many of those white philanthropists who cheered them as they went will care if none of them do! We wish them safely back, and we wish, no matter who is at fault for its beginning, that the war with all its sorrows, crimes and blunders were over.–.-Boston Courier.
LOYAL WOMEN’S CONVENTION.
We have reported the proceedings of the Anti Slavery Society and of the Loyal Women’s League, us being the only anniversaries that had any spiciness in them. Wendell Phillips was the great actor is the abolitionist comedy, and talked more treason in five minutes than Vallandigham could could deseant in as many hours. Why Copperhead should be sent to Dixie, or the Dry Tortugas, and Silver Tongue permitted to crucify President Lincoln and has entire Cabinet with impunity, is a question to which we should like a satisfactory answer. They <illegible> certainly to be paired off, chained together by the ankles; and if that punishment would not bring Vallandigham to true repentance, it would be only because he is incorrigible.
As to the Women’s Convention, that which was originally designed for a most patriotic and praise worth motive, has been distorted into an atheistical, revolutionary woman’s rights movement, under the leadership of Lucy Stone, Susan B. Anthony and Ernestine L. Rose. At their meeting in the Church of the Puritans, one of the progressive spirits boasted that she belonged to no sect or creed, political, religious or moral, and another questioned the existence of a divinity.
It is of such elements that our May anniversaries are largely compounded. All the snivelling hypocrites, abolition traitors and crazy women of New York and New England Congregate here at this fame, and find a theatre for the recital of their fables the spouting of their treason, and the exhibition of their antics. Great is New York.–Bennett’s Herald.
BOSTON, May 29, 1863.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier.
Escort furnished by the city of Boston for the 54th and 6th regiments.
Escort for the 54th Massachusetts regiment, Col. Shaw (colored)Col. Kurtz (mounted); Capt. Whitcomb and thirty patrolmen; Capt. Adams and thirty patrolmen.
Escort for the 6th Massachusetts regiment, Col. Follanshee (white), returned from the seat of war-Four Harbor Policemen.
Yours,
FRIEND OF THE WHITE MAN.
Fernando Wood, at the late great Copperhead peace meeting in New York, Presumptuously said—
"The war should cease, because it should never have been commenced, inasmuch as there is no cocensive military power in the Federal Government as against the States, which are sovereign,  and in possession of all power not delegated. If power or coexcise exists at all, it is legal, and not military.”
<c02>
Selections.
THE SCOURGED BACK.
It is a terrible showing. This slave was whipped, —whipped, oh hideous to think of! when crazy, at Baton Rouge, in the month of October, 1862. The eye of the sun fell on the camera which transferred his torn skin to the paper, on the 2d of April, 1863, five or six months after the scourging, when the frightful laceration was partially healed, and only scars remained. But what must the whipping have been to leave such scars! The back looks like a plate of iron, eaten by acids and corroded by rust; or like a walnut-table honey-combed by worms. From the shoulders to the waist, great welts and furrows and ridges, raised or gouged by the lash, run crosswise and lengthwise, mingling in the middle in one awful mass of scab. Bits as big as the hand seem to have been cut out of the flesh. No wonder that, at this distance of time, the man looks thin and ghastly, though he was a strong man, and must be a man of fine physique and presence. The shoulders are broad; the muscles of the back firm. The left arm, the only arm visible, is long and sinewy. The head is well-placed, and the profile not a profile of the extreme African type -is full of manly energy. A strong short whisker and beard give power to the jaw which needs no such evidence to show its manliness, for resolution and force are stamped on the whole formation of the face. We look on the picture with amazement that cannot find words for utterance. Amazement at the cruelty which could perpetrate such an outrage as this; at the brutal folly, the stupid ignorance, that could permit such a piece of infatuation; at the absence not only of humane feeling, but of economical prudence, of common sense, of ordinary intelligence, displayed in such frantic thoughtlessness. Among what sort of people are such things possible? For ourselves, we really cannot imagine. Doubtless the people among whom such a deed was done, could stand by, like the critics of the dead dog, with only jeers and curses for the "nigger.” “Lazy hound!" we hear them saying, it serves him right. Wanted to run away, I suppose! insulted the overseer! would not work! had a copy of Uncle Tom in his hat! Stole something from his master! Wanted to be free! Won't do it again, I guess. Such fellows ought to be whipped to death!" What would Christ say, if he were near?
The significant point is, not that such brutality is exercised on a man, but that it is exercised on such a man. If he were a Bomba, now, or another senseless despot, who “erected atheism into a form of government; who contributed to mankind nothing but poverty, and wretchedness, and sin,” one's indignation would subside to a mild form of disapproval, that the punishment of a criminal should assume so savage a form. If he were an unscrupulous statesman, who used his fellow-creatures like pawns on a chess-board; if he were a mean-spirited politician, who made it his business to spread nets for his fellow-creatures, to cheat, and mislead, and devour them for his profit, our sense of the barbarity of the infliction would be considerably mitigated by the reflection that, on the whole, he got no more than his deserts. Or, if he were not so bad as this; if he were simply a useless or not promising member of society; if he were simply an unproductive consumer, a fop, a dandy, an elegant lounger, a city swell-if he were a common rake, a debauchee, a driver of fast horses—our pity for the sufferer would not be aggravated by the thought of severe personal indignity and degradation; you would not grieve for manhood outraged, or a high spirit broken, or a great social class dishonored.
But this humble man, this poor man, this un-taught man, this down-trodden man, this working man, this negro, represents the laboring class. He is a tiller of the soil, a cultivator, a servant of King Cotton; one of the most useful men in the community; a man who eats little and toils much; a man who is nine-tenths production, and only one-tenth consumption. They scourge his back! Because he won’t work? Neither will Bomba work. Neither will his master work. What right have you to say whether he shall work or not? whether he shall work here or elsewhere, at this labor or at another, for this or for that employer?
But why won’t he work? Has he not the cravings of other men? Has he not a mouth to fill, a back to clothe, a head to shelter, children to provide for? Would he as lief starve as be fed, shiver as be warm, stand exposed to the elements as be under a roof, see his children die as see them live? Is he inaccessible to the ordinary motives which act as stimuli to the working powers of mankind? Does he care nothing for reward? Is he deaf to praise? Do offers of sure and adequate wages make no impression on him? Then he is less than a beast. Can he be less than a beast and have the form, the organization, the habits of a man? Yes, he may be; for humanity bestialized is worse than bestial; but if he is, it is ye who have made him so, ye nobles of the cowskin, ye aristocrats of the cat-o-'nine-tails, ye nabobs of the pickle-pot and the brine-tub! Man may be less than man, as woman may be less than woman. How much less than men, then, are they who work the desecration? 
Were any beast of burden treated as this noble-looking black was treated; were any ox, or horse, or mule so beaten that his wounds were ghastly at the end of six months of effort on the part of nature to heal them, his owner would be execrated by every one of his neighbors. But they who can beat a man thus, put him lower than an ox, a horse, or a mule— and his deed is therefore not abhorred. The best treatment the black man gets at the hands of his master is the same that is bestowed on the spaniel dog; a bone with a little meat on it; a spot of shade to lie in; a caress which is an insult; an indulgence; which is a degradation. The worst he gets is NOT this lacerated back. 
It is this ignoring of humanity that we complain of; this utter failure to preserve the manhood of man; this utter scorn of the truth that God has made of one blood all races to dwell on the face of the earth; this mode of testing humanity by the color of the skin; this assumption of the bestial in all that is not white; this carelessness as to whether the negro will work for wages like other men, whether he can improve, whether freedom will be to him and to his master, and to all concerned, a boon or a bane; this stubborn recklessness in regard to all the considerations that enter into the treatment of white laborers; it is this we raise our cry against. It is this that makes this little card-picture such an awful symbol. We remember with pity the agony of the poor victim; but that pity is soon lost in the horror that any man, for no sin, unless a consciousness of his manly nature be a sin; for no crime, unless the love of liberty be a crime; for no vice, unless self-assertion be a vice —should be scourged as no brute beast is ever scourged. We remember with bitterness the senseless folly that can thus waste the resources of the working-man, and cripple the limbs on whose power and activity the country’s wealth
<c03>
depends; that infuses distrust and hatred into the relation so important, so delicate, so sensitive, which exists between employers and employed, and dishonors the class that ought by all means to be encouraged to feel a sense of dignity and worth. But this bitterness, though it curls nostril and lip, leaves no traces on the mind, as we consider the atheism which pretends to believe of any creature made in the human form, that the whip will make him do what reason, affection, interest, will not.
The black man with the scarred back is the type of the slave system, and of the society that sustainsit. It typifies the pride of race and the contempt of labor. This card-photograph should be multiplied by the hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs., Stowe cannot approach; because, it tells the story to the eye. If seeing is believing—and it is in the immense majority of cases—seeing this card would be equivalent to believing things of the slave States which Northern men and women would move heaven and earth to abolish!—Independent.
THE BOST0N POST SICK.
The Boston Post—says a correspondent of the Charlestown Advertiser—is sick, dangerously sick. He (excuse the Pronoun and the Gender) has been complaining nearly a year of indigestion and loss of appetite, with an occasional affection of the heart; but the malady did not assume a serious, chronic form, until last Saturday, when the. Physician was able to ascertain the precise diagnosis. It appeared that the head and the heart were severely afflicted with Colorphobia and Mc. Clellan. The heart appeared to be rapidly turning to fluid, sweat and tears, and the head was in such a state of moral darkness that the M. D. apprehended the most alarming consequences from acute mortification.
The memorandum in the Doctor’s Diary, which I accidentally saw, was written thus:
1. Colorphobia on the Brain.—Patient in a high state of excitement; blood thin and white; skin, dry and hot; eyes, short-sighted and a little cocked. Patient was much frightened at black; I should think he had been subject to it more or less from infancy. I understand it was caused by the fright of his mother, on seeing a Negro enjoying the privileges of a freeman. The disease has increased greatly during the last eight years, and has now assumed an acute, chronic and permanent form.
2. McClellan on the Heart.—Symptoms bad. The heart is fearfully distended, the pericardium is perforated with innumerable small holes, said to have been made by Gen. McClellan’s wooden sword, while the Patient was a member of his staff in the Boston Campaign. The right and left Ventricles are filled with serum and coagulum; the Pulmonary artery and the Aorta are severely affected, and the circulation of the blood is vitally impaired.
The disease is chronic, acute, and inflammatory.
This shocking malady was caused, I believe, by the removal of Gen. McClellan from the command of the Army of the Potomac, and undoubtedly has been aggravated within a short time, by reading the Report of the Congressional Committee on the operations of the Army of the Potomac under Gen. McClellan. The patient requires rest, sea air, cold sea bathing and tonic. Patriotism would do much good, diluted with a little Humanity, but ten drops of the essence of a Slaveholder's heel in a wine glass of Kentucky whiskey three times a day would do the best, perhaps. A residence at some Island in Boston Harbor, during the war, would be advisable; some safe, quiet place where there is a good Hotel, say "F. W. P. S. One hour later. I have just visited my patient, and find the affection of the heart is abated a little by the expulsion of two columns of serum and coagulum on "The Report of the Conduct of the War and the safety of Washington." He seems more comfortable, and the blood circulates with more freedom; the eyes look brighter, and the color of the-face is more natural, betraying his egotism. The eyesight is still dim and short, and the disease on the brain increases.
Alas! there is no hope of his recovery.
I analyzed the vomit of serum and coagulum, and found it composed of ten different substances, as follows: 30 parts of McClellan, 31 of Colorphobia, 6 of Treason. 15 of Falsehood, 15 of Dissatisfaction, 10 of Denunciation of the War, 10 of Sweltered Froth, 1 of Truth, and 1 of Satisfaction.
A compound indeed! Who could live infected with the ingredients of such a plague? Who could minister to such a disease:
Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow;
Rase out the written troubles of the brain;
And with some sweet, oblivious antidote. 
Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff
Which weighs upon the heart?
The echo answers, McClellan. 
Far up the cliff the sound recedes,
McClellan.
Patriotism and Humanity freely administered, hourly, in season, probably would have saved the patient; but now they are of no avail.
On reading the above memoranda, I addressed the following note to the M. D.:- 
April 25, 4 P. M., 1863.
Dear Sir:—Your "Old Friend" suggests that you advise your Patient’s family to prepare proper funeral clothing, and after the decease of your Patient, if they desire to preserve the body, to embalm it in a full-length photograph of Gen. McClellan. Forward to New York the columns of Serum, &c., to Fernando Wood, to consult previous to his again addressing the Tammany Hall Association on the State of the Nation.
Yours respectfully,
WARD.
P. S. —Advise your Patient's family to stand by Gen. McClellan, and not to read Gen. Joe Hooker’s; testimony on the Conduct of the War, or the Report of Messrs. Wade, Chandler, Covode, Gooch and the War Democrat, Odell, relating to the same subject, as your Patient’s distemper may be hereditary hereditary.
W.
PHILLIPS, THE ORATOR.
BY A. BRONSON ALCOTT.
Who faithful in insane sedition keeps, 
With silver and with ruddy gold may vie.
Tyrtceous. 
I remember how in the year 1837, after the killing of Lovejoy, at Alton, there was a public meeting in Faneuil Hall, called by, I was about to say, the last Puritan saint that preached in a pulpit in Boston; the eloquent saint and preacher of New England, where he made a speech, and where a certain State’s Attorney, I believe he was, made a speech also, in which he cast all manner of ridicule on the martyr; and I remember how a young man took his quiet chance to spring to his feet and ascend the platform, and pour out such a flood of eloquence that I believe the victim has never breathed largely and freely since. I remember seeing him a day or two ago, walking down Colonnade Row, where he
<c04>
then lived, and wondering how he had felt ever since that day. That was the first intimation of the orator of New England. All Boston was surprised, and wondered who that was. They found, however, on inquiry, that he was born well, was well bred, well educated, and in all respects as good as they were. Of course, that must have been a great disappointment. The difficulties must have been very much greater, of course, under these circumstances. But then, his youth was against him. From that time to this, steadily, from year to year and almost from day to day, that eloquence has been making its way through New England and the West, and across the water, and he stands, to-day, the orator of America, unmatched by any preceding orator: and in this respect, that he pleads for righteousness, he pleads for the truth, always,—has never been known to be on the wrong side,—always for the oppressed, never for the oppressor. So that, with one exception, (and I can hardly make that,) in New England, in the West, and even in the National Capital itself, more persons will flock to hear that orator than any other in the country.
He stands conspicuous above others as the advocate of human rights, the defender of the oppressed; Freedom's lonestar, whose luster is leading fugitive States and statesmen fast from their bondage to the despotism into this refuge of liberty, here in the north of the North—New England. By happy fortune, he enjoys the privilege, denied to senators, of speaking of free and freedom-loving men everywhere, unincumbered by slave statutes or caucus.
His speeches have the highest qualities of a great orator. In range of thought, clearness of statement, keen satire, brilliant wit, personal anecdote, wholesome, moral sentiments, patriotism and Puritan spirit, they are unmatched by any of the great orators of the day. They have, besides, the rare merit, and one in which our public men have been painfully deficient, of straight-forwardness, point, and truth to to the-hour. They are addressed to the conscience of the country, and were spoken in the interests of humanity. Many a soldier now in the field, many a citizen, doubtless, owes his loyalty, in large measure, to his learning of these eloquent words.
Above party, unless it be the honorable and ancient party of Mankind, they embody the temper and drift of the times. How many public men are here to survive in the pillar of his indignant invectives. The history of the last thirty years cannot be accurately written without his facts and anecdotes. There is no great interest of philanthropy in which he has not been active. His words are to be taken as those of an earnest mind intent on furthering the ends of truth and righteousness, interpreted not by their <illegible> but consistently to principles. Why are they not collected and printed in a book for the credit of our tongue, the praise of humanity, and the good fame, of their author?
Certainly the country hangs in the balance of his argument; cabinets and council hesitating to do or undo without some regard to his words, well knowing the better constituency he better represents, and speaks for—the PEOPLE, namely, whose breath can unmake them as it has made.
Would you like to hear what a poet wrote of him a great while ago? It may be that these lines have not fallen under your eye:—
"He stood upon the world’s broad threshold wide;
The din of battle and of slaughter rose;
He saw God stand upon the weaker side,
That sunk in seeming loss before its foes.
Many there were who made great haste and sold
Unto the cunning enemy their swords;
He scorned their gifts of fame, and power, and gold, 
And, underneath their soft and flowery words,
Heard the cold serpent hiss; therefore he went
And humbly joined him to the weaker part, 
anatic named, and fool, yet well content, 
So he should be the nearer to God's heart,
And feel its solemn pulses sending blood
Through all the wide-spread veins of endless good.
These are James Russell Lowell's verses, written in 1843. I don't know that many of us had found it out, but one poet had, as long ago as that, and sung it. Is it not fulfilled?—From Mr. Allcott's Conversations on New-England Reformers, March 9, 1863, as reported for the Commonwealth Newspaper.
THE FIRST OF THE 900,000.
The Herald was long on nettles with regard to the "900,000” soldiers whom it asserted that the Tribune had promised or predicted that a boldly defined Emancipation policy would add to the Union armies. From an early day it has insisted that that policy was a failure—that it had added nothing to the national strength, while subtracting heavily there from—that the idea of inducing negroes to fight their late rebel masters was ridiculous—that there was no fight in them, &c., &c. We are happy, therefore, to find in Saturday’s Herald a letter from its correspondent with Gen. Bank's army besieging Port Hudson, which fully confirms the statements of our own correspondent at that point with regard to the splendid fighting of the colored regiment (Second Louisiana) which took part in Gen. Sherman's attack upon the right of the rebel stronghold.
This, mind you, is the testimony of an enemy—of a Herald man who confesses that he did not believe negroes- would fight well till he was obliged to. The fact that they left six hundred men dead in the rebel works, out of nine hundred, when compelled by overwhelming numbers to fall back, is not the most essential; they had the advance, against strong works that had not been breached, under a terrible enfilading fire of all arms, and of course expected to suffer severely. The Herald man says that "they moved forward under the most murderous fire of shot, shell, grape, canister, and musketry, with a steadiness that was surprising”—to him. Steadiness under a crushing fire is the hardest test of soldierly capacity. Anybody can charge in the open field, where the foe stands face to face with you, and is as liable to fall as you are; but to storm heavy fortifications, where you know that nine-tenths of your shots must be utterly wasted and useless—to walk steadily and slowly up to all but certain death, with a full knowledge that your fire is all but wasted—this is work that none but good soldiers can endure. And this Herald man says that "the flower of the British army” at the celebrated storming of Ciudad Rodrigo“ never moved with firmer step or more solid column” than did this second division of Gen. Bank’s army to the assault on Port Hudson, with a negro regiment at the post of honor! And those negroes not merely“ fought with the desperation of tigers”—they fought wisely as well as terribly. Knowing well that fortifications can never be taken by standing before them and popping at them with musketry," after firing one volley, they did not design to load again, but went in with the bayonet; and wherever they had a chance, it was all up with the rebels." That is the way the bravest veterans charge fortifications; and these were poor negroes, who had never before been in serious action.
Nobly done, Second Regiment of Louisiana Na-
<c05>
tive Guard! though you failed to carry the rebel works against overwhelming numbers, you did not charge, and fight, and fall in vain! That heap of six hundred corpses, lying there dark, and grim, and silent before and within the rebel works, is a better Proclamation of Freedom than even President Lincoln's. A race ready to die thus was never yet retained in bondage, and never can be. Even the Wood Copperheads, who will not fight themselves, and try to keep others out of the Union ranks, will not dare to mob negro regiments, if this is their style of fighting.
Thus passes one regiment of blacks to death and everlasting fame; but a hundred more are this day mustering to replace it. These will be in the field by September, and twice as many forming behind them. Forward!
SUCCESS OF THE NEGRO REGIMENTS.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH, Hilton Head, Port Royal, S. C., May 4,1863.
To His Excellency the Governor of Massachusetts, Boston, Mass:
I am happy to be able to announce to you my complete and eminent satisfaction with the results of the organization of negro regiments in this Department. In the field, so far as tried, they have proved brave, active, enduring and energetic, frequently outrunning, by their zeal and familiarity with the Southern country, the restrictions deemed prudent by certain of their officers. They have never disgraced their uniform by pillage or cruelty, but have so conducted themselves, upon the whole, that even our enemies, though more anxious to find fault with these than with any other portion of our troops, have not yet been able to allege against them a single violation of, any of the rules of civilized warfare.
These regiments are hardy, generous, temperate, patient, strictly obedient, possessing great natural aptitude for arms, and deeply imbued with that religious sentiment—call it fanaticism, such as like— , which made the soldiers of Cromwell invincible, They believe that now is the time appointed by God for their deliverance; and under the heroic incitement of this faith, I believe them capable of showing a courage and persistency of purpose which must in; the end extort both victory and admiration.
In this connection, I am also happy to announce to you that the prejudices of certain of our white soldiers and officers against these indispensable allies are rapidly softening or fading out; and that we have now opening before us in this Department which was the first in the the present war to inaugurate the experiment of employing colored troops, large opportunities of putting them to distinguished and profitable use.
With a brigade of liberated slaves already in the field, a few more regiments of intelligent colored men from the North would soon place this force in a condition to make extensive incursions upon the main land, through the most densely populated slave regions; and from expeditions of this character I make no doubt the most beneficial results would arise.
I have the honor to be, Governor,
Very respectfully.
Your most obedient servant,
D. HUNTER, 
Major General Commanding.
SOUTHERN NEGRO RECRUITING.
The negroes here enter readily into the scheme of forming a colored Brigade from this department; and they demonstrate it practically by enlisting into the service at the first call. About a week ago we were returning from a bug hunt beyond Fort Totten, when we caught sight of four colored horsemen, one of whom wore a red sash, entering a small negro hamlet near the Fort, followed by another with a dilapidated tenor drum, and yet another with a dilapidated tenor drum. We surmised that the old European system of raising recruits was about being revived in this case, so we followed to witness the operation. When the riders and drummers had entered the hamlet, the order was given, —and rum—drum — thum —drum! thr-r-r-r-drum! resounded from the well worn and patched up sheep-skins. Up this dusty street the riders and drummers rode and drummed, —and down that dusty street they rode and drummed, —the negroes issuing from their cabins and falling into the rapidly increasing line of recruits, their families and friends in most cases encouraging the movement. Some fell in with their coats flung across their arms, as if they had calculated on the thing as a matter of course, and were only waiting for the call. A gigantic black was of this class; and others joined, and marched along as if they saw something strange and unexpected in their situation; and they bore on their countenances that expression of pride which is so characteristic, of young volunteers, when they have put their names on the regimental or company roll, and walk the streets as soldiers. A few looked bewildered, showing that with them the red sashed horseman and the drums had accomplished the contemplated work. 
The village had two streets, and about fifty male adults, including cripples; and out of these there marched, or tramped, in shirt-sleeves and tattered trowsers, about forty, four-fifths, to be dressed up in Uncle Sam's uniform, and make the nation's first class soldiers. An hour after this we met these negro recruits, and their column had swollen to the capacity of one hundred and eighty men. The same horseman and drummers were at the head; but in the centre of the column was carried a banner made of coarse cotton cloth, on which was painted in crude letters, "GOD give us victory or dath! victory or dath! These words were strown, as it were, in black paint, all over both sides of the banner. And the pride and satisfaction expressed in the countenances of the negro women, as they looked upon this singular parade, was really touching to the hearts of those who realized the situation of this injured race. In two days a full regiment was recruited. And they will fight!
CYRUS and DARIUS.
NEGRO TROOPS IN ROSECRANS’ DEPARTMENT.
Since the accession of Gen. Rosecrans to the supreme command in these parts, slavery has been virtually abolished in the section of the State within the Union lines. To be sure, there has been no direct liberation by force of laws or arms, but the slaves emancipated themselves by the inoperation of the slave-code of the State, and the consequent inability of the masters to exercise control and exact servitude whenever their human chattels refused to submit to it. Without the desire of freedom, they might have continued in the condition of bondage, even though thier owners had not the power to hold them in it; but, with an all bat universal impulse, they relieved themselves of thraldom by seeking se-
<c06>
curity and independence of person and means of livelihood within the army. Excepting the aged and infirm, hardly one in a hundred of the negroes enslaved at the time loyal troops first crossed the Cumberland, taxes his muscles now without compensation. Slavery, indeed, could not live under the treatment it received, in accordance with the laws of Congress, by the military authorities under the auspices of Gen. Rosecrans.
Those in the North that advocate fighting the rebellion with its own main weapon, have perhaps been perplexed at the delay in the work of raising colored troops in this Department. Let me tell them that it is not due, as it has been supposed, either to the vicinity of “Conservatives,” Pro-slavery Kentucky, or disinclination on the part of Gen. Rosecrans, or apprehended opposition by the army, but simply to the lack of material. Many more thousands of contrabands than Gen. Rosecrans now has at his command are wanted to take the place of soldiers detailed from their regiments for various fatigue duties, and they are not likely to be obtained until after an advance further South of the army.
Gen. Rosecrans is willing and ready to arm the slaves of rebels, and as to the feeling of his troops in regard to the proposition, there will be no more opposition to it in this army than in the army of Gen. Grant. There will undoubtedly be some growling among the Kentucky troops and a few of the officers and men from other States, but no open demonstration of dissatisfaction. Per contra, I know that many of the best officers are anxiously awaiting the arrival of Adjt.-Gen. Thomas to obtain permission to raise colored regiments. I am fully persuaded that there will be a perfect scramble for commissions in them, and that the scarcity of contrabands is likely to be the only difficulty General Thomas will encounter.
ENROLLMENT OF NEGROES FOR THE REBEL ARMY.
In the recent battles of General Banks on the Teche, in Louisiana, he seized upon papers, among which was found a proclamation of Governor Moore, ordering the enrollment of the able-bodied negroes in the country round about for the purpose of organizing them into regiments. Colonel Thorpe says there cannot be a doubt but that, throughout the extreme Southern States, the rebels are actually engaged in raising negro regiments, for it is only from such material that they can now recruit their ranks with able-bodied men. Colonel Thorpe also says that he has watched the progress of the formation of the first colored regiment now organized in Louisiana and has never seen better material, or troops more obedient or more quick to learn the manual exercise. These men, in spite of their antecedents and unhappy history, are thoroughly informed of the important position they occupy, and yet are not backward in a lopting a uniform which is their death -warrant if taken by the enemy.
Adjutant-General Thomas has made twelve speeches to the troops on the Mississippi, organized eleven African regiments, and has a good prospect of enlisting nine more. The soldiers whom he has addressed, have uniformly and heartily welcomed the new policy of the government which he has unfolded to them, and there is no difficulty except that of selecting from among the numerous applicants in officering the new organizations.
THE MANIA FOR SLAVERY.
A thing observable about the mania for Slavery, which has displayed itself in England, is that it is confined to what may be described as the upper classes. Not half a dozen zealots of the popular kind have been induced by love or money to present themselves at the assemblies of the emancipationists; and it is probable the same or more might have been found to take the garrotter’s side, if that question had been brought to the test of a public meeting.
The reason is very plain. The people of England have weighed and appreciated the spirit and bearing of the whole movement, and see with a clear, steady light of comprehension, that with allowance for the difference of times and places, and for the unreflecting folly which makes some men ran their heads into anything with the air of extravagant and new, the intention was to follow up the idea expressed with diplomatic accuracy in the first communication of the rebellious States to their expected allies, which was that it the Working Classes ought everywhere, to be slaves. This was the "grand thought," as the French phrase it, the guiding star to steer upon in such wise as circumstances might admit, which was in the act of being transmitted to the British government through live plenipotentiaries in the Trent, and for interfering with which pleasing negotiations, a cry is raised for war as the means of securing the object which is common stock.
What is certain is, that popular feeling in England is not unfriendly to America, and will not be, unless advantage is given by something done on that side the Atlantic. There are perhaps as many interested in war there as here. The grand hope and trust of the Slave power in England is, that something, by irritation or otherwise, may he brought about in America which shall end in war with the Northern States. O what joys! what embraces! the meeting of Virgil and his friends was nothing to it. How aristocracy would rush into the arms of the street-walkers of New Orleans; and plutocracy exult in finding they might sell slave-tackle, none making them afraid!
And here is the place for noting a most favourable feature, which the very articled clerks of the English slave-dealers in America could not help reporting to the heads of their house. And that is, that the modest women in America are taking alarm at the strategem for confounding them in the base trick attempted to be played off on General Butler. Everybody with their wits about them and not blinded by partisanship, knows that it was a lie from the beginning, and a badly got-up lie too. There is not a mess-room in England, where an unfledged ensign who had incautiously done something towards circulating such a slander against an officer in a foreign service, would not be invited to express his regret for it in terms becoming what the Articles of War intend by “an officer and a gentleman.”
The Northern women have shown themselves to be what woman is all over the world, except where depressed by what De Lamar tine calls the "crime and blasphemy" of slavery. What is to be done with women who have been reared from infancy in the brothel of a slave-society; who, whatever may be the case individually with themselves, have, in their connexions and all that around them, never known purity? A novel writer, meaning certainly to describe what is, and not what everybody would know was not, paints to us the father of a family, respectable and getting on well in the world, as would appear, with eleven children by slaves, born to him since his marriage. Such a society it is polluted in its very sources; and our slave-traders are fit to keep it company. In one sense, perhaps, the women of such bringing-up are only objects of compassion
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
-that is, when they keep their mouths, shut, and do not practise nastiness against their betters. In none but a Slave State could have been “raised” such women. The women of the North are quite right in taking side against the English premier and his <illegible>, and by the women of England will find it out, and join them.
T. PERRONET THOMPSON.

LETTER FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN,
ON MILITARY ARRESTS.
EXECUTIVE, MANSION, WASHINGTON, June 12, 1863.
Hon ERASTUS CORNING and others:
GENTLEMEN: Your letter of May 19, including the resolutions of a public meeting held at Albany, N. Y., on the 16th of the same month, was received several days ago.
The resolutions, as I understand them, are resolvable into two propositions-first, the expression of a purpose to sustain the cause of the Union, to secure peace through victory, and to support the Administration in every constitutional and lawful measure to suppress the Rebellion; and secondly, a declaration of censure upon the Administration for supposed unconstitutional action, such as the making of military arrests. And, from the two propositions, a third is deduced, which is that the gentlemen composing the meeting are resolved on doing their part to maintain our common government and country, despite the folly or wickedness, as they may conceive, of any Administration. This position is eminently patriotic, and as such I thank the meeting and congratulate the nation for it. My own purpose is the same; so that the meeting and myself have a common object, and can have no difference, except in the choice of means or measures for affecting that object.
And here I ought to close this paper, and would close it, if there were no apprehension that more injurious consequences than any merely personal to myself might follow the censures systematically cast upon me for doing what, in my view of duty, I could not forbear. The resolutions promise to support me in every constitutional and lawful measure to suppress the Rebellion; and I have not knowingly employed, nor shall knowingly employ, any other. But the meeting, by their resolutions, assert and argue that certain military arrests, and proceedings following them, for which I am ultimately responsible, are unconstitutional. I think they are not. The resolutions quote from the Constitution the definition of treason, and also the limiting safeguards and guarantees therein provided for the citizens on trial for treason, and on his being held to answer for capital or otherwise infamous crimes, and, in criminal prosecutions, his right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury. They proceed to resolve “that these safeguards of the rights of the citizens against the pretensions of arbitrary power were intended more especially for his protection in times of civil commotion.” And, apparently to demonstrate the proposition, the resolutions proceed:— "They were secured substantially to the English people after years of protracted civil war, and were adopted into our Constitution at the close of the Revolution.” Would not the demonstration have been better if it could have been truly said that these safeguards had been adopted and applied during the civil wars and during our Revolution, instead of after the one, and at the close of the other? I, too, am devotedly for them after civil war, and before civil war, and at all times, “except when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require” their suspension. The resolutions proceed to tell us that these safeguards “have stood the test of seventy-six years of trial, under our republican system, under circumstances which show that, while they constitute the foundation of all free government, they are the elements of the enduring stability of the Republic.” No one denies that they have so stood the test up to the beginning of the present Rebellion, if we except a certain occurrence at New Orleans;; nor does any one question that they will stand the same test much longer after the Rebellion closes. But these provisions of the Constitution have no application to the case we have in hand, because the arrests complained of were not made for treason; that is, not for the treason defined in the Constitution, and upon conviction of which the punishment is death—nor yet were they made to hold persons to answer for any capital or otherwise infamous crimes; nor were the proceedings following, in any constitutional or legal sense, “criminal prosecutions.” The arrests were made on totally different grounds, and the proceedings following accorded with the grounds of the arrests. Let us consider the <illegible> we are dealing, and apply to it the parts of the Constitution plainly made for such cases.
Prior to my installation here, it had been inculcated that any State had a lawful right to secede from the national Union, and that it would be expedient to exercise the right whenever the devotees of the doctrine should fail to elect a President to their own liking. I was elected contrary to their liking; and, accordingly, so far as it was legally possible, they had taken seven States out of the Union, had seized many of the United States forts, and had fired upon the United States flag, all before I was inaugurated, and, of course, before I had done any official act whatever. The rebellion thus began soon ran into the present Civil War; and, in certain respects, it began on very unequal terms between the parties. The insurgents had been preparing for it more than thirty years, while the Government had taken no steps to resist them. The former had carefully considered all the means which could be turned to their account. It undoubtedly was a well-pondered reliance with them that, in their own unrestricted efforts to destroy Union, Constitution, and law, all together, the Government would, in great degree, be restrained by the same Constitution and law from arresting their progress. Their sympathizers pervaded all departments of the Government and nearly all communities of the people. From this material under cover of “liberty of speech,” “liberty of the press,” and “habeas corpus,” they hoped to keep on foot among us a most efficient corps of spies, informers, suppliers, and eiders and abettors of their cause in a thousand ways. They knew that in times such as they were inaugurating, by the Constitution itself, the “habeas corpus” might be suspended; but they also knew they had friends who would make a question as to who was to suspend it; mean while, their spies and others might remain at large to help on their cause. Or, if, as has happened, the Executive should suspend the writ, without ruinous waste of time, instances of arresting innocent persons might occur, as are always likely to occur in such cases; and then a clamor could be raised in regard to this, which might be, at least, of some service to the insurgent cases. It needed no very keen perception to discover this part of the enemy's programme, so soon as, by open hostilities, their machinery was fairly put in motion. Yet, thoroughly imbued with a reverence for the guaranteed rights of individuals, I was slow to adopt the strong measures which by degrees I have been forced to regard as being within the exceptions of the Constitution, and as indispensable to the public safety. Nothing is better known to history than that courts of justice are utterly incompetent to such cases. Civil courts are organized chiefly for trials of individuals, or, at most, a few individuals acting in concert: and this in quiet times, and on charges of crimes well defined in the law. Even in times of peace, bands of horse-thieves and robbers frequently grow too numerous and powerful for the ordinary courts of justice. But what comparison, in numbers, have such bands ever borne to the insurgent sympathizers even in many of the loyal States? Again: a jury too frequently has at least one member more ready to hang the panel than to hang the traitor. And yet, again, he who dissuades one man from volunteering, or induces one soldier to desert, weakens the Union cause as much as be who kills a Union soldier in battle. Yet this dissuasion or inducement may be so conducted as to be no defined crime of which any civil court would take cognizance.
Ours is a case of rebellion—so called by the resolutions before me—in fact, a clear, flagrant, and gigantic case of rebellion; and the provision of the Constitution, that “the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless when, in cases of rebellion and invasion, the public safety may require it," is the provision which specially applies to our present case. This provision plainly attests the understanding of those who made the Constitution, that ordinary courts of justice are inadequate to “cases of rebellion"-attests their purpose that, in such cases, men may be held in custody, whom the courts, acting on ordinary rules, would discharge. Habeas corpus does not discharge men who are proved to be guilty of defined crime; and its suspension is allowed by the Constitution on purpose that men may be arrested and held who cannot be proved to be guilty of defined crime, “when, in case
<c02>
of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it." This is precisely our present case-a case of rebellion, wherein the public safety does require the suspension. Indeed, arrests by process of courts, and arrests in cases of rebellion, do not proceed altogether upon the same basis. The former is directed at the small percentage of ordinary and continuous perpetration of crime, while the latter is directed at sudden extensive uprisings against the government, which, at most, will succeed or fail in no great length of time. In the latter case, arrests are made, not so much for what has been done, as for what probably would be done. The latter is more for the preventive, and less for the vindictive than the former. In such cases the purposes of men are much more easily understood than in cases of ordinary crime. The man who stands by and says nothing when the peril of his government is discussed, cannot be misunderstood. If not hindered, he is sure to help the enemy; much more, if he talks ambiguously—talks for his country with "buts" and "ands." Of how little value the constitutional provisions I have quoted will be rendered, if arrests shall never be made until defined crimes shall have been committed, may be illustrated by a few notable examples. General John C. Breckinridge, General Robert E. Lee. General Joseph E. Johnston, General John B. Magruder, General William B. Preston, Gen. Simon B. Buckner, and Commodore Franklin Buchanan, now occupying the very highest places in the rebel war service, were all within the power of the government since the rebellion began, and were nearly as well known to be traitors then as now. Unquestionably if we had seized and held them, the insurgent cause would be much weaker. But no one of them had then committed any crime defined in the law. Every one of them, if arrested, would have been discharged on habeas corpus, were the writ allowed to operate. In view of these and similar cases, I think the time not unlikely to come when I shall be blamed for having made too few arrests, rather than too many.
By the third resolution, the meeting indicate their opinion that military arrests may be constitutional in localities where rebellion actually exists, but that such arrests are unconstitutional in localities where rebellion or insurrection does not actually exist. They insist that such arrests shall not be made "outside of the lines of necessary military occupation, and the scenes of insurrection." Inasmuch, however, as the Constitution itself makes no such distinction, I am unable to believe that there is any such constitutional distinction. I concede that the class of arrests complained of can be constitutional only when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require them; and I insist that in such cases they are constitutional wherever the public safety does require them; as well in places to which they may prevent the rebellion extending as in those where it may be already prevailing; as well where they may restrain mischievous interference with the raising and supplying of armies to suppress the rebellion, as where the rebellion may actually be; as well where they may restrain the enticing men out of the army, as where they would prevent mutiny in the army; equally constitutional at all places where they will conduce to the public safety, as against the dangers of rebellion or invasion. Take the particular case mentioned by the meeting. It is asserted, in substance, that Mr. Vallandigham was, by a military commander, seized and tried " for no other reason than words addressed to a public meeting in criticism of the course, of the administration, and in condemnation of the military orders of the general." Now, if there be no mistake about this; if this assertion is the truth, and the whole truth; if there was no other reason for the arrest, then I concede that the arrest was wrong. But the arrest, as I understand, was made for a very different reason, Mr. Vallandigham avows his hostility to the war on the part of the Union; and his arrest was made because be was laboring, with some effect, to prevent the raising of troops; to encourage desertions from the army; and to leave the rebellion without an adequate military force to suppress it. He was not arrested because he was damaging the political prospects of the administration, or the personal interests of the commanding general, but because he was damaging the army, upon the existence and vigor of which the life of the nation depends. He was warring upon the military, and this gave the military constitutional jurisdiction to lay hands upon him. If Mr. Vallandigham was not damaging the military power of the country, then his arrest was made on mistake of fact, which I would be glad to correct on reasonably satisfactory evidence.
I understand the meeting, whose resolutions I am considering, to be in favor of suppressing the rebel <illegible> experience has shown that armies cannot be maintained, unless desertion shall be punished by the severe penalty of death. The case requires, and the law and the Constitution sanction, this punishment. Must I shoot a simple-minded soldier boy who deserts, while I must not touch a hair of a wily agitator who induces him to desert? This is none the less injurious when effected by getting a father, or brother, or friend, into a public meeting, and there working upon his feelings till he is persuaded to write the soldier boy that he is fighting in a bad cause, for a wicked administration of a contemptible government, too weak to arrest and punish him if he shall desert. I think that in such a case, to silence the agitator and save the boy is not only constitutional, but withal a great mercy.
If I be wrong on this question of constitutional power, my error lies in believing that certain proceedings are constitutional when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety requires them, which would not be constitutional when, in absence of rebellion or invasion, the public safety does not require them; in other words, that the Constitution is not, in its application, in all respects the same, in cases of rebellion or invasion involving the public safety, as it is in times of profound peace and public security. The Constitution itself make the distinction; and I can no more be persuaded that the Government can constitutionally take no strong measures In time of rebellion, because it can be shown that the same could not be lawfully taken in time of peace, than I can be persuaded that a particular drug is not good medicine for a sick man, because it can be shown to not be good food for a well one. Nor am I able to appreciate the danger apprehended by the meeting, that the American people will, by means of military arrests during the rebellion, lose the right of public discussion, the liberty of speech and the press, the law of evidence, trial by jury, and habeas corpus, throughout the indefinite peaceful future, which I trust lies before them, any more than I am able to believe that a man could contract so strong an appetite for emetics, during temporary illness, as to persist in feeding upon them of during the remainder of his healthful life. 
In giving the resolutions that earnest consideration which you request of me, I cannot overlook the fact that the meeting speak as "Democrats." Nor can I, with full respect for their known intelligence, and the fairly presumed deliberation with which they prepared their resolutions, be permitted to suppose that this occurred by accident, or in any way other than that they preferred to designate themselves "Democrats" rather than "American citizens." In this time of national peril, I would have preferred to meet you upon a level, one step higher than any party platform; because 1 am sure that, from such more elevated position, we could do better battle for the country we all love, than we possibly can from those lower ones where, from the force of habit, the prejudices of the past, and selfish hopes of the future, we are sure to expend much of our ingenuity and strength in finding fault with, and aiming blows at, each other. But, since you have denied me this, I will yet be thankful, for the country's sake, that not all Democrats have done so. He on whose discretionary judgment Mr. Vallandigham was arrested and tried is a Democrat, having no old party affinity with me; and the judge who rejected the Constitutional view expressed in these resolutions, by refusing to discharge Mr. Vallandigham on habeas corpus is a Democrat of better days than these, having received his judical mantle at the bands of President Jackson. And still more of all those Democrats who are nobly exposing their lives and shedding their blood on the battle-field, I have learned that many approve the course taken with Mr. Vallandigham, while I have not heard of a single one condemning it. I cannot assert that there are none such. And the name of President Jackson recalls an instance of pertinent history. After the battle of New Orleans, and while the fact that the treaty of peace had been concluded was well known in the city, but before official knowledge of it had arrived, General Jackson still maintained martial or military law. Now, that it could be said the war was over, the clamor against martial law, which had existed from the first, grew more furious. Among other things, a Mr. Louaillier published a denunciatory newspaper article. General Jackson arrested him. A lawyer by the name of
<c03>
Morel procured the United States Judge Hall to order a writ of habeas corpus to relieve Mr. Louaillier. General Jackson arrested both the lawyer and the judge. A Mr. Hollander ventured to say of some part of the matter that “it was a dirty trick." General Jackson arrested him. When the officer undertook to serve the writ of habeas corpus, General Jackson took it from him, and sent him away with a copy. Holding the judge in custody a few days, the General sent him beyond the limits of his encampment, and set him at liberty, with an order to remain till the ratification of peace should be regularly announced, or until the British should have left the Southern coast. A day or two more elapsed, the ratification of the treaty of peace was regularly announced, and the judge and others were fully liberated. A few days more, and the judge called General Jackson into court, and fined him a thousand dollars for having arrested him and the others named. The General paid the fine, and there the matter rested for nearly thirty years, when Congress refunded principal and interest. The late Senator Douglas, then in the House of Representatives, took a leading part in the debates, in which the constitutional question was much discussed. I am not prepared to say whom the journals would show to have voted for the measure.
It may be remarked: First, that we had the same Constitution then as now; secondly, that we then had a case of invasion, and now we have a case of rebellion; and thirdly, that the permanent right of the people to public discussion, the liberty of speech and of the press, the trial by jury, the law of evidence, and the habeas corpus, suffered no detriment whatever by that conduct of General Jackson, or its subsequent approval by the American Congress.
And yet, let me say, that in my own discretion I do not know whether I would have ordered the arrest of Mr. Vallandigham. While I cannot shift the responsibility from myself, I hold that, as a general rule, the commander in the field is the better judge of the necessity in any particular case. Of course, I must exercise a general directory and revisory power in the matter.
One of the resolutions expresses the opinion of the meeting, that arbitrary arrests will have the effect to divide and distract those who should be united in suppressing the rebellion, and I am specifically called on to discharge Mr. Vallandigham regard this as, at least, a fair appeal to me on the expediency of exercising a constitutional power which I think exists. In response to such appeal I have to say, it gave me pain when I learned that Mr. Vallandigham had been arrested—that is, I was pained that there should have seemed to be a necessity for arresting him—and that it will afford me great pleasure to discharge him so soon as I can by any means believe the public safety will not suffer by it. I further say, that as the war progresses, it appears to me, opinion and action, which were in great confusion at first, take shape and fall into more regular channels, so that the necessity for strong dealing with them gradually decreases. I have every reason to desire that it should cease all together, and far from the least is my regard for the opinions and wishes of those who, like the meeting at Albany, declare their purpose to sustain the Government in every constitutional and lawful, measure to suppress the rebellion. Still I must continue to do so much as may seem to be required by the public safety.
A. LINCOLN.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 19, 1863.
FOURTH OF JULY!
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION.
The regular annual Mass Meeting of the Friends of Freedom will be held under the auspices of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, at the Grove in Framingham, SATURDAY, July 4th, 1863.
This annual gathering of the tried and unfaltering friends of universal emancipation,—and, consequently, the truest and most reliable friends of our common country in every hour of peril and suffering,—has never failed to bring a host together from all parts of the Commonwealth; and in such a crisis as the present, while the struggle between the forces of freedom and those of slavery continues to alternate and linger <illegible> necessary to make an urgent appeal to secure the largest attendance at the Framingham Grove on the approaching anniversary. It will be a celebration worthy of the event it commemorates, and worthy of this eventful and momentous period, in the highest degree. The place of meeting is a consecrated one, and hallowed by heart-stirring memories of the past.
Among the expected speakers are WM. L. GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Rev. Mr. RICHARDSON, of Worcester, WM. WELLS BROWN, CHARLES LENOX REMOND, A. T. FOSS, E. H. HEYWOOD, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, F. B. SANBORN, Esq., and others.
Trains will be run on the Boston and Worcester Railroad, and Branches, as follows:-Leave Boston at 9.15, and Worcester at 9.40 A. M., stopping at Way Stations; Millbury, regular train; Milford, at 7.10 and 9,45: Northboro' at 7; Marlboro' at 7.15.
Fare to the Grove and back:-From Boston, Worcester and Millbury, 80 cents for adults, 40 cents for children; from Grafton, adults, 70 cents, children, 35 cents; from Milford, Milford Branch, (except Holliston,) Northboro', Marlboro', Wellesley, Grantville, Cordaville, Southboro’, and Westboro’, 60 cents for adults, 30 cents for children; from Natick, Holliston and Ashland, adults, 45 cents, children, 25 cents.
Returning, leave the Grove for Boston, Milford and Worcester, at 6, P. M. For Way Stations above Framingham, (except Westboro',) 4.45. For Northboro' Branch, at 5.30 P. M.
Admission fee to the enclosure of the Grove, for those not coming by the cars, adults, 15 cents, children, 10 cents. Those who come by railroad admitted free.
No Fireworks allowed in the enclosure of the Grove. The House at the Grove will be open for Refreshments.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Waverley Hall, opposite the Railroad Depot at South 
Framingham.

LETTER OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Reviewing the letter of President Lincoln to the Committee of Copperheads at Albany, with reference to the arrest and exilement of the traitor Vallandigham, (see preceding page of the Liberator,) that able journal, the American Baptist, pertinently says:-
The only point in the President's argument to which we feel a strong objection is the narrow limits to which he would restrict the crime of treason. He says: "The arrests complained of were not made for treason, that is, not for the treason defined in the Constitution, and upon conviction of which the punishment is death; nor yet were they made to hold persons to answer for any capital or otherwise infamous crimes; nor were the proceedings following, in any constitutional or legal sense, " criminal prosecutions." 
Notwithstanding this disclaimer, the President goes on to argue that the persons arrested were doing their best to keep up a corps of “" spies, informers, supplies, and eiders and abettors of their cause in a thousand ways;" Mr. Vallandigham "was laboring to prevent the raising of troops, to encourage desertions from the army, and to leave the rebellion without an adequate force to suppress it;" was "damaging the army," and " warring upon the military." Now, this is precisely what the Constitution defines to be treason, when it says that this crime consists not only in levying war against the Government, but in giving aid and comfort to those who are warring against it. "Nothing," says the President, "is better known to history than that courts of justice are utterly incompetent to such cases; civil courts are organized chiefly for trials of individuals, or, at most, a few individuals acting in concert; and this in quiet times, and on charges well-defined in the law." We believe the President is wholly wrong. Congress, by their late acts, provided for the punishment of rebels by the wholesale, and if any thing more were wanting. Congress would doubtless be ready to supply the deficiency. Mr. Lincoln thinks "the time not unlikely to come when be shall be blamed for, having made too few arrests, rather than too many." No, the blame will be not for making so few arrests, but for bringing so few criminals to trial and punishment. This is what history will record as the great failing of President Lincoln.
<c04>
THROUGH ADVERSITIES TOWARDS PROSPERITY.
Since the people and the rulers of this country will not repent, turn voluntarily from their course of transgression, and take the right path because it is right, they must undergo the process of being scourged into that path by successive plagues, like their Egyptian predecessors in tyranny. Our national sin has been contempt and abuse of the colored people. The result has been that our national existence must be forfeited unless we yield to these people their rights. We are hanging back, rulers and people, trying to keep back as much as possible of the restitution due to the wronged, and trying even to postpone the small installments of payment as long as possible. As a consequence, the Heavenly Father, whose rod, as well as His staff, is used with a view to our ultimate welfare, inflicts more and more chastisements upon us; and inflicts them in such a manner as to elevate and honor the negro whom we have despised. The latest development of this sort appears in the present position of the State of Pennsylvania.
This free State, bordering upon three slave States, had eminent opportunities to assist freedom and discourage slavery. Some of its inhabitants have always done their duty in this regard. Some of the most thorough and vigilant laborers for universal liberty have been and are citizens of Pennsylvania. The majority, however, of the people of that State acted in willing complicity with the slaveholding power, and became corrupted and demoralized accordingly. Now, for the second time, their own territory has been startled from its quietude by news of the armed incursion of slaveholders, with intent to seize their capital, and commit all possible depredation upon their property. And the immediate effect of this assault by their old friends and allies is to drive them into alliance with that colored race whose oppression , by both South and North has given rise to the present conflict.
Simultaneously with the news of the threatened attack on Pennsylvania, we have the Proclamation of Governor Curtin, ordering an immediate enrolment of all able-bodied men in military organizations, and a general order claiming the military services of negroes also, as follows:-
COLORED TROOPS IN PENNSYLVANIA. Harrisburg, 14th. Gov. Curtin has issued a general order, stating that colored troops will be mustered into the service of the United States by authority of the War Department, and forbidding colored men from leaving the State to join organizations in other States.
Massachusetts, having but few negroes, and yet being the first of the free States (Kansas perhaps excepted) to wish to receive that class of men into the military service, invited colored men from other States also to join her Fifty-fourth Regiment. Probably, when this recruiting was commenced, Pennsylvania, like other negro-hating communities, rejoiced to be rid of those of the proscribed class who were willing to accept the offer of Massachusetts. Now a new state of things has arisen, and the colored people are so much needed in the defence of Pennsylvania, that they are forbidden to leave that State. The black men now there are for the first time permitted to wear the uniform, which, as Wendell Phillips said, is a certificate of citizenship. By bravery and good conduct in the use of the musket they must needs, before long, be permitted to wear the sword. And these steps raise them to a position where it will be very difficult, and even monstrous, to deny them any of the rights of men; the natural tendency will be to consider them equal fellow-citizens in the civil community, after the rebellion shall have been suppressed. 
It has been well said by Dr. Cheever, (who now repeats, in prophetic tones, that call for justice to the colored race which Mr. Garrison raised thirty-three years ago,) that tricks of expediency, instead of repentance and reformation, will not save this people. We have sinned, by the same series of oppressions, against the negro and against God; and until we voluntarily cease from this sin, and do works meet for repentance, we can never attain either God's favor, or any substantial and permanent welfare. And yet one real and great benefit is gained from <illegible> continuance of the habit of oppression and the custom of caste. We gain the immense advantage of having one source of progressive corruption taken away from its depraving contact with the present generation, and especially with the rising generation. To see cruelty and meanness carried on as part of the regular operation of civilized society, to see a great system of wrong going steadily forward apparently by consent of everybody, the good as well as the bad and the indifferent, naturally and strongly tends to draw the accustomed beholder into the same vortex. Those who see these things from day to day catch the contagion of contempt for the dark race, just as the children of slaveholders, by Mr. Jefferson's testimony, catch the contagion of tyranny over them. The people of the slave States have become worse in manners and morals than those of the free States by the daily spectacle of gross oppression practised by all sorts of men and women just as if it were right. To systematize vice, so that it may pass along through the routine of life as unquestioned as virtue, is one of the most demoralizing agencies possible. It necessarily defiles those who have their life and conversation in the midst of it. Those Democratic delegates from the North who went down to the great Convention at Charleston, in Buchanan’s time-we thought them bad enough, depraved enough, unscrupulous enough; but they found the delegates from the South to be worse. Bad as the Northern partisans of Democracy were, they could not accept the terms offered by the Southern ones. They resisted these terms. The party split, and the Convention broke up in confusion. The difference between those two sets of men was only this: one had been familiar only with the idea of slaveholding, and this was bad enough; the other had been familiar with the sight of slavery, and the practice of its multiform abominations. One had his natural and healthy sensibilities blunted; the other had become case-hardened. The difference is immense.
Thus, slow as is our progress towards external justice to the negro, and slower still as we move towards penitence and heart-reform, the prospect is cheering because there is some real progress. When military service has gained for the negro an acknowledgment of his manly character, room will be made for him to take a manly position in civil life. Every step in that process will make every succeeding step easier. A discontinuance of ill treatment to the negro will allow the prejudice against him to subside and vanish. And whenever "the world" shall have thoroughly recognized his claims as a man, the church will make haste also to advance, and acknowledge his claims as a brother. Even the children who are now to grow up in Rev. Baron Stow's congregation, (where by church-law and printed record, the colored man is for bidden to own a pew,) if they could live six days of the week, for a dozen years, in a community which neither felt nor practised distinctions of caste, would get purged from the corrupting influence of that church, and of the Sundays spent within its walls, and bring it up, when they became voters, to the level of civilization. There will be a better chance for Christianity, as well as for common decency, to make progress, when that stumbling-stone, slavery, is rolled away from us into perdition-C.K.W.
SPEECH OF GERRIT SMITH AT UTICA. Referring to his printed speech delivered at the Loyal League meeting at Utica, Mr. Smith, in a private note, says:
"I see you print my Utica speech, about which so much has been said. I am sorry that the reporter did not show it to me before it was printed. His or the printer's blunder, which I most regret, is making Theodore Parker speak of "party hating," instead of "hearty hating."
"The press speaks of my Utica speech as if I then for the first time spoke of the duty of unconditional opposition to the rebellion, whereas I have been speaking of it during the whole war. This is the burden of my inculcation in the two speeches I send you by this mail.”
<c05>
COLORED ENLISTMENTS IN N. OAROLINA.
FIRST N. C. VOLS., GEN. WILDE’S BRIGADE, June 7, 1863.
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR: 
SIR-I sent you a brief sketch, by a recent mail, of the condition and progress of our brigade. Since that date, I have, of course, become more thoroughly acquainted with the organization, and send for your readers some additional information.
In the first place, our recruiting progresses favorably. Daily, squads of men file into our camp, stout, able-bodied fellows. A fortnight from this date is the utmost limit that may be given for this regiment to have its full quota, which will only make a total of five weeks, without a thing pre-arranged, occupied in its formation. But, Mr. Editor, we mast have more cooperation, both of the Government and people, to make us eminently successful. The machinery is here, but it needs lubricating. Owing to the indefatigable exertions of Gen. Wilde and Col Bucher, the men, thus far, have been tolerably well supplied with the necessaries of camp life; but we are beginning to fall short. Numbers go barefooted, and need other articles of clothing, because the quartermaster has no more to issue, whilst plates, knives, forks and dippers are deemed luxuries. What we possess of these last mentioned items, I am told, have been furnished by Gen. Wilde from his own private resources. In the face of this, hundreds of the men hold due-bills from the Government and army officers for sums extending to thirteen months’ wages. Upon this point let me pause. We have in this Department a description of men-you know, Sir, their classification-from the North, citizens and soldiers, straining every nerve to resist our enterprise. Various methods are taking to discourage the colored man from enlisting; the common plan is to represent an army life in its most direful aspect; another, the most despicable of all, is to hold back wages that are due. Gen. Foster has striven to remedy this as far as possible, by an order which commands officers immediately to dismiss their servants when desirous of enlisting, and to pay them their wages or furnish them with a note or due-bill for the amount. That this has already had a salutary effect is demonstrated in the Company to which I am attached, where at least one score of the men hold acknowledgments from officers, and in several instances of these, Government officials' certificates of labor also. Yet the men work cheerily. Uncle Sam is no myth to them, and the various scrawls issued under his name are carefully treasured, and valued at par. Their faith, indeed, is the impetus of our rapid progress. Where are the white troops who, with ail this arrearage of pay, would be content to work from sunrise to sunset, rooting up stumps, removing the debris of a forest, or otherwise on duty, the prescribed hours being from 7 until 11, A. M., and from 3 to 7, P. M.? All this has been done, and, moreover, with soul. Let it not be misunderstood any more: the colored soldier knows distinctly and intelligently his mission. "No more slavery!" is his watchword. "Boys,"-I just casually remarked on building a small culvert,- "every stroke of the axe is for freedom!" and nine hours completed that which I had anticipated would take four days. Then, there is another animus, and it is a child like confidence in God that He is with them. Nearly every Company street has nightly its religious meeting. Occasionally these groups merge into one; always, in fact, when one of their number preaches: this is Father Galerd. Whilst in slavery, he was subjected to the bitterest persecution, and, despite every ruse, such as hiding his book, he was unable to teach himself how to read. Nevertheless, he abounds in quotations from the Bible, acquired, he says, by standing at the Sabbath School door where white children were taught. On some future occasion, I may send you a short account of his history. I will just add, that he is a natural orator, and conclude my allusions to him by quoting the opening sentence of his prayer, a few evenings since. I will just premise my experience-it is only a youthful one-has never met, either in conception, in reading or in history, any aspiration half so beautifully expressed. Please put it in italics: “We thank thee, O God, that thou hast permitted us to assemble here, and sun ourselves in thy name." 
That bird of ill-omen, the sutler or Jew-pedler, is here, and swoops away with his cent per cent, profit without much exertion. The most prosperous branch of this business is pandering to the colored people's love of fine wearing apparel and jewelry. There is quite a display of trinkets in our regiment, which have been bought at exorbitant prices. One of my men brought me a watch for hospital treatment this morning, which I imagine must have originated in an infirmary. He had paid for it $26; probably it cost $5. 
I trust the people of Massachusetts will not forget the colored soldiers out here. All such articles of comfort as were furnished to the 54th would be thrice welcome, and Col. Bucher has kindly consented to receive anything that may be forwarded to the regiment. Pictorial alphabets and simple reading matter would be very acceptable.
Yours, sincerely,
THUD.
LOOK OUT FOR THE COPPERHEADS.
U. S. GENERAL HOSPITAL, Frederick, Md., June 10, 1863.
MR. EDITOR: Having been wandering around during the past six months, scarcely knowing one day where I should be the next, I have seen the Liberator but very seldom; so, of course, I am ignorant of the position you occupy in relation to the new and various issues continually arising in the political heavens. The elements of strife and opposition recently introduced by Copperhead agitators, and which seem to be extending, may, unless promptly and firmly met by the loyal people of the North, yet produce serious embarrassment to the Government, if not defeat it in its efforts to put down the wicked rebellion now raging.
I hold it to be the duty of every man who hates anarchy and loves order, every man who hates treason and loves his country, who hates slavery and loves liberty, who hates every species of oppression and loves justice, to lay aside all party feelings, all selfish interests, and give voice, property, and life to sustain the Government in its efforts to maintain the integrity of the nation.
The cry of "unconstitutional acts," now ringing in our ears from every quarter, sounds strangely inopportune just at this time; not that any infraction of the Constitution should be desired or countenanced-far from it; for I think the powers granted by it, and the laws passed by Congress are all-sufficient to quell the rebellion, gigantic as it is. But the evident purpose of the pro-slavery element at the North is, or seems to be, to seize upon that pretext, for opposition to the Administration, which presents the most specious power of available contest. The leaders of the pro-slavery party know very well that the people of the North are peculiarly sensitive to any violation of the constitution; hence they believe that the most promising issue in a race for office and power, and, with characteristic effrontery, assume this act or, that as unconstitutional, believing that they can be wilder the people sufficiently by specious sophistry to mask their hypocrisy, and obtain victory, as usual, through ignorance.
Just now the freedom of the press is the hobby by which to deal the Administration a blow, and win a little capital. While every class of people is making sacrifices for the good of the country, cannot the press yield something of its old time boldness and dictatorial censorship?
If "something must be pardoned to the spirit of liberty," cannot something be pardoned, too, to the spirit of self-preservation? The position occupied by the Liberator for thirty years has made it preeminently the champion of free speech and freedom of the press. But we shall never forget those beautiful lines of Lowell that thrilled every nerve, and kindled anew the devotion to freedom:-
“New occasions teach new duties; time makes ancient good uncouth;
He must upward still, and upward, who would keep abreast of truth.”
A nation struggling for life calls on every man to
<c06>
cast behind him past prejudices, antipathies, hetreds, and loves even, and do battle for the nation's existence. It is no time to ask what shall be done with the negro, or what shall be done with the traitors, or the press, or the country, even. Our national house is on fire, and it is no time to inquire what shall be done with the remnants that may escape the flames. "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." If Vallandigham, or wood, or Sumner Wade, or Hooker, or McClellan, gets in the way, sweep him off. It is not men, but ideas, that are now in conflict. Liberty, justice, eternal truth, find their exponent just now in the stars and stripes. Robbery, injustice, diabolism, are represented by secession. The light of heaven and the darkness of hell have met in deadly grapple. Can men look on this contest, and then go away and plot for place and power! If they can do this, they can sell their birthright for a mess of pottage. The ideas breathing through the speeches and letters at the great meeting in New York City, a few days since, were but a rehash of the speeches of Jeff. Davis and his coadjutors in the spring of 1861. But they are deceptive, in that they are plausible, and directed at a stretch of power in a direction in which the people are peculiarly sensitive.
One writer obtains a little celebrity by editing his brother's lectures, and now assumes to tell the people of Pennsylvania that their first duty is to their own State-is at home. The next thing will doubtless be that W. B. Reed will threaten to lead Pennsylvania out of the Union. Fernando Wood defies the President to arrest him, giving us to suppose that he holds the balance of power between the Government and the rebels. Now, all this audacity and assumption are indulged in for the purpose of embarrassing the Administration in the conduct of the war, hoping that the war will be prolonged till they can ride into power through the disaffection of the people. Once in power, these Copperheads will seek a reunion of the North and South by establishing the principle of unlimited slave-propagandism. This is so patent that I do not believe the people will be blinded; and yet the utmost vigilance is necessary on the part of those who help to form public opinion.
M. L. WHITTEN.

WATERLOO YEARLY MEETING OF FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.
ROCHESTER, (N. Y. ) June 9, 1863.
W. L. GARRISON:
MY FRIEND-I have just returned from the Fifteenth “Yearly Meeting of Friends of Human Progress," at Waterloo. On Friday morning, the 5th, a good number met in the Junius Friends' meeting house-an antique structure, plain yet commodious standing amidst green fields and fruitful orchards,, four miles west of the village of Waterloo. C. D. R. Mills, of Syracuse, was chosen Chairman, and a Committee, consisting of A. M. Powell, H. C. Wright, Mary Doty, Israel Lisk, Lucy N. Coleman, Wm. Barnes, G. B. Stebbins and Catherine A. F. Stebbins, was appointed to offer to the meeting such plan of procedure and subjects as might be decided on. The topics suggested and adopted for consideration were-1st, Human Progress; 2d, State of the Country; 3d, Authority; 4th, Rights of Woman, 5th, Education-physical, mental, and spiritual; 6th, Immortality. 
Meeting each day at 10 o’clock, and taking a picnic dinner under the trees in the grassy yard, the time was fully occupied until 5 o'clock of Sunday the 7th. Each night, the kind and generous hospitality of the people in the vicinity made all pleasant at their homes, and gave opening for social meetings of those from far and near full of enjoyment.
The audience, as usual, increased, and on Sunday overflowed in a throng of outsiders larger than that which packed the house within. Resolves were offered, as the texts of remarks by speakers, and other resolves adopted by the meeting, on family government, dietetic habits, and the state of the country.
On Friday afternoon, A. M. Powell read the following resolve, and spoke thereon:-
Resolved, That, as the name of this Convention indicates, we believe the law of growth to be inherent in the nature of man;-that freedom is indispensable to the normal development of his physical, mental, and spiritual powers;-and that it is to the end of a better type of physical life, a quickening of the mind, and a higher religious culture, that we are assembled in this fifteenth annual meeting of "Friends of Human Progress."
The different subjects were more or less dwelt on but the time was far too brief, especially as the great and absorbing question of our nation's condition occupied more than one day. Strong and good words were spoken, and an earnest feeling manifested, that high fidelity, loyalty to Justice and Liberty, and an end of all compromise, must be our only safety, and means of lasting peace and union.
Resolves recognizing the Divine law of retributies in this war;-congratulatory on the Proclamation of January 1st, "as guaranteeing freedom forever and irrevocably, to over 3,000,000 slaves";-recognizing growth in religious bodies, yet asking for more;-declaring the right of freedmen to homesteads from confiscated lands of rebels;-commending Freedmen's Relief Associations;-and warning against "copperhead" politicians, who, oblivious to justice and the rights of man, pursue a course which would lead to the triumph of despotism, were passed heartily and unanimously.
Declarations of sympathy with sick or wounded soldiers, or bereaved relatives, were endorsed, and also a resolve that Friends of Progress will labor to secure peace "by gaining its only conditions, repentance of slavery and proscription of the negro."
The "Woman's National Loyal League" was commended, and 115 names obtained to its petition to Congress for universal emancipation.
The following were also passed:-
Resolved, That we hail, as among the most encouraging events of the present crisis, the organization of the "Woman's Loyal National League," which pledges the hearty support of the loyal women of the nation to the Government for the triumph of liberty and the restoration of the national unity.
Resolved, That, as by the terms of the Constitution, Congress is delegated with the power and charged with the duty of providing for the common defence and welfare of the people, we call urgently upon the President to decree, and upon Congress to confirm the abolition, immediate and universal, and the eternal prohibition of slavery as the relentless enemy of our national existence.
Resolved, That, as disease and pain are ever unnat, ural, the results of a violation of the Divine law, to be avoided by a life of true loyalty to our natures, so war is, in itself, unnatural, abnormal, the result of national sin and transgression, to be avoided only by national repentance and reformation.
H. C. Wright, C. D. B. Mills, Mrs. C. A. F. Stebbins, A. M. Powell, H. L. Green, Lucy N. Coleman, and others, took part in speaking.
On Sunday afternoon, the people slowly dispersed, with the feeling that the Yearly Meeting is yet living, growing, and of use, and therefore must continue.
Yours truly,
G. B. STEBBINS.
P. S. A Committee of Arrangements for the next meeting, on the first Friday of June, 1864, was chosen, and any correspondence on the matter can be addressed to Mrs. Phebe. B. Dean, or Israel Lisk, Waterloo, N. Y., who are members. Letters from Thos. McClintock, Alfred H. Love, &c., were read during the meeting. S.
The British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society held its anniversary on May 22. Lord Brougham had deelined to preside, as such a course appeared to him to be inconsistent with British neutrality! A letter was read from Mr. Adams, conveying the thanks of President Lincoln for the proceedings in January last. The resolutions express strong sympathy with the success of the emancipation policy.
JUNE 19.
THE LIBERATOR.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A GENERAL VIEW OF HAYTL
BUREAU OF HATTIEN ENIGRATION,
55, Liberty St., N. Y., Nov. 18, 1862.
MRS. SARAH DOUGLASS, Philadelphia, Penn.
DEAR FRIEND-Your good brother Robert has communicated to me your request, that I should answer some questions propounded to him by your friend Miss GRIMKE, which it was supposed I would be better informed in relation thereto than himself. Without arrogating to myself any superior or very profound knowledge on the points inquired about, yet I am, nevertheless, happy to respond to your request, by stating the conclusions I have arrived at, after seven years’ close study of Haytien history, including nearly two years’ personal observation of the actual state of Haytien society.
Your brother has furnished me with the following formula of Miss Grimke’s inquiries, addressed by her, through you, to me:-
"I should like to talk with him about Hayti. The Catholic religion must be, I think, a great barrier to civilization and intellectual progress; and the want of sympathy in the grand ideas of the age, and in religious feelings, would render Hayti a very undesirable residence to a man of much scope, and whose destiny is progression. * * * * I want particularly to know what is the condition of the laboring classes there, those who are in the same grade as the manumitted slaves in Jamaica; for instance, whether their material condition is as good, and whether there are many churches, schools, &c., &c."
From the above formula, I deduce that Miss Grimke desires to have,
1st. A general idea of Haytien society from a complex view of all the attending circumstances of its history.
2d. A particular view of its moral and intellectual aspects as the same is affected by the Romish religion.
3d. A particular view of its industrial aspects as the same is affected by the condition of its laborers.
Taking this seriatim statement as the pith of Miss Grimke’s inquiries, I proceed to answer accordingly.
1st. The general idea of society that the last seventy years of Haytien history (dating from 1790) presents, is that there is inherent in the character of the Haytien people a self regenerating element of progress, more strongly marked and developed than in any other national instance of ancient or modern times.
This conclusion becomes apparent from a two fold point of view, viz.: (a) The local circumstances under which the Haytien people had to struggle upward, and (b) the indigenous development they have made against these circumstances, not only without the aid of any favorable foreign influence to bring about this development, but in spite of the crushing power of contrary extraneous circumstances brought to bear against such development.
(a) The local circumstances under which Haytien society has had to struggle upward, of the most disheartening kind, were first Political, and second Religious disabilities.
I. Political Disabilities. 1st, Slavery of the blacks; 2nd, Caste, by which society has been divided into ranks based on the color of the skin, as whites, free colored men and African slaves; and 3rd, the thirst for blood that fourteen years of revolutionary strife engendered, beginning in 1790, and ending in 1804, when the whites were utterly expelled from the island, leaving the caste feelings between the blacks and mulattoes as the only remaining fuel to feed its sanguinary flame.
II. Religious Disabilities. 1st, Fetichism, or heathen worship, rites and mysteries, imported from Africa with the introduction of her enslaved children into Hayti, which has been singularly preserved and perpetuated, and publicly celebrated, in that island, among Africans and their descendants, unto the present day; 2nd, Romanism, brought to the same island by its Spanish and French conquerors; and 3rd, Infidelity, inoculated in the two upper castes of Haytien society, whites and mulattoes, by their education, imbibed in France during the atheistic period which preceded the outburst of the great French Revolution.
In each of these disabilities, political and religious, we have a trinity of circumstances, absolutely infernal, under which the nascent nationality of Hayti had to begin its career; and against such overwhelming odds, no race of men, so deeply crushed down as the Haytiens were, ever attempted and accomplished so successful a revolution. In vain may we take the flambeau of learning, and search up and down the ages, amid the annals of nations, for evidence of a people so completely dehumanized bounding at one gigantic leap from the lowest depths of chattel degradation, not only to a position of freedom, but also assuming a sovereign and independent position among the self-governing civilized nations of the earth. Hayti, in this respect, is the solitary prodigy of history, in ancient or modern times. The arms of France, Spain and England were severally encountered and reversed by these untutored and undisciplined blacks, during their fearful revolutionary struggle. The determination and ability of the African race to be free and independent were thereby registered in the world's history in ineffaceable characters of blood. They regenerated their social position by a baptism in the mingled blood of themselves and their oppressors. And with their words they swords the carved a niche in the in the temple of fame for their Toussaints, Dessalines, Christophes, Petions and Regauds, alongside those of the most renowned heroes and statesmen of this or any other age. In the comparative grandeur of difficulties met and surmounted, and results triumphantly attained, the American Revolution absolutely grows pale, and becomes obscure in presence of that of Hayti. Hence the equality of the Negro race, in a political point of view, has not only been vindicated by the revolutionary history of Hayti, but from the unique circumstances which attended its inception, prosecution and final triumph, it challenges comparison in the annals of any or every other branch of the human race. The superiority of the Negroes of Hayti, in this respect, stands out, so far in human development, the leading fact of the ages
Passing from the revolutionary facts of Haytien history, and coming to those of her subsequent freedom and independence, we may not only trace the continued operation of the political and religious disabilities already enumerated, but we are obliged to add thereto the crushing power of contrary foreign influences.
ADVERSE FOREIGN POLITICAL INFLUENCES.
(b) The contrary foreign influences were, 1st, the unrecognized state of Haytien sovereignty among the nations of the earth, de jure, for twelve years after it was accomplished, de facto; and, 2nd, the positive neglect of the Christian church, both Catholic and Protestant, to bring to bear gospel and other moral influences upon the people of that island, to raise them up in the scale of being.
1. The want of national recognition. France did not recognize the independence of Hayti until 1823, or about twenty years after French authority was completely broken up there. During this score of years, they were constantly liable to have their struggle renewed by a fresh invasion from France, and therefore every male Haytien had to be constantly kept under arms for such an unfriendly visit, thereby subtracting so much from the peaceful labors of useful industry, and engendering at the sime time a military spirit unfavorable to the preservation of civil liberty within themselves. At last, when France acknowledged the sovereignty of Hayti, it was only by burdening her future industry with a national indemnity of about $30,000,000, which heavy alternative she accepted, rather than the still more dreadful one of unsheathing the sword again for a second baptism of blood. The American nation, you know, has just extended her recognition to that island, nearly forty years since France, and sixty years after the independence of Hayti had become un fait accompli. This want of national recognition by the great powers of the earth, together with that awful debt that French recognition entailed-extending over a period of sixty years-constitutes a concatenation of adverse circumstances to the national development of Hayti, that no other nation
<c02>
has ever had to contend with. The United States, Mexico, Central America, Brazil and the South American, Republics were at once taken into the family of nations, when their revolutions were accomplished. Hayti has had to wait sixty years, since hers was finished, in order to fully obtain this boon, not-withstanding her sable sons contributed towards American independence by their valor in achieving the battle of Savannah in 1779, under the banners of France, the American revolutionary ally, and not-withstanding she also tendered material aid and comfort to Simon Bolivar, the South American Liberator 
ADVERSE FOREIGN RELIGIOUS INFLUENCES.
II. 1st. The Pope of Rome, although always solicitous to extend his ecclesiastical despotism everywhere else, yet he permitted the Roman Church to become completely disorganized in Hayti, and has withheld from the Church therein a Bishop as overseer of morals and discipline for the past forty years. No Sisters of Charity, no Brothers and Sisters of Mercy, no Brothers of the Christian Schools, no Hospitals, no Orphan Asylums, no charity foundations of any kind that relieve the dark background of Romanism in other Catholic countries, have been established in Hayti. No Haytien youth trained for the Missionary Priesthood among their native countrymen have ever figured at Whitsuntide on the boards of the graduating class of the Propaganda College at Rome, among those from every other tribe, race, language and nationality in the world. Romanism, for the last sixty years, has only given to Hayti demoralized, suspended and renegade priests from Italy, France, Austria and Spain, mostly degraded already from canonical standing in the respective countries from whence they came. These priests have, with but few and unimportant exceptions, been noted for licentiousness, drunkenness, and all the other concomitant vices. These would-be moral teachers and exemplars of society, instead of being the most powerful auxiliary of the civil government in reforming the excesses of the people, have, on the contrary, to be kept in restraint themselves by the civil power; and thereby become an additional burden upon the government.
2d. Protestant Missionary Societies in Great Britain and the United States, anxious to compass sea and land to go elsewhere to make even one proselyte, have dared to neglect and overtook this inviting missionary field, while they prate long and loud about the open Bible and the preached Gospel for the universal salvation of men. The Haytien Constitution of 1804 provided for the equal toleration of all forms of religious worship; and this provision was made by the self-regenerated black Haytiens before there were any Protestants in Hayti; but simply as a prospective provision for their future emigration thither. This wise provision has never been abrogated in her fundamental laws, and remains a practical fact in her polity unto the present hour. Nevertheless, while British and American Christians have failed to take advantage of this wise and liberal provision, and the disorganized and demoralized condition of Romanism, in order to establish Christian missions there, the immortal Christophe, feeling the need of such a morally regenerating influence, brought a large number of Wesleyan teachers and a cargo of Bibles and Testaments from England, at the expense of the national treasury, for the purpose of conducting schools and disseminating moral light among the people. The Wesleyan Missionary Society in England has made a lame attempt to profit by this provision opened by Christophe, by since keeping up a feeble mission in Hayti, that, at most, is but a caricature of the true missionary enterprise. The American Baptists opened a mission there in 1835; but that has dragged out a miserable existence until the present time. Their missionary now in the field has been suspended from his connections with the Society, under charges of sodomy; which charges, however, have remained uninvestigated for eight years past; while he, nevertheless, continues to preach and teach.
The British Baptists opened a mission in the South of the island also, sixteen years ago; and their principal missionary is under the reputation of being a public drunkard.
3d. For seven years past, I have pleaded in vain with the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States, of which I am a Presbyter, to send me there as a missionary. I went there in 1855 to gather facts as to the probable success of such a mission, which I found were of a favorable nature, and which I embodied in a report to the Missionary Committee of that Church. I waited six years to obtain an appointment. At last, I went there in 1861 with a Christian colony, and commenced a mission on my own resources. I labored there eighteen months, and returned a few weeks since to meet the General Convention of that Church, to report the glowing prospect opened before me, and bearing an urgent petition from some of the best men of the country, praying for the establishment of an Episcopal mission there. Nevertheless, the General Council of the Church adjourned without making any provisions to open a mission in Hayti, or to give one penny to support me in my voluntary labors of love, although I am a presbyter in honorable standing in that communion.
Such are the combined external political and religious influences that have operated in conjunction with the local disabilities (that I have already enumerated) to prevent the national progress and development of Hayti; but, in spite of them all, Hayti does move, has moved, and, by the help of that God who led her through her self-regenerating Red Sea of revolutionary blood, she will continue to move.
2d. The particular view of the moral and intellectual aspects of Haytien society, as affected by Romanism, is partially answered in what I have already said. I have only to add, that the bigoted, intolerant and reactionary spirit everywhere else manifested by Romanism, does not exist in Hayti. Its disorganized and demoralized condition in that island, thank God, has prevented this. The existence of public fetich practices side by side with Romanism, and the inoculation of French skepticism among the educated classes, have also contributed to keep up a spirit of toleration too broad, perhaps, for good morals, and too indifferent, I think, for a healthy inquiry after the truth. Nevertheless, the venom of intolerance has been completely extracted from Romanism by means of the existence of these latitudinarian elements; and this is therefore a hopeful subject of rejoicing.
The introduction of Protestant emigrants into Haytien society, and the missionary efforts likely soon to be turned towards that island or inherently developed therein in consequence of this emigration, is a pledge for the future dissemination of a more perfect spiritual light over her long benighted hills, valleys and plains.
Above all, the establishment of schools throughout the length and breadth of that island within the past four years, by the government of President Geffrard, is a guarantee that the gross heathen superstitions of Fetichism will soon be swept by the board, by the advance of an enlightened civilization among the ignorant peasantry on the mountains and in the rural districts of Hayti.
3d. The particular view of the industrial aspects of Hayti, as affected by the condition of its laboring class, though bad, yet is equally as hopeful in the future as its moral and intellectual aspects.
When the slaves of Hayti emancipated themselves, they did not find themselves dwelling on lands owned by a bloated and absent landed aristocracy, as the emancipated slaves found themselves to be in the British West Indies, whose soil were held by feudal tenures of entailment and primogeniture by landlords not personally resident and in contact with their tenants. The Haytiens became lords of their own soil; and under the government of Petion, a homestead was given to every family who had served the cause of its country by its blood and treasure. The consequence is, that the Haytien peasants, men, women and children, have ever kept at work; and instead of a cry of rain and distress coming from thence, as in the case of Jamaica and other British misgoverned islands, Hayti has gone on from one degree of prosperity to another, maintaining a respectable internal and external ad-
<c03>
ministration in its government; and liquidating punctually every installment of the enormous national debt of $30,000,000 as it fell due.
But more than this. Hayti has felt her need of additional laborers to till her soil. Looking forth to the free colored population of the United States as an important source to recruit her laborers, she has not only invited them to her soil, and given to each family a homestead, but she has also furnished from her own national treasury the money to defray all the expenses of thousands of emigrants who have gone to her shores in two streams, one under President Boyer, in 1824, and the latter now going on under President Geffrard. No American sympathy or philanthropy has been necessary to come to the aid of these great Haytien migrations, as in the case of Liberia, through the colonization societies, or as in the case of the British government, aiding its colonies in obtaining coolie laborers. Hayti has carried on her movements unaided and alone, out of her own national resources. Who will dare say, therefore, that a nation demonstrating such self-regenerating powers, under the most discouraging circumstances, is not the grandest exhibition of human capabilities that the world’s history has ever presented?
There is a moral power that God has raised up in Haytien society, that has preserved in that nation all the essential elements of true religion, viz., Love to God and love to man, in spite of the infernal trinity of Romanism, Infidelity and Fetichism. This power would hardly be credited by a casual observer with such an important influence. And it is not given to me to demonstrate here this assertion, with all the minutiae of facts, even did space and time permit me to do so at present.
I will simply conclude this point and this communication by a word the wise will understand.
In the providence of God, Freemasonry has been the true religion of Hayti, embracing in its Temples the choicest spirits of her history, and constituting a moral power for the preservation of the nation, when every other religious element had entirely lost its savor.
In conclusion, permit me to say, that from all of the above considerations, it is quite otherwise that Hayti is "a very undesirable residence to a man of much scope, and whose destiny is progression."
The self-regenerating element in Haytien society that I have already demonstrated, renders that a pleasing and agreeable field for philanthropic effort and study; and the truly progressive man will only find in the religious and social disabilities which still exist there, marring the face of Haytien society, an additional reason why he should identify himself with that people, in order to labor with them for the total eradication of these evils, so as to effect her complete regeneration.
Believe me to be, my dear madam,
Yours, very truly and respectfully,
J. THEODORE HOLLY.
IN STATU QUO.
CAMP OF THE 33D MASS., 
Near Aquia Creek, Va., June 4, 1863.
Dear Garrison-I left the army of the Potomac for Beaufort on the 14th of May, expecting to receive a commission as Captain in Col. Montgomery's negro regiment. I arrived too late, the officers all being appointed; and so I am back again in my old place. I write this that all the many friends who have kept me supplied in good reading matter for the soldiers, may know that I am still here.
I saw Col. Montgomery and his soldiers, all of them recently slaves, now enlisted, uniformed, armed, and paid as soldiers and citizens of the United States. They appear well, and I am sure will do well. I regret exceedingly that I could not hare gone with Col. M. in his great work of raising and arming the slaves. I know him of old, and I am well persuaded that he will never be caught asleep by the enemy. Ask the border ruffians of Missouri, and they will tell you that he is one of the hardest and severest fighters on this continent. What Stonewall Jackson was to the rebels, he is fitted to be on our side at the head of an adequate colored force. I did not see Col. Higginson, as he was some distance away, and I had no time within my leave of absence to go far. Gen. Saxton and Gen. Hunter both promised to remember me, and I still hope to bear the sword in command of black soldiers, and to make it indeed a “terror to evil-doers.”
Truly yours, DANIEL FOSTER.
The Editor of the Liberator has been absent the past week on a visit to Rhode Island, and returns to his post as this number is ready for the press. He lectured in Woonsocket on Sunday evening, and in Pawtucket on Monday evening, to large and approving audiences, with reference to slavery and the rebellion. He proffers to his friend EDWARD HARRIS, Esq., of Woonsocket, and to SAMUEL and ELIZABETH B. CHACE, of Valley Falls, his grateful acknowledgments for their kind attentions and generous hospitality.
The Life of President Lincoln, published by Walker, Wise & Co., Boston, and entitled, The Pioneer Boy, and How he became President, has reached its Ninth Thousand in the short time it has been published. Below we give a copy of a letter received by the author from the son of the President, who is now in Harvard University:
Cambridge, April 17, 1863.
Rev. Mr. Thayer-Dear Sir:- I received, a few days since, a copy of the “Pioneer Boy;” for which I return my thanks.
I am very much pleased with the book as an interesting story; and I find that, in reading it, many things are recalled which I had forgotten.
You have been singularly successful in avoiding errors, as I find I have, at some time, heard nearly every thing you narrate from a Reliable Gentleman."
With the best wishes for its success, I remain,
Yours very truly,
ROBERT T. LINCOLN.
PROCLAMATION
BY PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
He Calls for 100,000 Men.
Whereas, the insurrectionary combinations now existing in several of the States are threatening to make inroads into the States of Maryland, Western Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, requiring immediately an additional force for the service of the United States; 
Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, and Commander-in Chief of the Army and Navy thereof, and of the militia of the several States, when called into actual service, do hereby call into the service of the United States 100,000 militia from the States following, viz:
From the Slate of Maryland, 10,000; from the State of Pennsylvania, 50,000; from the State of Ohio, 30,000; from the State of Western Virginia, 10,000; to be mustered into the service of the United States forthwith, and serve for the period of six months from the date of such muster into said service, unless sooner discharged; to be mustered in as infantry, artillery and cavalry, in proportions which will be made known through the War Department, which Department will also designate the several places of rendezvous where the militia are to be organized according to the rules and regulations of the volunteer service, under such orders as may hereafter be issued.
The States aforesaid will be respectively credited under the enrolment act for the militia service rendered under this proclamation.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. 
Done at the city of Washington this 15th day of June, in the year of our Lord 1863, and of the Independence of the United States the 87th.
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President,
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
The earthquake that was lately experienced in many places in Vermont was also felt in New York. Lake Champlain "shook all over," and the fish jumped out of water in great numbers. 
Gen. Schofield, recently placed over Missouri, is violently argued about by friends and foes. But the pro-slavery men are for him; which is enough to prove him the wrong man.
<c04>
GEN. ULLMAN AND THE NEGRO VOLUNTEERS.
HEADQUARTERS BRIG. GEN. ULLMAN,
Merchants’ Bank, New Orleans, 
May 25, 1863.
To the Editor OF the ERA:
SIR,-Many of the officials, civil and military, in this department, seem not yet to have discovered what the established policy of the Government is as to arming colored men. The following in a sample of the efforts made by many to prevent my executing the orders of the Government:-
Extract from a report made to me by Capt. E. Ghyke, 5th U. S. Volunteers, dated the 24th inst.:
"Last evening, at 9 o’clock, one of my men, Joseph Griffon, whom I had sent to the parish of St. Bernard, for the purpose of bringing here forty men, who had notified me of their wish to join the 5th U. S. Volunteers, and who left here on the 22d, has returned, submitting to me the following report:
"Arriving at the parish of St. Bernard, I was arrested, and conducted before the Provost Marshal, who, using violent invectives against the organization of colored troops, declared that not a single colored man should leave his district with the intention of enrolling himself-saying that ‘God had made the blacks to work on sugar and cotton, and not to be soldiers.' The recruits I had made were instantly sent to plantations, and I was brought, a prisoner, under guard, to Gen. Dow, who set me at liberty.
Respectfully, J. GRIFFON."
The name of this man is Capt. S. W. Sawyer, 9th Connecticut Volunteers. He shall have the satisfaction of having his name known throughout the loyal States of this Union.
I have been instructed by the Secretary of War to report to him all such cases. I shall do so.
It remains to be seen which will change first, the views or positions of these men.
I am, Sir, respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
DANIEL ULLMAN,
Brigadier General Commanding.
BRAVERY OF THE NEGRO TROOPS. Washington, June 9th. Gen. Banks, in an official report, dated "Before Port Hudson, May 30," gives an account of the attack on that place, similar to the reports already published. In speaking of the negro regiments, he says: 
They answered every expectation. Their conduct was heroic. No troops could be more determined or more daring. They made during the day three charges upon the batteries of the enemy, suffering very heavy losses, and holding their position at nightfall with the other troops on the right of our line. The highest commendation is bestowed upon them by all officers in command on the right.
Whatever doubt may have existed heretofore as to the efficiency of organizations of this character, the history of this day proves conclusively to those who were in a condition to observe the conduct of these regiments, that the Government will find in this class of troops effective supporters and defenders. The severe test to which they were subjected, and the determined manner with which they encountered the enemy, leave upon my mind no doubt of their ultimate success. They require only good officers, commands of limited numbers, and careful discipline, to make them excellent soldiers.
Our loss from the 23d to this date, in killed, wounded and missing, is nearly 1000, including, I regret to say, some of the ablest officers of the corps." 
Prisoners recently returned from Richmond state that the rebel leaders are watching, with intense interest, the negro soldier movement, now in progress in Massachusetts, Port Royal, Louisiana and the Southwest. In speaking upon this subject, the secessionists betray great excitement, and do not attempt to disguise their sentiments that it will have an important influence upon the future of the campaign.
Washington, June 16. On Sunday night, some slaves in the neighborhood of Annapolis stampeded, taking with them a wagon and cart with horses, and a portion of their personal effects. They travelled all night, and at various points of the road were reinforced until their number reached seventy-five. Yesterday morning, they were stopped near Long Oldfields by a number of men styling themselves patrols, armed with shot guns and pistols. But the party of slaves massed themselves and pushed on. The patrollers attempted to stop their progress or to drive them from their teams, and when about one mile from Fort Meigs, fired into the fugitives, when, it is said, the slaves returned the fire. Several other shots were fired, when the fugitives separated and fled. The patrols also disappeared. As far as is known, two men and one woman (slaves) were killed, and five wounded. The remainder have reached Washington. One of the men supposed to have been connected with the attacking party has been arrested, and committed to the Old Capitol prison.
BALTIMORE ON SLAVERY AND EMANCIPATION. The city Union convention of Baltimore has adopted resolutions declaring that Maryland should at every hazard remain in the Union; pledging unconditional support to the government in any measures it may determine to be necessary in the prosecution of the war until its authority is acknowledged; that the continued existence of slavery is incompatible with the maintenance of republican forms of government, in the States in subordination to the Constitution of the United States; that the emancipation proclamation of the President ought to be made law by Congress in the hands of the President; that traitors have no right to enforce the obedience of slaves; and that, against traitors in arms, the President should use all men, white or black, in the way they can most be useful, and to the extent they can be used, whether it be to handle a spade or shoulder a musket.
Philadelphia, June 16. A letter from Harrisburg, dated 1 P. M. to-day, says:-"A train of 100 wagons, which left Martinsburg on Sunday, arrived safely. The rebel advance this morning was five miles east of Chambersburg. Col Smith, commanding at Hagerstown, had a fight an hour and a half yesterday, when he was surrounded and forced to surrender."
A famous negro preacher died in St. Louis a few days ago, and was buried with distinguished honors. The deceased was an emancipated slave of Edward Bates, and possessed more than ordinary talent for preaching. He had been pastor of a colored church for many years.
VALUE OF SLAVE PROPERTY IN MARYLAND. The estate of the Carrolls, of Carrollton, is in course of being settled up. One hundred and forty slaves belonging to it have run away, and the remaining one hundred and sixty have been valued at $5 per head. A leading Maryland slaveholder says he would not give $500 for the lot. The slave institution is doomed forever in Maryland.
EMANCIPATION CONTINUED. Four negroes belonging to Mr. Owens, residing between four and five miles north-east of this city, in Andrew county, decamped on Monday night, taking with them two good horses and a wagon. Mr. Owens, we learn, has given two sons to the rebel army. How does he like the war?-St. Jo. Herald.
Philadelphia, June 5. President Lincoln has accepted the invitation of the Union League of this city to participate in the grand national celebration on the 4th of July. 
Large delegations from all parts of the Union are expected to attend. 
A general illumination, is to close the programme of the day’s entertainment, which is to be of the most extensive character; including a procession of the Loyal League and the military, to be reviewed by the President.
Splendid arches will be erected at the intersection of the public streets, under which the whole procession will pass.
The Ohio Democratic Convention which nominated Vallandigham passed resolutions against the Administration, against its emancipation policy, against Gov. Tod, and against pretty nearly everything except the rebellion and traitors. Not a word was "resolved" against these. 
The Ohio Register nominates George B. McClellan as the candidate of the Peace Democracy for next President, with C. L. Vallandigham for Vice. We consider that a fit and proper ticket for the party.
It is stated that President Lincoln countermanded the order of Gen. Burnside, suppressing the Chicago Times, at the request of a number of the leading Republicans of Chicago. U. S. Senator Trumbull refused to sign a petition to that effect, but telegraphed to the President to give it a prompt consideration.
They Refuse Traitors a Place. The Senate of Connecticut, May 27th, by a vote of twelve to eight, refused to restore to the Senate Hall the portraits of Ex-Governors Toucey and Seymour, as evidence of their loyalty was not produced, which, according to the resolution banishing the pictures, must be forthcoming ere a restoration is in order. 
Dr. Wm. P. Powell, Jr., of New Bedford, a colored man, who received his medical education in England, has been appointed Assistant Surgeon in our army and is stationed at the contraband camp at Washington.
Rebel GeN. TilghmaN, The rebel General Tilghman who was recently killed in the West, married Miss Augusta Boyd of Portland, Maine. This same Gen. was taken prisoner at Fort Donelson, and was put in Fort Warren. He was exchanged.
<c05>
THE REBEL INVASION. The whirl of excitement that passed over the North in the early part of the week, caused by exaggerated rumors of a grand rebel invasion of the States of Maryland and Pennsylvania, in which sacked and burning towns and cities formed the foreground of the awful picture of carnage and desolation that was to follow, has considerably subsided, and the devastating horde that was to sweep over these States and dictate terms of peace in Independence Hall, Philadelphia, has dwindled down to an ordinary rebel raid for army stores and horses, so far as Pennsylvania is concerned. It has been the "biggest scare" yet. The excitement throughout Pennsylvania has been tremendous. All the bank valuables have been removed from Harrisburg as a measure of precaution, and the capital put in a state of defence. Troops are hurrying thither from every quarter. The rebel cavalry hold Chambersburg. It is a most humiliating surprise and panic.
PLEDGES 
to the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society at the New England 
Anti-Slavery Convention, May, 1863.
E. D. and Anna T. 
Draper, $100.00
M. M. Brooks, 20.00
John B. Pierce, 10.00
E. H. Magill, 10.00
M. Ed. Lewis, 5.00
John T. Sargent, 5.00
Samuel J. May, 5.00
Alden Sampson, 5.00
Caroline R. Putnam, 5.00
S. Chiam, 5.00
Sarah B. Waitt, 5.00
Mary B. Stoddard, 1.00
J. M. Corbett, 1.00
Eliza A. Lawton,1.00
Edward R. Place, 1.00
Joseph Jones, 1.00
Mrs. Patch, 1.00
Mrs. A. W. Clapp, 1.00
C. A. F. Stebbins, 1.00
DONATIONS 
to Mass. Anti-Slavery Society at New England Anti-Slavery Convention, May, 1863.
Benj. Snow, Jr., $25.00
J. M. Aldrich, 20.00
A. M. Chase, 10.00
William Ashby, 10.00
D. M. & S. O. Allen, 10.00
A. Folsom, 5.00
John C. Haynes, 5.00
J. & M. C. Sawyer, 5.00
L. Billings, 5.00
C. F. Hardon, 5.00
Samuel May, Jr.. 5.00
Sarah E. Wall, 5.00
S. S. Hemmenway, 5.00 
A. Stanwood, 5.00
Samuel Barrett, 5.00
A Friend, 3.00
Jonathan Buffum, 3.00
S. W. W., 3.00
A. Friend, 2.00
A. A. Bent, 2.00
A. Merrill, 2.00
J. W. Spaulding, 2.00
Henry Abbott, 2.00
COLLECTIONS 
By Finance Committee of New England A. S. Convention. 
I. Sargent, 1.00
J. S. Hilton,.50
Elias Richards, 1.00
A. S. Taylor,.75
Ruth Buffum, 1.00
N. P. Payne, 1.00
M. S. Richmond,.50
H. M. Stone,.50
G. T. D.,.50
F. Douglass,.50
T. W. Hartshorn,.50
A. M. Dudley, 1.00
P. W. Morrell, 1.00
F. Hinckley,.50
Edwin Thompson, 1.00
D. S. Whitney,.50
John Bailey, 1.00
Wm. Jenkins, 1.00
Anna T. Draper, 1.00
Edmund Quincy, 1.00
Sarah J. Davee, 1.00
B. & H. B. Spooner, 2.00
Samuel May, Jr., 1.00
Asa B. Hutchinson,.50
Mary May, 2.00
Edward Chase,.50
Eliz. M. F. Denton, 1.00
Mary Clap, 1.00
Martha Clapp, 1.00
Sarah E. Foster, 1.00 
Mrs. J. Ayres, 1.00
L. S. N., 1.00
F. Burnham, 1.00 
F. Douglass, Jr.,.25 
Mary Brigham, 1.00
Emily Horne, 1.00
S. W. Cone,.25
S. King,.50
H. J. Lawton, 1.00
A. M. A.,.25 
A. S. Parsons,.25
H. C. Buck,.25 
S. M.,.25 
Gridley Beal, 1.00
W. L. Foster, 2.00
C. K. Whipple, 1.00 
H. H. Brigham, 1.00 
M. B. Clapp, 1.00 
D. Weston,.1.00 
D. M. Allen, 1.00 
P. Shaw, 1.00 
L. Ford. 1.00 
Carrie B. Allen, 1.00 
W. E. Cash, 1.00 
H. W. Wellington, 1.00 
Charles W. Slack, 1.00
H. Withington, 1.00
Henry Damon, 2.00 
Martha C. Hallowell, 1.00 
M. C. Pierce, 1.00
J. B. Pierce, 1.00 
William Lovell, 1.00 
J. R. M., 1.00 
Mary G. Chapman, 2.00 
T. Southwick, 1.00
R. H. Morrill., 1.00
Joseph Merrill, 1.00 
Helen E. Garrison, 1.00
Elizabeth B. Chase, 1.00
H. W. Carter, 1.00
M. O. Barrett,.50
Mrs. Brown,.25
Sarah Clay,.50
M. Bibb Cary, 1.00
S. T. Smith,.35
S. Dodge, Jr., 1.00
John Oliver,.50
Mr. Bent, 1.00
Richard Thayer, 1.00
N. C. Dennett, 1.00
Joshna Coolidge, 1.00
S. F. Cowing, 1.00
E. Sprague, 1.00
C. F. F., 1.00
J. S., 1.00
R. Bradford,.50
H. M. Ireson, 1.00
W. L. Garrison, Jr., 1.00
D. B. Bartlett, 1.00
Sophia L. O. Allen, 1.00
Almira Moody,.50
R. R. Crosby, 1.00
Four Ladies, 4.00
S. Dyer, 1.00
Melzar Sprague, 1.00
Wm. Sparrell, 1.00
John T. Page, 1.00
R. Plumer, 1.00
E. H. Merrill, 1.00
S. Shaw, 1.00
E. Jones, 1.00
Moses Wright, 1.00
L. H. Whiting, 1.00
J. Scott,.50
M. B. Goodrich, 2.00
Mrs. Elias Richards, 1.00
Mrs. J. P. Mendum, 1.00
Thomas P. Knox, 1.00
M. A. F.,.50
Maria S. Page, 1.00
M. H. S. Page, 1.00
Z. H. Spooner, 1.00
H. S. Adams, 1 00
Sarah Marston, 1.00
R. K. Gould.,.50
Mary B. Richards,.50
Mrs. B. A. Newell,.50
George W. Gilmore,.50
Samuel G. Gilmore,.50
John S. Rogers, 1.00
L. B. Pulsifer, 1.00
Paulina Gerry, 1.00
E. G. Richardson,.50
R. Marston, 2.00
T., 1.00
M. M. Webster, 1.00
M. C. Wilson, 1.00
W. B. Brown,.50
H. R. Earle,.25
Miss E. A. Marsh,.25
Mrs. Coffin, 1.00
C. C. McLauthlin, 2.00
S. R. Calthrop, 1.00
Edmund Jackson, 2.00
Mrs. P., 1.00
B. F. Horn, 2.00
E. G. Lucas, 2.00
M. Halliburton, .50
B. W. Loud, 1.00
E. Paul, .50
P. Stone, .50
Sophia L. Little, 1.00
Cash and Friends, in
various sums, 32.45
First Evening’s Col-
lection, 64.35
"NOSES"-Their Significance.-Illustrated with engravings of Roman, Grecian, Indian, Negro, Celestial, Aqueline, Turn-up, and Pug Noses, with the Character revealed by each. EYES--blue, black, or gray. Lips-thin and pale, or full and red, prim or pouting,. scolding or loving. MOUTH-large or small. Hair-light or dark, coarse or fine, straight or curly. Cheeks-thin or plump, pale or colored. Teeth-Regular or irregular. Ears-large or small. Neck-long or short. SKIN-rough or smooth. All to be amply illustrated with engravings. The walk, talk, laugh and voice, all indicate character. We may know an honest face from a dishonest one, and we will show how. Besides the above, we have to treat on Ethnology, or the Natural History of Man; of PHYSIOLOGY, and the Laws of Life and Health; of PHYSIOGNOMY, or Signs of Character, and how to read them; of PHRENOLOGY, the Philosophy of Mind; and of Psychology, the Science of the Soul. Man, with reference to all his relations of life, social, intellectual, and spiritual, and what each can do best, will be elucidated in the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL AND LIFE ILLUSTRATED. New volume commences July 1st. A handsome quarto monthly, at only $1 50 a year. Sample numbers, 15 cents. Please address FOWLER AND WELLS, 308 Broadway, New York.
THE "PECULIAR INSTITUTION" ILLUSTRATED.
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave’s back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running crosswise and lengthwise-the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. "This card photograph," says the New York Independent, "should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye.' Price 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp. Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR, Baston, Mass.
A PICTURE FOR THE TIMES.
For sale by R. F. WALLCUT, at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, a well-executed photograph of a remarkable drawing by Mr. Carlton, one of our resident artists, called "Watch-Meeting, Dec. 31, 1862-Waiting for the Hour"-representing a seems "way down South in Dixie," on last New Year’s Eve, where some thirty or forty slaves seem to be waiting with great anxiety the hour which, by President Lincoln’s proclamation of the 22d of September, shall make them "henceforth and for ever free." Large size, suitable for framing, $2.00. Second size, $1.00. Card photograph, 25 cents.
AGENTS WANTED in every county in the Free States for the sale of Wendell Phillips’s Speeches and Lectures. Large commissions allowed. The book will be issued June 15. Price $2. Sent by mail on receipt of retail price. Address JAMES REDPATH, 221 Washington at, Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Lather Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
<c06>
OBITUARY.
Died, at his residence in New Lyme, Ashtobula Co., Ohio, May 8, from organic disease of the heart, RUNSEY REEVE, in the 74th year of his age.
He was born and raised in the town of Lyme, New London Co., Conn., and moved from there to Ohio in the Fall of 1821, and settled where he has died. The land he settled on was all a wilderness then, and he undertook the task of clearing it up, and making a home for himself and family. The place of his birth was comparatively a fruitless region, requiring a great amount of labor to raise a livelihood. Here he learned to work while quite young, and the habits of industry he formed elung to him through life. He always worked hard, realizing the truth of the proverb-"The hand of the diligent maketh rich."
Notwithstanding his great industry on the farm, he found time to read and inform himself on the general topics of the day; and in his thoughts and opinions he was far in advance of the majority of his neighbors Truth, justice, humanity and general goodness formed the basis of all his views and actions.
He was a man of very few words, quite unassuming in manners, kind and benevolent to the needy, and respectful to all with whom he came in contact. For many years he was an unconditional, uncompromising Abolitionist, and was very liberal in the use of his means and influence in the causeof human freedom and progress. He regarded slavery as the great curse of the nation, but was rejoiced that he saw, before he died, the glorious prospect of its speedy overthrow.
For the last seven or eight weeks of his life, he suffered considerably, but was remarkably patient and appreciative. His great anxiety during his sickness was, that he was giving too much trouble to those who had the care of him. He had no idea that he would ever get well, and was quite willing to die, having a bright hope of future good.
He leaves a wife and eight sons and one daughter, who are an honor to the old man’s memory. His funeral was attended by a large and respectable class of friends and sympathizers. May his example of industry, patient endurance, generosity, unflinching integrity, and general goodness, long be remembered, and copied by us all!
M. BRETTELL.
Anti-Slavery Standard, please copy.
Two-DAYS MEETING OF FRIENDS OF HUMAN 
PROGRESS AT FARMINGTON, MICH.,
SATURDAY and SUNDAY, June 27 and 28, (in a Grove or Church.)
All men and women who seek a truer life are invited. Subjects of Reform, Freedom and Spiritual Life will be spoken of. THE REBELLION will claim attention.
H. C. Wright, G.B. Stebbins and others will be present.
Homes for strangers provided.
ANDREW T. FOSS, of Manchester, N. H., will hold meetings in behalf of Freedom, and the Restoration of the Union on a secure and certain basis, as follows:-
Harwich, Sunday, June 21.
Brewster, Thursday, June 25.
East Dennis, Friday, June 26.
Dennis, Sunday, June 28.
SABBATH NOTICE. Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, will preach next Sunday, at Mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4, at half past 10 o’clock, A. M., on the Visit of the Magi to Bethlehem, and the Murder of the Innocents by Herod, as illustrative of the historic character of the second gospel.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Westminster, Sunday, June 21st, at 10 1-2, A. M., and 11-2 and 5 o’clock, P.M.
EDWARD M. DAVIS,
STOCK & EXCHANGE BROKER,
No. 39 SOUTH THIRD STREET,
(SECOND FLOOR,) PHILADELPHIA, PA.
I HAVE this day opened an office for the transaction of a general EXCHANGE and BANKING BUSINESS, and the sale of Bonds and other Securities on Commission.
Particular attention will be given to Government Securities, as the most reliable investments.
Bonds and Stocks in general will be bought and sold.
Dividends, Interests and Coupons will be collected and remitted.
Railroad, City, Country and Township Bonds negotiated.
Quartermaster's Vouchers and Yearly Certificates bought and sold.
Interest allowed on Deposits, and Loans negotiated.
Special Collections made.
Coin and Currency bought.
Foreign Exchange sold.
As I have a prompt and reliable correspondent in New York, connected with the roker’s Board, I can execute orders there with dispatch.
Any business entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully. E. M. DAVIS,
SECOND FLOOR, 39 SOUTH THIRD ST.,
Philadelphia, Penn.
Philadelphia, April 1st, 1863. -6m
5-20’s The principal on these Bonds can be claimed April 30th, 1882, but is payable at the option of the Government any time after April 30th, 1867. They draw interest in Gold, semi-annually, at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum, payable May 1st and November 1st of each year, at the Mint in Philadelphia. The principal is also payable in Gold. They can now, and until July 1st, be had for legal tender notes at par, thus making Green-backs draw interest in gold, and securing the principal in gold also. Interest in gold, and securing the principal in gold also. Interest begins the day the money is paid. The Bonds can be had "Registered," or with "Coupons". The first are drawn to the order of the buyer. The interest can only be collected by the person whose name is in the bond, or by attorney. For safety, the name and residence are registered in Washington and at the Mint. There is a power of "transfer" on the back of each bond, to enable the original buyer to convey it. The "Registered," for permanent investments, are preferred. The "Coupon", Bonds are drawn to bearer, and have attached to each of them a small "Coupon", or check upon the Treasury of the United States, payable to bearer for each amount of interest due from the day of issue up to the 1st of November, 1881. The last payment of interest, May 1st,1882, is paid with the principal when the bond is surrendered. By an act of Congress, they are not taxable, and no tax can be collected from the holder of them except under the law creating an income tax. Any person owning $10,000 or under will not have any tax to pay on the principal or interest, provided the parties have no other income.
I am authorized, and shall be glad to supply these Bonds at par to the purchaser, until July 1st, 1863, my commissions coming from another source.
Look carefully over your "Green-backs." Parties sometimes pass at par those that are equal to gold. They can easily’ be distinguished from the others, as they have printed on the face "Payable on Demand." They were issued before the general suspension of specie payments, and as Government takes them for duties on foreign imports, they will bring as much as gold in the market. There are several millions still unredeemed They cannot be reissued.
My business is exclusively on Commission. All orders entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully. Any inquiries answered.
E. M. DAVIS,
EXCHANGE BROKER,
M22 tJ1 No. 39 South Third St., Philadelphia.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
May 29. 6m
S. M. PETTENGILL & CO.,
ADVERTISING AGENTS,
37 PARK ROW::: NEW YORK.
June 5
100 THE LIBERATOR. JUNE 19.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Philadelphia Press, May 27, 1863 
THE SECOND LOUISIANA.
BY GEORGE H. BOKER.
Dark as the clouds of even,
Ranked in the western heaven,
Waiting the breath that lifts
All the dread mass and drifts
Tempest and falling brand
Over a ruined land;- 
So still and orderly,
Arm to arm, knee to knee,
Waiting the great event,
Stands the black regiment .
Down the long ducky line 
Teeth gleam and eyeballs shine;
And the bright bayonet,
Bristling and firmly set.
Flashed with a purpose grand.
Long ere the sharp command
Of the fierce rolling drum 
Told them their time had come,
Told them what work was sent
For the black regiment.
“Now” the flag-sergeant cried,
"Though death and hell betide,
Let the whole nation see
If we are fit to be 
Free in this land; or bound 
Down, like the whining hound— 
Bound with red stripes and pain
In our old chains again!" 
Oh! what a shout there went 
From the black regiment!
"Charge" Trump and drum awoke;
Onward the bondmen broke;
Bayonet and sabre-stroke
Vainly opposed their rush.
Through the wild battle's crush, 
With but one thoughts aflush,
Driving their lords like chaff, 
In the gun's mouths they laugh;
Or at the slippery brands
Leaping with open hands,
Down they tear man and horse, 
Down in their awful course;
Trampling with bloody heel
Over the crashing steel,
All their eyes forward bent,
Rushed the black regiment.
"Freedom!" their battle cry—
"Freedom!" or leave to die!" 
Ah! and they meant the word,
Not as with us 'tis heard,
Not a mere party-shout:
They gave their spirits out;
Trusted the end to God,
And on the gory soil
Rolled in triumphant blood.
Glad to strike one free blow,
Whether for weal or woe;
Glad to breathe one free breath,
Though on the lips of death.
Praying-alas! in vain!-
That they might fall again,
So they could once more see
That burst to liberty!
This was what "freedom" meant 
To the black regiment.
Hundreds on hundreds fell;
But they are resting well;
Scourges and shackles strong 
Never shall do them wrong,
O, to the living few,
Soldiers, be just and true!
Hall them as comrades tried;
Fight with them side by side;
Never, in field or tent
Scorn the black regiment!

From the Boston Trumpet and Freeman.
THE DYING SLAVE.
BY MRS. E. E. BROWN.
There knelt, in agony and prayer,
Beneath a Southern sun,
A woman, bowed by toil and care,
Whose race was almost run.
She knew the driver's voice no more
Would wake her from her sleep;
She knew that all her toil was o'er,-
Then wherefore should she weep?
Her two young children sported near;
No thought of care had they; 
Dark-skinned, but full of health and strength— 
For them she knelt to pray.
"O God!" she cried, "our fathers' God!
Must these things always be?
When wilt thou speak the mighty word,
And set thy people free?
Not for myself I ask the boon; 
My race is almost run;
I know that nevermore my eyes
Shall see the rising sun.
But these dear children! oh, my God!
And must I leave them so?
Must their lives be, like mine, dragged out
In wretchedness and woe?
Thou know'st how often I have knelt,
Almighty One, to thee,
And prayed, with anguish few may know,
That thou wouldst set them free.
When toiling 'neath the burning sun,
Till hope and strength had fled,
I've wished-forgive me if I sinned—
I've wished that they were dead!
And often, at the midnight hour,
I've stood beneath the sky,
When countless golden eyes looked down,
And heaven itself seemed nigh;
Oh, then my spirit, wrung with grief,
Has sought thy listening ear,
And prayed, thon know'st 'twas not for me,
But for my children dear.
And now, for all my pains and cares, 
Which must be known to thee—
For all my agony and prayers,
O, set my children free!”
She paused,-and lo! borne on the breeze, 
A strange wild shout was heard;
A sound of joy—what could it be,
That thus her people stirred?
Her failing senses caught the words-
"Thank God! thank God! we're free!" 
And answering voices swelled the strain—
"This is the Jubilee!"
She raised her streaming eyes to heaven;
"Oh God! if this be so,
Then I have nothing more to ask—
O let thy servant go!
For this blest hour I've wept and prayed,
And thou hast answered me;
At last, at last, I die in peace-
My children will be free!"

GOD AND THE SOUL 
BY ANGELUS SILESIUS. 1620.
The soul wherein God dwells—
What church can holier be?—
Becomes a walking tent 
Of heavenly majesty.
How far from here to heaven?
Not very far, my friend!
A single hearty step
Will all thy journey end.
Though Christ a thousand times
In Bethlehem be born,
If He's not born in thee,
Thy soul is still forlorn.
<c02>
The cross on Golgotha 
Will never save thy soul;
The cross in thine own heart 
Alone can make thee whole.
Hold there! where rannest thou? 
Know Heaven is in thee;
Seek'st thou for God elsewhere,
His face thou'lt never see.
Ah! would thy heart but be
A manger for the birth,
God would once more become
A child upon this earth.
I don't believe in death,
If hour by hour I die;
‘Tis hour by hour to gain
A better life thereby.
Go out—God will go in;
Die thou, and let Him live;
Be not, and He will be;
Wait, and He'll all things give.
O, shame! a silk worm works
And spins till it can fly;
And thou, my soul, wilt still
On thine old earth-clod lie!

THE LIBERATOR.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE TWO EPIDEMICS.
"Two ladies in the parlor would like to see you, ma'am—Miss Williams and Miss Lester"—said Mrs. Horton's maid-of-all-work, presenting herself at that lady's chamber door.
"Henrietta, I cannot see them." There was something less commendable than grief, in the mother's tones, as she said this, in an aside voice, to her eldest daughter; then turning to the servant" Say to the ladies, Bridget, that I do not yet feel well enough to .see visitors, but that I thank them for their kindness in calling." 
Bridget descended with her frigid message to the darkened parlor. Miss Williams received it in silence; but, instead of leaving the house, walked to a table, wrote a few words on the blank side of a card, and desired Bridget to hand that to her mistress, then resumed her seat beside Effie on the prim, upright sofa— the latter fluttering with impatience to see Emma.
"Mrs. Horton and the young ladies will be down soon, ma'am," was the response to the card.
"O Auntie, I wish I could see Emma, first, alone.' Before Miss Harriet could reply, the young girl stood before them, alone, an instant—then the twin hearts were folded in each other's arms.
"Yes, darling, come to my room," was Emma's audible reply to a whisper of Effie. "She shall tell me, dear friend," said Emma to Miss Williams, giving and receiving an affectionate kiss; and the two young creatures hastened from the room to find the confidential seclusion their overflowing hearts so much needed.
Mrs. Horton and Henrietta came, cool, dignified and reserved, into the presence of their far superior neighbor and friend, whose mission that morning was one of benediction to that household. Miss Williams met their austerity with the self-possession of a lady, and the womanly warmth of unstudied sympathy. The straitened conventionality of these two natures, in identifying their visitor with Edgar's obnoxious views, made them regard her as, in some inexplicable way, a conspirator against them; but even this gave way before her genial sincerity, as snow-images sink, gradually, under the influence of the unclouded sun. At her first tender, genuine words, they bowed their heads and wept, freely.
Yes, Edgar was alive—severely but not dangerously wounded; a small Testament, that Effie slipped into his pocket at parting, received the force of a ball that was on its way to his heart. This Mr. Berkeley had communicated, in a hurried note, to Miss Williams, desiring her to call at once on his mother and sisters. The brave young officer was doing well under the best of care. Of Effie's indirect agency in saving Edgar's life, and of the direct instrumentality of Harry and Huldah, Miss Harriet did not deem it necessary to speak on this occasion. A plan she had to propose, however, by which Mrs. Horton could go to her son, if she so desired.
The relatives of Effie in Philadelphia had written urgently for her to return to them, for the winter, at least. The young lady was equally anxious to be there, as it seemed to take her nearer the scenes of strife which occupied all her thoughts. Miss Harriet Williams could not be denied a few months' ministration among the sick and wounded soldiers. A capable and judicious relative from the neighborhood of Ascutney would gladly make her home at the Cottage, caring in the kindest manner for Miss Mary. In a few days the Aunt and Niece would leave for Philadelphia. There Mr. Berkeley would join Miss Harriet and see her to her destination on the Potomac. If Miss Horton felt equal to the exertion, Miss Williams would rejoice to have her make one of the party, and Mr. Berkeley would guard her return to Philadelphia, perhaps farther North, when she had seen her son.
Mrs. Horton thanked Miss Williams for her kindness and remained thoughtfully silent. "What do you think, Henrietta?" she asked, at length.
"Is it proper, Mamma, for ladies to go to battlefields?" 
The motherly instinct seemed to realize the heart lessness of this inquiry, and there was more vitality in Mrs. Horton's manner as well as words, as she answered—" It is not a time, my dear, to think too carefully of proprieties. Where is Emma, dear?
"We met her on the stairs with Miss Lester, you know, Mamma; they are in her room I suppose." 
I feel strongly inclined to accept your proposal, Miss Williams. I will consider and confer with both my daughters, and Emma shall bring you my decision to-morrow morning. This is certainly very kind of you—I assure you I appreciate it—" said Mrs. Horton, extending her hand, as Miss Harriet arose, to go, with a cordiality much more graceful than her cold civility had been, her eyes brimming with tears. It was not surprising but beautiful to see how, as realities deepened her sense of things, the mother turned, instinctively, from the child of forms to the child of faith— the family council was never, now, complete without Emma.
"Will you not remain until the girls have finished their talk, Miss Williams?" asked the mother in her most winning tone.
"Ah, I fear my visit would have no end," answered the guest with a smile. "I think they must have a suggestion from us. Shall I trouble you, Miss Horton, to say to Effie her Aunt waits?"
“Certainly, ma'am," replied Henrietta, evidently glad to get from the scene of her mother's implied rebuke and her consequent humiliation, as she thought.
"Dear Mother, let me go to Edgar, with Miss Williams," were the first words of Emma, as she and Effie came down in obedience to the summons of her sister.
"We will talk it all over by-and-by, dear. Miss Lester, I hope you are quite well, to day. Emma has so monopolized this call, I shall claim another before you leave, my dear;" and the slender hand was extended to Effie, also, in the kindest manner. The young girl blushed prettily, and stammered her thanks, confused by this unwonted graciousness from one who had always held her aloof. Her admirable aunt had made an opening to the vital center—that was the secret. Heart had reached heart. Meantime that admirable aunt stood, saying all manner of genial things to Henrietta, thinking all the better of her for her sensitiveness to her mother's rebuke, and feeling that that mother was really the most to be blamed for this cold, artificial, odorless existence.
<c03>
Pardon me if I dwell no longer on preliminaries, but request all interested to take passage with me, in the train which is just starting from New York for Philadelphia. Mrs. Horton and Effie Lester occupy the same seat. Miss Harriet Williams, who is never annoyed by riding backwards, has reversed the seat in front, and sits facing her companions, at the same time being earnestly engaged in conversation with an intelligent Union, Southern lady, who placed herself at her side as the cars filled. At the moment our attention is called to them, Miss Williams is saying,
"I am unable to comprehend the motive that inspires the women of the South. Their daring, endurance, and self-denial, are certainly worthy of a better cause.”
"Ah, Madam, it is not patriotism, I assure you, but ignorance, prejudice and selfishness."
"That sounds severe, my friend. Pray, explain." 
"Gladly. A large number of the women, like a vast proportion of the rank and file in the army, have been misled, through their ignorance, into the conviction that the North are the aggressors, and that theirs is a wholly defensive struggle from the beginning. Another class, and these the most cultivated, fore see that the success of the Federal Government in reestablishing itself, permanently, involves the utter overthrow and extinction of slavery. Hence Southern ladies will be reduced to the level of Northern women! They must stoop to take up thrift; must superintend their own households; plan system and economy; even take hold of domestic duties with their own fair hands. O! believe me, madam, the color-phobia of the North, disgraceful as it is, is more than counter balanced by the labor-phobia of the South. Both have their source in equally ignorant, selfish apprehensions, which are equally baseless. You know, madam, that if every black man and woman this war emancipates were to take refuge at the North, you are no nearer intimate personal relations with them than now. That must ever be a matter determined by the tastes and other affiliative properties of being. On the other hand, I know that free labor in our Southern homes would secure an almost infinite inverse of efficiency in the servants; that a vastly more wholesome style of housekeeping would result, with immeasurably less annoyance and anxiety to the mistress. Yet, in the full face of these facts, there are thousands in the loyal States who tacitly, if not audibly assert, that they had rather let Northern youth be mown down like the grass, than see them stand side by side in the ranks with black men. And Southern matrons, at this hour, are urging their sons forward, like furies, to almost certain destruction, that their daughters may find exemption from conditions like those of your thoroughly accomplished and independent New-England housekeepers! Your epidemic will sooner be under control than ours, but both require the King's remedy in the 'Golden Legend'—the sacrifice of youth and innocence.”
"Miss William's delicacy and good breeding forbade that, by a glance, even, she should seek to know the effect of these statements on Mrs. Horton; yet she constantly had her in mind as the stranger talked, and rejoiced that the opportunity was given her to hear such sentiments from Southern lips. Her own questionings were fully answered, and she saw clearly, as she felt vaguely, the absurdity of any comparison between the rebel women of this civil struggle and the noble martyr mothers, wives and sisters of the period of our country's birth.
Miss Harriet Williams, from the Valley of the Connecticut, and Mrs. Montgomery, from the Valley of the Shenandoah, took leave of each other at the Philadelphia station, with mutual expressions of regard and earnest hopes of another meeting.
A delay of several days in the departure from home of Miss Harriet and her party had been occasioned by Mrs. Horton's precise preparations; meantime the former had dispatched intelligence to Mr. Berkeley of her success with Edgar's mother, and the time when they should reach Philadelphia. She was not, therefore, surprised, when, about two hours after their arrival in Walnut street, that gentleman was announced. Even Miss Harriet Williams was surprised, however, when Hugh Berkeley took her aside, and desired her to prepare Mrs. Horton for a speedy interview with her son, as a carriage was then at the door to take the ladies to the Continental Hotel, where Edgar had been resting, since yesterday, from a somewhat hurried journey for one still weak from his wounds. Effie colored and trembled, internally, and wished in her heart she was to make one of the party, yet in her thoughts was glad not to go, to-day. Edgar in Philadelphia—sufficiently recovered to come there! How long would he stay? She longed to know, but for the world would not ask even aunt Hattie! In that very city with her! She complained of fatigue when the carriage had driven from the door, and asked permission to go to her room awhile. But she came down with a book in her hand, that absorbed her entirely, when the carriage returned.
Aunt Hattie understood it all, and went quite into detail of all that happened and was said, and how the patient looked and seemed—for the benefit of the family, of course! Privately that lady informed the little flutterer that Edgar had expressed a strong desire that Effie would call with her aunt the next day, Mrs. Horton having insisted on remaining with her son; but that they all hoped to prevail on mother and son to accept the hospitality of Walnut street, while the young officer remained in the city, which probably would not exceed two weeks, as his wounds were rapidly healing, and he was impatient to be again in action. He had spoken in the most glowing, grateful terms of Harry and Huldah Herman, who persisted in remaining at their chosen post of duty among the sick and wounded until their friend's return, although both he and Mr. Berkeley had strongly urged their accompanying them to Philadelphia. "I shall make that point my first destination," Miss Harriet concluded with saying, "for I cannot rest until I have seen the noble twins." 
It was a charming, late autumn afternoon. Mr. Berkeley and Miss Harriet had been for a week on the banks of the Potomac; Edgar Horton was to start the following morning for home with his mother, then return instantly to an advanced command in the army, which his gallant conduct had earned for him. He was driving, now, with Effie, across the Schuylkill into the open country. As the stir and noise of the town was left behind them, the brisk trot of their horse slackened into a walk, and their animated talk on general topics subsided into silence. That silence was broken by Edgar, at length.
"Effie, do not think me thoughtless or ungrateful, that, in all these charming days when I have been blest with your society, I have never thanked you for your agency in the preservation of my life. The fitting moment has not been until now."
Effie tried to reply, but the words would not come. Her companion turned his fine eyes, full of tenderness, to the down-cast face.
"I did not know, my sweet friend, how much I owed you, until a week had passed. In expressing my gratitude, at this late hour, I wish to ask another inestimable favor."
Effie trembled so, the support of Edgar's arm was absolutely needed. It encircled her so gently, yet firmly, that she felt reassured and calmed.
"The heart your precious, holy gift protected, I wish to commit to your precious holy keeping for ever. Will you accept the trust, dear Effie, and give me a pledge in kind, although of so much greater value?"
The lids could not lift themselves, even for an instant. The flushed cheek and hurrying pulse only answered.
"You are very dear to me, charming girl—may I hope that I am not indifferent to you?"
The small hand rested trustingly in his, which sought it, and the eyes met his with an answering beam, then fell back to their shelter.
"Thank you, dearest, more than for life," he whispered, in profound emotion.—The whole was told.
"Why, mother dear, I can be ready in an hour, and
<c04>
this darling brother—this military despot—says I may have a whole day. What dresses I need for style, Effie will help me get up.- Henrietta, tease mamma for me—there's a precious sister." Such was Emma's characteristic appeal, when she had read a hurried note from her dear Effie, and had a pretty side talk with her brother. Henrietta added her influence and a zealous helping hand also, and Emma accompanied the "military despot" to Philadelphia, to spend the holidays with her future sister."

MORAL FORCES. No. II.
The North by its defeats, its charity and reluctance to adopt all the usages of war, has proven its moral superiority, and the incompatibility of war with its noble aims. Our government, so tenacious of recognizing all the rights of the States, has been slow in depriving the slaveholder of the once admitted right to the body of his slave. It has feared the threatening Northern pro-slavery feeling, paying a mawkish deference to the opinions of a portion of the people, who in their hearts were plotting its overthrow. It has, in fact, wanted the animating cause of universal liberty; for how could the cry of "Union, Constitution, and enforcement of the laws," alone inspire it, when that means just this:—Bring back the curse of slavery which has caused the war, and prevented peace in our country! With the old Union we should have to take slavery. With the Constitution as it was, we should have to subscribe to those unrighteous doctrines of recognition and representation of property in man. And the enforcement of the laws under that power, would be to recognize the rendition of fugitive slaves. So that the sooner our government either rejects the sword, upon the conviction that all war and fighting is a sin in the sight of Heaven, and is prepared to suffer martyrdom for the sake of righteousness; or becomes convinced that the only way to fight is to do it with a heart for the cause, and in the full language of war, determined to "undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free," and to acknowledge the brotherhood of man; to hold out no such balm to the unconverted on the slavery question as forcible colonization, to treat as traitorous and rebellious all States that seek to prevent the emigration of negroes from one State to another, or their remaining and settling therein; to respect all the rights of humanity, and give them all the advantages that, by their worth, they may be entitled to; withdrawing any odium or prejudice upon the statute-books that may militate against their citizenship, and prove to our Father, that it is determined to respect and treat as members of the same human family these children of his creation; the sooner our government accepts one or the other, the sooner it will bring the war to an end; and it will never end, in true peace, until it shall do so.
As it is scarcely likely it will adopt the former, because it is not righteous enough for such a miracle, it must therefore adopt the latter. The signs of the times are that it will eventually do so; and, oh! how my heart swells with the great hope!
There are many changes to be wrought yet, before it can come. The very heart of man must change. Shall it be that further trials are to do it; that the coils of horrid war are to encircle and tighten still more upon us, until we are forced to see the sad errors we have committed, the wickedness we are guilty of, and the vast debt of ingratitude and sin that has accumulated against us? Until we see that injustice, deceit and oppression will react, and we be willing to ignore them? Until we see that our injustice to the Indian causes continual trouble; that we are deceptive in sending missionaries to convert and armies to coerce them; driving them from domains granted them, and withholding just payment; refusing to recognize their nationality, to permit their religion, and give them a home where they may remain forever secure? Until we alter the consistency of sending missionaries to China and throughout the world, and yet, at the same time, accepting contracts to build them vessels of war; thus pluming ourselves with so much of morality, that we may Christianize them, and yet providing the means for waging war,—in fact, being ourselves engrossed in the monstroas crime which at once subverts the ten commandments and the beatitudes? Until we see that we have been verily guilty in enslaving God's children; in casting an odium upon them because of color; denying them the common rights of men and citizens; taxing, trying, punishing—yes, accepting their services and their money, in the prosecution of the war as laborers and as soldiers, and yet recognizing the wicked spirit of caste, and even withholding the poor privileges of officers and rank that belong to all? Look at it! Soliciting that cooperation when it will save white men from draft and perhaps preserve our nation, that cooperation which was once rejected when so promptly offered; ought it not to call for the promptest apology and fullest acknowledgment of all their rights; to give them any position their worth may entitle them to, for this is a country of worth and merit, and not of color or sect? Is it not time to condemn and deny so-called State rights that are moral wrongs? Is it not time to prescribe the limits of such State sovereignty as that act of Kentucky, passed after the emancipation proclamation of the President, that captures, imprisons and sells into bondage the poor escaped slave? Why, as one of those States, whose loyalty is merely taken upon trust, let us not hesitate to call the act boldly disloyal and shamefully inhuman. Away with such imposition!
"An open foe may prove a curse,
But a pretended friend is worse."
Away with the charter of any railroad company which denies the colored people the right of travel; or any school which prohibits them instruction therein. Take need that we are not forced to all this by still greater trials. We must be educated, and may be compelled to remember that the blood of Crispus Attucks, a colored man, first crimsoned this soil in the struggle for our nationality; and as it was negro blood first, it may be negro blood last, that consecrates the American cause.
Take heed that we do not so far outrage this generous offer of the negro, that, in our extremity, we may have to fairly beg him for his aid. His very willingness to overlook the want of generosity and Christian feeling towards him, is one of his crowning glories, and ought to insure for him all the rights which white men can claim. If it should not do so, our government will be guilty of an unpardonable sin, and will have to suffer still more. It is then the true- patriot is drawn by the strongest ties of love for his country, that, in the midst of innovations and great moral revolutions, it may find its life, strength and hope.
We are suffering the penalties of past dishonor and wickedness, and, through the dreadful course of war, must be made to acknowledge it. Let the acknowledgment come promptly, and the restitution be made as promptly. Let it prepare for a brighter and better life. Our endeared government may die! Yes, start not at the revolting idea! may die!—is dying now! The very government of this country has been under the Slave Power—that potent element is dying. Hard indeed, is the struggle: it is in the throes of death. When the honest head of our nation issued his immortal declaration of emancipation,— worthy to be enshrined with the Declaration of Independence, because hopeful, if not perfect,—it startled many; for it was a death-blow at the former life of our country, and with some portended distraction, a paralysis of the army, and a driving off of the border States. Still, the glorious deed was done, and, though under military necessity, so called, it was the culmination of all the peaceful efforts of moral necessity. It is this ingredient in the body politic, that makes me hopeful while we suffer. Passing through the great change, under horrors that never can be told, I feel that the old government, with all its false promises, unholy compromises; with the profanity and bitter hate in its Congress; the fraud and deceit among its people; had better die, and look forward to the new birth, as far purer and greater than anything we have ever seen; for it must be a resurrection far in advance of any government yet framed.
<c05>
But, to avail of all this, we must be prepared to accept the great truths of our Heavenly Father, which will teach all love, all charity, and all good.
Then why put our trust in arms, that are carnal and wicked, and feel that the destinies of our race and country are in the hands of an army, vast and efficient though it be? For how can it save our beloved country , when we know that Deity is so constantly profaned,—that over a million oaths are uttered everyday in the army of the Rappahannock; when the maddening wine cup is passed round, and all kinds of dissipation are indulged? Beware how we trust such agencies, for they will recoil with stunning effect! No! it behooves every truly patriotic, loyal and Christian man or woman to be most active in promulgating the highest virtues for our nation; in demanding the fullest recognition of the rights of man to every created being; to make merit and morality our stand-point; to decry the sword-power, and inaugurate the principle of non-resistance; to ignore intemperance, deceit, fraud, and that fearful profanity which is so nearly universal throughout the land. Then our country would be redeemed, and worthy a life of supreme glory.
We need not be alarmed. The soil under our feet, the heavens above us, and the soul within us, cannot be taken away. No! we still have our Father's rich and impartial inheritance —this beautiful country. We still have our free agency and our immortal souls, this much of nationality, individuality and spirituality, all with us, which nothing can deprive us of.
The only thing that can save our nation is virtue, public and private—-the righteousness and purity of the government, and the honesty and justice of the people. We have the elements of all this in our midst, and the cheering illustration that "ten righteous men can save a city." Let us take courage! Our people have a warm, cordial and sympathizing hand. They will aid in ameliorating the sufferings of friend or foe. They are diligent in providing for the sick and needy,—the women of America in this are almost the saviors of the nation. The wants of the freedmen are supplied, and liberality-is growing. The “Griswold" dashes through old ocean's flood, sending the spray and foam in smiling chiding, in the face of England's injustice and outrage.
These virtues will tell. And when we unite in the spirit of God's highest morality, with so much behind us to instruct, so much around to encourage, and so much before us to inspire, we have no occasion to despond, but every impulse to labor on and trust.
Your hopeful friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE.

"STONEWALL" JACKSON
PETERBORO', May 20th, 1863.
REV. HENRY WARD BEECHER:
MY DEAR SIR,—I have read, in the Independent, your column on the late "Stonewall" Jackson. I honor him for his earnestness, sincerity and devoutness. I grant that he was a deeply religious man; but I cannot agree with you that his religion was of the Christ-type. How can it be in the light of your own admission, that he was "the champion of slavery"—the champion of that system which denies all right to husband, wife, child;—all right to resist the ravisher or murderer; and which works and whips and markets men as beasts? How can it be in the light of your admission, that "he was fighting against the natural rights of man"? Nevertheless, you declare him to be "a rare and eminent Christian." I readily admit, that even these enormous crimes against justice and humanity are compatible with high religiousness; but I cannot admit that he who is guilty of them is grounded in the Christ-religion, and is "eminent" in its graces. For the Christ religion is simply a religion of justice. It does as it would be done by. It is for, and not "against, the natural rights of man." For it is simply the religion of nature.
I do not wonder that the churches regard Jackson's as the Christ- religion; for the bundle of dogmas, Trinity, Atonement, Resurrection of the Body, Miracles, &c., which they make up, and hold to be essential to salvation, he deeply believed in. I say not whether these dogmas are true or false—originating in fancies or in facts. I but say that they are no part of the Christ-religion. Natural justice toward God and man—so earnest and entire as to fill the heart and life with its presence and power—this, and this alone, is the essence and the all of that religion. Think not, that I look for such justice where the Divine Spirit is not at work to produce it. In order to attain to it, depraved man—man who has run away from his nature—must be "born again."
Jackson had the theology of a church; but he certainly had not a large share of the religion of Christ. Christ was opposed to all the theologies; for he saw that they all stand in the way of the one true religion —the religion of reason and nature. A theological or common church religion is a traditional religion, authenticated by miracles and other outward testimonies. At the best, it is but a history—and full of all the characteristic uncertainty of history. Moreover, if parts of the history or of its accepted interpretation shall prove false, then, as is held, the deceived disciple is lost. Such is the untrustworthy plank on which men are urged to embark their all. But Christ's religion is no historic nor external thing. It cometh not from the past, and it "cometh not with observation" It "is within" us. It is written by the finger of God in the moral consciousness; and every one who will listen to God's voice in his soul will know this religion, or, in other words, will know what is right. “And why," says Jesus, "even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?" Instead of sending his hearers to Moses, he sends them to themselves. Instead of bidding them go to priests to get religion interpreted, he tells them to interpret it for themselves. Instead of making religious truth a mystery, which only the wise and learned can unravel, he thanks his Father for having "revealed them unto babes" Instead of teaching a religion as fluctuating and uncertain as human testimony is fluctuating and uncertain, he teaches a religion founded and fashioned in human nature, and therefore as unchangeable as human nature—a religion the same in all climes and ages, because human nature is the same in all climes and ages, Instead of teaching a cabalistic and conventional religion whose rules are hard and impossible to be understood, he teaches the natural and reasonable religion which has but one rule—and this rule so obvious and simple that all know it, and need nothing but honesty to apply it. All know how they would be done by; and hence all know what to do to others.
I am amazed that you make so much account of Jackson's theological bundle, and of his being "an active member of the Presbyterian church, of which he was a ruling Elder." These, in your esteem, suffice to carry him straight to heaven. I had supposed that your strong common sense and large intelligence had, long ago, lifted you up out of the superstitious faith, that any such things can carry any man to heaven. I had taken it for granted that you believed that it is his character, however induced— whether by himself, or by Christ, or otherwise—that alone qualifies a man for heaven:—so obvious is it in the light of reason that every man must go to his own place, and that what shall be his place must be determined, not by his theology, but by his character. But I was mistaken; for, in the same breath in which you send Jackson to heaven, you argue out for him a thoroughly base and abominable character—even, to use your strong and eloquent words, a "comprehensive and fundamental degradation of heart, and mind, and soul." 
So, since it cannot be in virtue of his character, it must be in virtue of his theology and eccleaiasticism, that you send Jackson to heaven. Or, am I again mistaken? Perhaps you believe that the death of the body works moral changes; and that though Jackson died with a bad character, he woke up with a good one.
But, notwithstanding I believe that our character in this life is that with which we begin the next, I have hope for "Stonewall" Jackson; and this hope
<c06>
for two reasons. First, I do not believe his character to be as bad as you make it. In many an instance slaveholding does not deprave and debase the whole soul. Unconsciousness of its criminality and a kindly exercise of its despotic power are among the things which leave room for the growth of self -respect and other high virtues. Second, the Christ religion will be more clearly seen and more justly judged in the next life; and mistaken and guilty, though still largely noble souls, like the "Stonewall" Jackson, will hasten to exchange their miserable theologies for it. Nay, I trust, that our Church-misted hero already begins to see more beauty and preciousness in the simple doctrine of doing as we would be done by, than in all the dogmas and prayers and rites of his corrupt and corrupting Church.
But I must stop. I meant only to write a few lines. How long, oh, how long, my great-souled brother, must we still wait for the open enlistment of your large powers against the theologies? I confess that you preach the religion of Jesus, and that you preach it with rare force and beauty. But, alas! how is this preaching counteracted by your preaching the theologies also! The cause of truth cannot afford to have Henry Ward Beecher continue to mix up traditional trash, or even traditional sweetness or sublimities, with that religion. She needs him to be wholly, and not but partly on her side.
With great regard, your friend,
GERRIT SMITH.

A NEGRO VOLUNTEER SONG.
AIR-"Hoist up the Flag."
[The following song was written by a private in 54th (colored) Regiment, Massachusetts Volunteer and has been sent to us for publication by a friend of the regiment:]
Fremont told them, when it first begun,
How to save the Union, and the way it should be done;
But Kentucky swore so hard, and old Abe he had his fears,
Till every hope was lost but the colored volunteers.
CHORUS-O, give us a flag, all free without a slave,
We'll fight to defend it, as our Fathers did so brave.
The gallant Company "A" will make the rebels dance,
And we'll stand by the Union if we only have a chance.
McClellan went to Richmond with two hundred thousand brave;
He said, "keep back the niggers,” and the Union he would save.
Little Mac he had his way-still the Union is in tears-
Now they call for the help of the colored volunteers.
CHORUS-O, give us a flag, &c.
Old Jeff. says he'll hang us if we dare to meet him armed,
A very big thing, but we are not at all alarmed,
For he has first got to catch us before the way is clear,
And "that is what's the matter with the colored volunteer.
CHORUS.-O, give us a flag, &c.
So rally, boys, rally, let us never mind the past; 
We had a hard road to travel, but our day is coming fast, 
For God is for the right, and we have no need to fear,-
The Union must be saved by the colored volunteer.
CHORUS-O, give us a flag, &c.
MUNIFICENT GIFT. MR. Edward Harris, so long identified with the business and prosperity of Woonsocket, has given "Harris’ Block," and the grounds appurtenant, in that town, valued at $70,000, for the establishment of a free public library, and lectures of a scientific, literary and reformatory character. The library will be sustained and perpetuated by the rents &c., of the property. It is to be called the Harris Institute. Application has been made to the legislature for a charter, with permission to hold property to the amount of $100,000 exclusive of books, papers, furniture, apparatus and collections in science and the arts.
The works of Mr. Harris, at the north end of the village of Woonsocket, are at present the scene of the greatest activity, about 200 men being already engaged in the erection of his large manufacturing establishment, while nearly one hundred more are called for. This establishment promises to be the largest and finest in the State.
EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION BY A MILITARY GOVERNOR. Brig. Gen. Shepley, Military Governor of Louisiana, has, by proclamation, dated the 12th May, declared inoperative the act of the Legislature of that State, approved March 6th, 1857, and entitled “An act to prohibit emancipation of slaves" as "never having been adopted or sanctioned by the military authorities, and as being inconsistent with the principles which control the policy of the government."
THE RESULT OF DOING SOMETHING.-One of our Major-Generals (Fremont) was the first man to proclaim emancipation. Another (Butler) took the richest city in the South, civilized it, and held it. A third, (Sigel) is an officer who has been in many battles, and never lost one, and whom his soldiers would all follow to the death. All these men, having really done something, were removed from command, and are still on the inactive list.
THE OLD HANCOCK HOUSE. The Back Bay Land Commissioners have, with the approval of the Governor of Mass., given a lot of land on the corner of Newbury and Caledonian streets, as a site for the Old John Hancock House, and the city will defray the expense of removal, the heirs having presented the building to the city. It will be taken down carefully and rebuilt, and then occupied as a museum-the public to have access to it on certain days.
THE DIAL. A daily afternoon paper, with this title, was commenced, recently, in Philadelphia. A good afternoon paper has long been wanted in Philadelphia, and The Dial seems to bid fair to supply this want. It is neutral in politics, but loyal all over, and should be encouraged by the friends of the Government everywhere.
Hayti, under the rule of President Geffrard, is flourishing. The government is establishing a large foundry, an extensive paper mill, and a line of iron steamers for the coast mail service. The telegraph, also, is one of the government improvements, which will speedily be completed. Everything promises fair to place the Republic of Hayti high in the list of civilized powers.
PERSONAL. Among the appointments on the present board of visitors to West Point are Ralph Waldo Emerson and B.G. Northrop, of Massachusetts.
The rebels lost at the battle near Fredericksburg according to their own published statement, six Generals and a large proportion of their staffs. Among them was Stonewall Jackson, whose loss cannot be made up.
A son of Gen. Pillow is advertised in the Louis ville Journal, committed to jail as a runaway negro. He is described as slender built, copper color, 5 feet 11 inches high, and named Tom-Tom Pillow! Unless his relatives come forward and take him, and pay the jail fees of Hardin County, Ky., the boy will be sold into eternal slavery the 13th of June.
REBEL LOSSES. The rebels have sought to make it appear that their losses in the recent battles have been but about 9,000 in killed and wounded. General Hooker resolved to learn the truth, if possible, and with this view has kept one man at his headquarters at work examining the various lists of killed and wounded, as published in the Richmond papers. At the last accounts they footed up over 25,000.
Gen. Hooker foots up the official returns of his killed and wounded at the battle of Chancellorsville at 8,200, not including the missing.
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
Would inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair. 
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
