<C0A>
THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT

221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS- Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittance are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
NEW ENGLAND.
We rejoice to hear that the great change which has been going on for some weeks past in the country at large has not been unfelt in the benighted regions of New England. There have always been some faithful among the many faithless in that portion of the country. The conservative men of New England have been as firm as rocks where it cost something to be firm. They begin now to reap the rewards of well-doing. Even Massachasetts is arousing. It is not to be expected that <illegible> will for many years recover from the errors which have enveloped her political character, and into which she has been led by fanatics and deman-<illegible>. Perhaps it would be well if she should remain a monument of the evil that attends on radical phariseeism, to be looked at with wondering eyes by the generations that are to follow us. She is joined to her idols; and while we should always arrest the folly of that idolatry, we might take warning from it, if we had it always before us. Scholasticus, the fools in the old Greek fable, was act, after all, so stupid as he is represented, in carrying around a brick to show the character of his house. Bricks in those days were very much alike. But the specimen brick of modern political structure is a thing to be studied, wondered at, and either admired or abhorred. And that Massachusetts brick, in the great American system, is one which it would do good to look at, failure in the purpose, a poor brick for a temple of liberty. But, well arched over, so, that the structure ceases to rest no it, it may be safely left in the wall, and for the present it is better so than to trust it as a supporter or aid in the grand whole. It has good material in it. There are great men and good men in Massachusetts. The clay is American, but there is a curious failure in the way of baking it. It is in fact not well baked at all. Sunshine for a few men will make it better, and it will one day become a good brick.
Massachusetts has always been given to intolerance. That is her chief fault. It is a fault common to superficial and self-relying men. She was the best State in America, almost the first in the modern world, to place on her statue books a law legalizing slaveholding and slavery. We have already noticed that Mr. Bancroft, the eminent historian, has discovered this fact, brought out by our articles, and has made it a part of his historical sword. Besides, Massachusetts always exhibited a great enmity to the negro. Her anti-negro statutes down to very recent days were of the most cruel and barbarous description. She seems only of late to have covered up the4 character of her antipathies by her superior hatred to her Southern fellow-citizens of the white race. She would apparently be willing to condemn every negro to death, by want and misery, if she might thereby impoverish and destroy the slaveholders of the South, to whom she appears to have taken an invincible enmity, perhaps because they adopt so closely the Massachusetts puritan views of slavery.
But it is not necessary that Massachusetts should be rid of her abolition and anti-slaveholder views in order to become a valuable member of the Union. Homogeneousness, as we have often shown, is not by any means a necessity to union. The theory of our union is quite otherwise. The majority of the people in Massachusetts may hold any views, however radical, and manage their own affairs as they see fit, and the other States can easily and calmly and beneficially keep her in the Union, so long as she is not aggressive. She will not be so aggressive hereafter. In the calm that is some day to follow the present tempest, she will relapse into her own dream, and flow steadily toward Boston harbor, ceasing to flood the other States with her new peculiar crudities and isms.
Nay, we will be more hopeful. There are men in Massachusetts, of her old blood and noble heart, who are worthy the highest confidence. They have borne much and forborne much. Their own State is hardly worthy of them. All honor to the faithful conservative men of Massachusetts! Puritan seek, grafted with sound American principles, <illegible> great men. We may hope for their ultimate triumph over the horde of fanatics who have misled their once honored State. They made mistakes in former years. They allowed a man to be placed in power, by Democratic assistance, who has since will pass out of sight in a brief time. He was a radical peace man, and he is now a radical war man, and no possible future can justify his change of coat. The people will cast him off as an old garment worn on both sides till it can be worn no longer. The conservative men of that State will not make such a mistake again.
The other parts of New England are still more hopeful. If Connecticut and New Hampshire men have a chance to vote, without the interference of fraud and force, backed by military power, they will again fall into line as Union States, instead of presenting their front, as now, for abolition disunion. From all parts of New England, we hear that the Lincoln ultimatum, "war till slavery is abolished," a received with indignant disapproval. A few attempt to uphold it, but are silenced by the voice of <illegible> which rallies to the Constitution. This was it should be. The future brightens over the <illegible> States.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.

A LOOK BACKWARD.
Some of the more venturesome radical papers, in the backwoods chiefly, seek to stay the public indignation against Mr. Lincoln's ultimatum, by the old cast talk and twaddle about the slave power, and the way it ruled the country. They have a curious imagination on this subject. They seem to think that she power a gigantic tyrant, which once ate the small children of abolitionists, and otherwise tortured the land. They warn the people that any settlement of the war without abolition will give us the old Union, in which slavery will have some of in old power, and control politics to a certain <illegible> It may be true, or it may not be true. But pray, what harm would it do if it should happen to had three years of government during, which the much abhorred "slave power" has been absolutely excluded from all share in it. Has the government been any better? Has the country been any more prosperous? Have the people been happier? Have you made politics any more pure? Have officials of your new party stolen any less? Have fraud, corruption, robbery, plunder of the public treasury, disappeared from the land under a pure anti-slavery rule? We don't ask anything about the war, but we respectfully demand whether the anti-slavery Administration has improved on the so called pro-slavery power which preceded it, by giving
<C02>
us any more honest, economical, or moral rulers than we had. The question is a fair one, and we defy any supporter of this Administration to answer it fairly. "The pro-slavery power was corrupt," you say. Grant it; but your pharisaical anti-slavery power is ten times more corrupt. "When the Democrats ruled the land, by means of their bargains with the South, there were robbers in public office." True; and now, when your boasted pure and moral anti-slavery power rules the land, the world groans under the weight of its crimes and shames. Never since there were nations on earth has there been such corruption, robbery and plunder, as in the anti-slavery party, and among its chief leaders. The war has brought on us swarms like the lice of Egypt, vermin of the vilest kind, professing devout anti-slavery sentiments, and devouring the substance of widows and orphans. The air is foul with their breath. They go along the streets shouting " copperhead, traitor," and make their abolitionism known at the corners of the street.-, and especially in the market-places—where they pass their time in schemes for extortionate contracts, and in buying and selling the blood of the American soldier. The newspapers which are loudest and most long-winded in the anti-slavery hypocrisy are in nine cases out of ten supported by or engaged in contracts, or public offices of some kind, whereby they receive greenbacks as the reward of their virtuous professions. The atmosphere of the anti-slavery party is an atmosphere of plunder. We do not exaggerate. The recent ringing of the ears at the tempest of accusations hurled back and forth by the great men of the party, is abundant evidence of the truth of every word we utter.—N. Y. Journal of Commerce. 
FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND MORE! 
Lincoln has made another call for five hundred thousand men, accompanied with an order for a draft on the 5th day of September. The call was not unexpected to us, nor will any future one take us by surprise. The little job which Lincoln contracted to perform in three months, with seventy-five thousand men, is not completed, nor will it ever be under the present programme. Over two millions of men have been called into the service, as auxiliaries to the original seventy-five thousand, and now a demand is made for half a million more! For what are these men wanted—for what are they to be torn from their families, and dragged away like felons? To assist in the mad scheme of Abolition subjugation—to uphold and strengthen the hands of an infamous tyrant, who strikes at the liberties of the people—to murder and destroy a people whose only fault is a manly and determined defence of their own firesides—to assist in the overthrow of the great fundamental principles of our own government—to destroy forever every vestige of constitutional liberty in America. Tell us not that it is to save the country! Abolitionism is the fell scourge which is destroying the lives and property of our people, and filling the land with desolation and mourning, from the great lakes of the North to the farthest shores of the sunny South. They have made our once happy land the abode of fiends and devils incarnate—a worse than hell upon earth—vice, wretchedness, poverty and pestilence is the portion they have administered to the people whom they found in the enjoyment of vigorous health, prosperity and happiness. Tell us not that these men are wanted to defend the government, for such an assertion is a lie, a base lie! upon the face of it. The government of our fathers, of the Constitution—the only government which can rightly demand toe allegiance of the people, has been abrogated by the very tyrant who now calls for more men with which to strengthen and enforce his wicked usurpations. The people are called on to assist in perpetuating the new born tyranny at Washington; in fact, to furnish the means which are to be used for the destruction of their own rights and liberties! The sun which rises and sets upon the day that sees the forcible conscription of half a million of free American citizens will rise and set upon a race of most despicable slaves and cowards—cowards because, knowing their rights, they have not had the manhood to defend them—slaves because they voluntarily and without a struggle commit their most sacred rights to the keeping of a grasping and relentless tyranny. 
Who can look far away into the future, and see one single benefit that can possibly grow out of this wholesale sacrifice of human life—one advantage to be gained, that will compensate for a single life destroyed in this cursed abolition crusade? Nothing is to be gained but the possible freedom of an ignorant, degraded race, a race incapable of rising by their own efforts above the level of the brute creation, at the expense of our liberties! 
Why then should the people again and again give their sanction to the war by quietly, tamely submitting to every new tax on their blood and treasure? Just so long as they trill submit, so long and no longer will submission be expected and required. The people hold in their own hands the remedy for all their wrongs. It is time that they should inform the self-constituted tyrant at Washington, that they will no longer submit to his wicked exactions—that they will furnish no more "bullocks for his slaughter pens." Let them decline in polite but unmistakable terms this last invitation to the bloody feast. Let them decide that the "last man and the last dollar for the prosecution of this most bloody and inhuman war upon a people born and determined to remain free hare already been given. He has not the power to tear the people from their homes, if they will it otherwise. He has only the strength they give, or permit him to exercise. Will they continue to furnish means for their own destruction? We shall see.—Fond du Lac Democratic Press, July 21. 
It will be seen that Mr. Lincoln has called for another half a million of men. Those who desire to be butchered will please step forward at once. All others will stay to home, and defy Old Abe and be minions to drag them from their families. We hope that the people of New Jersey will at once put their feet down, and insist that riot a man shall be forced out of this State to engage in the abolition butchery and swear to die at their own doors rather than march one step to fulfil the dictates of that mad revolutionary fanaticism, which has destroyed the best government the world ever saw, and would now butcher its remaining inhabitants to carry out men fanatical sentiment. This has gone far enough, and must be stopped. Let the people rise as one man and demand that this wholesale murder shall cease.—Newark Journal. 
Let the press speak out in opposition to this merciless conscription, which has no other end than to secure the election of A. Lincoln for another term of four years, or for life? Why should the people be dragged from their homes at the beck of a tyrant and a usurper, to murder and destroy those with whom they should be at peace? Is there no man with nerve enough to raise the standard of freedom for the white men of the North?—Bergen County (N. J.) Democrat, published al Hackensack.
<C03>
Selections.
THE NIAGRA CONFERENCE.
STATEMENT OF HORACE GREELEY.
Mr. Greeley, in last week's Independent, gives the following account of his recent negotiation:—
* * * "In the other effort for peace, I was a participant, as follows:—Some time since, it was announced by telegraph from Halifax, that Messrs. C. C. Clay, of Alabama, Jacob Thompson, of Mississippi, (Ex-U. S. Senators.) Prof. J. P. Holcombe, of the University of Virginia, and George N. Sanders, of Kentucky, had reached that city from Dixie, via Bermuda, on important business; and all of these but Mr. Thompson (who is in Toronto) were soon quartered at the Clifton, on the Canada side of Niagara Falls. I heard soon after of confidential interviews between some or all of these gentlemen and leading Democrats from our own and neighboring States, and there were telegraphic whispers of overtures for 'reconstruction,' and conditions were set forth as those on which the Confederates would consent to reunion. (I cannot say that any of these reports were authentic.) At length, after several less direct intimations, I received a private letter from Mr. Sanders, stating that Messrs. Clay, Holcombe, himself and another, desired to visit Washington, 'upon complete and unqualified protection being given by the President or the Secretary of War.'
As I saw no reason why the opposition should be the sole recipients of these gentlemen's overtures, if such there were (and it is stated that Mr. Clay aforesaid is preparing, or to prepare, an important letter to the Chicago Convention,) I wrote the President, urging him to invite the rebel gentlemen aforesaid to Washington, there to open their budget. I stated expressly that I knew not what they would propose if so invited, but I could imagine no offer that might be made by them which would not conduce, in one way or another to a restoration of the integrity and just authority of the Union. 
The President ultimately acquiesced in this view, so far as to consent that the rebel agents should visit Washington but directed that I should proceed to Niagara, and accompany them thence to the capital. This service I most reluctantly undertook, feeling deeply, and observing that almost any one else might better have been sent on this errand. But time seemed precious, and I immediately started. 
Arrived on this side of the Falls, I wrote across to Messrs. Clay and Co., stating that, on the understanding that they had the needful powers from the authorities at Richmond, I was authorized and ready to give them a safe conduct to Washington. They responded that, though in the confidential employment of their Government, and fully conversant with its views and purposes, they had not the specific powers I required, but would get them, if permitted; and desired—in order to save time—to proceed at once to Washington, and be permitted thence to communicate with Richmond for the purpose. Not feeling at liberty to concede this, I telegraphed to Washington for further instructions, and was duly informed that Maj. Hay, the President's Private Secretary, would soon be on his way to me. He reached the Falls on the 20th, and we crossed over to Clifton, where Major Hay, after mutual introductions, handed Professor Holcombe the following paper in the handwriting of the President:— 
'EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, July 18, 1864.
To whom it may concern:
Any proposition which embraces the restoration of peace, the integrity of the whole Union, and the abandonment of slavery, and which comes by and with an authority that can control the armies now at war against the United States, will be received and considered by the Executive Government of the United States, and will be met by liberal terms on substantial and collateral points; and the bearer thereof shall have safe conduct both ways.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN."
I left the Falls by the next train, leaving Major Hay to receive any response to the President's proffer, should any be made; but there was none. Messrs. Clay and Holcombe addressed to me a letter of sharp criticism on the President's proffer above quoted, which I first read in the columns of the daily journals of this city. And here the matter closed, despite all rumors of further or other negotiations. Messrs. Clay, Holcombe and Sanders remain at the Falls, or at the adjacent watering-place of St. Catherine's, and are still in receipt of many visits from Democratic politicians, who cross the border on purpose. 
I heartily approve the President's basis of negotiation, and think them calculated to exert a salutary influence at the South; and yet I think it would have been wiser to have interposed no conditions, but asked the Confederates to perfect and verify their credentials, and then make their proposition. For thus brought to book, what could they have proffered that would not have strengthened the upholders of the Union cause? It looks to me as though a rare opportunity was lost for compelling either the Democracy of the loyal States or the despots of Europe to forego further manifestations of sympathy with the rebels in their desperate struggle. I may be mistaken in this, but I cannot be in my conviction that every indication of a desire on our part to I arrest bloodshed and restore amity tends to disabuse and conciliate the great perverted mass of those now fighting to divide and destroy their and our country."

COMPROMISE CORRESPONDENCE.
The patriotism of the country has been somewhat startled during the past week, by the publication of certain billet doux which passed across the Niagara between Horace Greeley, Esq., and several arch rebels against the government and peace of the United States. As one of the people, we are opposed to all this official or semi-official recognition of perjured, blood-stained traitors. Who is Jeff. Davis, or his representatives, that they can approach, the government of our country with propositions for compromise, while seeking its destruction with arms in their hands? Have they purged themselves of treason? Have they outgrown the status of rebels? After all our complaints that England recognized them as belligerents, are we going to do the same? And as belligerents, too, clothed with the rights of negotiation? This would be a humiliation utterly destructive of national respect We have done too much of this already. There cannot be a doubt, if our government had, from the first, treated rebels with rebels' deserts, and hung the first one taken, and every one taken in quick succession, an untold amount of suffering by our loyal citizens at the hands of rebels, with tens of thousands of lives, would have been spared. The tender mercies of 
<C04>
weakness and compromise are cruel. The equality ceded by our officers to rebels when taken prisoners is tacit treason; and the manner in which our government has treated them has encouraged rebellion. The only rights which such men have are those demanded by humanity alone. Every legal and official and social right they have sacrificed. 
The only attitude of approach to the government for rebels is to throw down their arms, and surrender themselves to lawful authority. If they are not ready to do this, our duty is to fight them until they are, or acknowledge ourselves unable to maintain the dignity of the government entrusted to us, and resign it to braver hearts and stronger hands. We believe that the millions of the North who have suffered insult, and wrong, and loss to the extent they have, will never consent to compromise with the cruel insurgent. If we cannot, maintain our position as rulers with honor and dignity, we can surrender it, and take our place as subjects, without compromising principle or conniving at crime, by grasping in friendship the bloody hand of the traitor. 
We are afraid of this dalliance with the foe. We believe nothing is to be gained by it but dishonor to ourselves. We are glad that reports from Washington disavow any "proposal or compromise with the rebel officials at Richmond, or their real or assumed agents in Canada, or elsewhere." 
And while Mr. Greeley disclaims all authority for negotiation, he claims authority for all he did, and he did enter into correspondence with rebels, in which they propose compromise. We don't like the closing sentence of his general explanation, his general inference, "that the pacification of our country is neither so difficult nor so distant as seems to be generally supposed." Whence is this inference? From his intercourse with rebels, or from some other source? Is the pacification to be by Commissioners, or by cannon? We think Sherman and Grant are in a fair way to conquer a peace, and we greatly prefer leaving the matter in their hands and uniting on the first Thursday in August with the President and his Cabinet, and our officers, civil and military, and Horace Greeley, Esq., and he nation, in supplicating the blessing of Almighty God upon our arms; and to overrule our stubborn adhesion to our own purposes, when in conflict with His divine counsels.—N Christian Adv., Auburn. 

THE GOOD DEEDS OF CONGRESS. 
We gladly turn to one of the brightest of our civil annals. We mean to that which shall record the action of Congress at the last session, in purifying the National Statute Book of all taint and spot impressed upon it from time to time, for seventy years and more, by slavery. The trail of that serpent is no longer over it. It has been thoroughly cleansed away, and we trust this is a sign that 'the serpent's head is soon to be bruised so that it shall surely die. Our readers will bear us witness that we have been incessant and persistent in our reminders and our demands as to what public duty and true patriotism demanded of Congress in this direction. We confess we had but little hope, after the very first session, that anything effectual would be alone, and we are therefore the more satisfied with the ample measure of righteousness that has been <illegible> out by Congress in its latter days. This is one of the cases in which we rejoice to confess that we were mistaken, and that our wishes were truer prophets than our fears. The Thirty-Eighth Congress has deserved well of its country, now and hereafter—we will hope forever—better than any that has gone before it. It has bettered all expectation, and deserves all but an absolute and entire commendation. It improved so much upon the gratuitous injustice of the authorities towards the black troops, and came so much nearer doing them perfect right than seemed at one time possible, that we think the black soldiers and their friends should be content to let it have till the short session to supply whatever is wanting to their just due. We are confident that the next Administration, be it what it may, will find no distinction remaining between brave men fighting for their country because of the color God has given them. And this, whether it shall be one that shall look upon this justice as a stumbling-block removed out of its way, or one that shall regard it as foolishness and an offence.
The three main legislative acts which have shed this lustre on the closing days of the late session are the Repeal of all the Laws providing process for the recovery of fugitive slaves, the repeal of the acts regulating the coast-wise slave trade, and the entire prohibition of that traffic, and the admission of colored persons to the witness-box on equal terms with whites. Who would have imagined it possible that such legislation could ever be had, four little years ago? It would have been impossible, if the way had not been cleared for it by the desperate hands of the slaveholders themselves. These acts are monuments to mark the onward progress of the great revolution in the midst of which we stand—a revolution begun to establish slavery forever by the ruin of liberty, but which we believe, will never go backward, but will establish liberty forever through the utter destruction of slavery. These great measures of justice were not carried without, opposition, and that, too, from quarters where it was least looked for. They were, all of them we think, proposed early in the session, though action upon them was not effected till near its close. When Mr. Sumner introduced his bill for repealing all the Fugitive Slave laws, it could not be carried in its entirety. The infamy of 1850 the Administration majority in the Senate were ready to wipe from the Statute Book. But it was thought that the law of 1793 should be left in force as a sop to the hell-hound which, though it bad received a stunning blow, was not yet dead. And this compromise was carried by the aid of Republican votes, among them that of Mr. Doolittle of Wisconsin, and of Mr. Sherman of Ohio, and, stranger yet, those of two Senators from New England, Messrs. Collamer of Vermont, and Foster of Connecticut. When the bill came up from the House of Representatives, for the same object, couched, we believe, in the very words of that of Mr. Sumner, the dissentients in the Senate teem to have thought better of the matter, and to have changed their votes, or to have evaded the decisive yeas and nays. Among the missing on that occasion were the four Senators we. have just named. But the law passed, 27 to 12, and the slaves must henceforth be bunted on private account, and without the assistance of the Nation. the function of the Curtises, Lorings, Ingrahams and Mortons is at an end, and, let us hope, forever. On the first vote on the abolition of the coast-wise slave trade, Mr. Sumner's motion was rejected, Mr. Collamer and Mr. Sherman voting nay. On the second vote, it passed, Mr. Sherman still voting no, and Mr. Collamer keeping out of the way. We believe that there were no Republican votes cast against Mr. Sumner's amendment, restoring the right of testifying in the United States Courts to persons of color. 
Mr. Sumner deserves the highest honor and the fasting gratitude of the country for the perseverance and skill which he has shown in carrying these 
<C05>
measures through the Senate. In the House, the leading Republican members, Messrs. Ashley, Stevens, Julian, Dawes, Eliot, and others, not forgetting the ever-to-be-remembered Lovejoy, have been faithful to the trust the Nation reposed in them in urging and carrying through these measures, in the face of much stronger opposition and greater difficulties than they had to encounter in the Senate. And the large majorities by which the Abolition Amendment was passed by both Houses, though it failed of its constitutional two-thirds, should be accounted to this Congress for righteousness. We had not hoped so good an account could be made up of its doings as that which it has rendered to its constituents, to the nation, and to the world. We care little whether these results were brought about by personal conviction on the part of all who helped produce them, or by pressure of public sentiment from without. If the first, so much the better for the members; if the last, so much the better for the public. In either case, we have a Statute Book purged of the Fugitive Slave laws, and of those regulating coast-wise traffic in slaves. And the insult and the injury to the black man involved in the rejection of his testimony in the Courts of the nation in such States as refuse to admit it in their own Courts, is put an end to. Henceforth the laws of slaveholding or pro-slavery States cannot expose him defenceless to whatever wrong may be wreaked on him, unwitnessed by a white man. These are great events, constituting an era in American history; and the men who have been the instruments of bringing them to pass deserve ever to be named and remembered with honor. Such legislation could not have been had without a Civil War, and it would almost compensate for the sufferings of one. In the worst event that can happen, the accession to power of a party in sympathy with the rebellion and pledged to slavery, it will have, at least, to do all this dirty work afresh. It will not find all the legislation needful to restore slavery to its supremacy ready made to its hands. The machinery will have to be made over again, and set to work anew. But such a party will not succeed in getting possession of the government. This very action foreshadows that of the people next November. This Congress has merely obeyed the pleasure of its constituency in what it has done, and we are well assured that no future one will ever undo its work. But then the people must not take this for granted, but must make it sure next November.—National Anti-Slavery Standard. 

FREMONT'S LETTER AND PLATFORM.
The reasons why the Fremont movement has made shipwreck, except as a diversion against Lincoln and in favor of the Copperhead Democracy, we think are easily perceived. The movement from the beginning was merely and purely personal. The Cleveland Convention convened solely for the purpose of nominating Fremont. As a consequence, those who looked with suspicion upon the Baltimore Convention because of the charge that it was "packed" in favor of Lincoln, discovered no improvement when they turned their eyes to Cleveland. Both Conventions appeared to them as directed in the interests of men rather than of the country. Nothing could have been wore unfavorable to a new party than to have it start off with the impression that it was governed, not by principle, but by personal animosity and prejudice strengthened by personal ambition. 
Equally unfortunate was the Cleveland Convention when it assembled. Coming together as a body of Radicals, it failed to take Radical ground. Upon the overshadowing question of slavery—the one which not only admitted of, but demanded, the greatest progress, it took a step backward. It declared that slavery was "destroyed," even while slavery was in death-grapple with the Government, threatening to overturn it. Was there ever such surrender of a strong party position? So weak and defective was this portion of its action, that Parker Pillsbury, a very prominent participant in its proceedings, has come out in a public protest against the slavery plank of its platform. 
But to crown the failure on the part of this movement, came the letter of John C. Fremont, accepting the nomination which had been tendered him. This letter, by the request of a number of our readers, we to-day publish in our columns. While the platform was a yielding of ground, this letter looks like an unconditional surrender of principle. To the only true Radical plank in the platform—the one declaring for confiscation of rebels' property—he enters his disapproval. The plank alluded to is as follows:—
"13. That the confiscation of the lands of the rebels, and their distribution among the soldiers and actual settlers, ia a measure of justice." 
To this unquestionably sound and just doctrine, Fremont responds: 
"I do not believe that confiscation extended to the property of all rebels is practicable, and if it were so, I do sot think it a measure of sound policy. It is in fact a question belonging to the people themselves to decide, and is a proper occasion for the exercise of their original and sovereign authority." 
Fremont would leave this question to the "people themselves." Does he mean to the people of the entire Union? Evidently not, for their voices can be heard only representatively through Congress, which has already voted in favor of confiscation. He can only refer to the people of the State in which the property is situated. In short, Fremont thinks that the people of South Carolina should decide whether the property of South Carolinians is to be confiscated—rebels are to determine the measure of rebel punishment! Again, he says:
"In the adjustments which are to follow peace, no consideration of vengeance can consistently be admitted."
In other words, in closing up the rebellion, the rebels are not to be hurt, their leaders are not to be punished, and the rank and file of the Union troops are not to be rewarded by the distribution of lands among them, but those lands are to be handed over to their former rebel owners! And if the rebels are to have their lands, why not their other property—in short, their slaves? " Thus do we see Fremont, the first of all our Union Generals declaring for confiscation as a punishment for treason, turning upon .his steps, and denying the proudest, brightest chapter in his record. 
But this is not all. Writing, at a time when the nation's life is in danger, only to be saved by hard blows against the rebellion and the rebellion's cause, (slavery,) words which were to be read by all, he has nothing, absolutely nothing, to say in favor of the prosecution of the war—nothing which would cause another sword to be drawn in the Union's defence, or another arm to be strtched forth to help fight the battle which Grant and Sherman, Butler and Osterhaus are so heroically waging. There is nothing in that letter to appeal to the nation's patriotism—nothing to awaken the nation's hopes—nothing to inspire a particle of enthusiasm. 
<C06>
It reads like a tissue of personal complainings and repinings, growing, as we may suspect, out of a sense of personal wrong, the existence of which in his case is not to be denied. But while the public must admit that General Fremont has been the subject of unmerited indignity, it is not prepared at this crisis of the nation's fate to engage in President-making for the purpose merely of canonizing a martyr. What the people wanted was a candidate, whose political views would have given earnest of a strong, vigorous and radical policy to be pursued towards the public enemy—such a candidate as we believe Butler, for instance, would have made, In his letter of acceptance, Fremont gives no promise of supplying that want. * On the contrary, be gives clear evidence of favoring a reactionary, conservative policy. Condemning the Administration, of Abraham Lincoln, he condemns especially those portions of it which have been the most positive, as if Mr. Lincoln's error had consisted, as the Copperheads claim, in being too vigorous, too decided and progressive. In fact, the similarity between the criticisms upon Lincoln in this letter, and those urged by Copperhead politicians, is so striking as to be undeniable. The same terms are used—the same grievances complained of. So transparent is this fact, that the suspicion is strongly induced, that in writing this letter, Fremont solicited an alliance with the Copperheads—a suspicion which has been greatly strengthened by the avowal of his organ, the New Nation, that there is little now separating them. 
We take no pleasure in making these remarks. On the contrary, we do so with pain. So strong has been our esteem for Fremont heretofore, that when we saw what we regard as his fatal mistake in becoming a candidate, in the way he did, we resolved not even to express our views respecting his coarse. Since that time, being bitterly, personally, unjustly assailed by the supporters of Fremont for not joining with them, we believe entire silence, and with it entire forbearance, have ceased to be virtues. Still, we have no harsh terms to apply to Fremont, sock as his followers have freely applied to us. But this we do say: that upon such a platform, and such a letter of acceptance as Fremont's, there is no man in the nation we would be willing to support.—Missouri Democrat.

MARYLAND A FREE STATE. 
The twenty-third Article of the Bill of Rights reads as follows:— 
"Hereafter, in this State, there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except in punishment of crime, whereof the party shall be duly convicted; and all persons held to service or labor as slaves are hereby declared free."
This article, after a protracted debate in the Constitutional Convention, in the course of which it was sustained in a masterly manner by the advocates of anti-slavery, was passed, as our readers have already learned, by a vote of 53 yeas to 27 days.
There is no single act in the history of Maryland that can compare in importance with the passage of this article. As we gaze through the long vista of coming years, and contemplate the changes that will be wrought by this measure, we are overwhelmed with the immeasurable significance of an act so wondrous in its simplicity.
The reception of this news hardly creates a ripple upon the current of our tranquillity. It was a fore-gone conclusion, and our minds were long ago made up in regard to its realization. We are not taken by surprise, and we do not hurrah with wild excitement. We simply enjoy the calmer and the higher satisfaction that springs from the consciousness of duty done. We understood the nature of the obstacles to be overcome, and we knew at the same time how to remove them. We rejoice quietly in the hour of consummation, and in our inmost hearts we are exceeding glad at the success which has crowned our efforts. 
The members of the convention will look back upon that day as one laden with precious memories. Should it be the only public act in the life of any one of them, that life will not have been lived in vain. It is not granted to every man to gild the evening of his declining days with such a reminiscence. 
The regeneration of a commonwealth like ours is not an everyday occurrence. It is hard to estimate this work at its full value. But we shall see and know it better hereafter. All we know now is that the vestiges of a great evil are cleared away; that the canker of a great iniquity is extirpated, root and branch; that to our posterity no compromise is bequeathed which may be a fruitful source of discord hereafter. Races are forgotten and humanity is honored. We have joined the train of rejuvenated States in the march of Freedom. We have torn away the mask from the deformity of Slavery, and we have wrenched the real from the oppressor. We look to the future with hearts full of hope and trust, confident that Providence in its own good time will work oat for as a brighter destiny. 
We offer oar band to our sister States, and ask their congratulations. We ask them to join us in the prayer, God preserve the Commonwealth of Maryland! They have watched our coarse with approving smiles, and cheered us with words at encouragement, and in this hour of joy we shall not forget the thanks we owe to them.—Baltimore American.

SHALL OUR NATIONAL LIFE BE IGNOBLY SURRENDERED?
A Speech delivered in the U. S. Senate, June 23, 1864, by Hon, Solomon Foot, of Vermont. 
I do not rise for the purpose of speaking now upon the question directly before the Senate; that is, upon the question of commutation. I have already very briefly expressed my opinions on that question. I have no occasion to repeat them, and as yet no occasion to change them.
The Senater from Kentucky dilated at some length, and with much empasis, upon the cost and the sacrifices of the war in which we are engaged; upon the afflictions, the wretchedness, and the woe that it was bringing upon the country; that the public mind bad become tired and weary in disgust at the manner in which the war had been conducted, all calculated, as it seemed to me, to disparage the war and to disaffect the public mind. It m tree, Mr. President, it is too sadly true, that our country is involved in war, in flagrant, bloody, civil war, bat a war, nevertheless, into which it has been driven by the inevitable necessities of self-existence. It is a war of self-defence. 
Mr. Sprague. And self-preservation.
Mr. Foot. It is a war of self-preservation, to repeat the suggestion of my friend. It is a war for the rescue and for the salvation of this Bang bin, and for the salvation of republican institution and
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof." 
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THYE UNTIED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANICIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . . From the instant that the slaveholding State become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, INEVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. . . . It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power of <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARITAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are satin marital array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAM.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
of republican liberty, against the assaults of a gigantic and causeless and unprovoked rebellion.
Shall we prosecute the war to its final issue, or shall we ignobly and ignominiously surrender our national life and our national being? That is the question before us to-night, Mr. President, and the American people have answered that question for themselves, and for you, and for me. The true and loyal people of the country have long since fully made up their minds upon this whole subject of the war and of the rebellion. They have taken their stand upon it. They have spoken their purpose in relation to it. They have proclaimed it in the face of the nations, that this accursed rebellion shall die, and that this Republic of ours shall live, cost what it may; yea, more, as a necessary incident of the war, or, if you please rather to have it so, as an inevitable result of the rebellion and of the war for the suppression of the rebellion, the instigating cause and the sustaining power of the rebellion must die out with it, so as never to rise again to plague this people and to desolate this land of ours.
To this great consummation-the suppression of the rebellion, the restoration of the Union, and the salvation of the Republic-the loyal people of our country, like the immortal authors of the Declaration of Independence, have consecrated their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor.
Though the trial may be long and severe, though the content shall wax fiercer and hotter than ever before, though the cost and the sacrifice may be great indeed, it is to be borne in mind all the while that the stake at issue is far greater still. Sir, whatever may be the east or whatever may be the sacrifice of saving your country. If will be infinitely less than the cost and sacrifice of losing your country. If the Republic be saved, all else, comparatively speaking, is saved with it. If the Republic be lost, all else of this world's goods or of this world's hopes, which is worth living for or worth dying for, is lost with it, and lost irrecoverably and forever.
Senators may dilate upon and deplore as they may the cost and he sacrifices of the war. They may expatiate upon and pour out their laments over the miseries and the manifold horrors of the war. We concede it all. We have no controversy or disputation with them upon that question. But, alas! who caused it all? Who brought all this horror and misery of civil war upon our country? Who are responsible for this great iniquity that afflicts our land? Who are answerable for it before the tribunals of God and man? The Senator from. Kentucky did not answer that question; he did not anticipate that question; he did not anticipate the answer to that question; Treason, rank, bold, audacious treason, plunged your country into all the horrors of civil war. Treason in its madness and in its blindness brought this great affliction upon your country, appealed to arms, fired the first gun, struck the first blow, and forced upon your country the terrible issues of civil war. It left us no alternative except the still greater calamity of national abasement, of national dishonor, and of national degradation. It challenged us to the wager of battle. From necessity we accepted the issue. By that issue we abide. By that issue treason itself must abide, be the consequences what they may.
There can, in the nature of things, be no terms of settlement; there can be no terms of compromise; there can be no proffers of negotiation to traitors in arms against your assailed and betrayed country, short of their entire subjection, the complete overthrow of their military powers, or their unconditional surrender and absolute and unqualified submission to the authority and the laws of the Government they have attempted to destroy, and with ample sureties for keeping the peace forever thereafter. Would you concede anything more? Would you accept anything less?
Talk of compromise on such a question! Talk of negotiation with such a foe, at such a time, and under such circumstances! Compromise! Compromise of what, pray tell me? Compromise of the question of our right to exist and to have a being as a nation? Compromise of the question whether we shall subdue the rebellion, or whether the rebellion shall subdue us? Compromise of our right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? Compromise of the question of our right of self-existence and to self-protection as a nation upon the earth? Is that what you mean?
Negotiate! Negotiate with whom-in Heaven's name, with whom? Negotiate with armed traitors in the field who are seeking the life of the very Government that gave them birth and nourished them up? Negotiate with armed assassins who are seeking to cut your throat, who demand your life or your inheritance? Negotiate with an enemy who spurns and laughs to scorn your every suggestion of settlement? The very consideration of such a proposition at the present time and under the existing condition of things is derogatory, is abhorrent to every loyal and manly and independent and patriotic mind.
Mr. President, there is but one plain and palpable course for us, and that is to prosecute the war with all the vigor and with all the energy and by all the means that God and nature have placed in our hands, and within the recognized limits of civilized warfare, to put down this rebellion. Sir, this Republic must conquer the rebellion, or the rebellion will conquer this Republic, and there is no other alternative.
Trusting that the God battles, through the agency and instrumentality of our gallant and heroic officers and men now fighting in the field for the cause of the Union and of the free republican government, will soon crown our arms with triumph and give us victory and peace, we wait in patience, we wait in hope and in confidence, the final issue of the contest.
Never despair of the Republic. This rebellion must be put down. This Union must be restored. This Republic of ours, with all its promises and with all its hopes for the future and for the world, must be saved. I repeat, this monster rebellion must be put down; this foul conspiracy against the life of the best and the most-beneficent Government the world has ever seen must be crushed out. We are not at liberty to doubt about it; we are not at liberty to speculate about it; I had almost said, we are not at liberty to debate about it. It is simply and only a thing to be done, to be done at all events, to be done at all hazards, to be done at all sacrifices. If more men are wanted to save the Government, more men will be had. If more men are needed, whether it be one hundred thousand or two hundred thousand or five hundred thousand to save this Republic of ours, my life upon it, you have only to make that necessity known, and they will not be found wanting in the day of their country's peril. They will be prompt to answer the call. They are not yet willing nor yet prepared to give up this Government.
I will speak for my own State; a small and unpretentious State, small in territory, small in population, but large in the spirit of patriotism as the expanse of this Republic, with a courage and fortitude and a fidelity as firm and immovable as the foundations of her own everlasting hills. Though she has already paid sacrifice of blood in fall measure to the demon of this rebellion, yet if more of her sons are wanted, if the exigencies of the country require it, I who know them well, and whose life-long has been spent among them, tell you the call is only to come, the summons to arms only to reach them, and every man of them capable of bearing arms, if need be, will be prompt to leave his farm, his workshop, his borne, his household, and make haste to the red fields of war; yea, and every mother will make haste to lay her last son in the prime and strength of his early manhood upon the altar of her country's sacrifice, sooner than see the bright orb of this Republic go down in perpetual darkness and night.
That, sir, is the spirit of the Green Mountain State. That is the spirit of the loyal people of every State in this Union. That is the spirit and that is the determination that is to put down this rebellion, that is to restore this Union, that is to save this Republic; and it is therefore that I say again, this Republic will be saved. Such is my faith, such is my reliance upon the loyalty, upon the patriotism, upon the valor, upon the fidelity, upon the self-sacrificing endurance, and, above all, upon the unconquerable will and the undying purpose of my fellow-countrymen. Though long and severe and terrible may be the ordeal, yet, God helping them, I believe the strength of the American people will prove equal to this great trial.
Sir, I will detain you no longer. This Republic must be saved, and twenty million responsive voices give back the answer, "This Republic of ours shall be saved!”.
This speech of Senator Foot is in the best vein of the spirit of '76-intensely earnest and truly eloquent. The only alternative is, the persistent course which be advocates against the rebellion, or base submission to the rebels, or the adoption of the non-resistance principles. "Ye that an under the aw, do ye not hear the law?"
<c02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SUNDAY, AUGUST 12, 1864.
UNJUST CRITICISM.
While it is the legitimate province of criticism to confute error, rebuke wrong, unmask dissimulation, and condemn guilt, the moment it degenerates into injustice or personal spleen it ceases to be criticism, and, consequently, is entitled to no consideration. We regret to see, on the part of some of whom better things were to be expected, in their opposition to President Lincoln, manifestly a foregone conclusion of mind to award him no credit for the good he has done, or the progress he has made in the right direction. Nay, not content with picking what flaws they can in his treatment of the issues of the hour, they must needs go back to what is obsolete, and for the hundredth time repeat how the revoked the emancipation edicts of Fremont and Hunter-how he sought to induce the colored people in the District of Columbia to migrate to Central America-how he declared that be would not meddle with slavery if he could save the Union without doing so-how he has been governed by military necessity, and not by humanitary considerations-&c., &c. This is proof of a jaundiced vision and an unfair state of mind. It is not sound criticism, but flagrant injustice. To persist in it is to add wrong to wrong; and, instead of advancing the cause of truth and freedom, it only serves to gratify a factious spirit and to imperil the safety of the government.
When a false position is taken, or a wrong measure adopted, let it be promptly condemned, according to its relative importance or the gravity of the occasion. But when that measure is recalled, or when that position is abandoned, and the very thing demanded is not only adopted but greatly improved, then to harp upon it as though no change had been effected, and to make it the theme of bitter accusation, is outrageous injustice and scandalous abuse.
Now, it is true that Mr. Lincoln nullified the emancipation edicts of Fremont and Hunter; and it is just as true that, for so doing, he was widely and severely condemned. Certainly, we did our share at the time in bestowing censure upon the President, and in lauding those two Generals as worthy not only of commendation, but of imitation on a grander scale by Mr. Lincoln. This was fair criticism of the deed and for the hour. Yet it is but just to say, that, by his subsequent conduct, the President showed he was not controlled by a pro-slavery motive in recalling the edicts referred to, but by a sincere (however mistaken) doubt as to their "indispensable necessity," and a lively apprehension as to what would be sanctioned by the people in that direction. For had he been in sentiment hostile to emancipation, he would not, at a later date, have decreed the liberation of more than three millions of slaves in the rebel States, or endeavored by earnest negotiation to effect the total abolition of slavery in all the Border States. The only difference, therefore, between himself and Generals Fremont and Hunter, was a matter of judgment, not of principle; was as to the "indispensable necessity" of a given measure, at a given period, not as to the measure itself. Unquestionably, they were wiser and more clear-sighted than himself, even at the period alluded to. But he was not dogmatic, or obstinate, or self-consequential, nor disposed to play the part of Sir Oracle, or to assume the robes of infallibility. After further trial and more mature consideration, he not only followed the splendid example of Fremont and Hunter, but bettered it in the proportion of millions to thousands set free from the galling yoke of bondage. This was equally magnanimous, just and patriotic.
Now we say, to seek at this late day to cover the President with odium for a by-gone transaction, and to accuse him of a pro slavery spirit which his subsequent conduct proves did not then and does not now actuate him, is to be wholly one-sided and eminently unjust. Why not rejoice, rather, that events have proved better than our fears-that the President has not mulishly prided himself upon the consistency of his conduct, but has changed his course precisely in the direction desired, and struck a blow which has sent the whole slave system reeling to the earth? Is it wise or honorable to taunt a man for doing what he has since repudiated in the most practical manner? For ourself, we never did this at any stage of the Anti-Slavery struggle, and we are too old to do it now. In our eyes such conduct is contemptible; let those justify it who can.
Long after the rebellion broke out, Gen. McClellan officially declared that he would put down a slave insurrection "with an IRON HAND." Is it fair to quote this against him now? Yes, because his subsequent course shows he is not changed in spirit or purpose. But what if he had since taken Anti-Slavery ground, and firmly maintained it, would it be worthy of any Abolitionist to fling that declaration in his teeth?
Gen. Butler, while pressing his way through Maryland for the rescue of Washington, not only guarded rebel slave property, but avowed his readiness to put insurgent slaves back into bondage. For a time, as military ruler at New Orleans, he was prompt to guard similar property from harm, and did what he could to propitiate disloyal slaveholders by sending back to chains and stripes the fugitives from their plantations, who delusively expected to find freedom and protection under the American flag. Seeing what a thorough change has since been made in the feelings, sentiments and conduct of Gen. Butler on this subject, would it be right or decent for any Abolitionist to seek to dishonor him for his earlier behaviour? To ask is also to answer the question.
Why is President Lincoln not entitled to the same fair treatment? Let us hear, then, no more insidious references to his abrogation of Fremont's and Hunter's edicts, in view of his great Emancipation Proclamation of January 1, 1863!
So, too, it is certain, that inasmuch as Congress appended to the act abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia a pecuniary grant for colonizing abroad such of the emancipated slaves in that District as might choose to avail themselves of it, the President had an interview with some of the most intelligent free colored men in the capital, and sought to convince them that a separation of the two races was desirable for both; though leaving them perfectly free to remain or to go, as they might think best. It was folly in Congress, and folly in the President, and we sharply rebuked them at the time. An initiatory attempt at colonization in Hayti was made, and proved a disastrous failure. Compassionating the unfortunate situation of the emigrants, the President (to his credit, be it recorded and remembered,) humanely sent a naval ship to bring all the survivors back to their native land. Since then, nothing more has been beard from him respecting the necessity or expediency of colonizing the blacks; and we believe nothing more will be heard from him. At least, not until he renews the proposition is it fair to make issue with him upon an exploded experiment. The money appropriated by Congress has been voted for other purposes; and with tens of thousands of colored soldiers enrolled in the army of the United States, the Fugitive Slave laws repealed, and colored citizenship recognized, the colonization scheme belongs to the dead past.
The President declares that he has been governed by "military necessity" and the pervious state of the country in abolishing slavery in rebeldom. Could he have done otherwise, consistently with his oath of office under the Constitution? Why not sneer at him for calling a million of men into the field-for suspending the writ of habeas corpus-for blockading Charleston, Savannah, Mobile, and other Southern ports-for placing General Grant at the bead of the army-as a "military necessity," and to save the republic! It is not for those who vote to elect a Presi-
<c03>
dent, and to uphold the Constitution, to scoff at the Chief Magistrate for exercising powers expressly conferred upon him in the manner prescribed, and within the limits constitutionally assigned to him!

GEORGE THOMPSON,' LLD.
The Wesleyan University,-the body that has recently conferred the degree of LL. D, upon George Thompson, Esq., of England,-is the oldest institution in connection with the Episcopal Methodist body of the United States. It was founded in 1881, and for eight years, from the time of its commencement, it was presided over by the Rev. Wilbur Fisk, D. D.
During the early years of its existence, the Wesleyan University was largely patronized by the Southern and more Southerly Middle States. This circumstance gave to it that pro-slavery character which was notorious at the time Mr. Thompson was first in America. In the spring of 1836, Mr. Thompson was at Lynn, (Mass.) during the sitting of the Methodist Conference in that town. On that occasion, Dr. Fisk, who was present, considered it a part of his duty to lecture the members of the Conference on the impropriety and danger to the Church of affording any countenance to the Abolition movement. The reverend Doctor was especially severe in his animadversions on the proceedings of the English anti-slavery emissary, whom he stigmatized as a fanatic, and whose labors to promote the overthrow of American slavery he described as an" impertinent interference in foreign affairs.” The Doctor's address, which was delivered in the morning, had an effect upon the Conference the opposite of that which it was designed to produce. Immediately upon the adjournment of the session, seventy of the ministers who had listened to Dr. Fisk's denunciatory diatribe signed a requisition to Mr. Thompson, inviting him to deliver a lecture to such members of the Conference as were desirous of hearing him, and placing the Second Methodist church in Lynn at his disposal. The "foreign intermeddler" joyfully complied with the request, and named the following evening for the meeting. The building was crowded. The centre seats in the body of the church were set apart for clergymen belonging to the Conference. On Mr. Thompson's appearance in the pulpit, these gentlemen simultaneously rose, and paid their respects to the English orator by a respectful now. Such was the practical comment, on the part of a large portion of the Conference, upon the lecture they had received from the President of the Wesleyan University.
About the same period, Mr. Thompson was virulently attacked in the newspapers of the day by the Rev. D.D. Whedon, Dr. Fisk's colleague in the University. To one of these attacks, Mr. Thompson replied in the columns of Zion's Herald, in a letter which is now before us. In this letter, Mr. Thompson counsels his traducer to reconsider the abusive articles he has published-to do so in his closet, upon his knees, and in the presence of God. "Pray earnestly (Mr. T. says) for wisdom, truth and charity. Let the slave stand before you in the awful attributes of a deathless nature and an accountable soul; and then, reflect whether you have done well to seek to bring upon the head of the stranger who has been that slave's advocate, a relentless storm of popular indignation." The gentleman to whom those words were addressed has been, we are happy to learn, for the last fifteen years, an earnest promoter of the Anti-Slavery cause, and has devoted himself with commendable zeal to the work of dissociating the body to which he belongs from all connection with the slaveholding churches of the South. We understand that Mr. (now Dr.) Whedon was amongst those who called upon Mr. Thompson, during his visit to Middletown, to tender him their congratulations upon the distinction he had obtained. Our friend may well prize the honor that has been bestowed upon him; not, however, as a personal compliment, but as evidence, of an unmistakable kind, of the adoption of those principles on account of which he was aforetime persecuted, by one of the most numerous and powerful religious denominations in this country.

FIRST GOSPEL, being the Gospel according to Mark: Translated and arranged, with a Critical Examination of the Book, its Life of Jesus, and his Religion. By Leicester Ambrose Sawyer, Translator of the Scriptures. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co., 345 Washington Street.1864.
Mr. Sawyer well deserves encouragement from the public at large, from scholars and thinkers, and especially from the friends of religious freedom and progress, for his Biblical translations and commentaries. Though educated in the most rigid orthodox faith, he happily brings to his arduous and responsible task a truly catholic spirit as well as scholarly abilty, great powers of research, boldness of dissent from popular interpretations, rare conscientiousness, and the highest reverence for the truth wherever it may lead, or at whatever cost. We agree with him in what he so suggestively says in his "Note to the Reader”:-
"Amid the shock of arms and during the settlement of great national questions of justice and expediency, the higher questions of religion ought not entirely to sleep. They do not sleep. New light is beaming on the mountains, and the bow of promise gilds the clouds of war and the smoke of battle. The voice of God mingles in the din of conflict, and rises above it, calling his erring children to better views and higher aims. Superstition trembles on her ebon throne, and her night, pestilence and famine smitten, gives place to the glad morning of a happy day. Determined and fearless inquiry is conformable to the spirit of the times.
Religious sciences are healthful and vigorous. Christianity can only lead the world, and become universal and permanent, by abandoning all false assumptions, and perfecting its doctrines and methods so as to meet the universal and permanent demands of human nature. God is the patron of love and truth, never of malice and delusion."
We also believe with him, that one effect of his methods will be to add greatly to the interest and usefulness of Bible reading and study, and give new impulses to a broad, liberal, bold, and manly culture of the mind and heart. Its piety will not be feeble and sickly, timid and cowardly, nor proud, dogmatic, or overbearing; but, delivered from the bondage of a blind, unreasoning, superstitious veneration, and allied to all progressive and reformatory movements, will be characterised by all that is rational, humane, just and true. We trust Mr. Sawyer will find liberal encouragement in the prosecution of his praiseworthy undertaking to the end.
SERMONS, preached in Indiana-Place, Boston, by James Freeman Clarke. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co. 1864.
Sermon I. The Hour which cometh, and now is. II. The Letter and the Spirit. III. Prophets who have been since the World began. IV. Steps of Belief. V. The Thorn in the Flesh. VI. Faithful over a Few Things. VII. Moral Perspectives. VIII. "If he sleep, he shall do well.” IV. Stand Still. X. Grow Up. VI. Life Weariness. XII. The Fragments. XIII. All Souls are God's. XIV. "The Accepted Time." XV. "When he came to Himself." XVI. The Cheerful Giver. XVII. The Grace of God. XVIII. "No Man cared for my Soul." XIX. Life and the Resurrection. XX. Power of the Keys. XXI. The Proper and the Becoming. XXII. The Favorite Texts of Jesus. XXIII. Diary of 1803. These Sermons constitute a volume of real interest and usefulness, being the utterances of one who does his own thinking, speaks his own mind, lives in the present and not in the dead past, believes in practical goodness as the best proof of a religious spirit, interests himself in whatever relates to the welfare of society and the advancement of the common weal, defends the struggling cause of freedom and humanity, and makes his desk vocal with such testimonies as the times demand.
OPEN-MOUTHED SEDITION. Our "Refuge of Oppression, this week, demonstrates the thoroughly seditious spirit of the Copperhead press at the North, of which the articles quoted are but specimens.
<c04>
ENCOURAGING EPISTLES.
PETERBORO', Aug. 1, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND,-I see by its last number that the discontinuance of the Liberator "is not an improbable event." Certain it is that it would be an event disgraceful to Abolitionists and calamitous to the public interests, and warmly therefore do I hope that it will be prevented. To this end, a thousand dollars should be sent to you without delay. Enclosed are two hundred of the thousand.
I am very sorry to see that, because it favors the reelection of Mr. Lincoln, some of its old patrons are giving up the Liberator. They are unreasonable. It is no crime to vote for him. All of us should be eager to vote for him, if voting for him instead of another shall seem most likely to keep a disloyal man out of the Presidency.
During the rebellion, I have been nothing but an anti-rebellion man. Deeply do I regret this premature agitation of the Presidential question. Faithfully, however feebly and unsuccessfully, did I labor to prevent it. I believed it to be fraught with very great peril to our beloved country. For one, I am too much absorbed with the purpose of putting down the rebellion to consider, ere it be absolutely necessary to do so, whom I ought to vote for. I am an Abolitionist-so rigid a one, that in time of peace I vote for none but an Abolitionist. But, during the rebellion, I vote for the man, call him Abolitionist or anti-Abolitionist, who will do all he can to suppress the rebellion. I leave Abolition to gain what it may or lose what it must from such suppression. I am well aware that, by this course, I have lost the confidence of many Abolitionists. Their philosophy differs widely from mine.
Let me here say, that I regard any one as disloyal who would yield up any portion of our one, indivisible country to the guilty men who, without the slightest justification for making war, or even the slightest cause for any complaint, unless it be for our having spoiled them by indulgence, have by force and arms undertaken to rob us of a portion of it. And let me add, that I regard every one as disloyal who would let off these guiltiest of all robbers on any lower or other terms than their unconditional surrender. Mr. Lincoln is an honest, able and patriotic man; but he falls into a great mistake when he proposes to make something else than such surrender the basis for peace negotiations with the rebels. The true order is-1st, their unconditional surrender; 2d, cautious concessions to them if they are still impenitent; 3d, an abundance of mercy, brotherly kindness and liberality to them if they are penitent.
With equally warm regards for you, whether you shall go for Lincoln or for some other loyal man, and with equally warm regards for Wendell Phillips, whether he shall go for Fremont or for some other loyal man, knowing that you will both mean to go most effectively against the rebels,
I remain, your and his friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
EAST WESTMORELAND, N. H., Aug. 4, 1864.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-With much regret I see in the Liberator that some of your old subscribers and early patrons are disaffected, and asking for a discontinuance of the old pioneer sheet, because, forsooth, you have an honest conviction, and have expressed the opinion that, taking into consideration the existing facts, in their bearings upon the present rebellion, the restoration of peace and the cause of human freedom, the reelection of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency would better subserve the cause than the election of any other man who could be chosen. In this judgment you may be mistaken, and you may not; but, whether you are or are not, it is simply a question of judgment, and nor one of principle. And should there not be great charity and kindness in such matters? These qualities have been characteristic of the Garrisonian Abolitionists in days past. Have they ceased to be virtues now?
It is exceedingly painful to me to see any falling off among the true and tried friends-the veterans in the Abolition ranks. It seems to me that we, Abolitionists, owe too much to the Liberator to abandon it now. It has done much more for us than we have done for it. It grieves me to the heart to read the late letters from your subscribers on this subject. It appears to me they are exceedingly intolerant and unkind toward you. I wish to be very charitable toward them. I think they are entirely misled. Do they, can they really believe that you, or our mutual and excellent friend, Wendell Phillips-though differing widely just now on the qualifications and merits of President Lincoln as a candidate for reelection-have swerved in principle one hair's breadth from anti-slavery fidelity? If any one is in doubt on this point, as regards yourself, I would ask him to carefully read your most admirable and excellent article in reply and explanation to your Haverhill subscriber, in the Liberator of July 29th. That article should reassure him that you have not lowered your standard to the level of political expediency, nor in any case proposed to compromise principle or the rights of the negro to accomplish certain purposes.
I was gratified to see that our eloquent friend, the Rev. Sella Martin, sent you an encouraging word, and added a new name to your subscription list. I hope that others will do the same in regard to others who have asked to have their Liberator discontinued; for who that loves the old pioneer sheet, and its worthy and veteran editor, would not shed a tear to read of its demise? God grant that that may never be until the object of its grand and humane mission shall have been gloriously consummated in the unconditional and perpetual freedom of every man, woman and child on the American soil, without regard to color or race! 
Yours, with great esteem,
JEHIEL CLAFLIN.
ST. JOHNSBURY, Vt., Aug. 3d, 1864.
MR. GARRISON:
SIR,-I see in a late number of the Liberator, that several of your subscribers are exceedingly exercised in regard to the "summersaults you have turned. I am equally so. I take the liberty to tell you, in a plain manner, what I think of you and your conduct. It is evident you have been an Abolitionist so long that you can see nothing as it is. You have strained your eyes, like the Indian, until the straightest lines look crookedest to you, and your moral vision has become really cross-eyed. You seem really to believe that old absurd notion, first advanced by Thomas Jefferson, that all men are created free and equal; and you act as though you thought a nigger, with the "crock all on," as good as a white man. You appear also to believe that worn-out Bible precept, "Do unto others as ye would that others should do unto you," and seem to think you must really carry that antediluvian idea into practice in every-day life. How foolish, how idiotic you have grown! How I pity you! True, the Christian people profess that doctrine, but they do it only for "buncombe." If you could only see, like many so called Christian ministers and churches, that the Bible audits precepts are only to be placed before you as a "pillar of fire," and that you are at liberty to turn your back upon it and go the other way, then indeed you would become reasonable.
Then, again, you act as though you really thought there was a God. What impiety! What lunacy! How strange that a man of your abilities should still hang on to that antiquated notion which many good Christian people act as though they bad discarded long ago, or never really believed!
Then, again, you are accused of advocating the reelection of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency. I think the accusation is just. And here is another streak of lunacy. You seem infatuated with the idea that Abraham is the best man we can be sure of electing. Didn't we elect Frank Pierce? Didn't we elect James Buchanan? What reason have you to doubt that we shall be able to elect either Vallandig-
<c05>
ham, Fernando Wood, or John C. Fremont, (alas! that he should be here!) either of whom would be an eternal sentinel at the gate of Liberty? What an imputation you cast upon this glorious Republic and the enlightened people of this boasted and of liberty, who hold that all men are created free and equal, yet for the last two or three generations have mildly exercised themselves by buying, selling, lashing and hunting the race that is chosen to sit at the right hand of Jesus!
Then, again, you are all the time accusing the ministry of being lukewarm (or ice-warm) in the cause of freedom. Here it another show of lunacy! Why, sir, it is estimated by a well-informed, careful mathematician, that no less than one out of every five hundred Christian ministers, previous to the year 1860, really prayed for the freedom of all mankind with as much zealous earnestness as Satan ever prayed that he might become an angel of light and parity. And still you accuse them of not being zealous, but of being lukewarm! What a monster you are becoming!
In a late number of the Liberator, it is boldly asserted that some sectarian Reviews practise a systematic course of lying and falsehood to uphold their private sectarian doctrines. What blasphemy! Who but you is lunatic enough to suppose that truth or a good cause can sustain itself openly?
Such an astounding, audacious specimen of free speech and free thinking is reprehensible to the last degree; and I am so disgusted with your course that I peremptorily order you to stop my paper-from stopping; for which purpose I send you $3.00. I also send you $3 to pay you to stop-not sending the Liberator for one year to the person hereafter mentioned. I shall endeavor to persuade others to stop the paper in the same way.
Truly, yours,
F. B. GAGE.
CORNVILLE, (Me.,) July 31st, 1864.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-I cannot satisfy my feelings without writing you a word in relation to those who have seen fit to order a discontinuance of the Liberator. How a person in these times can do without the Liberator is astonishing to me. But more astonished am I that a man can read the Liberator thirty years, and yet not be an Abolitionist I mean to be impartial when I say, it is your accusers who have proved false to the clave, and not you; and history will so record it.
Those three false accusers are all strangers to me; but I verify believe them to be very ignorant of the work now going on before their own eyes. Every week, for eighteen years, has increased my interest in the Liberator, but more especially' the last few weeks. But what do you mean by stopping the Liberator, Such a thought cannot be endured for a moment. Stop the publication of the Liberator! Then the slave's deliverance waits. It must not be! For one, I shall pay a much higher price than the present before I shall part with so important a friend. I now get about three times as much for what I sell from my farm as I did a few years ago. The Liberator for 1866 will be very cheap at five dollars a year.
Oh, what an important and mighty work there is before us! Abolitionists were never more needed than now; for our work is not yet done. How astonished I have been that some have said that the work of the Abolitionists is done! Such people know not what they are talking about.
It was a most significant fact in favor of President Lincoln, when he went down to Grant's army, that the colored soldiers called for "three cheers for the Liberator."
The reason why this terrible conflict is prolonged is truly given by your correspondent, FORREST P. JORDAN.
Yours till the end of the conflict,
SEWARD MITCHELL. 
FALL RIVER, 8th mo. 2d, 1864.
DEAR GARRISON,-Enclosed, fined $3, the amount for Liberator one year. I will endeavor to be more punctual, for I cannot be without it. I have taken it as long as thy Haverhill brother. Thy reply to his abusive letter, in last week's Liberator, is sufficient to satisfy any reasonable mind of discrimination, that no compromise of principle attaches to thee, or to any other true friend of the slave, in advocating a reelection of Lincoln upon the ground that the final extinction of slavery is more likely to result under his administration than under that of any other man who may be elected.
Allow me to say, I am heart and hand with thee in support of Lincoln, not as a politician, but as an Abolitionist.
Sincerely, I am, thy attached friend.
ISAAC FISKE.

THE LAMENTED WASHINGTON WILKS.
EMANCIPATION SOCIETY OFFICE, London, 20th July, 1864.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
SIR.-The Committee of the Washington Wilks Testimonial would fed greatly obliged by the insertion of the enclosed letter from that estimable man and true patriot, Judge Winter, of Georgia. If any of your readers feel disposed to imitate so good an example, or to assist the fund in any other way, I hope you will kindly consent to receive their contributions. There is no man in all America so fitting to act this good part as you, who are the foremost champion of the cause which our lamented colleague so ardently espoused. 
I am, sir, yours, faithfully,
F. W. CHESSON, Hon. Sec.
QUEEN'S HOTEL, CHESTER. ENG., July 15, 1864.
TO WM. HARGREAVES, ESQ., TREASURER,,AND F. W. CHESSON, ESQ., HON. SECRETARY, 65 FLEET STREET, EC, LONDON.
GENTLEMEN,-I have the pleasure of acknowledging the receipt of your favor of the 7th inst., asking my aid in making contribution to the testimonial fund of our lamented, worthy and most eloquent friend, the now deceased WASHINGTON WILKS; and I thank you sincerely for not forgetting one so humble as myself in your efforts to give practical proof of an affection for the man by liberal contributions in aid of those who were bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh, and who of all the earth were, during his brief existence, nearest and dearest to one of the greatest hearts that ever throbbed in the bosom of any human creature. Would that I were <Illegible>, that I might contribute all that is needed in aid of those who are so suddenly deprived of the aid and comfort which, whilst living, his genius enabled him so freely to bestow, but which is lost to them for ever on earth!
Out of my limited means, you may set me down for ten pounds per annum so long as I am spared; and when to me time is no more for ever, I shall not forget to provide a similar annuity for his family, until his youngest child shall come of age, unless I neglect to make a will.
Beyond all Englishmen who have lived in the nineteenth century, Mr. Wilks is entitled to the gratitude of every true American who loves his country, and is true to the flag and Constitution established by his fathers, for his courageous, eloquent, unintermittent and persistent efforts in enlightening the British mind as to the true bearings of the American question.
Under these feelings of gratitude, as an American citizen, I offer my mite in aid of the widow and orphans; and may your efforts in their behalf never cease until the irreparable loss of his personal presence will not be aggravated by the pinchings of pitiless poverty.
I have the honor to be, Gentlemen,
Most respectfully, your very obliged,
JOHN G. WINTER, of Georgia.
An Army correspondent of the New York Tribune pays the following feeling tribute to the memory of this devoted friend of America, and champion of universal freedom:-
Looking out into this beautiful night, my wind insensibly reverts to the brief, but to me memorable days I spent in England in the society of one of the truest and noblest friends of America on the other side of the water. I make allusions to Washington Wilks, Esq., of The London Morning Star.
I left him in December last, and his parting " God
<c06>
bless you," as I bade him farewell at London Bridge, will not soon be forgotten.
Well has Tennyson said, "It is no common chance that takes away a noble mind." With perfect truthfulness can this sentiment apply to Washington Wilks. I was introduced to him, not a year ago, by Mr. McCarthay, the accomplished editor of the continental department of The Morning Star. Mr. McCarthay is a barrister of fine attainments-a ripe and ready scholar. "Ah! and you are from America. How glad I am to see you!"-was the first salutation of Mr. Wilks.
There was something in his manner-a magnetism in the touch of his hand-which made us friends at once. He proposed that I should come to his lodgings at 11 at the next day to breakfast; but as I expected to leave London in a few days, I prevailed upon him to breakfast with me at Morley's Hotel in Trafalgar square, so that we might visit Parliament House the same day. Mr. Wilks was unusually gifted in conversation, and it was after 1 o'clock when we rose from the table. After spending an hour in Sir Creswell Creswell's Court (now presided over by a clever Judge, who is paid $9,000 per annum), we visited Westminster Abbey, and charmed with its dim, religious light, waited for the afternoon service. On the next day my friend called of me at 12 o’clock, and we visited Parliament House. Mr. Wilks pointed out to me the fact that, while in the facade of Parliament House there was a place for all the Kings and Queens of England from William the Conqueror to Queen Victoria, there is no place for Oliver Cromwell! Charles I. is there, beside his son, who "never said a foolish thing, and never did a wise one;" but for the stern old Puritan who taught his soldiers to "Trust in God, and keep their powder dry," an English Parliament could find no room. I remember, with peculiar pleasure, an evening I spent with Mr. Wilks, at Greenwich, where the English Cabinet get their annual white-bait dinner. I was astonished to find how thoroughly he understood the "American Conflict." His whole heart, mind, and energy were with us in our struggle for national existence. He thought much about it. He wrote the best articles in The Morning Star on the Union side that were written in England. He had made two hundred speeches since the war began; and when Americans abroad despaired of any sympathy in England on the side of the right he always at once and indignantly asserted, what he know to be the fact, that the great heart of the English people-the classes who are not of the<illegible>-were heartily in sympathy with the American idea of Liberty, which includes the idea that politics should become moral by a union with natural justice.
Mr. Wilks had a profound admiration for President Lincoln, which he often expressed through the columns of The Star. It was his opinion, that the great trial of our institutions would be made in the November election, and he believed that the election of Abraham Lincoln would virtually end the war. Among his warm friends, Mr. Wilks numbered Richard Cobden and John Bright. When I visited the home of Mr. Cobden, at Midhurst, I took with me The Morning Star, with a strong leader written by Mr. Wilks in relation to the Cobden-Deland controversy. The leading minds among the Reformers highly appreciated the energy and eloquence of Washington Wilks.
I spoke at several meetings in and near London with the editor of The Star; and I hazard nothing in saying that, after George Thompson, there was not a more popular lecturer in England than Mr. Wilks and Washington! My friend had that rare quality, moral courage. He was brave and gentle and generous. Like a star, he was "unhasting and unresting." Richard Cobden, by his pleasant fireside, rich in the recollections of a well-spent life, told me, as I left Midhurst, "to say to Mr. Wilks, with his thanks, that it was time for him to rest." I met him at breakfast the next day, at Morley's; and when I delivered my message, he answered, "Tell him I would rather wear out than rust out." His body was not strong enough for his soul. His soul was like an oak-tree planted in a costly jar, which should have borne only pleasant flowers in its bosom; the roots expand, and the jar is shivered. His "was a lovely, pure, and noble nature, which at a last sinks beneath a burden that it cannot bear, and must not cast away." His latest wish was to come to America, and aid in the coming struggle in November for Law and Liberty against Confederate Treason at Richmond, and against banded traitors at home. He is dead. He died with his harness on. He cannot, now, aid us in our present nor in our coming struggle. But his example may teach our young men that a "life expend for the salvation of the Republic will, in a deathless memory, win the thanks of millions yet to be."
We give the poor tribute of our tears at the tomb of this true heart, who thoroughly hated tyranny, and as honestly loved what was beautiful and true.
May some loyal American with leisure and opportunity for the noble idleness of foreign travel, build from the whitest marble some fitting memorial of our departed friend who, remarkable for his mental strength and tenderness, was more remarkable in this, that he loved, without selfishness, a cause which is so dear to us all.
J. M. S. Company A. N. J. M.
Fort Dix, near Relay House, Md., July 30, 1864.

EMIGRATION TO DELAWARE.
MR. EDITOR,-The emigration enterprise, inaugurated a year ago under the auspices of the Delaware Improvement Association, is still progressing. The northern colonies are thriving, and the call for land is constantly increasing. Among the incentives are cheap land and profitable productions. Cultivated farms can be bought at from fifteen to thirty dollars per acre, within three miles from railroad depot and eighty from Philadelphia. The sweet potato, melon, dwarf pear, grape, berries, and other fine fruits and vegetables are very profitable. But the most profitable production is the peach, the soil and climate being peculiarly favorable, and trees yielding a hundred dollars per acre annually for twenty years; so that it has become the principal peach section; and one of the cries of Philadelphia and New York now is, "Delaware peaches!" This year's crop, like the last, is good, and will stimulate cultivation, while the increase of peach-canning will be a security against glut of market. We would advise visitors to go now, in peach time, that they may both taste this luscious fruit fresh from the tree, and see how by is large fortunes are rapidly accumulated. But we wish emigrants who are not attracted entirely or mainly by appetite or greed of gain. The enterprise is intended to be a Christian Emigration Union, which will facilitate the planting of the church and the school on evangelical and free principles, as the great regenerating element of the South and the world. The Northern element already introduced into Delaware will greatly advanced the best movement is highly appreciated.
Visitors may get a reduction of fare from President Felton, at Philadelphia depot, and they will receive courteous attentions by calling on Messrs, Osmond & Bryant, Canterbury, Del., and A. T. Johnson, Milford, Del.
Yours,
L. C. LOCKWOOD.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS. Our heartfelt thanks are proffered to our honored friend GERRIT SMITH for his letter, with its generous remittance and encouraging words, in the present emergency in which the Liberator is placed. Also thanks to the other tried friends, whose epistles we give in a preceding column. We are now obliged to pay seven dollars more on each ream of paper on which the Liberator is printed than we did three years ago. This makes a burden which, if continued, will soon become insupportable.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE CURRENT OF EVENTS AND THE DRIFT OF THE ADMINISTRATION.
DOECHESTER, August 9th, 1864. Assuming that the thirty millions of people, with their posterity, spreading over our whole country, are to constitute one nation; assuming that loyal men and loyal States of the country are to legislate for and administer the government thereof, and, while they hold in check, subdue, and finally compel those in revolt against its authority to lay down their arms, and return to their allegiance, steadfastly maintain dignified, honorable and pacific relations with the nations abroad; assuming, too, that, in a genuine, bona fide republic, the rights of each are guaranteed by all; that the interests and happiness of each are indissolubly linked with the welfare and prosperity of all; that loyal men and women, of whatever race or color, born upon its soil, are citizens of the United States, owe allegiance to its government, are taxed for its support, enrolled and compelled to serve in its defence, and are therefore, to the fullest extent, entitled to its protection; it behooves statesmen, in this transition period of our history, to see to it that liberal provision be made for the education of the whole people; that the remotest regions of our land may <illegibe> with men and women, who, having a common destiny and interests with us, may be worthy to share our responsibilities-to be fellow-citizens with -<illegible> with us may constitute one nation; and having shared its toils and sufferings, may also share its blessings and its hopes.
Thus, and thus only, may we be a nation without reproach; and, moving in the vanguard of a Christian civilization, may become the terror of oppressors and the envy of the oppressed-a model republic in, deed, which shall be politically, as well as morally, "the light of the world."
And yet, how very far we are from realizing, politically, the condition of things which I have assumed as desirable, and toward which, in the procession of events, we as a nation are reluctantly tending! The President and his advisers have shown no wish or purpose to do justice to the negro, except from military necessity. To this day, they hardly acknowledge his manhood; and, so far from recommending his enfranchisement, or that he be incorporated into and become a constituent part of the nation, with the rights, privileges and immunities of citizenship, they have been anxious to get rid of him, even by expatriation, and to replace him by the immigration of white men from the old world. But to spare the lives of white men, and to save that of the nation, they have been compelled, not only to emancipate the negro, but to <illegible> him in our armies to fight our battles for us. But it is said that, in this, they do but reflect the will and the wishes of the people; that a more just and liberal policy would not be tolerated. In other words, the tyrant, MAJORITY-like other tyrants-lets go its victims only on compulsion. If this be true-and I am inclined to think it is-"more’s the pity." It only shows that a proud and wicked people, who have kidnapped and enslaved the subject race for nearly two hundred and fifty years-till upon the verge of national ruin-rather than confess and right the wrong, and share salvation with them, are ready for their own salvation to sacrifice and throw overboard more than four millions of black men; or about one eighth of their fellow-countrymen born upon the soil. 
God says to the nation, "Do justify, love mercy, and walk humbly before me, and thou shalt be saved" The nation, therefore, which does justice, and professes to do justice, only from military necessity, may be slowly learning that lesson. But as long as it proposes to save its own life even, by the sacrifice or vir<illegible> expulsion of a whole race, it surely has no claims to salvation; it does not deserve to live. When, therefore, oppression shall cease; when "right shall over might prevail;" when retributive justice shall have humbled the pride of the white man; when the spirit of wisdom, truth, justice and mercy shall take hold on the people, sway the counsels and wield the power of the nation; then, and not till then, may we hope for a permanent peace. Still, the revolution goes on; the government gets administered, and is dealing some heavy blows against the rebellion. Old institutions are passing away, and new ones are continually springing up to take their places; or, rather, are being called into existence and organized by the controlling will, and under the forming hand, of the Executive. 
In the midst of this momentous crisis, the people are called upon to elect from among them, if possible, as chief magistrate of the nation, a man who is not only honest but capable; one versed in public affairs; <illegible> who understands our vast and complicated relations, foreign and domestic; one whose intelligence <illegible> him above the plane of vulgar prejudices, and whose aim and purpose it shall be to secure and pro<illegible> the physical, intellectual and moral welfare of the whole people; in short, one who has the wisdom <illegible><illegible>, the courage to propose, and the desire and will to carry out such measures, and such only, as are compatible with the rights and interests of all. 
With such qualities in requisition, and such high objects in view, and with a fresh exposition of the views and purposes of the President before them, the <illegible> delegates of the loyal States to the Baltimore Convention have, with great unanimity, nominated ABRAHAM LINCOLN for reelection.
Decided success in the present political campaign would, therefore, be regarded as an emphatic <illegible>, by the people, of the course and policy of the Administration during the present term. And, wise or unwise, inspired with fresh confidence and hope, they will, with a bolder and firmer step, go on their way rejoicing.
Once secure in their high places, with the men and money of the nation at their command-clothed anew with a four year’s lease of almost dictatorial power-
what is to be the scope and aim of all their efforts?
What may be expected at their hands?
Obliviously, that they will proceed in the development of their plans and purposes, without unnecessary day, and, since they regard themselves as the representatives of the people, and bound to do the people will, that, "in order to form a more perfect Union," they will, to the extent of their ability and power, make the government of the United States is truly a government of white men as before. This <illegible> ruling classes at the South, which they are so anxious to conciliate, will insist upon. This, too, will be demanded by their Copperhead allies. And even the great Union party of the North and West, on whose support the Administration depends, will not, without a struggle, consent to share the national sovereignty with the hitherto despised and hated black man. It is the business of the Administration not to reform <illegible> to execute the laws; and, being in perfect accord <illegible> the prevailing public sentiment touching the <illegible> man and his rights, they have done what they <illegible> encourage and strengthen it. 
Time, the President has, with some notable <illegible>, proclaimed emancipation throughout the rebel States: and the physical power of the nation is pledged to its accomplishment. That Proclamation cannot be recalled. Slavery has received a staggering blow, and unconditional Union men in all parts of the <illegible> not only consent to, but earnestly urge in their political platforms, its entire abolishment and pro-<illegible>, by an amendment of the Constitution. But Congress, after mature deliberation and long-continued discussion of the subject, failed (through Copper-head hostility to the measure) to recommend the necessary and much to be desired amendment; and the whole matter of abolition and prohibition was thus left to be dealt with according to the wisdom and ability of the Administration. 
In regard to abolition, the government can do nothing, except in the rebel States; and even there, only as far as it is able to conquer and hold the territory by force and arms. For the President is not" prepared to declare a constitutional competency in Congress to abolish slavery in the Border States," and there is yet no military necessity for the Executive to
<c02>
do so. The matter must, therefore, be left to the action of the Border States themselves.
At the opening of the late session of Congress came the Proclamation of Amnesty, with the President's scheme of reconstruction. Immediately the tempest of war subsided, and for nearly six months there was a great calm-a virtual armistice indeed-with unwise if not premature efforts at pacification and reconstruction in the yet unconquered rebel States. At length the elements of war broke forth a new, and the massacres at Plymouth and Fort Pillow with unequivocal demonstrations bore witness to the wicked, relentless and desperate character of the foe. And yet, horrible as they were in the perpetrators of them, and in relation to the immediate sufferers, they were, in the grand scheme of Providence, a most beneficent dispensation-in fact, the best things that could have happened; for they shocked the sensibilities and opened the eyes of the President, and of a majority of Congress; revealed to them more of the true character of the enemy; roused them to some sense of their duties to, an oppressed and victimized race, and stimulated them to the enactment of tardy justice toward the negro soldiers, at least.
Thus out of seeming evil the Almighty still educes good, and causes even the wrath of man to praise him. But, notwithstanding these incidental advantages of the measure, the gravest error of the Administration is wrapped up in the plan propounded by the President for the restoration of the rebel States. By that plan, whenever one tenth of the men who were legal voters in any State, in 1860, are ready to subscribe the proposed oath of allegiance, binding themselves to obey the Constitution and laws of the United States, including those enacted since secession and the present Administration commenced, they may proceed to elect delegates to a Convention for the formation of a Constitution adapted to the new order of things. Under that Constitution, they may elect a Legislature, Governor, and other officers necessary for the organization of a State; in fact, they constitute the State. 
Such is the plan upon which the President has been operating for the last eight months. He is fairly and strongly committed to it, and doubtless will continue to act upon it for the next four months, or until, by the stern rebuke of the people, he is compelled to renounce it. 
But who and what are the men whom the President is thus endeavoring to install and establish as the nucleus of future commonwealths? With few exceptions, they are the former slaveholders of those States, who still retain the biases and prejudices of their class, and many of whom return to their allegiance that they may return also to the possession of their landed estates, with the privilege of employing freedmen upon governmental terms. To these and such as these are to be entrusted, among other things, the educational interests and institutions of the new States, with authority to say who may enjoy their privileges, and who, without enjoying, shall be taxed for their support. These, and such as these, though constituting never so small a fraction of the people of the State, are to determine who may exercise the elective franchise, and who may not; and who, if any, shall be subjects merely; and taking no part in making or in executing the laws, are compelled to bear the burdens of government, with no security for the protection of their rights. And will the ruling class voluntarily 
renounce its supremacy, and hasten to share the privileges and emoluments of government with their former slaves? Who believes it? Men do not
"gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles." 
H. W. C. 

COLOR AND CARS IN PHILADELPHIA.
Some weeks ago, (says the N. Y. Tribune,) we had the pleasure of riding on one of the street-cars of Philadelphia in company with an eminent and estimable 
clergyman of good abilities and spotless character; but were obliged to stand on the front platform-"niggers" not being allowed in these cars. The last Episcopal Recorder of that city contains the following:-
TO THE CHRISTIAN PUBLIC OF PHILADELPHIA.-Within the past week, my only living child having been at death's door, by our physician we were directed 
to take him over the Delaware river as often as convenient. On our return to the Philadelphia side, on one occasion, the child became completely prostrated. I held my ear to his mouth three several times to ascertain whether he was still alive. Such a death-like appearance came over him, I felt the necessity of reaching home as soon as possible, and to my satisfaction (:or the time being), I saw one of the Lombard and South street cars approaching, which I hailed, and was in the act of entering, when the conductor arrested my progress by informing me that I could not enter-being colored. I referred him to the condition of my child, but all to no purpose; he ordered the driver to go on, regardless of our humble plea. Spontaneously I said, "I was born and raised in the South, and have travelled over a large part of the United States; and here, I must confess, that never before have I met with a barbarity so satanical and heathenish in its character! Had the cars been overloaded, that would have been excuse sufficient; but the fact of the case is, that the only persons on the cars referred to were the conductor and the driver. 
In the face of these facts, we ask the Christian public of Philadelphia, can you look on in silence, and see respectable colored citizens excluded from the privilege of availing themselves of the public facilities for going from one extreme of the city to the other? We ask, where is the superiority of Philadelphia over New York city? Yet the latter has opened all of her railroad lines to the public, irrespective of caste. 
Is it manly to exclude respectable colored citizens from the Lombard and South streets cars, when they pay taxes for real estate owned by them on this line to the value of over $100,000? Is it humane to exclude respectable colored citizens from your street cars, when so many of our brave and vigorous young men have been and are enlisting, to take part in this heaven ordained slavery extermination, many of whom have performed commendable service in our army and navy-in the former of which your humble subscriber has two brawny-armed and battle-tried brothers? Finally, we ask, is it in accordance with Christian civilization to thrust out of your street car the dying child of an humble servant of Christ, in whose congregation there exists an active auxiliary to the Pennsylvania branch of the Women's Sanitary Committee of the United States?
We beg you to remember the words of Him by whom soon you and I are to be judged, when, seeming ing to meet and correct cases like that under consideration, he said: Verily, I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 
WM. JOHNSON ALSTON, Rector of St. Thomas's Episcopal Church, Philadelphia, July 19, 1864. 
CHIVALROUS SENTIMENT IN DELICATE EXPRESSION.
 The New York Evening Post has drawn down upon itself the indignation of a Copperhead screamer, who is probably a southern gentleman doing business in that city. Here is his communication: 
NEW YORK, August 1, 1864. To the Editors of the Evening Post: 
Gentlemen: Permit me to call your attention to the enclosed about the starving rebels:
They were imposing on the battle field In column by brigades the enemy marched with flaunting standards and flashing arms
With steady tramp, defiant mien and rousing vivas. 
Now you miserable Yankee scoundrels, who cowardly 
burn up everything you get a chance at, what say you to the above! And will you tell me that a high toned honorable set of people like the Souther's (despite their politics) want to make a treaty with Northern Scoundrels, thieves and pickpockets? What are you fighting for, but Cotton, Tobacco and Rice-and you miserable Cowards you import foreigners to fight your battles. Yrs, 
A MAN WHO HAS A SINCERE CONTEMPT 
FOR YOUR DUPLICITY.
The new regulations of the Treasury Department for the employment and care of freedmen completely set aside General Banks's system and the low wages. 
The freedmen employed are to be paid as follows:- Over 18 and under 20 years of age, $25 per month; women $18; over 14 and under 18, and over 40 and under 55, men and women, $14; over 12 and under 14 and over 55, males $15, females $10. 
Besides this, employers must furnish without charge sufficient quarters for the laborers, a separate house and one acre of ground for each family, fuel, medical attendance, and schools for children. 
The fixed rates shall not debar any laborer from contracting from higher wages if he can get them. Wages are made the first lien on the crops, and there shall be no shipments of produce till the laborers are paid. Employees shall furnish food and clothing at cost to all persons employed. 
<c03>
GEORGE THOMPSON, LL.D. 
The usual mediocrity of college honors has been broken up this year by the Wesleyan University, in conferring the degree of LL.D. on this eminent philanthropist, orator, and man of affairs. It relieves the tedium of editorial and private inquisition after the whereabouts and what abouts of the ordinary recipients of these titles, to find one so high that the college exalts itself in placing the laurel upon his brows. Generally even our humblest institution, in the imposition of their hands, resemble the statues in the cathedral 
of Mayence, where colossal archbishops are gravely crowning infantile and timid kings. In this case the anointing power has recognized the worth of the anointed. It has crowned itself in crowning him. 
There were especial reasons, perhaps, why the degree should come from this source. Dr. George Thompson was by birth and education a Methodist. He was a local preacher in the Wesleyan Society when he first visited America. And though afterward, in consequence of marriage and democratic sympathies, he united with the Independents, still he ever retained a deep regard for the church that had been one of the leaders in the anti-slavery movements of Great Britain. From the church of his birth and education came this fitting testimony to his character and career.
The Doctor sat upon the platform, unconscious of the impending blow. President Cummings, in conferring it, made even an unknown tongue eloquent with eulogy, and brought, down the house in applause as he called him the friend of humanity and of man, the eloquent apostle of liberty, the breaker of chains, the joy of the oppressed:-
"Georgium Thompson, virum clarissimum, scientiaet literis bene meritum, humanilatis et hominis amicum, apostolum liberatis eloquentem, vinculorum ruptorem, et oppressorum loetitiam."
Smitten by the sudden stroke, the object of the eulogy bowed his head, and kept it covered till the ceremonies of the occasion were concluded. How the thoughts must have rushed through his soul then and now! How he must have remembered the time when church and college alike pursued him with malignant zeal; when in that very city his life was in danger; when everywhere he was branded with opprobrium for daring to lift up his voice for the enslaved! Now, from one of the sources of this prosecution comes the highest recognition it can give to that earliest and all subsequent service. It is the concession of repentance and its metest work. 
Wordsworth's reception of like honors at Oxford, after passing through a similar period of scorn and reproach, is analogous to this. We congratulate this college on its happy selection of a candidate. It is but a step in advance of the hour when not only abolitionists, but those for whom they for many years suffered the loss of all things, shall be found in like posts of honor and recipients of like just distinctions. Thus may it become possible to infuse into these usually most withered and worthless laurels the greenness of real life-he recognition of truth, of worth, of principle, of God in man! New York Independent. 
WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY ANNIVERSARY EXERCISES.
 On Tuesday evening, the crowd gathered again to hear an oration before the Phi Beta Kappa Society, by the eminent orator and reformer, George Thompson, of England. It was probably his most successful effort during his present visit to America. There was to him, and to the old officers of the Alumni of the University, a special inspiration in the place and hour. Reminiscences of thirty years ago, when the Lynn Conference was thrown into such a turmoil by his first visit, and when the University was identified with the opposition to his mission, crowding upon the speaker and upon those of the hearers who connect the past with the present, made this an occasion ripe with lessons of history and philosophy. The orator fully felt its sublimity, and kindled to his theme. Tall, graceful and elegant, though slightly bowed with the burden of threescore, the brow yet smooth, and the fire yet burning in his eye, a glance reveals him to be a man who has swayed the crowd with his tones, eye and hand-the platform prince. The voice, from which the oratory of thirty years ago has fled, swelled now and then, under the grand inspiration of his theme, into tones akin in majesty to those which lingered in the memory of the fathers, who, a generation 
ago, manned the forlorn hope by his side; and as, on this occasion, as well as in his brief felicitous speeches when presented to the Alumni, he alluded with grace and delicacy to his former hardships and perils in the cause of liberty, and with manly fervor poured out his soul in words of sympathy for our land in its present agonizing struggle, the prejudices of other days melted from all hearts, and the veteran speaker's tear-dimmed eye found response in hundreds before him. As, on Commencement Day, one of the speakers alluded in eulogistic terms to the career of Wilberforce, Mr. Thompson took the lead in manifestations of applause.-Correspondent of Zion's Herald and Wesleyan Journal. 
Tuesday evening was given to the Phi Beta Kappa Society, which, with a crammed house, heard an address from Mr. George Thompson, the English philanthropist 
and agitator, who regaled his hearers with reminiscences of his own experience as a laborer in the cause of reform, and especially of anti-slavery. The address was able and deeply interesting, though necessarily somewhat egotistical; and it was well received by the audience. A wonderful change has come over the face of affairs since thirty years ago, when that same George Thompson was chased and hunted down by mobs, and committed to prison to save him from maltreatment, and at length spirited out of the country to escape his pursuers. He talked of these things good-naturedly, with evident satisfaction, and seemed for a time to lay aside the character of the belligerent to assume that of his own acts and sufferings and final triumphs. We have met with no Englishman so thoroughly American in thoughts and sympathies as is Mr. Thompson, and very few Americans can compare with him in the thoroughness of his acquaintance with American affairs.-Correspondent of the Christian Advocate and Journal. 
George Thompson, the Champion of Anti-Slavery sentiments in England, was last week at the Commencement at Middletown, Conn. When the honorary degrees were conferred, the President read the name of George Thompson, on whom the Degree 
of LL. D. had been conferred. On whom could the trustees have bestowed it with greater propriety?-Independent Democrat. 
George Thompson was greeted with a full house at Florence, last Sunday evening. His address was delivered without notes, in a most forcible and animated manner, and was a stirring, eloquent and convincing effort. The audience listened with close attention, and manifested, by applause, their delight and approbation. He showed that those in England who favored the slaveholders' rebellion in this country were the aristocrats who had in their own country opposed every effort there made to elevate the condition of the working classes. They had, with few exceptions, been the opponents of all the great reform measures in England, such as the extension of the right of suffrage, the Catholic emancipation bill, the repeal of the corn laws and corporation and test acts; all of which humane measures the great mass of the people, who are the friends of the United States, had forced the aristocrats to adopt, and they would compel them to abstain from acknowledging the Confederate rebel government, The speaker in the course of his masterly speech gave some graphic outline sketches of eminent men in Great Britain..-Northampton Free Press. 

FIRING THE SOUTHERN HEART. 
[From the Atlanta Intelligencer.] 
Butler, the Beast-Grant, the Butcher-Sherman, the Brute-what a trio-what heaven-defying, monstrous specimens of humanity these three Federal Generals constitute! The first, base and corrupt and brutal as he is recognized to be by the civilized world, is outdone by the wholesale butchery of the; second, and the third is not far behind the second in his violation of all the rules of civilized warfare and the horrid sacrifices of human life-even of the lives of his own men. The Beast directs his tyranny and brutality mostly against individuals, and mostly against what he may well term his enemies; the Butcher has no regard for human life, and slaughters, by wholesale his drunken soldiery-made drunk that they may unconsciously be driven to the slaughter, without even a care resting upon his conscience at the blood he causes to be shed, or the decency to care for dead carcasses, over the putrid bodies of which he forces other legions to tread, to be offered as similar sacrifices; while the Brute upon the hills and valleys of Cherokee and Georgia, in his "on to Atlanta," strives to imitate the Butcher. 
The three monsters who lead the Yankee forces, insatiate with human blood, have had their day and time, but neither the bestiality of the one, the butchery of the other, or the brutality of the third, can save them, and the men they lead, from the heaven-inflicted punishment due to the enormous crimes which, under the color of war, they have been committing. Amid it all, our brave armies and their gallant leaders stand firm. They have no fears of the result- why should we, or those of us at home? Let it be beast, butcher, or brute, who leads the robbers on to Atlanta or to Richmond, the world will see that those who stand ready to defend either position will do so bravely, and with success. Oceans of blood may flow, but the victory will be ours. 
V. B. Palmer, Esq., of "Advertising Agency" fame, died at his residence in Philadelphia on Friday last. 
<c04>
THE LATE PETERSBURG REPULSE. 
HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, Aug. 1
P. M, A flag of truce was allowed by the rebels from nine until five o'clock this morning to bury the dead and relieve the wounded. Very few were found alive. Most of those living yesterday died last night. Not more than a dozen were brought in, and but few of these were expected to live. 
About 100 yards in front of the fort blown up were covered with dead, mostly colored. I counted 150 of the latter and 50 whiles, all of whom were buried on the spot. The reason of the great disparity between the white and colored troops is owing to the fact that the fire from the rebel guns, on both flanks, was concentrated upon this ground after the white troops had charged across it; when the colored troops crossed the spot, they were actually mowed down with grape and canister, and when they retreated, they tell in dozens, our sharpshooters being unable to disturb the rebel gunners. 
The work of burying the dead was not completed until half past ten, when the truce ceased. 
The rebels opened fire ten minutes afterwards. The rebel Gens. A. P. Hill, Bushrod Johnson, Mahone and Sanders were on the field. 
The rebels buried their dead on their side of the line, and carried their wounded to the rear. They claim to have 1200 prisoners, including the wounded. They state that their loss was about 800, but this is not credited, as in charging to recover the works they lost heavily. 
Gen. Bartlett and Col. Marshall are prisoners in Petersburg, unhurt. 

SCENE AT THE CRATER. On arriving at the exploded fort, our troops found it a heterogeneous mass of loose earth, guns and gun carriages, dead and wounded gunners, &c. Some of the gunners were buried alive, at the depth perhaps of twenty feet-the depth of the mine below the fort. Those on the surface were found in every conceivable condition and attitude-some merely stunned and slightly wounded, others unrecognizable lumps of flesh and dirt; some with their heads protruding from the ruins, others with their heels marking their unhallowed burial-place. One poor fellow, pulling the dirt out of his eyes, in his delirium, said: "Have we been attacked? Are we driving them? That's right! Give them hell!" He soon revived, however, to find himself a prisoner. Another, buried up to his armpits in loose dirt, on being approached, cried: "Come, Yanks, for God's sake, take me out of this place! It's all over now, and there is no use letting a fellow stick here. Come, take me out quick, and 1 will do as much for you some time." He lie was taken out. 
One of the charging officers, noticing the dirt move near him as if a mole or gopher were at work under it, commenced digging, and finally dug out a rebel lieutenant, who was actually revived, and conversed freely with the officers before being brought from the ground. Several others were exhumed from their living graves and restored to consciousness, and will survive. 
Bennett's infamous Herald, in a characteristic article on the repulse at Petersburg, makes the following blackguard attack upon the colored soldiers, whose loss in killed and wounded was fearful:-
"But it is not only the incompetency of two generals that we are to blame for the attempt that ought to have given us possession of the rebel city. We must blame also the President and his whole Cabinet, with his nigger-worshipping policy. They who have insisted, against all opposition, that the niggers should enter the army, are even more to blame than all others. Niggers are not fit for soldiers; they can dig, and drive mules; they cannot and will not fight. All the sensation stories in the nigger papers to the contrary are mere moonshine. They never have fought well in any battle. To insist that the niggers should be in the army was to insist that there should be a weak point in every line of battle with which we faced the enemy; and the enemy found that weak point on Saturday last. Abolitionism is, therefore, the real difficulty now, and unless the President soon finds out how to do away with this difficulty, he may be sure that the people will find out how to do away with him. His Cabinet is the trouble, and unless he changes it, he must go with it in disgrace. He cannot possibly have any hope to end the war with that Cabinet as it now stands, with its "to whom it may concern" policy, its niggers, its apathy, and its shoddy corruptions. But let him form a new one, with Charles Francis Adams, John A. Dix, General McClellan and Admiral Dupont in the chief places, and he may once more rally the country to his support." 
In the same number of the Herald, its army correspondent renders a very different verdict-as follows: 
"In rear of the main column of attack, the colored division had been formed with a view to passing the other divisions, when they had gained the outer line, and making this a starting point for the continuance of the charge. The first division held the centre, with the second and third on either flank, and now the fourth advanced beyond. The troops were in two columns, each brigade constituting a column. Their splendid discipline could not but be observed, and in the early part of the contest no soldiers behaved more gallantly. They charged upon the next and an interior line of the enemy, and for a time gained decided advantages, as is attested by two rebel battle flags which they captured and brought off with them. But the rebels, exasperated as we know them now to have been at sight of the negroes, fought with the fury of devils, and reinforcements coming to their aid-our signal officers counted six brigades hurried from a camp beyond the town-the tide of battle turned. The colored troops gave way, broke in confusion, when the rebels having repulsed their charge, charged them in turn, and then they ran, a terror-stricken, disordered mass of fugitives, to the rear of the white troops. In vain their officers endeavored to rally them with all the persuasion of tongue, sabre and pistol. What-ever of discredit attaches to the troops themselves, their officers are beyond reproach." 
Another eye-witness of the desperate but fruitless struggle testifies as follows:- 
On came the rebels in four lines of battle, and the negroes had hardly tumbled into our lines of trenches before the battle flags of several rebel regiments were planted on the sides of our trenches. Two big negroes had jumped down on my shoulders, one had trampled me to the earth, and everybody's experience seemed to be the same as mine. A grand rush to the rear of this line of trenches came on, and heads, arms, legs, black and white, all seemed to point in that direction. Under such circumstances a panic was inevitable. Our officers tried in vain to rally the men, but it was useless until they had retreated back toward the fort where the second trench intersected the first. There a few brave officers and men held the rebel column at bay nearly an hour, but no reinforcements coming, they were at last overpowered and surrounded, and the retreat to the fort was very difficult. The colors of the 17th South Carolina were planted over the bank beside the writer, who, with another officer, was siezed by a rebel officer.
At that moment the rifle of a dark son of Africa cracked, and the rebel officer was shot through the head, and fell headlong into the pits. Our white officers then shouted to the colored men, "Show 'em no quarter!" "Remember Fort Pillow!" and the negroes in the very teeth of the rebels as they poured over the pits commenced fighting, and no "deeds of valor, not even at Thermopylae, surpassed what followed. The negro sergeants and corporals shouted, "Fight, boys, for de country dat ye lub!" and they pitched into the Johnnies with the bayonet, and the clattering of cold steel was then heard on every side. They would use the butt of the musket when too close to use the bayonet. 
Just previous to this scene of carnage, the Adjutant of the 31st Maine Volunteers jumped into the advance, and rushed upon the rebels, crying, "Come on boys." He fell mortally wounded, and was carried off to the hospital. Capt. A. J. Hough, commanding 9th N. H. Volunteers, leaped toward the front, trying to rally the white men who were mixed in with colored men, but was shot, and died in a few moments. He was of our bravest and best officers, always in front of his regiment, and noted for gallantry in action. Col Wentworth of the 32d Maine, and Col. Howard (formerly of Massachusetts) of the 2d Maryland, fell near each other previous to this, both severely wounded. Lieut. Cheney and Lieut. Green of the 9th N. H. Vols., fell wounded; also Capt. Tilton, commanding 11th N. H. Vols., about the same time. Lieut. Drew, 9th N. H. Vols., was taken prisoner, and Lieut. Sampson of the same regiment was taken prisoner, but afterwards escaped, and is believed to be killed. Word was passed in at this time that the First Division, Ninth Corps, had mostly retreated, and its commander, Gen. Ledlie, was a prisoner. 
PLANTATION RATIONS. By order of Gen. Banks, the weekly ration of each laborer on the plantation in his department will hereafter be as follows:
Five pounds pork or bacon, or eight pounds beef; five pounds fresh ground corn meal; two pounds flour or soft bread; one pound beans or peas; nine ounces sugar; one gill vinegar; one gill molasses; one half ounce adamantine or star candles; four ounces soap; three ounces fine salt; three pounds of potatoes or other suitable vegetables. 
Children under twelve years of age will receive half rations, for which no charge will be made, and the sick shall be furnished with coffee, tea, rice, or other suitable farinaceous diet. 
Laborers must be invariably paid in United States currency, and the money counted out to the laborer in the presence of an officer, duly authorized by the Provost Marshal of parish in which the parties reside. 
Employers who sell articles of merchandise to their employees will not be permitted to charge them more than ten per cent, advance upon the net cost of the articles. 
<c05>
NEW STAMP DUTIES. On and after August 1st, some important changes in the stamp duties take place. Those in general business, as attorneys, will need to have the law itself for reference. For the advantage of others, we present a list of the more common duties, affecting the business of almost every day:- 
Agreements of general contracts, appraisement, &c., for each sheet or piece of paper used, require a stamp of 5 cents. 
If more than one agreement on the same sheet, 5 cents each.
Bank checks, orders, &c., for over ten dollars, 2 cents. 
Bill of sale for personal property, 5 cents. 
Bond for indemnifying a surety for the payment of any money, for every $1000 or fraction thereof, 50 cents. 
Leases, where the rent is $300 per year or less, 50 cents. 
Each additional $200 or fraction, 50 cents. 
Mortgages require the same stamp as conveyances. 
Probate of will, or letters of administration, for estates not over $2000, $1.00. 
For each additional $100 or fraction, 50 cents. 
Promissory notes and inland bills of exchange require 
for every $100 or fractional part thereof, with-out regard to the time for which the note is given, a stamp of 5 cents. 
Writs of all kinds, except those issued by the United States or any States, and some petty writs, 50 cents. 
STAMPS ON RECEIPTS. On and after Monday next, August 1," Receipts for the pay of any sum of money or for the payment of any debt due, exceeding twenty dollars, not being for the satisfaction of any mortgage, or judgment or decree of any court, and a receipt for the delivery of any property," will require a two cent revenue stamp. As this is something new in this country, there will doubtless be some question as to which party shall pay for the stamp. The general principle seems to us to be this: If A owes B $21, B is of course entitled to that full amount, and if A requires a certificate of its payment, A should pay the expense, namely, two cents. But, " circumstances alter cases," and if A patronizes B's hotel, or buys shoes of C, and pays cash, B and C, to secure a continuance of A's custom, will generally put on a stamp, and say nothing about it. If A, however, instead of paying cash, wants a credit of three or six months, it would be quite the thing for him to pay for the stamp in return for the accommodation, which he has received. The idiosyncracies of men will, of course, manifest themselves in this matter, as in others. We know of a man who had an opportunity to sell an estate for $2600, but who entertained serious thoughts of letting it go for $2500, to save three dollars on the stamp. There will doubtless be frequent cases of "dodging" and sharp practice, but the general system among honorable men will probably be about what we have indicated above.-Boston Daily Advertiser. 
THE REBEL LOSSES AT ATLANTA. In reviewing the late address of Gen. Thomas to his troops who fought so gallantly at Atlanta, the Tribune draws the following conclusions regarding the rebel losses: 
"In the battle of the 20th, our total loss was 1733; of the rebels no less than 6000, not less than 900 of whom were killed and buried. In the battle of the 22d, which hitherto has worn an ugly look to us, Gen. Thomas puts the total Union losses at 7500 men and 10 guns. (Hood claimed first 22, then 13 guns-lying twice over.) The rebel loss in prisoners alone was 3200, and Gen. Thomas says with great particularity and unquestionable exactness: ' The known' dead of the enemy in front of the 15th and 16th Corps, and one division of the 17th Corps, was 2142;' and that is not all. A report which we have hitherto considered an exaggeration is repeated as credible by Gen. Thomas, and makes the rebel dead alone 3200. Add 3200 prisoners, as above, and multiply the killed by seven-the ordinary proportion of wounded-and we have 28,800 as the total rebel loss in the battle of the 22d. That figure is certainly too large; but if we divide by two, and add the casualties of the 20th, we still have 20,000 men as the minimum of rebel casualties week before last; the net result of putting a fighting general in command of the rebel army. Add to that some thousands for the battle on the 27th, and we see in what desperate condition must be the remains of the army which numbered when Hood was made General not over 60,000, and perhaps not over 50,000 men. 
JEWETT REPUDIATED. As an irresponsible person named Jewett, who has recently been acting as an agent and messenger for the rebel authorities in Canada, 
is assiduously laboring, and apparently with some success, to create the impression that he acts by virtue of a certain implied understanding or connection with the Executive Mansion, we deem it not improper to state that he has never received from the President the slightest recognition; that Maj. Hay, at Niagara, expressly declined to meet him; and that the only letter he has ever received from the Executive Office in answer to his voluminous communications is the following:- 
EXECUTIVE MANSICN, 
Washington, July 18, 1864. 
SIR,-In the exercise of my duty as Secretary in charge of the President's correspondence, it is necessary for me to use a certain discretion in the choice of letters to be submitted to the personal inspection of the President. In order to avoid a further waste of time on your part, I have to inform you that your letters are never so submitted. My proceeding in this matter has the sanction of the President. 
I am, Sir, very truly, your obedient servant, 
JOHN HAY. 
WM. CORNELL JEWETT, &c. &c. &c. 
-Washington Chronicle. 
PLEASING INCIDENT. A few days since, the President 
was presented with a very beautiful Shepherd Check Plaid, sent to him from Edinburgh, Scotland, by Mrs. Anne Williamson, an old lady of 81. It was manufactured at Tellecoutrie, near Stirling, a place justly celebrated for its tartans and checks. The appended correspondence shows that in the land of "brown heath and shaggy wood" our cause is watched with no ordinary interest:-
EDINBURGH, July 6, 1864.
MY LORD PRESIDENT,-As one deeply interested in your present struggle, I trust the Lord will bless all your endeavors for the peace of your country and the freedom of the slave. As this letter is written by an old lady of 81, she hopes you will overlook all its imperfections; and, with good wishes for you and your family, 
I am, your very ob't servant, 
ANNE WILLIAMSON. 
The following is the President's reply:-
EXECUTIVE MANSION, 
Washington, July 29, 1864. 
MRS. ANNE WILLIAMSON: 
MADAME,-he plaid you send me is just now placed in my hands. I thank you for that pretty and useful present, but still more for those good wishes to myself and our country which prompted you to present it. 
Your ob't servant, 
A. LINCOLN. 
SWISS SYMPATHY WITH THE FEDERAL CAUSE.- An address of sympathy has been issued by the people of Geneva to the people of the United States. It reminds 
the latter that Switzerland has also had her intestine troubles, and that she has issued from them stronger than she was before. It will be the same with the United States. The address says that the Confederates have not a single just complaint against the Federal Government, and that their object in rebellion is simply to maintain slavery. It hopes that no European Government will lower itself so far as to recognize a power established on such a basis. 
ENGLAND. Lord Brougham presented a petition from Jamaica, on the subject of the slave trade in Cuba. He said Spain had violated her treaty engage ments, and, he regretted to state that slavery had of late years been extended in the Island of Cuba.
Lord Russell said that every English Government had been anxious to put down the slave trade, but when they had to rely on the aid. of foreign Powers, the question always presented difficulties, and the traffic had never been wholly suppressed.
Lord Malmesbury believed the Government of Brazil had done all it could to put down the slave trade, and advised the repeal of the Aberdeen act.

PAY OF COLORED SOLDIERS. The War Department has issued an order in the case of colored soldiers, which directs that all enlisted colored soldiers, freed on or before April 19, 1861, shall be mustered for pay accordingly, and be paid the difference between the account heretofore received and the full pay allowed white soldiers during the same period; the question of freedom to be ascertained by the oath of the soldier, taken in connection with such other trustworthy information as can be obtained. This t order is issued under the provision of the act of Congress approved July 4, 1864. 
There is a case against Wm. Cornell Jewett the celebrated "peace negotiator," for swindling, now pending in the Supreme Court at Brooklyn, N. Y. He is accused of cheating Stevens, Brother & Co. out of a steam engine. 
The pen with which the President of the Louisiana Constitutional Convention signed the Ordinance of Emancipation has been presented to Gen. Banks. 
<c06>
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture and attend Conventions during August and September in Illinois and Michigan and Northern Indiana. 
SUBJECTS-The Origin, Mission and Destiny of the American Republic. Shall the North be subjugated to Slavery and Slave Labor; or the South to Freedom and Free Labor? Shall the White Laborers of the Nation be made Slaves; or the Black Laborers be made Freemen? Man above his incidents, and never to be sacrificed to them. Liberty, Equality, Fraternity. Abolition and Prohibition. No Truce, no Peace, no Compromise with Slavery. Reverence for Human Beings the only Safeguard for Human Rights.

AARON M. POWELL will lecture at 
Plattsburgh, N. Y., Sunday, Aug. 14. 
Burlington, Vt., Monday, Aug 15.
Ferrisburgh, Vt., Tuesday, Aug 16.
Vergennes, Vt., Wednesday, Aug 17. 
Moriah, N. Y., Thursday, Aug 18.
Athol, N. Y., Friday, Aug 19.
Glens Falls, N. Y., Sunday, Aug 21
Ballston, N. Y., Tuesday, Aug 23.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at East Med-way, Mass., on Sunday next, Aug. 14, on the Present Crisis. 
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Upton, Sunday, Aug. 14. at half-past 1 and 5 o'clock, P. M. 
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE. 
The seventeenth Annual Term will commence Nov. 2, 1864, and continue seventeen weeks. Tuition fee for the courses of the six Professors and the Demonstrator, $65- free to students needing aid, wherever residing. For particulars, address the subscriber, at the College, No. 30 Canton street, Boston. 
3w SAM'L GREGORY. M. D., Secretary. 
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. 
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M. 
DIED-In this city, July 31, MARY ESTELLA, daughter of Thomas and Evelyn Waterman, aged 1 year. 
Portrait of Mr. Garrison. 
JOHNSTON’S Crayon Portrait of Mr. Garrison is on exhibition at the store of Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street, and elicits warm approval. It will be lithographed by Mr. Johnston, and published early in September. Price $1.50 per copy. 
C. H. BRAINARD. 
Subscriptions received by R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street. July 29. 
THE HUMAN VOICE indicative of character; Physiology 
of the Voice-bass, barytone, tenor, contralto, soprane; Male and Female Voices-what causes the difference? How to Cultivate the Voice; Stammering. 
CLIMATE AND THE RACES-Northerners and Southerners compared; organic difference; quality, hardness, softness, fineness, coarseness; Carbon-its transformations; Natural Development; Pauper Children; Thieves Photographed;
Right Position in Sleep; Vanity, Self-Praise; New Views of Physiognomy; The Face; Signs of Character; Love of the Eyes-in PHERNOLOGICAL JOURNAL, Aug. No., 20 cts., or $2 a year. Newsmen have it. 
FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, N. Y. 
July 29. 2w 

The True Temperance Platform. 
BY R. T. TRALL, M. D. 
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published. 
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out.
Price, per mail-paper, 60 cents; cloth, 85 cents. 
MILLER & BROWNING, 
15 Leight Street, New York. 
July 15. 3m 

MR. AND MRS. D. MACK’S 
Family Boarding-School for Young Ladies, 
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS. 
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested. 
July 8. 3m

MASON & HAMLINS 
CABINET ORGANS. 
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE 
A GOOD ORGAN 
AT a very moderate cost-$85, $100, $110,. $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case. 
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.

THE CABINET ORGANS, 
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusivesively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the I greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a, very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1.The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs. 
2.It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost. 
3.By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, 
its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two. 
4.It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music. 
5.No instrument is less liable to get out of order. 
6.It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte. 
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled. 
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, 
as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country. 
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address. 
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston, 
7 Mercer Street, New York. 
MASUN & HAMLIN. Feb.26 6m
Poetry
A MOTHER'S THOUGHTS. 
BY MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Silent and lone-silent and lone!
Where, tell me where are my little ones gone,
Who used to be playing about my knee,
With their noisy mirth and boisterous glee;
Who littered the carpets and misplaced the chairs,
And scattered their playthings all unawares;
Who called for their suppers with eager shout,
And while they were getting, ran in and out;
Who kept all the apples and nuts from spoiling,
And never saved jackets and pants from soiling,
Had ever a want and ever a will
That added a care to my heart, until
I sometimes sighed for the time to come
When they'd all be big, and go out from home? 
Silent and lone-silent and lone!
Where, tell me where are my little ones gone?
There's no little faces to wash to-night,
No little troubles for mother to right,
No little blue eyes to be sung to sleep,
No little playthings to put up to keep,
No little garments to be hung on the rack,
No little tales to tell, no nuts to crack,
No little trundle-bed brim full of rolick,
Calling for mamma to settle the frolic,
No little soft lips to press me with kisses
(Oh! such a sad, lonely evening as this is!)
No little voices to shout with delight,
"Good night, dear mamma, good night, good night!"
Silent the house is-no little ones here
To startle a smile or chase back a tear.  
Silent and lone-silent and lone!
Where, tell me where are my little ones gone?
It seemeth but yesterday since they were young,
Now they're all scattered the world's paths among.
Out where the great rolling trade-stream is flowing;
Out where new fire-sides with love-lights are glowing;
Out where the graves of their life-hopes are sleeping,
Not to be comforted-weeping, still weeping;
Out where the high hills of science are blending
Up' mid the cloud-rifts, up, up, still ascending,
Seeking the sunshine that rests on the mountain,
Drinking and thirsting still, still at the fountain;
Out in the thoroughfares all of them moiling;
Out, out in the wide, wide world, striving and toiling.
Little ones, loving ones, playful ones, all,
Who went when I bade, and came at my call,
Have ye deserted me? Will ye not come
Back to your mother's arms-back to your home? 
Silent and lone! silent and lone!
Where, tell me where are my little ones gone?
Useless my cry is. Why do I complain?
They'll be my little ones never again! 
Can the great oaks to the acorns return?
The broad rolling stream flow back to the byrne?
The mother call childhood again to her knee,
That in manhood went forth the strong and the free? 
Nay, nay, no true mother would ask for them back!
Her work nobly done, their firm tramp on life's track
Will come like an organ-note, lofty and clear,
To lift up her soul, and her spirit to cheer!
And though the tears fall when silent and lone,
She'll know it is best they are scattered and gone!
Silent and lone-silent and lone!
Thy will, O Father, not my will be done! 

SOMEBODY'S DARLING.
Into a ward of the whitewashed halls,
Where the dead and dying lay,
Wounded by bayonets, shells and balls,
Somebody's Darling was borne one day-
Somebody's Darling, so young and so brave,
Wearing yet on his pale, sweet face,
Soon to be hid by the dust of the grave,
The lingering light of his boyhood's grace.
Matted and damp are the curls of gold,
Kissing the snow of the fair young brow,
Pale are the lips of delicate mould-
Somebody's Darling is dying now.
Back from his beautiful blue-veined brow
Brush all the wandering waves of gold;
Cross his hands on his bosom now.
Somebody's [Darling is still and cold.
Kiss him once for somebody's sake,
Murmur a prayer both soft and low;
One bright curl from its fair mates take-
They were somebody's pride, you know;
Somebody's hand hath rested there-
Was it a mother's, soft and white?
And have the lips of a sister fair
Been baptized in the waves of light?
God knows best! he has somebody's love;
Somebody's heart enshrined him there;
Somebody wafted his name above,
Night and morn, on the wings of prayer.
Somebody wept when he marched away,
Looking so handsome, brave and grand;
Somebody's kiss on his forehead lay,
Somebody clung to his parting hand.
Somebody's waiting and watching for him—
Yearning to hold him again to her heart;
And there he lies with his blue eyes dim,
And the smiling, child-like lips apart—
Tenderly bury the fair young dead,
Pausing to drop on his grave a tear;
Carve on the wooden slab at his head,
"Somebody's Darling slumbers here." 

A LAYMAN'S CONFESSION OF FAITH
BY THEODORE TILTON.
As other men have creeds, so I have mine;
I keep the holy faith in God, in man,
And in the angels ministrant between.
I hold the one true church of all true souls,
Whose churchly zeal is neither bread nor wine,
Nor laying on of hands, nor holy oil,
But only the anointing of God's grace.
I hate all kings, and caste, and rank of birth;
For all the sons of men are sons of God;
Nor limps a beggar but is nobly born;
Nor wears a slave a yoke, nor ozar a crown,
That makes him less or more than just a man.
I love my country and her righteous cause;
So dare not keep me silent of her sin;
And after Freedom may her bells ring Peace!
I love one woman with a holy fire,
Whom I revere as priestess of my house;
I stand with wondering awe before my babes,
Till they rebuke me to a nobler life;
I keep a faithful friendship with my friend,
Whom loyally I serve before myself;
I lock my lips too close to tell a lie;
I wash my hands too white to touch a bribe;
I owe no man a debt I cannot pay,
Save only of the love men ought to owe.
Withal, each day before the blessed Heaven,
I open wide thechambers of my soul,
And pray the Holy Ghost to enter in.
Thus reads the fair confession of my faith;
So crossed with contradictions by my life,
That now may God forgive the written lie!
Yet still, by help of Him who helpeth men,
I face two worlds, and fear not life or death.
O Father! lead me by thy hand! Amen!
-Spirit it of the Fair. 

THE BABY WALKS! HE BABY WALKS!
Joy fills the house; the baby stands
Alone upon her feet!
With quivering lip she lifts her little hands,
And wonderingly doth gaze into her mother's face;
Thus timidly she starts upon life's fitful race.
How many hopes, how many fears,
How many smiles, how many tears,
Hang o'er her dangerous walk through coming years!
Almighty God! to thee the child is given;
Guide home her weary steps at last to heaven!
-Christian Inquirer.
<c02>
Selections.
"FROM CAPE COD TO DIXIE."
The inhabitants of this ridge of drift sand are remarkably thrifty. One sees now where indications of extreme destitution. But while most of the people are independent in their circumstances, there is not much wealth, and no show of it. The Grecian column will, indeed, follow the traveller all the way down the Cape, though Greece may seem further off than ever; nor can all the window blinds on the houses make the place appear in the least degree like Venice. Here he will see a Doric entablature pierced by five small windows, and there a court-houses in the form of an antique temple, but with its roof bristling with a dozen stacks of tall Yankee chimneys. Yet this show of Grecian architecture, if it does not always indicate good taste, is a certain sign of thrift. The man who builds his house with a front like an Athenian temple is sure to be a financially successful one, and, generally, a man who has earned his own money; for they who inherit fortunes, being often travelled men, or cultivated by some considerable amount of reading, know that the public edifices of the Greeks do not suit the purpose of our modern housekeeping. Thus, every successful captain of a ship who comes home to build a house in the sands must have Grecian pillars. He has got the money, and he will have a cottage front like the Parthenon. Nothing can stop him.
But the thrift of Cape Cod is not of that kind which follows fawning. Here dwells evidently an independent race of men, and all living at arm's length of each other. Even in the towns the houses do not touch, but stand apart. Every one has its separate enclosure, with plot of greensward, orchard, and garden patch. House and grounds form a distinct and independent establishment, leaning on no other for its support; and though, unfortunately, there are no plank roads in those sands, yet every front door is approached from the street by a plank pathway. Nor do these people generally occupy the whole of their houses. They have vacant apartments, though none to let. The front rooms are all furnished and shut up. The family live in the kitchen. And they can afford to do so, for the back part of the house is large enough to accommodate all the members, while the other half is kept as neat as wax for tea-drinkings, and the use of company. Hence, the stranger who goes stumbling through the unlighted streets at night may fancy himself in a Turkish town or an soul of the Caucassians. He can no more descry the light of a candle than if he were in the centre of Ethiopia. Accordingly, to stir much abroad after nightfall in these streets filled with painted wooden posts, is to set man-traps for one's self, and present the very sorest temptations to Providence. For, inevitably, at this corner you bark your shins; at that you break your neck. A Chinese lantern here would not be an unmeaning joke. Still, every native, doubtless, knows the way to his habitation in the darkest night, as well as a see to its cell in the hive.
And no Spaniard goes to bed earlier. He does his work by daylight, and economizes candles. All his habits are simple and natural. He dines on the stroke of noon. He takes his tea-rather weak-at the hour when the merchant, in the city sits down to dinner; and he gets up in the morning just as the town snob is going to bed. His fare, too, is simple; at breakfast, fish; at dinner, fish-fish fried, broiled, boiled, baked and chowdered! though, probably, there his not one housewife in ten who has not a pie, or a loaf of cake, stowed away somewhere. And you shall nowhere eat such delectable” apple slump;" nowhere such doughnuts, scarcely even in Connecticut; nowhere such baked clams, out of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. There is, also, a love of junketing and tea drinking, when neigbors come together in winter evenings, and when lasses assemble of an afternoon at a” quilting" making the bridal bedspread with innumerable, stitches, and squares of white calico, upon each of which is written, in indelible ink, the name of the fair seamstress who presented it. On these occasions the number of hot biscuits and sweet cakes served up is almost incredible; and the next morning after one, I have seen with my own eyes a small Cape boy make a heavy breakfast of pound cake with plums in it. 
After all, life on the Cape is more like a holiday than one might suppose who had never been there; for the men being mostly seafaring, they do their work in all parts of the world rather than at home. The Cape Codder is omnipresent. He casts his line wherever there are codfish. If there is a school of bass or mackerel on any coast, he is after them with his seine. He chases whales from the southern frozen zone to the northern; and will, some day, throw his harpoons in the open sea at the pole. In all the steamers, liners, packets, he is captain and first mate. On the high seas or the coast, there is no better man to handle a ship. You find him in all the crack clippers; and if a fore-and-aft schooner runs her nose into any strange place, ten to one there is at her helm a Cape Codder. He has also been in his day a fighting man. Some of our proudest frigates have been sailed by him. He was on the lakes in the last war with England, and threw up his cap there; and as for privateering, it is that one among all the trades of which he is Jack, that he likes best to turn his hand to. Though not much of a fist at marching on land, the Cape Codder, nevertheless, was at Bunker Hill and Saratoga, beside having fought the French and Indians in the old wars, and shouldered arms at Quebec.
But when, having sailed all the seas, and roved the world over, he comes back to his cot in the sands, the short season he spends at home is a holiday. Then give him a fast horse, and his good wife or sweetheart by his side. He must go to see all his cousins. Nor does any man have so many uncles and aunts, and kindred of various degrees. In fact, nearly all the inhabitants are first cousins, or call themselves such. Therefore, when the mariner comes home, there must necessarily he a good deal of shaking of hands and merry-making. Everybody must tell him the news; and he in return must tell everybody his adventures on sea and shore. He has probably seen the sea-serpent-at least, a mermaid, a whale, the elephant in his own country, or the Grand Mogul. Undoubtedly, the longest yarns are spun on Cape Cod which are spun anywhere in this country. And be it observed that the Cape Cod man, let him go to whatever part of the world he may, is sure to come back. His local tastes never die out, and wherever he roams, at every step away he drags a lengthening cable. If he run a packet between Boston and some other of our principal seaport cities, he does not remove his family to town; but, the moment he gets on shore, hies away to the Cape. He does not like the air of the great cities, and cannot really feel at home anywhere that there is not sand under his feet, or even a little of it running over his shoe quarters.-Mackie's new book,” From Cape Cod to Dixie."
A NEW NATIONAL PICTURE.
For the last few days, the East Room of the Executive Mansion has been visited by crowds, all possessed with one common object of curiosity. It was to witness a painting, whose subject was of intense national interest, and whose execution marvellously embodies the artist's design. The name of the artist is Mr. Francis B. Carpenter, and the title of the picture ”President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation before the Cabinet."
It was in December last that Mr. Carpenter conceived the idea of the work that he has just so successfully accomplished. In the second week in February life-studies were commenced, and his first chalk lines were drawn on the large canvas during the first week in April, so that about six months were occupied by the actual labor bestowed upon it. The picture itself is nine feet in height by fourteen feet six inches in length, and occupies a position in the East Room immediately opposite the door by which the visitor makes his entrance', the light from the front windows falling upon it. 
It must be admitted that our artists have too much confined themselves to those subjects which are invested with the poetic attachments of mythology and romance. To Mr. Carpenter, therefore, must be voted some credit for originality in directing his genius to a practical subject, that in this intensely practical age has an attraction with which the legends of antiquity have ceased to be invested. It will be seen that the pith of Mr. Carpenter's picture is its general expression when the President is listening to Mr. Seward's suggestion in regard to withholding the Emancipation Proclamation. His suggestion was to the effect that that proclamation should be withheld until it could be issued under the prestige of military victory. This moment was 
<c03>
happily conceived by the artist as the moment of inspiration for his theme. It was a moment on which much of that future hung which, was to balance the past, and, being seized upon, formed the centralizing point of a grand historical picture.
The President, of course, occupies the central position, holding, with his hand upon the table, the proclamation which had just been read. To our mind, the inevitably anxious air which, in repose, marks his features, is blended with an expression of earnest, honest listening, as though not only willing, but desirous to hear the reasoning submitted to him-as though not only desirous, but eager to weigh and to digest it. The portrait before us is the man Lincoln, with all his honesty, all his determination, all his right of power, awake to fuller means of using them to the very wisest purpose.
Mr. Stanton and Mr. Chase are on the right hand of the President, the former sitting, and his face wearing that decided and confirmed expression which says that his favorable judgment upon the question is maturely formed. Mr. Chase stands beside him, his arms folded, and looking as though, by elaborate consideration of the subject, he had made assurance doubly sure that his espousal of the proclamation was strengthened by all that moral bias with which he supports everything he has done. Secretary Welles is seated immediately on the left of the President, behind the table separating him and Mr. Seward. The grave and dignified countenance of Secretary Welles is pregnant with a look
of inquiry, as though the decision were calmly balancing itself before his judgment's eyes. Mr. Blair and Mr. Caleb B. Smith who are presumed to have not been present during the whole of the proceedings, are standing close beside each other, and immediately to the left of Mr. Welles, the very contrastive style of the faces of these two is marked with those shades of opposition to which their different temperaments would inevitably give rise. But the opposition is there, and is scarcely less obvious in the full and florid features of Mr. Caleb Smith than in the stern and set countenance of this fellow-member of the Cabinet standing beside him. The portrait of Mr. Smith was taken from photographs furnished to the artist, as well as from those preconceptions which artists share with poets, both in entertaining them and in finding them to be correct. The result in this case the President endorses, testifying most emphatically to the singular verisimilitude of the portrait.
Mr. Bates occupies the end of the table, sitting at the extreme right of the picture. The degree in which-manifested in his compact and cautious features-he combats the proposition is scarcely to be determined. He looks as though he had not made up his mind, and was hardly in the way of making it up very soon to his own complete satisfaction. Mr. Seward occupies the foreground, is sitting beside the table, is represented as having brought down his thumb and index finger argumentatively upon it, and his whole bearing is invested with that dispassionate, argumentative aspect which, even if it had been unsupported by that sound logic it promised, will always claim patient attention. This portrait of Mr. Seward is the key-note of the entire picture, for it is at the moment he is speaking that the attention of all is riveted.-Washington Chronicle.
THE PENNSYLVANIA RAID.
We gather from the correspondence of the Philadelphia Bulletin the following additional details of the rebel raid into Pennsylvania, and the atrocities committed by them at Chambersburg:-
Later accounts from Chambersburg are of a still more distressing character. Governor Curtin has information this morning that poor bed-ridden invalids begged the wretches to desist in their work and spare their homes, but without avail. To no species of appeal would they hearken. Deaf alike to the entreaties of wondering young children and weeping women, they scowled at them with jeers and brutal insults.
Eleven squares in the heart of the town are in ruins. All the public buildings, printing and law offices are destroyed. The destruction of Colonel McClure's property included his out-building and a large barn filled with the newly gathered crops. 
The rebel force in town numbered five hundred cavalry, with four pieces of artillery. They demanded a subsidy of five hundred thousand dollars: Northern money, or one hundred thousand dollars in gold. The latter it was impossible to furnish, and while the panic-stricken citizens were debating the matter, the work of destruction commenced.
The total number of buildings destroyed is three hundred, and the loss is estimated at two millions. The rebels were, under command of McCausland and Gilmore. They said that Bradley Johnson was in the rear, but nobody saw him. After Averill drove out the invading force on Saturday, eight rebel stragglers were captured, one of whom was killed by the citizens, who were with great, difficulty prevented from executing summary punishment on all. The killed man is supposed, from papers on his person, to be a major or lieutenant colonel. The seven others were brought to this city. They are a set of wretched looking rapscallions. The rebel commanders and all engaged in the work of destruction were drunk. The sober ones opposed them, and even aided in saving property. 

SCENES IN THE STREETS.
After the order to burn the town was given by the rebel commander, squads of four and six, under command of proper officers, were detailed for the purpose, and within fifteen minutes the town was on fire in a hundred places, the flames spreading in every direction with fearful rapidity.
These detachments, armed with axes and crowbars, broke into every building as they progressed, and nothing escaped the torch. No notice whatever was given to the citizens, until their doors were assailed, and women and children driven into the street, without being allowed to save any article whatever.
The scene at this time was fearful and heart-rending beyond description. The streets were filled with frantic women and children, wild with fright, not knowing where to fly for safety, yet urged on by the lashing, roaring flames, which enveloped both sides of the streets behind them.
Men were rushing madly hither and thither, incapable of resistance, and only anxious for the safety of their families, while the shrieks and wailings of women and children filled the air, drowning even the dull roar of the raging fire.
The whole work of destruction was accomplished in a very short period. The burning of the town commenced at nine o'clock; at eleven o'clock the rebels had left, and at two o'clock the best part of Chambersburg was in ashes.
The most lamentable feature of the affair is that all of the parties burned out have not saved a single article, not even a change of clothing, not one in a hundred of the women and children having been allowed by the incendiaries to secure even a covering for their heads before being ejected into the streets. A very large proportion of the sufferers have lost their all, and much suffering must be the consequence, unless immediate aid is rendered them. The number of houseless is not less than one thousand eight hundred persons.
PENNSYLVANIA COWARDICE.
The supineness of the Germans of Franklin county has cost them dearly. Last summer they had a warning-a scare-a terrific fright. The Governor then deposited arms with them, and begged of them to make a show of resistance. They preferred to depend on the troops of a sister State for protection. They were told then-so base and mean had been the cupidity of some of their citizens-that New York would never again come to their rescue. They did not believe it. There was a harvest in money in having the stranger troops there. Mark the result! The horses for which they asked such extortionate hire, the produce they demanded fabulous prices for, are theirs no longer. Horses and cattle have been spirited off, and their owners are without redress. This does not apply to all, but nearly all. There were a few honorable exceptions.

THE REBEL WAR CRY.
"Burn, plunder, devastate, wherever a partisan of Lincoln dare raise his head. That is our advice."-Richmond Dispatch, July 15, 1864. 
And that is in the true spirit of the slaveholding traitors from the beginning of their treason. They were one and all Democrats, elected or appointed by the machinery of the Democratic party. Under Buchanan, they plundered the Treasury at Washington of millions of dollars, Floyd, the great thief of the Democracy, being the traitor with the oath of office upon him. They plundered the United States Mint at New Orleans. They plundered the
<c04>
arms of the Government entrusted to their Democratic hands. Throughout the progress of the war to conquer rebellion, they have burned and plundered and massacred like the incarnate fiends of slavery that they are. The Quantrells are their proper heirs, Fort Pillow the exhibition of their assassinations, the late thieving raid of the Highland rovers their natural vocation.
Well may the Richmond Dispatch exclaim : ”BURN, PLUNDER, DEVASTATE, WHEREVER A
PARTISAN OF LINCOLN DARE RAISE HIS HEAD." And yet there are peace sneaks at the North who dare to be their advocates and apologists; soulless mannikins,” with livers white as milk who snivel over” our Southern brethren," cant over these bogus chivalry, apologise for secession, mouth over the Constitution; hypocrites, pretending to be for their country, yet throwing every petty obstacle and objection that mean-spirited ingenuity can suggest in the way of every measure of the Government to enforce the supremacy of the Constitution and the majesty of the laws; crawling abjectly at the feet of slavery, and licking the dust from its feet for money and party patronage at the hands of their slaveholding masters; sneering at abolition, and so far pro-slavery as to dare to denounce its abolitionists.
As in Buchanan's time, these men cover themselves with the stolen mantle of” Democracy," and crawl to their serpent ends under its old oriflamme, true Copperheads. This enunciation of the Richmond Dispatch should be blazoned on all their banners at the Chicago Convention. It should float over the 12th street Wigwam in letters of green and gold. It should glow on every space of its unending wall:” BURN, PLUNDER, DEVASTATE, WHEREVER A PARTISAN OF LINCOLN DARE RAISE HIS HEAD." It is the common sentiment of a common treason, covert or outspoken, according to locality, instigated by the master power controlling its minions alike-negro slavery-and the proper battle-cry of its worshippers.-Chicago Tribune.
BLACKBERRIES.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:
SIR: Will you please, without delay, give place in your columns to a few earnest, heart-felt words, addressed to the good people of your State who are at work or are willing to work in behalf of the soldier? They all want to know how they can use what they have to spare, in such way as to save thereby the greatest number of lives. Just now it is easy to tell them how.
Men in the army are, during all seasons, from various causes, peculiarly liable to diarrhea, which if allowed to continue becomes chronic, and this in its last stage is death, slow but sure. After prolonged and intense suffering the victim dies. In all of the earlier stages of this terrible disease, however, it may be checked, the patient cured, by the simple use of the blackberry, in some form. This life-saving berry grows abundantly in our land, thank God; and is now still growing, still ripening for use; so that for a little while yet this rich, precious fruit may be found on the bushes and in the market, and may be had from $2 to $3 per bushel in most parts of the country. Will not those who have them growing preserve as many as they can for the soldier? Who that has money, any money to spare, will refuse or neglect to buy some of these, and either themselves preserve them, or send them to the Aid Society ladies, who will receive them as a sacred trust, and prepare them for sending to the sick soldier who needs them? Buy one bushel, or five, or ten, or more if you are able. If you are not able to get as many as you would like, buy all you can; for surely a few lives saved are better than none. But try to get a bushel, or at least a peck, remembering that you are securing that which is life to the soldier; remembering the peculiar medicinal virtue of the blackberry-how it serves in variably to cure, while every medicine often fails. The hospital surgeons 
regard the blackberry juice, in any way preserved, as of inestimable value. It seems possessed of a quality not found in any other fruit, or leaf, or root, or seed, or mineral ever used. It seems the chosen messenger of God, to call the slowly- wasting victims of chronic diarrhea from approaching death back to vigorous life; to call the soldier-hero from the yawning grave to take his place in the ranks once more, to do valiant service there, to strike heavy blows for country, and for all that makes life dear to us. Brave, noble fellow, willing as he is to do all this, shall he not have this precious medicinal fruit, and live? He wants the juice without the seed. Therefore do not dry or can them, but send along all that you may have already dried or canned. The convalescent may be strengthened by them.
Not knowing how precious the juice of these berries is to the soldier sick with this disease, the good people of the land have themselves consumed hundreds and thousands of bushels which ought to have been made into syrup, jelly, wine, brandy, or cordial, to be carried by loving hearts and faithful hands to the thousands of sick men wasting away in hospitals. Let no more be eaten by those who would rather save many a sick and sinking hero's life than gratify their own selfish appetite. Let no more be left in the markets to be consumed by the well and hearty.
On! my friends, could you but see the skeleton forms that are at all times to be found in the hospital wards of Washington and elsewhere, and remember that the juice of the blackberry would doubtless have saved them, could it have been given to them in time, you would resolve to secure as many as possible to be preserved, and to be held sacred to the service of restoring to life and health the sick and suffering soldier.
In this city, the Sanitary Commission is trying to buy up all the blackberries it can get, and good women are making them into cordial, brandy, wine, or syrup, to be used only in cases of diarrhea. This the Commission is doing here, though often obliged to pay for the berries in Washington and vicinity as high as $4 or $5 per bushel. The Commission in New York and Aid Societies throughout the State might accomplish very much more at very much less expense. You have doubtless already done much; will you not do as much more as you can, while the blackberry season lasts? Will not all men and women in the State, who love the soldier and the cause he serves, do what they can in aid of the Aid Societies in this their present holy, hopeful effort for the saving of human life? S. B. S.
The following is a receipt fully approved:-
BLACKBERRY BRANDY.- To two quarts of blackberry juice, put 11/2 lb of white sugar, 1/2 oz. of cinnamon,1/2 oz. of nutmegs,1/4 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of allspioe. Let it boil a few minutes, and when cool, add one pint of brandy,
Will all papers friendly to the soldier please copy?
Washington, July 25, 1864.
JUDGE BETWEEN THEM. 
William Sawyer, a colored man, and one of our subscribers, who lives near Farmland, in this county, has five sons in the Union army. Two of them are in Massachusetts regiments before Charleston, two are in the colored battalion at Indianapolis, and one is in the 5th Indiana Cavalry. This is the amount of his contribution to his country's cause. But he has other children, two or three little boys, whom he is trying to educate, because he thinks” knowledge makes the man." These boys he sent to the public school in his district at the beginning of the winter term, and the little fellows were learning finely. But they were not permitted to remain very long at the fountain of knowledge. Somebody in the district thought” niggers ought to be kept to theirselves," and opposed their being permitted to attend school with his children. Favored by a provision in our laws which is an insult to civilization, and a most humiliating disgrace to the people of our State, he succeeded in his efforts, and the little boys were ejected from the school!
The mere statement of these facts is more forcible than any comment that we could make, but we wish people to judge whether the real interests of the country are advanced by the spirit and actions of men of this class. For ourselves, we have long been quite clear in our opinion of one point connected with this subject. We have no prejudice against white men, but we believe that a loyal negro is, by infinite measure, the superior of any white man who does not believe that all men in America ought to be free.-Randolph Co. Journal.
The Atlanta Appeal is printed on a half sheet of dingy paper, like most of the rebel newspapers, and is furnished to subscribers at the rate of $5 per month, no subscription for a longer period than two months being received. It has but very few advertisements, and nearly one half of those are of runaway negroes, which shows that business is nearly suspended and negro property very insecure about Atlanta.
<c05>
ADDRESS OF REV. DR. ELLIOT. 
At the recent Commencement exercises at Cambridge-
Rev. Wm. G. Elliot, of St. Louis, was introduced by Prof. Lowell as the orator of the day. The orator, after a few preliminary remarks, said that three years ago it was doubted whether Missouri could be held in the Union or not. It was now likely to become the keystone State, binding the two oceans together, New England and California being the abutments of the great natural bridge. Notwithstanding the treasonable zeal of the Governor of the State at that time, Missouri had given seventy thousand men to the Union army, and three thousand more than its quota. Three years ago, slavery was its cherished institution; now the soil is free, and no slave can be born there. (Applause.) 
The orator next referred to the establishment of the two different systems of civilization in New England and Virginia. Long before African slavery began, white laborers were imported and bound to service for a series of years on terms differing very little from servitude. 
The transition to slavery was made, and the result was the present national calamity. In New England was there political and social equality from the first. At the base of Northern civilization, universal education was made the rule and requirement of law. There was no system of common schools in Virginia. The power of the government at the South was exerted to depress whole classes of society. Let there be a free press, free schools, a free pulpit, and slavery cannot exist as a permanent institution any where, among any people or on any soil. North or South. Let this be granted, and Carolina would be as free as Connecticut. The speaker argued that if slavery were removed, the degraded class of whites at the South would be what the middle class is at the North. 
The speaker declared that, as a class, the enslaved race had more intelligence, better notions of morality, more sensible ideas of religion and responsibility, less inclination to idleness, and more courage and manhood, and better ability to take care of themselves than they had had the credit of. The effect of slavery upon the lower classes of whites was declared to be a very great evil, and the management of the white refugee to be as difficult as the management of the contraband. 
The orator said that he had learned, during the last twelve months, that the great problem of difficulty in the close of the war would not be the management of the blacks, but how to introduce a better civilization among the nondescript, unproductive class of whites. We needed not only a universal act of emancipation to sweep away the vestiges of slavery, but to create throughout the South an educated middle class, a free and enlightened yeomanry, and an industrial class who would count an honorable education as a prime necessity of life. 
The speaker discussed at length the antagonism between the different principles of civilization at the North and South, and the logical result in the rebellion. From this he turned to the war, saying that the first stage was battle, and the second and far more important stage was the work of social reconstruction, to infuse new ideas and plant a new civilization. There were two ways, he said, of subjugating the South-one by extermination, the other by conversion and regeneration. The causes of the strife must first be removed by the contestants, and moral force used to overcome spiritual enmity, and enemies changed into friends. These thoughts were enlarged upon at considerable length by the orator, and were received with frequent applause. 

GEORGE SANDERS AND HIS OPINIONS. 
A correspondent of the New York Times, speaking of the late Peace Conference at the Clifton House, Canada, gives the following sketch of the opinions, &c., of the leading rebel negotiator, George Sanders:
"Being at Niagara, I could not hesitate to cross into Canada, to discover what my old political friend-Heaven save the mark!-George Sanders, was about; although it was quite as clear to me then as now, that George was only after notoriety; that his great object was to forge thunderbolts for the Chicago Convention, under cover of some broad diplomatic purpose; for, although a sharp trickster, George; is no statesman; he cannot comprehend the breadth and depth of such an arrangement as might induce the rebels to lay down their arms; the Copperheads to dismiss their treasonable designs; the honest old fogies to be undeceived as to the magnitude of the great rebellion, (at this time gasping short and quick.) and once more submit to the honorable, condition-to both parties-of submission to our Government, and of making reforms (if need be) thereafter in a ”constitutional” way. I expected what I found, viz: the same curly-headed, fat, good natured, cunning George, who talked precisely as our friends of the Opposition do with regard to the Administration. He had the same stale arguments about gold, bankruptcy, arbitrary arrests, suppression of the press, waste of life, exhaustion of the North, the imminence at the North of bread riots and anarchy, the unconquerable power of the South, the ”butcher" Grant, the buffoon and ”original gorilla" Lincoln. (I am not betraying your confidence, Sanders, for you know very well that my batteries were all unmarked. I only wish to inform the country of the character and esprit of the opposition to the Administration, and to the re election of President Lincoln.) Of course, Sanders talked like a member of the Chicago Convention, for he said Lincoln could not carry an electoral vote, and the like. This interview convinced me (of what I previously was sorry to believe prima facie) that the leaders of the Opposition to Mr. Lincoln are in accord with the leaders of the armed rebellion. The movements of Sanders and his coadjutors are plainly intended to enable the Opposition to say to the people that the President has rejected honorable terms of peace. It is a trick, and nothing more-the trick of a mere party politician— with this depth to it, however: It means,' Gentlemen, the South is willing to come back and rule you, as it has done in times past. If you are ready for this, defeat Lincoln, and give us a Democratic President!'“ 

"NEGRO EQUALITY." 
To the Editor of the Philadelphia Press: 
SIR-The following facts, taken from a private letter of one of our officers ot of rank, will speak for them selves. I think they should be published as a further illustration of the atrocious nature of slavery; also showing who it is that practices negro equality and amalgamation:— 
"An old man, by the name of Griffin, has two sons by a negress slave of his own. These two boys are evidently rebel soldiers, and of very light color, their mother being a mulatto. Griffin claims them as his children and slaves, they being in my possession. Would you believe that Mrs. Griffin and Miss Griffin, ladies of education, and called refined in this country, could have the face to come before me to plead for the rendition of this property, unblushingly acknowledging this foul stain upon husband and father? Forgetful of all disgrace, insensible to all dishonor, being only desirous of recovering their lost property! I never witnessed such a scene before. The father, negress mother, wife and daughter, all crying and pleading for the release of the boys. I refused all their entreaties, determined, if the boys are negroes, to put them in the negro regiment, and try and make men of them. Is it not a strange state of society when a man is not disgraced in the eyes of his own wife and daughter by producing offspring from his own negro slaves? And these are the people who cry out against negro equality, and are shocked at the bare idea of their becoming freemen!” 
Philadelphia, July 21, 1864. E. C. E. 
"WE WANT DARKIES Too." The New York World, Express, and News have been belaboring Massachusetts for the promptness, with which Gov. Andrew adopted measures to recruit in the rebel States. One would have supposed, to hear these great negro haters, that they would not tolerate the idea, as too mortifying to their patriotic pride, of substituting black men for white democrats. The World, however, has new light on the subject, and favors recruiting in the rebel States for this reason:— 
"We want all the men we can keep at home to supply our scant labor market, and vote the Democratic ticket next Fall, so as to be rid of this wretched abortion of an Administration. The people who are conducting this war think negroes make as good soldiers as white men, and as they are responsible for the war and not we, let them have their darkies, so that as many white men as possible may be retained at home."
FREMONT. In a letter to the Colored Citizen of Cincinnati, Rev. Calvin Fairbank (so long and so cruelly imprisoned in the Kentucky penitentiary) says:—
"During the interval of the week, at Lebanon and elsewhere, I have witnessed a general expression of regret, dissatisfaction and condemnation of J. C. Fremont for his late backsliding. I hear every where from those who have borne the burden and heat of the day-in the days when the lash and spoiled eggs were thought a reasonable compensation for abolitionism-one earnest expression of regret and condemnation of this once popular leader, for having consented to split the force of the Republican party-draw off strength from Mr. Lincoln's cause-and thus virtually vote to place a copperhead in the Presidential chair, and fasten upon the loyal people and the slave an obligation, involving the slavery of the one, and the submission of the other, to all that may be demanded by vicious, ambition. 
Fremont was the man for the slave, and the man for the masses; but, if his conduct does not prove that we all erred, it proves that he has fallen from his parity and good sense." 
<c06>
THE LAST MAN, THE LAST DOLLER, AND THE LAST LOAF.
A solider who passed through the late raid south of Richmond says:" The impression on my mind about the rebellion is, that the rebels are now using their last man, last dollar, and last loaf of bread. There is absolutely nothing in reserve. If beaten now, they go up suddenly and surely. We could see this every where. The last card is now being played, and if lost, all is lost, for them. I do hope our people will hold out, no matter what happens to Grant or anybody else. A little perseverance is bound to win the day. All rebels want to end the war now. They preter subjugation to another year of the war."
PERSONAL. Thomas Downing, the veteran caterer and oysterman,. (colored,) now in the seventy first year of his age, is about to close up his business in New York, after remaining stationary in Broad street for the long period of forty-four years. From an humble beginning in the business of”cracking oysters," Mr.
D. now surveys with complacency the fine row of stores bearing his name and owned by his son, in the heart of the flourishing city of Newport, besides holding in his own right ample resources with which to make his old age comfortable. Besides being rich, Mr. D. is a man of excellent character.
The Louisiana Constitutional Convention, on the 29th ult, held the seventy-fourth day of its session. Questions about slavery vex and embarrass and delay it. They are raised and tendered by pro-slavery members. The Convention had advanced so far as to set the 21st of July for considering its new Constitution as a whole. [This new Constitution was adopted on the 22nd.]
Among the recruits received in Worcester, Mass., last Friday, was a girl who gave the name of Charles Smith, claiming to come from Woonsocket, R. I. Her disguise, however, was penetrated by the officer, and the recruit confessed to belonging in Philadelphia, and gave as a reason for enlisting that her lover was a soldier, that he was stationed near Washington, and that she wished to see him. Learning through the newspapers that the Massachusetts regiments were to guard the defences of Washington, she thought this a favorable opportunity. She was provided with clothing suitable to her sex, and forwarded to her home.
Mrs. J. W. Polk has been arrested at Cairo as a rebel spy and smuggler. She had in her possession a rebel mail, considerable Confederate money, and goods to the value of several hundred dollars, with which she was bound for the South. The letters found in her possession show her to be a rebel mail carrier, and a member of Trusten Polk's family, ordered out of Missouri some time since.
The New Ironsides, which arrived at Philadelphia on Friday of last week, has been on duty in Charleston Harbor for eighteen months, and during that time has participated in eighteen engagements, in all of which only one man was killed, Acting Ensign Charles W. Howard, and a sailor wounded. She was hit 221 times in one engagement. Only one or two shots penetrated her.
POLITICAL. The Cleveland Herald states that so far as its observation goes, there is not a single German Union paper in Ohio that supports Fremont and Cochrane. The Toledo Express, the last German paper in Ohio to advocate Fremont, says that ”unity and loyalty, under existing circumstances, are identical," and it therefore runs up the Baltimore banner.
A General Order of Gen. Canby, dated July 7, reorganizes the colored regiments of the Corps d' Afrique in the Department of the Gulf into ten regiments, consolidated out of thirty-one, and numbered 73 to 82 inclusive. The same order gives directions for examining boards to select officers for the new regiments from those of the old ones.
A CHANCE TO SEE BETTER. The London Times says that there has been no such fighting in the history of the human race as that between Grant and Lee in Virginia. If it wants to see better fighting still, let some one of the European nations interfere in the quarrel-. Evening Post.
A paper in Nantes, France, recently published a letter, in which it is gravely charged that Gen. Grant's reason for refusing an armistice of forty-eight hours in which to bury the dead at Spottsylvania was, that he wished the dead to be converted into bone and tallow for the benefit of speculators!
THE PACIFIC RAILROAD. The indefatigable Perham succeeded in getting through Congress his bill for a Northern Pacific Railroad, and it has been signed by the President. The company will be organized in Boston, and the first meeting will be held about the 1st of September.
A dead mule, belonging to a Memphis citizen, was being hauled out of the lines the other day, when a bayonet-thrust revealed the fact that the carcass contained 60,000 percussion caps, a quantity of ammunition, and other contraband articles, which some rebel sympathizer had taken this means of smuggling.
The number of Union prisoners who have been confined in the Libby Prison at Richmond since the beginning of the war is estimated at one hundred thousand. A great proportion of these have contracted diseases from which they will never fully recover, and many have died.
A house and barn, owned and occupied by Moses Green, in Northboro' , Mass., were burned on Wednesday. The fire was set by a young child playing with matches; and the little fellow came near payingdear for his fun by being burnt with the buildings. Loss $800 or $900. No insurance.
Major James P. Jones, of the 7th Maine, reported as killed last week, was a son of Eli Jones, of China, a well known Quaker preacher. Major J. himself belonged to the Society.
The cost of the soldiers' monument ar  Gettysburg, where the bodies of 4,000 Union soldiers are interred, will be $50,000. The fencing, &c., will more than double that amount.
There are now about 140,000 sick and wounded soldiers in the hospitals throughout the country. This includes all those in camp hospitals, of which there are about fifty thousand.
The number of Union prisoners at Andersonville, Ga., is now over 27,000. The mortality is from 50 to 60 a day.
A NEW WAY TO TURN AN HONEST PENNY. An individual in New York, calling himself ”Louis Phillipe," advertises for subscriptions for a McClellan sword.
A New Hampshire paper states that the mountains in Alton, Gilmanton and Gilmanton and  the opposite side of the lake, have been on fire for a week or more. The wood and timber upon thousands of acres must have been very seriously damaged. The appearance, at time, is grand beyond description, especially in the night time.
The Fall River and New York Steamboat Company is building a new side wheel steamer of 2000 tons, similar to the Metropolis, which is expected to be put on the line in the Spring.
The offer of the Southerners cannot be mistaken. It means peace-a settlement, upon terms in no way dishonorable to either party, without any infringement upon their rights or ours.-Hartford Times.
Indeed, Mr. Times! What terms, honorable or other wise, have your friends proposed? You have often spoken like an oracle in regard to the plans of rebels in authority. Pray, enlighten a listening and patient public on this point.
Negro recruiting is going on rapidly in Kentucky. Both the loyal and disloyal are sending their negroes to the recruiting offices. They regard it as their only chance for compensated emancipation.
SANDUSKY, OHIO, 29th. Nearly 10,000 persons attended the funeral of Major General McPherson to day at Clyde. The body was escorted to the grave by a regiment of infantry.
The New York Herald has collected $800 in dollar subscriptions, for a sword for Gen. McClellan, at an expense of $900 in advertising the names of contributors.
In the first two years of the present war, 28,000 walnut trees were filled to supply a single European manufactory of gunstocks for the American market.
A single firm in Detroit has purchased 800,000 pounds of wool this season in Michigan. They paid in cash at an average of 79 cents per pound.
Wild pigeons have been plenty in Wisconsin this season; so plenty that one man near La. Crosse has taken 30,000 with a net. Another man in Sparts has taken $1800 worth at four cents each.
The Biblicat Recorder publishes the following note from Rev. Mr. Pritchard, of Raleigh, N. C-
"Last Spring, a prominent member of the church of which I was pastor, in Baltimore, met, at the St. Nicholas Hotels, in New York, Ex-President Pierce. Mr. Pierce manifested the warmest sympathy for the South in this struggle for independence, declared that the only hope for freedom on this continent was in the success of the South; that, old as he was, he should have been in the Confederate army but for the health of his wife, and that he desired no higher earthly honor than to be a private in the ranks of the Southern army."

A party visiting the White Mountains ascended Mount Washington on the 22d ult., and encountered a severe snow storm of three hours' duration. The ladies suffered very serverely.
