THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE- 
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCES JACKSON, <illegible> MUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 9. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1523.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
RUNAWAY SLAVES, &c.
THE MARYLAND LEGISLATURE vs. THOMAS GARRETT.
Mr. Jacobs, of Worcester, offered the following:—
Whereas, at the 24th anniversary of the American Abolition Society, held in the City Assembly Rooms, in New York city, in May, 1857, a certain Francis Jackson, of Boston, Treasurer of the Society, reported that during the current year the receipts of the Society were $19,200, and of the auxiliary societies of New York, Pennsylvania and Michigan, $18,856, making a total of $38,162 from those sources; and
Whereas, said American Abolition Society also received for the same year, as appears from said report, the further sum of $158,750 from the Exeter Hall Emancipation Society, in the city of London, Great Britain, and both of said two sums make an aggregate of $196,912; and
Whereas, the London Times, a newspaper of high repute on all questions involving the policy of England towards this country, distinctly declares that this money was given as a bounty on slaves-i. e., to decoy them from their owners, and induce them to run away; and
Whereas, a certain Hiram K. Wilson, of Worcester, in Massachusetts, did go into Canada, and take a census of all such runaway slaves during the winter of 1856, and reported their number at 35,000, since augmented to 45,000; and
Whereas, a certain Thomas Garrett, of the city of Wilmington, in the State of Delaware, did attend the anniversary meeting as aforesaid in the city of New York, in May, 1857, and did there show by his books of record and entry, where he had stolen 2,059 slaves, and forwarded them North, per underground railroad; and
Whereas, said Garrett did attend a meeting of Abolitionists held at the Assembly Buildings, in the city of Philadelphia, on the 17th December, 1859, whereat he stated, that by his books of entry and record he had stolen and conveyed North by the underground railroad, the further number of 386 slaves, since the report in May, 1857, making a total of 2,445 slaves stolen by said Garrett; and 
Whereas, the said sum of $196,912, bestowed upon said Garrett in May, 1857, and his large annual receipts per capita, for every slave he can so steal, have made him rich in wealth, and marked him as a wicked and base traitor to man and God; and
Whereas, most of the slaves so stolen by said Garrett, belong to citizens of this State, whose rights of property the State is sacredly pledged to secure inviolate-therefore, be it
Resolved, by the General Assembly of Maryland, that the Treasurer pay, upon the order of the Comptroller, the sum of-to any person or persons who may secure said Thomas Garrett in some of the public jails in this State; and that the Governor of this State, on information of such fact, is hereby requested to employ the best legal ability of the State to prosecute said Garrett to conviction and punishment.
Mr. Jacobs then entered into a detailed explanation of the resolution; of the manner in which slaves are stolen from Worcester and other counties in that vicinity. He dwelt at some length upon pedlars, their tricks of trade, and the insinuating way they have of ingratiating themselves into the good-will of negroes. He was particularly hard on Garrett; said he was a traitor, and should be hung. 
About having slaves run off, Mr. Jacobs had experienced loss from that cause. He now had a man in Canada who often wrote home begging for money and to be brought back. The poor devil was nearly starved, but could not come back, although he wanted to do so. Mr. Jacobs verily believed he was run off by 'Old Brown.' Garrett, who sent his minions, the pedlars, throughout the country, pocketed the money for running them off. Mr. Jacobs denounced Garrett as an arch-traitor, a villain, and guilty of every horrid crime. There were men that he knew who could convict the scoundrel, and he wanted him caught. As a matter of course, under the rules of the House, the resolutions of Mr. Jacobs lie over for another reading.
THE UNDERGROUND RAILWAY RESOLUTIONS.
Mr. Jacobs, of Worcester, asked a suspension of the rules, so as to call up his resolutions providing for the capture of Thomas Garrett, for running off slaves from Maryland. The rules were suspended.
Mr. Jacobs moved that the blank in his resolutions for the capture of Garrett be filled with $2,000.
Mr. McCleary moved to amend with $500.
Mr. Chaplain moved to amend the amendment by $5,000.
Mr. Gordon thought it best first to change the resolution of Mr. Jacobs, so that the bounty would not be paid until Garrett was convicted.
Mr. Dennis asked that if this man was in the State, what could be done with him?
Mr. Jacobs. Hang him. (Laughter.)
Mr. Dennis, resumed. According to the gentleman's statement yesterday, Garrett was never in Maryland. If a citizen of another State receives slaves from Maryland, and forwards them to Canada or elsewhere, he cannot be touched for violating the soil of Maryland. The thing is out of the question.
Mr. Gordon, of Allegany, said that without an examination of the questions he was not prepared to coincide with the gentleman from Somerset. If a man stands on the Virginia bank of the Potomac, and shoots another in Maryland with a rifle, is he not amenable to the Maryland laws? Certainly. If by means of emissaries, he on the borders of another State steals a horse, and runs him off, is he not just as amendable to the laws of the State which he violates in that manner? And so it was with negroes.
Mr. Dennis, of Somerset, replied that there was no analogy in the case. In the one instance, there is a direct violation of the soil of the State; in the other, it is asserted that a man in another State has gotten rich from the per capita of slaves run off, as the resolutions say, from this State. Allowing that it could be proved that they were run off from Maryland, he could not be harmed. He had never been in the State. We do not know that he had emissaries, and if he had, it is a question not for decision by this House.
Mr. Gordon rejoined. He said it was admitted that Garrett sent emissaries into the State; that he had publicly boasted of having, through their instrumentality, run off slaves from Maryland. That gave the question another aspect, and it should be well considered.
Mr. Jacobs said he had no doubt but that Thos. Garrett could be convicted, if taken. He cited several instances in which the fact that he ran off slaves could be proved.
Mr. Dennis asked why Mr. Jacobs or some other gentleman had not gone before the Grand Jury and had him prosecuted, if these statements were so notorious.
Mr. Jacobs spoke warmly; denounced the London Times and the New York Courier, and declared
<c02>
that before he would have Maryland become secondary to the North, he would go in for a dissolation of the Union. 
Mr. Long, of Somerset, moved to refer to Committee on Judiciary.
Mr. Jacobs. Will that kill it, or not? (Laughter.)
Mr. Long. The resolutions embrace important considerations, and should be referred to the Committee. They were the creatures of the House, and their action, therefore, could either be adopted or not by the body creating them. 
Mr. Jacobs. You are Chairman of that Committee, ain't you? (Laughter.)
Mr. Long. No, sir. I am, however, on the Committee. Mr. Gordon is Chairman.
Mr. Jacobs Ah, well, I will trust it to him.(Laughter.) 
After some debate as to the propriety of referring the matter, Mr. Jacobs consented to the reference. The whole matter-resolutions and amendments-was then referred.

SELECTIONS. 
From the Essex (Eng.) Telegraph. 
EXECUTION OF JOHN BROWN. 
The execution of Brown for the Harper's Ferry Plot is the sentence and doom of Negro Slavery in the United States. After the disclosures made on the trial, who will exchange his money for slaves who may at any moment start forth freemen, ‘redeemed, regenerated, and disenthralled,' by the sympathies of the free? What planter's wife or daughter can again sleep in consciousness of security? What but a mere imaginary line divides the Slave States from the Free? Should the Free States refuse any longer to lend their legislative powers to a fugitive slave law, how long would slaves remain in the Southern States? In such a crisis. ‘minorities have an ugly habit of becoming majorities.’ The Abolitionists as yet do not count most noses-but when their leaders devote them selves as willing and serene martyrs to the cause of human freedom, and the fanaticism of the oppressor blunders into cruelty and vindictiveness against free American citizens standing up for human rights, it is not difficult to see that we are approaching the beginning of the end of the peculiar domestic institution of the South.' 
The message of Gov. Wise, of Virginia,' breathes threatenings and slaughter' against the Abolitionists. He owns to the extent and intensity of the panic spread by the operations of the Liberators. He is very furious at sympathisers in the British provinces, where he alleges all the treason is hatched and the insurrections organized.
‘There is a daily beauty in our life 
Which makes his ugly.' 
He cannot bear the neighborhood of an empire whose law is that the mere touch of its soil invests the fugitive with the panoply of freedom. He talks openly of a severance of the Free from the Slave States-and of a new federal union of the South. Should a servile war at last end in the emancipation of the oppressed, what an acquisition to Canada would be the exodas from the South thither of three or four millions of able-bodied Negro settlers!
In watching the vicissitudes of what Carlyle calls the Nigger Question,' England has an interest scarcely second to that of America. Our Cotton Trade has become absolutely gigantic. At least five millions of our people in England, the West of Scotland, and the North of Ireland, depend directly or indirectly upon that right arm of our industry and commerce. What chance is there that the Southern States could continue to produce cotton if the slaves were emancipated-especially if they emancipated themselves by masterful liberation? If the domestic institution' were to break up, where would our Lancashire mills be? This is a question which it is vital to our interests that we should put and solve betimes. The friends of peace and freedom, providentially, have not been idle. The Quakers especially, whose benevolence and justice are as thrifty and useful as they are sterling and sincere, have been busy in forestalling the crisis. India has rapidly extended its production of cotton-its culture is being promoted in our West India Colonies. Dr. Livingstone and his colleagues are doing wonders with the natives of Africa in the neighborhood of the Portugese Settlements-and at Natal, the exertions of the settlers promise to be rewarded by abundant crops. Miss Gurney, the Buxtons, Miss Coutts, are untiring laborers in this field of usefulness but the martyrdom of the hero of Osawatomie is a great fact which ought to warn our Government that we may ‘waken one fine morning,' and find the production of cotton in America ‘indefinitely postponed,' and our manufacturing districts suddenly 'brought up all standing.' Our domestic tranquillity, our commerce, and finances, would be very seriously endangered by any material defalcation in our supplies of cotton-and while we have Colonies capable, by encouragement, of filling up the gap, to the extent of any possible deficiency, it becomes the duty of the State no longer to leave such a contingency dependent upon the eleemosynary patriotism of private enterprise.

From the same. 
THE LONDON TIMES.
At home we look for the current of public opinion to a variety of sources-abroad it is believed to be indicated by the Leading Journal. On the Continent, in America, the Times is England. Whatever the Thunderer says, the Yankees believe that John Bull says. It is very important, therefore, that the Times should say right. We regret our contemporary's tone in reference to the Harper's Ferry Martyr. It is liable to grievous mis-interpretation at Tammany Hall. We have paid twenty millions to buy the freedom of our Slaves. We have made treaties with the nations to suppress the Slave Trade. We keep large fleets, at great expense, in homage to a moral sentiment-the protection of the helpless and the wronged. That is England's own attitude on this subject-the loftiest, the most magnanimous ever assumed by a people-the crowning glory of our State-the proclamation of our implicit faith in the aphorism that righteousness exalteth a nation. Is it right that such a country should be represented to Slave ownern as their apologist-that the venerable champion of the sacred cause of liberty should be supposed to be regarded by Englishmen as a mere 'wretched, rash, intruding fool,' mistaken for his betters? Should the New England sycophants of the South be patted on the back, and the Abolitionists of tbe States, who require all our aid and encouragement, find England arrayed on the side of trimmers and man-stealers? 'Call you this backing of your friends?' Should we not rather assume a virtue if we have it not'-and, for the mere credit of the country, stick to the text our Statesmen have been teaching for the last quarter of a century? 
Even if the character of wisacre beseemed England on this occasion, surely some remonstrance at her hands would have been Seemly. We night have asked the planters to treat their negroes better-to
<c03>
protect them from brutality. We have a law against cruelty to animals-might we not have hinted that a Slave was, atleast, an animal? The planters take parents from children, husbands from wives. They make them breed while they withhold the sanction of the marriage vow-they educate the prettiest up to attractiveness, and hire them out as courtesans. They pollute their own sons by subjecting all their female slaves to their brutal will. Is the man who, after remonstrance above remonstrance against these abominations, perilled and sacrificed his life to put an end to them, to be sneered at as a criminal? That is a tone that does not sit well on John Bull. He is not a doctrinaire or a ‘feelosfer.' He is a plain, blunt man, that likes to call a spade a spade-why should he philosophise on the side of man-stealers?
Is such a course beneficial even to the planters? Does it not induce them to postpone putting their house in order -to hug their prejudice-to put off the irksome, but necessary task of reformation? Will it check the enthusiasm and devotion of Abolitionists? It is our solemn conviction that nothing can prevent a disruption of the Union but a right earnest reform of the whole Slaveholding system. Even were it true that the negroes are an inferior race, and that they are incapable of self-government or self-civilization, that would be no reason whatever for leaving them without rights or protection, and subjecting them to the unbridled passions of their owners. If the Slave States require the Free States to help them in recovering and retaining Slaves, it is surely the duty of the latter to stipulate that they shall not thereby be lending themselves to the permanence of cruelty and oppression. England must be set right before the world in this matter-and it affords us satisfaction to learn that a public demonstration is in progress, which will leave no doubt upon the subject.

THE COLORED REFUGEES IN CANADA. I
To the Editor of the N. Y. Herald: 
A few days ago, my attention was called to the voluminous report of your correspondent, commissioned to explore the condition of the colored people in Canada. Presuming that yourself and the readers of the Herald desire a 'more perfect knowledge' of the facts in the case than your correspondent was able to collect in his brief visit, and knowing positively that his informants have led him into great errors in many important particulars, I crave a hearing in your columns. You will the more readily grant my request when you are informed that, for eight years, my time has been almost exclusively devoted to the moral, intellectual and physical elevation of these refugees. The things that I affirm, therefore, are things that I know. 
And, first of all, let me correct an error not confined to the Herald, respecting the Underground Railroad. North and South, the impression has gone abroad that the fugitives in Canada have been enticed away from their masters by abolitionists, and that there is a regular organization for this purpose. Now, I have the means for knowing that neither of these impressions is correct. I mean this: that, of the forty thousand colored persons in Canada, not one in a hundred has been enticed from his master by white persons. This is not saying that no white man has ever tempted a slave from the South, for it is well known that this has been done. I know, personally, the son of a slaveholder who ferreted away nearly all of his father's slaves, then his uncle's, and then others. I could name one or two other cases; but these cases, like all other angels' visits, are few and far between. Nor do I mean to say that these fugitives are not fed, and clothed, and sheltered, by abolitionists and anti-abolitionists, while on their way to Canada, for they are; and I have not a doubt that the editor of the Herald would give a loaf of bread to one of 'these runaways, should he find him' faint yet pursuing' his way to Canada. I have been told by slaveholders that if they should find a slave fleeing from a cruel master, they would not only not stop him, but would help him along. 
This leads me to reveal the secret causes that impel the slaves to seek a home in Canada. A large class run away to avoid being sold down South, a second class to escape from cruel masters, and a third purely from a love of freedom. I could give hundreds of cases from each of these classes that have come under my own observation. Some of these I have narrated to slaveholders, and they have justified their escape. I will not omit to say that sometimes a man finds his way to Canada, leaving his wife or children behind, and that his love for these renders him successful in his efforts for their rescue. This, then, is the secret of that wonderful institution called 'the underground railroad.' Next we come to the condition of these people in Canada; the means for their elevation, and their ability to care for themselves. I will reverse this order, and ask why can they not, with a proper start, provide for their own wants? Has slavery so dwarfed their powers as thus to disable them? If so, why not devise means for relieving them from these disabilities? It is not generally known to the world that full one-half of the arrivals from the South are children of white fathers. Startling as this declaration may be, it is nevertheless true. And some of them are men known and distinguished in our national councils. Is it not a slander upon these illustrioussires to say they have begotten a race that cannot take care of themselves? 
I have known whole families to arrive in Canada from the South, with scarcely a particle of African blood visible in their faces. The philosophy of the case is, therefore, clearly on the side of the runaways. Let us look, then, for the facts. 
That any one who chooses can find materials in Canada for writing a sad history, is not to be denied; but it is ever to be remembered that these people are what slavery has made them. If they arrive in Canada with dwarfed or perverted moral natures, in profound ignorance and poverty, as most of them do, this is to be placed to the account of the school from which, after a protracted pupilage, they have graduated. To cast the blame of their condition at their door, is equivalent to depriving a man of bread, and then banging him for being hungry. Now, while this much is true, I enter this complaint against your correspondent, that he has committed the two-fold error of rendering too intense the dark side, and concealing the bright side of the picture. 
I do not say this was intentional, for, from the brevity of his story, most of his information was second-handed. It is affirmed that they are too lazy to work, and that they prefer to steal their living rather than to earn it. Now, from many years intercourse with the people in Canada, black and white, I affirm that there is more hard work performed by the former than by the latter, in proportion to their numbers. There are but few white families that do not employ colored laborers, in door and out. They clear up the lands; they chop the wood, and get it into market; they assist in planting the crops; and, if there are idlers among them, they but follow the example of their white brethren. There are also thieves among them but these are exceptions to the general rule.
There is equal ground for complaint on the other
<c04>
side of this question. If these people make depredations on their neighbors, they do but re-enact the greater frauds committed upon them by the canadians. I will give you but two cases out of multitudes that might be named, which will offset all the 'sheep-stealing' ever inflicted upon the Canadians. A man now on the lands of the Refuge Home Society contracted with one of his white neighbors to deliver at the Belle river depot two thousand cords of wood. When the work was nearly accomplished the man 'broke down,' leaving his colored brethren unpaid-thus inflicting want and sorrow upon the families of a score of men who had assisted in getting out the wood. A railroad contractor employed a large number of colored men, and when pay-day came, he absconded with the money, leaving them to reflect upon the superior honesty of white men. 
All the year long, these people are coming to me with similar complaints, only on a smaller scale. These cases do not prove the Canadians to be worse, but like the rest of mankind. I will not omit to say, however, that the majority of Canadians are entirely kind to these people, and do much to relieve the destitute.
Let us turn now to the means and outlays for their elevation. On their arrival in Canada, not one in a hundred can read a word; they have not a shilling in their pockets, nor a blanket for the first night, nor shelter for their heads. Now, if people in such a plight are not proper subjects for charity, then charity should come to an end. 
How princely are the charities of the American people! They have just given to Father Chiniquy, for the relief of his little colony at Kankakee, many thousands of dollars. They have sent forty thousand dollars for the relief of the sufferers at Lawrence. They have sent fifty thousand dollars for evangelizing Ireland. (I write from memory.) 
Noble charity! May the dew of Heaven rest upon the donors! But neither of these classes were in a more needy condition than the fugitives on their arrival in Canada; and yet the sum expended on the few hundred sufferers at Lawrence exceeds all the money ever received for the relief of the forty thousand fugitives in Canada. In this statement, I do not include the lands of the Elgin colony, as the purchase money returns to the stockholders; but I do include the lands of the Refuge Home Society, every dollar of whose funds is appropriated to the interests of the fugitives. 
This Society, besides furnishing an outfit for new comers, has established and assisted several schools, and provided permanent homes for a large number of families. 
These families are most of them now independent livers. They have supplanted the native forests by cornfields, meadows, orchards and gardens. Many of them have a cow or two, a yoke of oxen, or horses, pigs, poultry, and other domestic comforts. 
The most of them are constantly, though gradually, improving in condition. 
The statements and opinions of the Detroit Free Press, concerning this society, are not reliable, as the editor of that sheet has but one eye, and that is an 'evil eye'; hence his whole body. (the Free Press) is full of darkness. 
In illustration of this statement, a few years ago the Free Press assured the South that, such was the misery of the fugitives in Canada, that if their masters would come for them, hundreds would rejoice to return with them. This report was effectual upon the credulity of a single slaveholder, who had three fine boys in Canada. He came all the way to Detroit, and, crossing the river, found the objects of hopeful pursuit. He filled their ears with flattering promises, but it was 'no go.' He was decoyed into a by-place by these same boys, seized, fastened, and plied with a hundred lashes from a slave whip. On being released from this salutary lesson, he hastened to a barrister for redress, but was politely informed that his designs for kidnapping the Queen's subjects were known, and that if he lingered longer in her Majesty's dominions, a 
severer ordeal would await him. Poor Mr. Paine (our adventurer) returned to the South a wiser, if not a better man. 
But the curses he invoked upon the Free Press for its afflictive misrepresentations are still garnered in the troubled memory of its editor. 
Of the Refuge Home Society, I have only to say that its officers and friends embrace most of the leading ministers, and some of the best men of Detroit and vicinity. Instead of being a land speculating concern, but one of its officers receives any pecuniary compensation; and during the past fall and winter one of its friends has spent months of unsuspended toil, walking from five to fifteen miles per day, soliciting aid for those people, and receiving no other compensation than the consciousness of doing good. 
Before closing this article, I will correct a few miscellaneous statements. 
1. In reference to the depreciation of property in Windsor. Soon after the completion of the Great Western Railroad, real estate ran up in this town to fabulous prices, and remained so, notwithstanding the presence of the colored population, until the great financial revolution rolled over the West; then everything went down, and has been down ever since. But this change was no more affected by the colored people than are the tides. 
2. Report has gone abroad that the Canadian government threaten action for the exclusion of these people. What are the facts? A few years ago, Colonel Prince was elected to the Canadian House of Lords; but the colored people found justifiable reasons, in their own eyes, for dangerously swelling the vote of his competitor. On taking his seat, this 'fine old English gentleman,' under various inspirations, took occasion to make reprisals for this vote by a speech reflecting severely upon the colored people, and this was the only speech made in Parliament on that side of the question. So much for the threatened action of the government. Now for the sequel. On the first day of last August, the Colonel threw open his beautiful groves in Sandwich, and invited the colored people to hold there their anniversary celebration; and there, in the presence of congregated thousands, he revoked his Parliament speech, affirming that the papers had not correctly reported him; that he did not wish to be held responsible for things uttered in the heat of debate; and that he wished to live in friendship with the colored people. It might be uncharitable to say that the Colonel was induced to this retraction by the presence of a noble
heir in his family, whose future elevation to his father's honors may require the votes of the people whose friendship is thus wooed.
3. Of all misrepresentations of these people, the most cruel and untruthful is the charge that 'no white woman is safe from their assault.' Were I at liberty to lift the curtain on the other side of the question, facts would be revealed that would mantle the cheeks of their traducers with shame and confusion. This is only saying that unprincipled men find a home in as well as out of Canada. For years I have attended the assizes for Essex county, and never have I known or heard of a trial for rape in that county, where the parties were black opposed to white; and I will venture the affirmation, that a search of the records of the Court of Queen's Bench for that county, for a period of
<c05>
twenty years past, will not discover two convictions of that <illegible> by <illegible> against white ones. 
4. If it is affirmed that <illegible> of the climate these people die rapidly with the consumption. Out of the 'eighty families' mentioned by your correspondent, on the Refuge Home lands, but two have died of that disease in seven years. One of these was over fifty, and the other over sixty years old. Consumption is therefore, not peculiar to the colored people in Canada. 
Finally, let these Canadian refugees receive the special sympathy and care of the Christian and philanthropist, and they may yet become an unspeakable blessing to Africa, to the West Indies, and to their brethren yet to be emancipated in the South. C. C. FOOTE, 
General Agent of the Refuge Home Society. 

AN APPEAL TO CHRISTIANS THROUGH OUT THE WORLD. 
In consequence of a law passed by the Legislature of Arkansas, compelling the free colored people either to leave the State or to be enslaved, we, a number of exiles driven out by this inhuman statute, who reached Ohio on the 4th of January, 1860, feeling a deep sense of the wrong done us, make this Appeal to the Christian world. 
We appeal to you, as children of a common Father, and believers in a crucified Redeemer. To-day we are exiles, driven from the homes of our childhood, the scenes of our youth, and the burial places of our friends. We are exiles, not that our hands have been stained with guilt, or our lives accused of crime. Our fault, in a land of Bibles and Churches, of baptisms and prayers, is, that in our veins flows the blood of an outcast race; a race oppressed by power, and proscribed by prejudice; a race cradled in wrong, and nurtured in oppression. 
In the very depth of the winter, we have left a genial climate of sunny skies, to be homeless strangers in the regions of the icy North Some of the exiles have left children, who were very dear; but to stay with them was to place ourselves in a life-time of slavery. Some left dear companions; they were enslaved, and we had no other alternative than slavery or exile. We were weak; our oppressors were strong. We were a feeble, scattered people; they, being powerful, placed before us slavery or banishment. We chose the latter. Poverty, trials, and all the cares incident to a life of freedom, are better, far better than slavery. 
From this terrible injustice, we appeal to the moral sentiment of the world. We turn to the free North, but even here oppression tracks our steps. Indiana shuts her doors upon us. Illinois denies us admission to her private homes. Oregon refuses us an abiding place for the soles of our weary feet. And even Minnesota has our exclusion under consideration. In Ohio we found kind hearts; hospitality opened her doors, generous hands reached out a warm and hearty welcome. For this, may the God of the fatherless ever defend and bless them! 
And now, Christians, we appeal to you, as heirs of the same heritage, and children of the same Father, to protest against this gross and inhuman outrage, which has been committed beneath the wing of the American Eagle, and in the shadow of the American Church. We ask you by the love, the pity, and the mercy, in the religion of Jesus Christ, that you will raise your voices and protest against this sin. 
Editors of newspapers, formers of public opinion, conductors of intelligence and thought; we entreat you to insert this appeal in your papers, and unite your voices against this outrage which disgraces our land, and hold it up to shame before the nations of the earth. We entreat you to move a wave of influence, which will widen and spread through all the earth, and roll back and wash away this stain. 
Christian mothers, by our plundered cradles and child-bereft hearts, we appeal to you, and ask your protest. 
Christian fathers, by all the sacred associations that cluster around the name father, we appeal to you to swell the tide of indignation against our shameful wrongs. 
We appeal to the church of Christ among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, to protest against the inhumanity that has driven us from our homes and our kindred. 
Members of all political parties, we ask your protest, in the name of common humanity, against this cruel act of despotism.
Christian Ministers, we appeal to you, in the name of Him who “came ‘to preach good tidings to the meek, to bind up the broken-hearted; to proclaim liberty to the captive, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound,' to lay before your congregations the injustice done us; and the wickedness of a system that tramples on the feeble, and crushes out the rights of the helpless. 
And we appeal to the God of the fatherless, and the Judge of the widow, that He will remember his word, 'Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the least of these, ye have done it unto me; 'that he will move the hearts of His children everywhere to unite their testimony against this unequalled iniquity that writes 'property' on man; that chattelizes the immortal mind; and makes merchandize of the deathless soul. We appeal to Him who does not permit a sparrow to fall to the ground unnoticed, to plead the cause of the poor and needy, and set him at rest from him that puffeth at him. 
E. A. WEST, Redfork, Desha Co., Ark.
A. E. WEST, Redfork, Desha Co., Ark.
ELIZABETH T. WEST, Desha Co., Ark.
AGNES WEST, Desha Co., Ark.
LANDY WAGGONER, Desha Co., Ark.
RACHAEL LOVE, Napoleon, Ark.
WN.H. NEWCOMB, Napoleon, Ark.
HENRY MGGRATH, Napoleon, Ark.
POLLY TAYLOR, Little Rock, Ark.
CAROLINE PARKER, Little Rock, Ark.
JANE THOMPSON, Little Rock, Ark.
NELLY GRINTON, Little Rock, Ark.
MR. F. R. SANBORN'S PETITION TO THE SENATE.
To the President of the Senate of the United States:
AIR,—I have the honor to submit to you, for the consideration of the Senate, the following remonstrance and petition:-
To the Honorable Senate of the United States, now in
session at Washington:
The petition of F.B. Sanborn of Concord, in the State of Massachusetts, respectfully sheweth, that he was summoned by a Select Committee of your <illegible> body to appear before them on the fifth day of January last, to testify in <illegible> the late occurrences at Harper's Ferry, to which summons he, on the 21st day of January, made answer by letter, declining to appear, and asked to be examined in Massachusetts; that to this letter the Honorable Chairman of your Committee replied that the time of appearing might be delayed, but that your petitioner must appear in Washington, and testify there; that this reply was received by your petitioner on the 1st day of February instant, who, having in the intervening time reconsidered his declaration, was prepared to decline altogether
<c06>
the required attendance, and immediately wrote the following letter.
<illegible>.
To the Hon. J. M. Mason, &c:
The undersigned has received your letter of the 27th, in answer to his petition of the 2lst of January last, and now begs leave to say, that since the date of that petition, grave doubts have arisen in his mind, and have been increased by the opinions of others, more learned in the law than himself, as to the power of the honorable Senate to summon and examine witnesses in such a matter as is now pending before your Committee. He must therefore decline altogether obeying your summons, unless upon compulsion, and will throw himself upon the Courts, rather than the Legislature of his country for protection in those rights of a citizen which existed before your honorable body was established, and which he respectfully denies your right to subvert or diminish. He would further object that the form of year investigation, being secret and requiring the presence from remote places, for an indefinite period; of persons known to you chiefly by vague report, or by the false or exaggerated rumors of a licentious press, recalls to his memory the odious forms of a pretended justice in vogue here while these States were Colonies, and the still more hateful powers and mysteries of the Star Chamber Courts of Charles I., both of which our ancestors disavowed, and the good sense of England has overthrown. 
And further: that while he gives full faith and credit to your assurance that witnesses shall be protected, so far as your power may reach, he is too familiar with a recent outrage on the person of a Senator, and the privileges of your honorable body, (committed in May. 1856,) to feel any confidence that the Senate will extend to an injured witness more ample justice than a member of your own body, and the sacred deputy of a sovereign State. 
Very respectfully, your ob't servant, 
F. B. SANBORN.' 
Seeing, however, that your Committee disregarded similar objections to their authority, made by a witness before them, your petitioner did not send the above letter, but chose to await the reference of the matter to your honorable body, trusting to you to refuse your sanction to the unconstitutional and oppressive action of your Committee. But now learning that an order for his arrest has been passed without debate by the Senate, he desires to present his remonstrance against its enforcement, and to be allowed to show cause why it ought to be recalled. He would therefore object to the action of your Committee, and of the Senate, on these grounds:
I. That the Senate, when its Committee was appointed, was not legally a branch of the XXXVIth Congress for the purpose of legislation, the other branch necessary to constitute such a Congress not yet having been organized; in consequence of which, only Executive business could properly come before your honorable body, which the appointment of this Committee was not. 
II. That the Senate has no power under the Constitution to examine judicially, or for judicial purposes; nor power to examine at all under compulsion, except where the privileges of the Senate are concerned; to which this investigation in no manner refers.
III. That the secresy and mystery of the examination before your Committee are contrary to the spirit, if not to the letter, of our laws, and may easily be abused for purposes of injustice or oppression. 
IV. That to summon witnesses from remote parts of the country, for indefinite times, in a period of great public exasperation, is an inconvenience and hardship in no way necessary to the public safety, nor compensated by the fees received, since it may interrupt for a long time the regular occupations of industrious citizens, or even, as in the case of your petitioner, ruin their private business altogether; and that the same power of summons, now honestly used, may be hereafter perverted to the most unjust purposes of public or private animosity.
V. That, notwithstanding the protection offered by your Committee, under which, were their investigation legal and necessary, he would cheerfully incur the risks of insult and assassination threatened by residents or visitors in Washington to all persons holding the opinions which your petitioner is known to entertain. Notwithstanding this protection, your petitioner cannot think himself bound to appear in a city where citizens are arrested and assaulted for free speech (which your petitioner is in all places wont to use); where members of the Federal Legislature, in either branch, are threatened and attacked for words spoken in debate; and where the solemn deliberations of the National Councils are interrupted by blows and the unlawful use of deadly weapons-events too well known to your honorable body, and which testify to the world either the unwillingness or the inability of the Federal Government to protect its own members, and the citizens residing under its peculiar jurisdiction.
VI. That the statute of 1857, compelling witnesses on a Congressional investigation to testify to their own disgrace or inculpation, is contrary to the principles of the common law, and destroys one of the chief safeguards of an accused citizens; while, on the other hand, the immunity promised by said statute, if in any respect valid, is an unconstitutional interference with the powers of the State and the Federal judiciaries; for both which reasons the aforesaid statute is unconstitutional and oppressive.
Your petitioner would respectfully ask your careful attention to these six points; all of which he is informed have been presented in your honorable body, or in the House of Representatives, by members of the same, when, from time to time, the questions involved have been under discussion; and which ought not, therefore, to be slighted as the carping objections of a factious individual. He believes them to be the well-considered opinions of a large number of his countrymen. Yet, if they were peculiar to himself, he would urge them with the 
same earnestness, since the protection of individual freedom is the highest object of a free Government. 
Furthermore, he would beg leave to say that to him, much considering the present state of public affairs and the tone of public sentiment, there appear many and dangerous indications of a great change and perversion of the form, of our Government; since he sees the States encroaching on the powers of the Federal Government in one direction, and the Federal Government encroaching on the States in another; while the Executive claims power not granted by the Constitution, the Judiciary invades the province of the Legislature, and the Legislature has assumed Judicial authority-a mixture of powers carefully guarded against by our Constitution, and always hurtful to freedom and justice. Besides which, he notices in the National Legislature alarming tokens of a still greater changes when sworn officers of the Government declare their purpose to destroy the same, in a contingency not unlikely to occur, and talk openly of standing aimies and martial law as proper to supersede the peaceful supremacy of the civil power; when a member of your honorable body has, in debate, spoken with contempt of trial by jury-the oldest and dearest right of our countrymen; when another member has prophesied, and seemed to court, a bloody strife
in your own chamber, and treats of hanging have been uttered and repeated in a co-ordinate branch of 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hall.’
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other Statue, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in siding other States in binding on such an unrighteous jobs. On this subject OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly then they and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been sending, and the time has come for locking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’ --WILLIAM ELLERT CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the Legislature, against other members of your honorable body. 
In view of these things, your petitioner would think himself wanting to his countryï¿½s freedom and safety, if he allowed usurpations of power against himself in matters however unimportant; for it is the custom in all political revolutions, to proceed from unlawful authority allowed in <illegible> things to great stretches of usurped power, whose beginnings he is determined to withstand. Therefore he would renew his declaration, that his refusal to appear before your Honorable Committee is not in contempt of the Senate, but because be believes his rights and those of his fellow-citizens to be imperiled by the action of your honorable body: and that it is his duty to pray you to reverse such action, and for himself to maintain these rights as God shall give him the means.
And, as in duty bound, your petitioner will ever pray, &c. F. B. SANBORN.

INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE.
SELECT COMMITTEE ROOM, U. S. SENATE. Washington, Feb. 14, 1860. 
THADDEUS HYATT, Esq.
Sirï¿½I am directed by the committee of the Senate, appointed to inquire into the facts and circumstances attending the recent invasion at Harperï¿½s Ferry, to notify you that the committee will meet on Friday morning next, the 17th inst., at their room in the Capitol, when and where your presence is deemed desirable. Respectfully yours,
D. F. MURPHY, Clerk to Committee.
WASHINGTON, D. C, Feb. 17, 1860. 
To THE HON. J. M. MASON, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee:
Sirï¿½I am in receipt of a communication from the Clerk of your Honorable body, to the effect that my presence is this day desired. I would not presume on a courtesy that has already laid me under obligations, but considerations that, it explained, would commend my motives to the generous regard of your honorable committee, embolden me to solicit a further indulgence. An extension of time within such range as not to embarrass the action of your honorable committee would be regarded by me, under present circumstances, as a peculiar favor. It is proper for me to add, in this connection, that I waive all claim to the ordinary per diem allowance of witnesses.
I remain, sir,
Your very obliged and obedient servant, 
THADDEUS HYATT.
SELECT COMMITTEE ROOM, U. S. SENATE, Washington, Feb. 17, 1860. 
THADDEUS HYATT, ESQ.:
Sirï¿½Mr. Mason, Chairman of the Select Committee, has received your note, and in response thereto desires me to say that the committee will meet on Monday morning next, the 20th inst., at eleven o'clock, when the committee will expect to meet you without fail. Very respectfully yours,
D. F. MURPHY, Clerk to Committee
WASHINGTON, D. C, Feb. 20, 1860. 
To THE HON. J. M. MASON, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee:
Sirï¿½I am in receipt of your honorable committee's peremptory demand for my appearance, despite my very respectful, urgent and reasonable request for delay. I find myself at present subject to one of the following contingencies, viz.: either, first, to testify under protest, or, secondly, to testify with out protest; or, thirdly, to not testify at all. To avoid an immature and rash decision here, I respect fully submit, requires time. Were I influenced only by a regard to my own convenience, or were I merely a contumacious witness, I should not seek, as I should not need, delay; for in the first event, I could testify either with or without protest, and go my way, while in the last I could maintain a resolute defiance, and take the consequences, which, indeed, would be of no great account; since the age of martyrdom has been again inaugurated, and since men are brought to consider anew the utter worthlessness of a merely mortal life in a crisis of great principles, and in the presence of a sublimer and better life to come; for by the death of one man has the race been taught afresh the great lesson that life's great end is life. I desire to impress your honorable committee with the factï¿½and I urge it upon them with the force its truth demandsï¿½that I am in their power, a witness by courtesy. I was under no obligation to heed the summons served upon me, had the committee even possessed the right to issue process in a case like the present, for the summons was itself ï¿½informal,ï¿½ its genuineness not being certified to by any one. This point I state, not of myself, but being so advised by counsel. Such being the honorable nature of the position which I hold before your honorable committee, I maintain that, by every principle of fair and manly reciprocity, I was entitled to receive from them at least an equal amount of courtesy; instead of which, to my utter amazement, I find that your committee have assumed toward me an attitude that, were it constitutional even, could not be justified under circumstances such as I have herein set forth. Power exerted for the legitimate ends of power, freemen can tolerate, especially where they are themselves its recognized and only source; but when the agents of a free people fail to comprehend their own limited functions as the mere and temporary repositories of delegated trusts, and get to regard themselves as ï¿½sourcesï¿½ of power, then it is not as repositories alone, but, as ministers of government, their very functions become distasteful and hateful to the people; for no man who respects himself can for an instant be forced to feel the power of intolerance and arrogance, without at the same moment finding within himself the protest of an indignant and manly resistance. Power, to be respected, must first deserve respect. Every abuse of it, every indecent exhibition of it, every encroachment of it upon the rights of the citizens, every curtailment, and every attempted ourtailment of the people's rights, privileges and immunities, tends to insubordination, breeds anarchies, and begets confusion. This government, republican in form and name though it be, must maintain something more than its forms, and retain something better than its name, if it would keep the affections of the people. Nor can its ministers long betray their trusts by becoming the executors of an irresponsible will, without engendering conspiracies, treasons, insurrections, and every other fierce spirit of the fell brood that incubates where hate within the shadows of tyranny sits moodily fostering despair. The laws of the human heart are forever the same, universal, confined to no peoples and bounded by no zones. The power which despises man is in turn by man despised. A power which is feared, but not respected, is but the cloud-barrier to the lightning. How vain is the barrier in the rift of the gleaming! Every sentiment hath its counter sentimentï¿½resistance to tyranny is reverence for law. Antagonisms and attractions are equal. The man who hates oppression is the man who loves liberty. The man who respects his own rights, respects the rights of all. To honor the law is to maintain the law. To maintain the law is to maintain the right to law. To maintain the right to law is to resist subversions, and attempted subversions of it, come they from whatsoever quarters they may. And whether the attempt at subversions come from within or from without the government, affects not the criminality of the design, save that they are the worst conspirators, and they are the most to be feared, who, without pikes or ï¿½provisionalï¿½ treason, sap the foundation of government at its source, under guise of its functions, as the ministers of its power organize the magazine, lay the train and the face, and then, by acts of tyranny and coercive legislation, strike from the hearts of an indignant people the fatal sparks. Before the ruler is the law; before the law are the people. Law makes the ruler, the people make the law.
Say to your honorable committee, Mr. Chairman, that I mean them no disrespect. I have sought no concealments, and availed myself of no disguises. I am here at the seat of their power to look this question in the face. If I am wrong, I will recede; but if the committee are wrong, and if the Senate who created a committee with such powers are wrong, they ought to recede from such unconstitutional assumptions; but if the ministers of the people's power will not recede, if the plainest provisions of the Constitution can be thus trampled down-provisions explicit and exact-provisions inserted as <illegible> into the Constitution for the express purpose of shielding the citizen from just such inquisitorial <illegible> and <illegible> as are involved in the powers of this Investing Committeeï¿½the hour has surely come for Action of some kind. By our constitutional method of righting wrong, the first course would seen to be to <illegible>
<c02>
exposition of the fundamental law. Failing by this to secure the people in their rights, the next step is for the people themselves to amend the fundamental law. The issue must be made by some one of the citizens, and I propose to do it. Your honorable committee will perceive, therefore, that contumacy is no part of my programme. My hope is, that the honorable Senate will, on the case coming before them, see the propriety of giving this whole question a more earnest and thorough attention than they seem to have bestowed upon it. Owing to indisposition, I have not been able to prepare myself as I desire, in order to meet the requirements of my position.
In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, I beg to observe that, as your honorable committee is not a judicial tribunal in law, whatever it may be in factï¿½that as I am not before it charged with any crime-that as I am not a witness here in a case of crime where the constitutional ends of ï¿½indictment, trial, judgment and punishment,ï¿½ are proposed, thus not a witness here in any criminal case known to the lawï¿½I am not in the power of your honorable committee at all in virtue of any constitutional right possessed by them, not being before them by ï¿½due process of law,ï¿½ and hence, as I before observed, I am here a witness simply by courtesy; and the respect and deference I have shown, and now show to your honorable committee, is the deference which a law-abiding citizen is bound to manifest, wherever forms of government exist, and which are also demanded alike by the rules of civility and the instincts of manliness and politeness. Finally, Mr. Chairman, please say to your honorable committee that, in my present condition of health, I do not see that I can ask your indulgence for a less time than ten days. I have the honor to be
Yours, very respectfully,
THADDEUS HYATT.
SELECT COMMITTEE ROOM, UNITED STATES SENATE, Feb. 20, 1860. 
THADDEUS HYATT, Esq.:
Sirï¿½I have just received your communication of this date, and have only to say that the committee meet at eleven o'clock, the present hour, and I presume will be in session as late as twelve. If you do not appear before their adjournment, I shall ask for process to compel your appearance. Respectfully, your obedient servant,
J. M. MASON. Chairman, &c., &c., &c.
WASHINGTON, D. C, Thursday Morning, Feb. 21, l860.
Hon. J. M. MASON, Chairman Select Committee:
SIRï¿½Your favor of yesterday, in immediate response to mine of same date, informs me that you will ask process to ï¿½compelï¿½ my appearance. Were this a personal matter, I could not but take offence at the executionary manner in which I find myself disposed of; but being aware that with your honorable committee the duty is a mere judicial one, it would argue in me the weakness of a man were I disturbed by the treatment designed only for the citizen. To me, the most painful fact connected with this affair, is the circumstance that there seems to be no way of arousing the honorable Senate to a full and searching discussion of a question involving so deeply the happiness of freemenï¿½involving, indeed, I may say, the essentials of liberty itself. But I venture to hope that a day, not distant, will come, when the liberty of a Northern white man will awaken not less attention than the enslavement of a Southern black one. Your favor, sir, of yesterday, suggests to me that perhaps a State Court at the North might possibly take some interest in a free-born citizen who claims the benefit of Article 4 of the amendments to the Constitution. As your honorable committee have seen proper to disregard my prayer for a ten daysï¿½ delay, I am now constrained to ask their indulgence while I test the constitutionality of this question elsewhere. Having availed myself of no concealments, and proposing none now, I take this occasion to say to your honorable committee that, within the week, I will apprise them by letter where any further process of theirs may reach me, whether at New York or Boston.
I am, sir your obedient servant,
THADDEUS HYATT.
Mr. Hyatt failing to appear before the committee yesterday, as requested by Mr. Mason, the latter brought the subject before the open Senate to-day, and asked for process to compel Hyatt's attendance, which was granted by a vote of forty-three yeas to twelve nays. Those who opposed granting the power were Messrs. Pugh, Toombs and Chestnut, democrats; and Hale, Sumner, Wilkinson, Wade, Bingham, Hamlin, Clark, Durkee and Wilson. Among the republicans who voted for the proposition of Mr. Mason were Messrs. Seward, Collamer, Fessenden, Trumbull, Harlan, Dixon, Foster, Foot, Grimes, Ten Eyck and Doolittle. All the republican Presidential candidates, except Hale and Wade, voted for the proposition of Mr. Mason. Mr. King was absent. Mr. Douglas left the Senate when the question was opened, and took refuge in the House. Mr. Chandler, not voting, was approached by a waggish Senator from New England to know if he was also a candidate for the Presidency. After the vote, Mr. Hyatt's letter, of this date, in reply to Mr. Mason, was placed in the hands of the latter, informing him where a process will reach Hyatt. It is the purpose of the latter to test the whole question in the courts of New York; so that, to some extent, the interest of the Brown raid will be transferred for a time from the political to the commercial metropolis of the nation.
D. R. MCNAIR, Esq. Sergeant-at-Arms, U.S. Senate.
BOSTON, Feb. 24, 1860.
SIRï¿½By a resolution of the Honorable Senate of the United States, of the 21st inst., as reported in The Congressional Globe of the 22d inst., I perceive that it is made your duty to take into custody the body of Thaddeus Hyatt, wherever found, &c. I have great pleasure in being able to say to you that on Wednesday, the 7th day of March, I shall be in Washington, Deo volente, and at your service. 
I am, Sir, yours very respectfully,
THADDEUS HYATT.
BOSTON, Friday, Feb. 24, 1860. 
To the HON. J. M. MASON, Chairman Select Senate Committee.
SIR-Having obtained, beneath the sheltering wing of a sovereign State, that opportunity to maintain my rights which was denied to me at the seat of Federal power, I beg to inform your honorable Committee that I am prepared to receive any further process that may await me. The process of the honorable Senate will reach me on application to my counsel, Samuel E. Sewall, Esq., No. 46 Washington street, Boston. It is proper for me to add, that I have apprised your honorable Senate's Sergeant-at-Arms, that I shall be in Washington on Wednesday, the 7th of March, to there receive the commands of the honorable Senate, should not his duty have been earlier discharged.
I have the honor to be, Sir, your very obedient servant, THADDEUS HYATT.
LETTER FROM SENATOR SUMNER. The following letter was written by Senator Sumner in answer to an invitation to be present at a celebration on Washingtonï¿½s Birthday, in Philadelphia, by the Washington Monument Association of the First School District of Philadelphia, an association which was incorporated last year:
SENATE CHAMBER, 21st Feb., 1860.
Dear Sir: It would be a pleasure to be with you at your celebration of the Birthday of Washington, according to the invitation with which you have honored me. But other duties constrain me to forego it. It is always a delight to listen to the praise of Washington, particularly when his full life is set forth, and he is shown in his real character, ever wise, firm, and true, teaching two commanding lessons: first, by the achievements and trials of a seven yearsï¿½ war, that his fellow-countrymen should not be willing to be slaves; and secondly, by the repeated declarations of his life, and especially by his great example in his last Will and Testament, that his fellow-countrymen should not be willing to be slave-masters. I do not know for which he is to be most honored.
Accept my thanks for the personal kindness of your letter, and believe me, dear sir,
Faithfully yours,
CHARLES SUMNER.
The Frederick Southgate Brown who has <illegible> to the Louisiana Legislature for a change of <illegible on account of ï¿½the undying <illegible> attached to <illegible> of Brown,ï¿½ is a native of Portland, Me., and a printer by trade. His father still lives in Portland.<illegible> what might be expected of a Northern <illegible>.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, MARCH 2, 1860.
THE WEBSTER STATUE.
ï¿½In the Senate (State), yesterday, a petition was presented from William <illegible> and fifty-four others of Lynn, for the removal of the statue of Webster from the State House grounds, which was, very properly, laid on the table.ï¿½
This is not from the ï¿½Democraticï¿½ Boston Post, but from the ï¿½Republicanï¿½ Atlas and Bee of Tuesday-a paper which, under the management of Col. Schouler, is frequently indicating that the old Whig spirit,ï¿½especially in whatever relates to ï¿½THE DEFENDERï¿½ OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW,-is still in the ascendant is its columns. ï¿½The petition was, very properly, laid on the tableï¿½:ï¿½that means, of course, that the petition was very improper; and that means, that the erection of the brazen image of Daniel Webster upon the State House grounds is most creditable to the Commonwealth, and in accordance with the wishes of the people. From this opinion we beg leave to dissent. If the proposition had been submitted to a general vote, it would have been voted down by a large majority, beyond a doubt. It was not a spontaneous act of the people, but a contrivance of the Webster State street clique, represented by Edward Everett and Robert C. Winthrop. It was not done with deliberation, but hurried through the Legislature, at the heel of the session, without debate, and when but few members were presentï¿½ taking the Common wealth by surprise, and rendering it impossible to elicit a popular expression before the deed was done. Its projectors had in view not merely the exaltation of Mr. Webster, but also the humiliation of Massachusetts as an Anti-Slavery and Republican State. Their object was personally idolatrous on the one hand, and contemptuously and maliciously pro-slavery on the other. Their success must have been to themselves as unexpected as it was gratifying; and it was wholly owing to Gov. Banks, who, since his elevation to his present position, has seemed to be studying how best to strengthen the heartless conservatism of State street, and thus to cause the much dreaded anti-slavery ï¿½agitationï¿½ to subside. Had he done his duty in the premises, no such device could have succeeded, and Massachusetts would have been saved from the shame and disgrace inflicted upon her thereby; for it was in his power to have 'nipped it in the bud.ï¿½ When the overture was made to him, by the Committee of One Hundred, to be submitted to the Legislature for its ratification, for the erection of the statue aforesaid, he should have treated it as an insult to the Commonwealth; and in communicating it to that body, should have urged its indignant rejection. Instead, however, of discharging his duty to the cause of Freedom and Humanity in this manner, he exerted all his influence to crown the plot with success; and upon him mainly and most heavily rests the responsibility.
It is true, but few petitions have been sent to the present session of the Legislature, asking for the removal of the statue; and it is true that the committee, to whom these were referred, have reported that it is inexpedient to take any action thereon. But this is not the settlement of the question, nor any evidence of the real sentiment of the people. For the last four months, John Brown and Harperï¿½s Ferry have been the absorbing objects of public interest and sympathy, so as to divert attention from any local struggle, (more or less,) though not from the tremendous question at issue before the country. Before the solemnity of that world-thrilling tragedy, everything else had to give way, for the time being. The result of it is to be seen in more efficient action of every kind, hereafter. Agag may delude himself into the belief that, ï¿½surely, the bitterness of death is past;ï¿½ nevertheless, his fate, in the sequel, is to be ï¿½hewn in pieces.ï¿½ So Dagon is to fall to the earth upon his face before the ark of the Lord. In other words, the statue of the man whose last years were spent in actively subserving the evil purposes of the Southern slave oligarchy, in order to further his own ambitious designs, (which Heaven frustrated in the most signal manner,) is yet to be taken down, and banished from the soil which it now desecrates. For this is no party variance, no personal hostility, no ï¿½private grief,ï¿½ but a matter of great moral significance, and closely related to the honor and fame, the freedom and self-respect, of Massachusetts. No stultification can surpass that of a people, who, while professing an intense and growing abhorrence of the Fugitive Slave bill, give their sanction to the erection, in front of their own State House, of the status of one who scoffed at their humane sympathies, derided their conscientious scruples as ï¿½prejudicesï¿½ which they were bound to ï¿½conquer,ï¿½ and defended the right of slave-hunting without molestation on their own soil.
It may be said, that, so long as Massachusetts holds herself under a constitutional, and therefore binding obligation to return fugitive slaves taking refuge within her limits, she cannot very consistently remove the statue of Mr. Webster on the ground that he advocated obedience to the odious Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850. There is some force in the objection. ï¿½Thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou, commit sacrilege?ï¿½ Yet, there is this difference between the parties:ï¿½ Mr. Webster became more and more recreant to the cause of liberty and justice, more and more callous to the cries of the hunted and perishing; while the people of Massachusetts have been more and more changing their views and feelings in favor of the right, and growing more and more hostile to the presence of slave-hunters, till endurance has passed its bounds, and there is a general moral insurrection against allowing any fugitive slave to be arrested on their soil, by any process whatever. Hence it was that Mr. Webster administered to them his reproofs, and called upon them to ï¿½conquer their prejudices,ï¿½ for ï¿½any man could perform an agreeable dutyï¿½ï¿½thus indicating his consciousness of a growing moral divergence between them and himself. Still, the humiliating fact remains, that, while they privately extend sympathy and aid to those who escape hither from the Southern house of bondage, they have not yet proclaimed, BY STATUTE, their determination to ï¿½hide the outcast,ï¿½ and to forbid his arrest and trial within their domains. It is not owing, however, to an unwillingness on their part to take such action; as their numerous petitions presented at the last and at the present session of the Legislature, asking for a total prohibition of slave-hunting in this Commonwealth, clearly indicate. The difference in the number of signatures to these petitions, and those relating to the removal of the Webster statue, shows that the former, as an act of moral consistency, take the precedence in their judgment. The first step is, not to deliver unto his master the servant that has escaped unto us; and the next, to take down the image of him who counselled an opposite course of conduct.
We presume that, in the course of a few days, the joint committee having this matter in trust will make their report; and we trust it will be in exact accordance with the prayer of the petitioners; for nothing else will save the Commonwealth from present blood-guiltiness. Between allowing the seizure of human of beings here and on the coast of Africa, in order to reduce them to slavery, there is no moral difference whatever. In each case it is a piratical act. No people, claiming to be Christian or civilized, ought to tolerate it for one moment.
ï¿½The voice of Massachusettsï¿½of her free sons and daughtersï¿½
Deep calling unto deep aloud-the sound of many waters!
Against the burden of that voice what tyrant power shall stand? 
No fitters in the Bay State! no slave upon her land!ï¿½
<c04>
A BOUNTY UPON KIDNAPPING.
By referring to the 'Refuge of Oppression," on our first page, our readers will find a report of some extraordinary proceedings in the Legislature of Maryland, a short time since, with reference to the seizure of our esteemed Quaker friend, THOMAS GARRETT, of Wilmington, Delawareï¿½the ISAAC T. HOPPER of that Stateï¿½for his kindness to fugitive slaves passing through that city! The following letter from him was received at that time:
WILMINGTON, (Del.) Jan. 24th, 1860.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
I shall be with you, in spirit, on the 26th and 27th of this month. I would rejoice to be able to be with you in person, in these days of turning and overturning of the politicians of this country, on account of Slavery. To meet, at this time, with the pioneers and veterans of immediate emancipation would, no doubt, help to strengthen the inner man, and to meet what may be hidden in the future.
I have been in the practice, as thee well knows, when asked the question in Anti-Slavery meetings, how many slaves I have registered, to answer the question. At a meeting held during the Anti-Slavery Fair in Philadelphia, last month, Robert Purvis put the question, ï¿½How many slaves have you now on your list?ï¿½ My answer was, 2,245. The slaveholders of Maryland have added to that 199 more, making the number 2,444. One Jacobs, a member of the Legislature of Maryland, last week, offered a resolution to the Legislature, that they offer a reward of from two to five thousand dollars to any one who will have me placed in any jail in Maryland! Another member proposed that the sum be paid on conviction; but Jacobs insisted on his original motion, that the money be paid, provided I was put in prison in the State, whether convicted or not; in plain English, to any one who would kidnap me. They have the hardihood to publish, that I have received, mostly from Europe, about $196,000, (!) and say that I am now basking in wealth! Well, that is not the first falsehood they have told.
I went to Philadelphia last week, returning in the evening. Before I got back, one of our papers, in the slave interest, took the liberty to inform the public that I had left for parts unknown! I do not feel much uneasy, but some of my friends are sadly so. Not knowing what may happen, I think it best to pay another yearï¿½s subscription for the Liberator. I really do not know when my year is up. I enclose five dollars; one half to pay for the Liberator, the other for the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. 
Please remember me to all true friends of the cause who may inquire for me, more particularly to Francis Jackson, Wendell Phillips, C. C. Burleigh, and Parker Pillsbury.
I remain, as ever, thy friend, and the friend of humanity the world over,
THOS. GARRETT.
In a subsequent letter, this noble-hearted philanthropist, who was once stripped of all his property for succoring fugitives, meets the malicious allegations brought against him as follows:ï¿½
In order to disabuse the public mind, I will state a few facts to show that the charges made by said Jacobs are false. In the first place, I am charged with having acknowledged that I had stolen over two thousand slaves from their masters, from whom, with the large receipts from Great Britain and other sources, amounted to the handsome sum of one hundred and ninety-six thousand nine hundred and twelve dollars, which had made me rich in wealth, and marked me as a wicked and base traitor to God and man. If there was truth in the above statement, I ought to be rich at any rate. I will now give the facts respecting the above statement, and those who know me, I feel confident, will put implicit confidence in what I say: those who do not know me may doubt my veracity; that I cannot help, and shall give myself no concern about it. As to the stealing of slaves, I utterly deny the charge. I never, since I came to the State of Delaware, thirty-seven years ago, asked or persuaded a slave to leave his master or mistress, neither have I, in a single instance, sent a pedlar, or any other human being, to persuade, entice, or bring away a slave, much as I detest slavery; but I have made it an invariable rule, if called on for advice or assistance by a slave, or any one in distress, to render such assistance and give such advice as I thought they needed. This I have never denied. And if I found a slaveholder in distress, needing assistance, I would endeavor to aid him; but should be very apt to let him know, before we parted, that I looked upon slaveholding as the venerable John Wesley did, as the sum of all villanies. 
I will now state what I solemnly affirm to be true, that I have expended in clothing and in different ways, for the comfort and assistance of colored people voluntarily, several thousand dollars, and that I have never received from Great Britain, and all other sources together, one thousand dollars, to assist Godï¿½s poor, and in addition to the above sum, which I have at different times expended. 
Some years since, I took a family of colored people out of Newcastle jail, by habeas corpus, before Judge Booth, Chief Justice of Delaware, who, in consequence of the commitment being defective, released them all. The parents admitted their two eldest children were slaves, but assured the judge, sheriff; attorney and myself, that the father, mother and four younger children were free. It was raining at the time; the family wished to go to Wilmington; a hack was hired, at my suggestion, to take the mother and four small children to Wilmington. I forbade the hackman to take the father and two eldest boys. He insisted on taking them all with one horse, and I told him, before he left, if he took the father and two sons, he must look to them for pay, as I would only pay the price agreed upon for taking the mother and small children; and to this day I never paid him more than the price agreed upon. One of them was eight months, the other three years old, a cripple with white swelling, that could not walk a step. Suit was brought against me, first under the law. of 1793, where the fine was $500 each for aiding a slave; and then, after being fined by Judge Taney, before whom I was tried, $3,500, suit was brought by the slaveholderï¿½s attorney, James A. Bayard, for the value of the slaves; and, the agent of the mistress of the mother and four young children was called on by Judge Taney to fix the value on the whole lot, and the jury awarded, as their value, $1,900 more, making $5,400 fine in all. I think he admitted that the mistress of the woman had offered to sell her time to her husband, several years before, for $100, but said she was worth $300 to sell to the traders. If I am not wrong in my recollection, he also stated that the mistress lived nearly twenty miles from the family, and that the father had maintained the four young children from their birth, and that the mother had not lived with her mistress for about ten years, but he stated the mistress always intended to claim the children after they were old enough to become valuable. There was no charge of crime against me but the hiring a conveyance to bring them from Newcastle to Wilmington. I was tried for aiding the two eldest while I was sick in bed, in consequence of which my attorney declined defending me, and of course I was convicted, and fined $500 each, when I had no more to do with siding by law than Judge Taney himself, or James A. Bayard, the prosecuting attorney. 
From the above statement of facts, the public may see how much truth there is in the statement of my friend Jacobs, that I had become rich by the aiding of slaves to escape.	
THOMAS GARRETT.
On Friday forenoon, Robert Morris, Esq., Rev. J. Sella Martin, Dr. John S. Rock, and WM. C. Nell ably and eloquently addressed the Committee on Federal Relations, in favor of striking out the word white from the Militia Law. The Committee have since unanimously reported in favor of the amendment.
<c05>
A JUST COMPARISON. 
The Atlantic Monthly, in a critical notice of Redpath's <illegible> of John Brown, saysï¿½ï¿½It reads like an abolition tract.ï¿½ I believe the book is worthy of this praise. It gives us, in a style of great simplicity and directness, a narrative of highly important facts, with a just estimate of the significance of those facts, and of that condition of manners and morals, that depravity in Church and State, which gave birth to them. It is a great and rare advantage to have a book (which must inevitably be so widely read as this) entirely free from the detestable cant which is popularly written and read in regard to slavery; the assumption of the Church, that the holding of men and women as property is approved by God, and compatible with Christianity; of the State, that this is a practice which may properly be enforced by a white majority against a black minority; of the Republicans, that, however bad North of Mason and Dixonï¿½s line, slavery is sacred and inviolable South of it; of the merchants, that trade is of more consequence than human rights; of the literary class, that Southern gentlemen and scholars ought not to be interfered with merely for the sake of ignorant and stupid people, black or white; and of the mass of unreflecting men and women, that whatever is established is, of course, to be supported and perpetuated. It is much, I say, to have a popular book free from these enormous and pernicious popular errors.
But the merit of Mr. Redpath's book is not merely of this negative kind. It teaches, by implication, positively just and right sentiments upon the momentous subject of slavery. It everywhere takes for granted these great truthsï¿½that freedom is the natural right, and the inalienable right, of every human being; that infringement upon that freedom, except for the sake of crime, is itself a crime; that the relation of slaveholder to slave gives no rights to the former, and imposes no obligations upon the latter; that freedom is the right of every slave, and that his duty and interest alike call upon him to assume this right whenever practicable; that humanity and Christianity alike require the interference of others for the help of the slave, whenever and wherever such help can be made available; that it is owing to the corruption of manners and morals naturally engendered by a slaveholding Church and State, and by the labors of clergymen and legislators in behalf of slavery, that so little active interference in aid of the slaves has yet been attempted; that it is becoming more and more manifest that such interference is demanded, not only for the help of the slaves, but to prevent the rights of white citizens of the North being entirely swallowed up by the increasing incursions of the Slave Power; and that it should be remembered, whenever slaves are aided on the soil where they have spent their lives in enforced labor without wages, that, as a general rule, the movable property found in possession of the slaveholder rightfully belongs to the slave, and may properly be used, by himself or his agent, in his service.
Being thus free from the prejudices naturally existing among the less intelligent people in a slave-holding nation, (because directly fostered and perpetuated by their leaders in Church and State,) and being founded on a high morality and a pure religion, the laws of justice and of love, this book possesses the further resemblance to ï¿½an abolition tract,ï¿½ that it takes the stand-point which history, the judgment of the wise and good, and (after these) popular opinion itself, must ultimately take. After slavery shall have been abolished, the flimsy defences now patched up for it by priests and politicians will utterly disappear; the arguments of abolitionists, now called fanatical by slaveholders and their Northern tools, will appear manifest truisms, the obvious voice of common sense, humanity, justice and religion; and the wonder will be that a popular opinion and a national custom adverse to them could have existed in the nineteenth century, after the declaration, by the ancestors of that same people, in the eighteenth, that the inalienable freedom of all men was a self-evident truth.
When we know, in addition to the above, that Mr. Redpath's book possesses the quality (not enjoyed by allï¿½ abolition tractsï¿½) of being extremely interesting, and that it finds, in consequence, an extensive sale and an increasing number of readers, we may hope that it will sow the seeds of many enterprises for the help of the slave, and waken many hearts to inquire what they can do, directly as well as indirectly, in his behalf. C. K. W.
CONVENTION AT POUGHKEEPSIE. 
MR. GARRISON:
Will you permit a stranger friend to occupy a small space in your columns for the purpose of informing your many readers what a ï¿½rich treatï¿½ we Pokeep-sians enjoyed, on the 23d and 24th of last month? Our anti-slavery friends, Parker Pillsbury, Susan B. Anthony, Aaron M. Powell and Marius R. Robinson, held a Convention in Concert Hall, Pokeepsie City, at that time; and the deep interest and attention manifested by the people present were heart-cheering to those who have to wait and labor so long for ï¿½the good time coming.ï¿½ The speakers, as you well know, were of the highest order of talent and ability, and their discussions of the Slavery question, in all its varied aspects, were characterized by a clearness of insight, and an earnestness of purpose, that carried conviction to the hearts of their listeners.
The resolutions offered by Parker Pillsbury, and defended by himself and Mr. Robinson, were of the most radical and revolutionary type, in both language and sentiment; yet no one ventured to question their truthfulness and expediency, for the people are too thoroughly tired of this lukewarm opposition to slavery in the Territories, while they are fostering and cherishing it at home, by carrying out the requirements of this slaveholding and slavery-protecting government. It is a noticeable fact, and one worthy of remark, that the great Northern heart is every where beating with a more steady and healthful pulsation, since witnessing that noble and godlike sacrifice to principle, made by John Brown and his associates, upon that Virginia scaffold, in November last; and, although the lesson has been dearly learned, still it is not without its cheering results already; for it has shown us what manly courage, heroic fortitude, and true Christian love, such, firm reliance on God can give, when the trying hour shall come, when all gold must be tested in the Great Refiner's crucible.
The hall in which this Convention was held was a large one, and the several sessions quits fully attended, considering how literally flooded the city has been with all kinds of lectures, thus far, through the winter. There was a certain restiveness of spirit manifested by the pitiful apologists of the slave oligarchy, during the last evening, while the deeply probing artillery of Pillsburyï¿½s argument was pouring directly into the enemyï¿½s camp at its most vulnerable point, showing them their utter recklessness to all the great interests of humanity, by their blind devotion to the Union and Constitution. Yet, notwithstanding this little outbreak, the meeting was a perfect success, and the friends of freedom have great cause for rejoicing at the gradual spread of the true Abolition doctrine. The occasion was truly one in which the soul pours itself out in silent thankfulness to God, that such true-hearted men and women still live to bless humanity by their noble efforts in behalf of the down trodden and oppressed. 
There is yet one other cheering feature of this Convention, of which I wish to speak ere closing this communication, and that is, the numbers and intelligence of the colored people who attended its several sessions. Their number was proportionably large to that of the white people; and the interest and strict attention they manifested, joined to their quiet, orderly deportment, cannot help to reflect great credit to this much despised class of our citizens. Many of them are respected, and justly so, among us, as honest, upright business man and women; and it does
<c06>
not seem possible that we should much longer tolerate that infamous decision, that declares that such as these 'have no rights that we, as Godï¿½s children, are bound to respect.ï¿½ Nor can we longer believe ï¿½that institution to be beneficent, of Godï¿½s ordaining, and for the best interests of both the black and white races,ï¿½ that so effectually blots out the manhood and womanhood of over 4,000,000 of our brothers and sisters, and converts them into chattels personal.
Truly yours for the right,
LIZZIE DE GARMO.
Poughkeepsie, Feb. 1, 1860. 
SPEECH OF DR. JOHN S. ROCK,
Before the Committee on Federal Relations in the Hall of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, Feb. 24th, on behalf of a Petition to strike out the word 'WHITEï¿½ ï¿½in the Militia Law of the State.
MR. CHAIRMAN, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE COMMITTEE:
It seems to argue but little for the boasted progress of the civilization of the nineteenth century, and for the supposed liberal ideas embodied in the public sentiment and the statutes of this Commonwealth, that there is a necessity for us to come here, to-day, to argue that human rights are not a property of the skin, but an attribute of the soul, and that men with black skins have the same rights in common with men with white skins, and that the sublime principles laid down in the Declaration of Independence as sterling truths, and not ï¿½glittering generalities.ï¿½
It is true that the African negro came to this country ignorant and degraded, with but little knowledge of man, and knowing nothing of civilized society; and that, in such a condition, he did not predispose in his favor a people who desired only to rob him of these blessings and comforts which are dear to man, and to extract from him by forced labor the gold which was to aggrandize his oppressor, and which could be used as a means to reduce him still lower in the scale of humanity.
The unfortunate position which both the bond and the free colored people have been forced to occupy in this country, has not been favorable to the development of our higher faculties; and, as a matter of course, we are not what we would have been under more favorable circumstances. Our enemies have taken every advantage of our unhappy situation, and attempt to prove that, because we are unfortunate, we are necessarily an inferior race, incapable of enjoying to a full extent the privileges of citizenship. The very unjust method of comparing the highest grades of Anglo-American intellect with the lowest forms of negro sensuality is resorted to, to prove our inferiority, and that the blessings of citizenship have been specially reserved by our Heavenly Parent for those men who have white skins and straight hair!
Of course, I have neither the time nor the disposition to attempt to refute the assertions of such silly men, who do not hesitate to blow hot and cold with the same breath; who, while arguing that we were created inferior, on purpose to be oppressed, at the same time insist on making the most severe laws, punishing us as creatures of the highest intelligence. This method of disposing of us reminds me of <illegible> Dowï¿½s reply, when asked to define Calvinism. He said:
You can and you canï¿½t,
You will and you wonï¿½t,
Youï¿½ll be damned if you do, 
And youï¿½ll be damned if you donï¿½t.
This is the position of the colored man. You say to him, you shall be free here in this old Puritan Commonwealth; but the moment he begins to walk about as though he would exercise those God-given rights which he feels are common to this country and to humanity, you (surprised at his impudence) say, ï¿½You canï¿½t go there.ï¿½ You give us the right of citizenship in this Commonwealth, and yet the jury-boxes are closed against us; and when we ask for the right to take up arms to defend a Common wealth which professes to protect us, you ï¿½wonï¿½t.ï¿½ Let us be wise or ignorant, brutes or men, our color is our crime, and oppression the penalty. 
Now, it is on this theory of the supposed inferiority of our race to yours, that it is argued that the colored man has been denied a citizenship in this country. Of course, this opens a wide range for discussion; but, when viewed in its proper light, it is not difficult to see that it is a mere subterfuge, which is resorted to bolster up the infamous treatment which greets the colored man everywhere in this slavery-cursed land, where to us patriotism produces no honor, goodness no merit, and intellectual industry no reward.
In claiming for the colored citizen of this Common wealth the right to bear arms, I am not one of those who believe that the colored man alone will be benefitted by it. I believe that the real benefit will fall upon you. To withhold from us a single right is to oppress us; and to do this on account of our color, and because you know that we have neither the numbers nor the means to resist it, is not only outraging us, but degrading yourselves.
Gentlemen, you too well know that the oppression of the blacks in this country has done more to degrade this nation in the eyes of the civilized world, than all other causes combined. There is no American gentlemen who has spent six months in Europe, and not felt that his nation is regarded as a band of conspirators who have openly, in the face of civilization and Christianity, sought to degrade and rob a people, who, from their services and position, were eminently entitled to your sympathies and protection.
This is the only civilized and enlightened nation in the world that denies the black man's citizenship. Even Brazil, with her four million slaves, gives the free-born colored man and the emancipated slave equal privileges with others, and opens to him every avenue to wealth and fame. This country alone, I repeat it, forms a solitary exception to the civilized world, in withholding from men their God-given rights, simply because they are colored. I tell you, gentlemen, it is to your interests to wipe out this stain.
If you will not do it for yourselves, then we ask you to do it for your posterity. Their interests demand it of you, and the whole civilized world is holding you responsible for quietly submitting to that infamous decision of a court of Supreme Ignoramuses, who have decided that men who have a different complexion from yourselves have no rights. The king of Dahomey would pluck out his tongue sooner than render such a decision. I appeal to you, gentlemen, in the name of your own interests, for the honor of your posterity, and for the credit of your country, to wipe from the statutes of this Commonwealth the last relic of a barbarous age.
The rights and interests of the colored man are here; this is our native State; our families, friends, and property are here; and we ask that we may have the privilege of training in the art which teaches us how to protect them with our lives and our <illegible> honors.ï¿½ Colored men have always been patriotic. We would, in case of war, be an important power in this country. We number a third more than the entire population of this country at the time of the Revolution. Will you continue to deny us our rights, and force us to become enemies to our native country? I know that I speak the sentiments of the colored people when I say, that we love our country, and desire to see it prosper, and would not hesitate to mingle our blood in common with yours in defence of our common rights. But, of course, one million of our of hardy, brave and disaffected men among you might not, under our present circumstances, see the necessity for taking up arms to defend or strengthen a government which never loses an opportunity to oppress them. I have heard white man say, that we will not fight; and we are often insulted with the remark, that if we had the courage of the Indian or the white man, we would not submit to be slaves. I ask, if Indians and white men have never been slaves! I ask, if there are not Indians and white men who 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
are slaves now? You tested the Indian's courage here where he had his organized armies, his battle-grounds, his places of retreat, with everything to hope for and everything to lose. The position of the African slaves has been very different. Seized as prisoners of war, unarmed, bound hand and foot, and conveyed to a distant country where they have been cruelly beaten, half starved, prevented from assembling together, closely watched by paid men, armed with pistols, clubs and bowie-knives, with no means of knowing their own strength, or the strength of their enemies, with no weapons, and without a probability of success. When I see the almost daily accounts of Northern white men being driven from the slave states, and tamely submitting to every kind of insult and outrage without a murmur, and that too, in a country where we hear so much of Anglo-Saxon courage, and when I contrast it with the conduct of the salves who I see rising up by hundreds, annually, in the majesty of human nature, and bidding defiance to every slave code and its penalties, making the issue 'Canada or death,' and that, too, when they are closely watched and pursued by blood-hounds and armed kidnappers, and with the army and navy of this great model Republic arrayed against them I am inclined to ask, if the charge of cowardice does not come with an ill grace?
I tell you, gentlemen, we have both physical and moral courage. I believe in the equality of may race. I will not admit, for a moment, that we are inferior to you. We have always proved ourselves your equals, when placed in juxtaposition with you. We are the only oppressed people that advance in the country of their oppression. Look at the san-hillers of South Carolina, the peasants and mendicants of Ireland, the beggars of the two Sicilies, the gipsy race that infest almost all Europe, the peasants of Hungary, and the serfs of Russia! These peoples, though possessing superior advantages to the negro, do not advance in the country of their oppression. Not so with the negro; his godlike intellect surmounts the difficulties which surround him, and he stands forth a man. This is certainly not a very strong argument in favor of our depravity. This is the kind of material which makes true soldiers; and the day may not be far distant, when you will need them.
In 1703, the blacks took up arms for the defence of Guadaloupe, and were more useful than all the rest of the French troops; at the same time, they defended Martinico against the English.
Borros found the negroes preferable to Swiss soldiers.
At the siege of Carthagena, all the troops were repulsed at the attack of Fort Bochacique. The negroes brought from St. Domingo attacked it with such impetuosity, that the besieged were forced to surrender.
In a speech delivered before the New York Legislature, a few years since, by a gentleman whose name I do not now remember, but whose language I give with some precision, he said, 'In the Revolution, colored men fought side by side with you in your struggles for liberty, and there is not a battle-field from Maine to Georgia that has not been crimsoned with our blood, and whitened by our bones.' In 1814, a bill passed the Legislature of New York, accepting the services of two thousand colored volunteers. Many black sailors served under Commodore McDonough, when he conquered on Lake Champlain. Many were in the battles of Plattsburgh and Sackett's Harbor; and Gen, Jackson called out colored troops from Louisiana and Alabama, and, in a solemn proclamation, attested to their fidelity and courage.
Gentlemen, we propose to make this hearing a short one. I do not deem it necessary to attempt to argue the legal points in this question, because my friend, Mr. Morris, has certainly done this part well, and convinced you, I hope, that you will not be violating either the spirit or the letter of the laws or Constitution of this Commonwealth, by striking the word 'white' from the militia law.
I know that certain professed friends have tried to prejudice our cause, and that it is argued that, on account of the near approach of the presidential election, it would not be wise to report in favor of your petitioners. But I have to much confidence in the intelligence and honor or the gentlemen of this Committee, to believe them capable of being swayed by such influences or that they would disregard the rights of the humblest of your petitioners for the sake of political capital; and on the strength of this conviction of the impartiality and justice of your honorable body, I have appeared before you to ask you to recommend to the Legislature and act, striking out the word 'white' from the militia law; and I have done so, because I believe that both the interests of the minority and of the majority demand it; because the civilization and humanity of the age require it; and because it is but rendering justice to an outraged and injured people.

THOUGHTS ABOUT COLOR.
We cannot be too profoundly grateful to Gov. Banks, for the promptness with which he interposed the executive veto, and saved that all-important word, 'white,' from being expunged from the revised statutes.
The amount of our indebtedness to the executive of our beloved Common wealth for his patriotic action in this matter cannot be estimated duly, until we first consider, seriously, some of the calamities that must have befallen the country, if the Governor had allowed that piece of rash legislation to be consummated.
In the first place, as a certain and almost immediate consequence of dropping that word from the statue boo, our happy, peaceful and glorious Union would certainly have been dissolved, and we should have presented to the world the sad spectacle of dissolved States, rioting in anarchy, and swimming in fratricidal blood; and, after having become weary of such unnatural slaughter, and having patched up a temporary peace, and drawn the lines of nationality between the North and South, then we should have began, in some degree, to realize what we had lost by our rashness and folly; for, instead of that unrestrained liberty of travel, liberty of speech and of the press, which, by the very terms of our glorious Constitutions and theory of government, we now enjoy over all the extent of our vast and happily united country, we should in all probability have had to submit, in all the southern country at least, to innumerable obstructions in travel, and hindrances in trade-gagging of speech and press; from all which, hitherto, as it is well known, we have been most happily exempt.
But, secondly, if, as by miracle, the superhuman efforts of patriotic and devoted men could have succeeded in barely saving the Union in such a case, as they have on many other occasions when it has been in great peril; who could calculate the sum of local mischief that must, beyond a peradventure, have followed in the old Bay State, when once that word, white, had clean gone from the statute book of the Commonwealth? Think you that the white citizen soldier would have consented to occupy the field of glory and of peril, on days of annual review, on equal terms with the colored soldier? By no means.
Should a company of colored soldiers be marched on to the parade with their white brethren in arms, such a scattering would take place of the latter as has not been witnessed since Shay' men <illegible>, when the field-piece was levelled upon them by the troops of the Government at Springfield, in the day of that rebellion; our military train-bands would all the abandoned; the right arm of our defence would be broken, and there would not be left even a 'Sims' brigade' to enforce our constitutional obligations.
These are among the prominent evils we have escaped by the intrepid and prompt action of our distinguished executive! But the end, I fear, is not yet
<c02>
In the midst of my rejoicing, in view of troubles thus averted, there arise forebodings of other afflictions yet to come. The discussions and action upon this question by the functionaries of Government cannot fail to set afloat the inquiry in the public mind, as to who are, and who are not, white men—a most formidable question, inasmuch as there is no authorized legal standard by which it can be determined.
How can our Supreme Court decide it, without travelling out of the record? Having no 'precedent' on which to lose a decision, and being debarred by he conservative instincts of its eminently grave Judges from looking at it in the light of an original investigation, that solemn bench of ermined wisdom cannot help the matter. It is a fact that, in all our cities end most of our towns, there are persons called white, who are very much darker than some of their fellow citizens who pass for persons of color. How are such cases to be legally disposed of? Shall we add another branch to our State government, and call it the Board of Color, to determine such cases? Or shall we, borrowing legislative wisdom from the State of Ohio, provide by statute that all persons, of whatever hue, having more than a certain fixed amount of African blood, shall be deemed colored, and all others white? Such a statute would be of little avail; for, owing to the peculiar social practices of the patriarchs of the 'peculiar institution,' many of our citizens who came from the South, or who have descended from those who have been slaves, would find it not only difficult, but impossible, to trace their pedigree with sufficient accuracy to trace determine a question of such vast importance. In whatever direction I look for light to guide my mind in solving this perplexing question, I am baffled. I am, however, not altogether without hope that abler minds will yet solve the difficulty, in time to preserve our Commonwealth from destruction, and our happy confederacy from disruption, on account of the formidable question of color, in this last phase in which it has now presented itself. I hope that the distinguished orator and patriot, who has plead so eloquently and successfully for the Union, and for the sacredness of Mount Vernon, and who is now laboring to preserve the integrity of Mystic Pond, may, as soon as his duties to his aqueous client will permit, be prevailed upon to take this in hand; and, calling to his aid the band of devoted patriots whose wisdom illuminates the columns of the Boston Courier, be enabled to devise some plan by which this portentous question shall be brought to an early, peaceful and happy issue.
SPRINGFIELD.

LETTER TO DR. JAMES WHITTEMORE.
ATHOL, Feb. 5, 1860.
DR. JAMES WHITTEMORE:
MY DEAR SIR—From the stirring conversation which I had with you, on my last visit at your house, I feel assured that you have little sympathy with the late Union-saving meeting of your place; especially, on the conditions at present indicated by the democratic leaders South, sympathy with the late Union-saving meeting of your place; especially, on the condition at present indicated by the democratic leaders South, or by their whig coadjutors North.
Doubtless there is an 'impending crisis' We know that, in the very nature of things, there must be an irrepressible conflict between the lovers of freedom on one side, and the defenders of slavery on the other.
What stirring events are every day transpiring! What villanous schemes are every day concocted! What transcendent villanies are every day brought to light, with here and there a deed, and now and then a life of heroism!
In this struggle was developed the heroic character of John Brown; and such a hero the world has rarely seen. He devoted his life to the cause of freedom; not for himself alone, nor for his kindred, but for a poor and despised race, who are every day robbed of their dearest rights; nay, every right, and even of themselves. They were his brethren of the human family, children of the same Father, and were, therefore, entitled to justice, to sympathy, and to every token of humane and compassionate regard. He died as he had lived, devoted to their welfare. He died upon the gallows. What then? Is he, therefore, infamous? Nay; with such a character, he sanctifies the gallows. What a commentary it is upon the civilization (should I not rather say the barbarism) of our country, when, in accordance with the forms of law, such a man must be hanged!-laws enacted and sanctioned by the people, the expression of the people's will; laws sustained and executed by men commissioned by the people to do the people's bidding.
What a mistake, what folly, as well as wickedness it was, in those Virginian Wise-men to send him to the gallows! They thought to silence him—so
They took him from his prison-cell,
And led him forth to die,
like a felon on the scaffold
Which they had reared full high,
That he might be a spectacle
To all the passers by.
Escaped his earthly prison-house.
He's evermore set free,
Henceforth to traverse earth or air,
From the Blue Ridge to the sea.'
His earnest spirit is not quelled,
Or silenced for an hour;
‘His purposes shall ripen fast.'
By large access of power.
Yea, the lightnings are his messengers, the sleepless press is the swift herald of his name and fame the pulpit is his platform. At his name and deeds each pulpit-occupant's tongue is loosed, and he hastens to proclaim, as best he may, 'deliverance to the captive, and the opening of the prison-doors to them that are bound.'
In alliance with the pulpit and press, the chainless winds, and steam that would be free, lend him their aid. Ministers of his, 'they post o'er land and sea,! bearing, in his name, 'glad tidings of great joy '—freedom to the slave.
Thus shall his name be sounded, far and near; his heroic words, and the story of his no leas heroic deeds, shall become known—not to a few only, but to as many as can reed or hear. They shall fly from mouth to mouth, and from heart to heart. They shall be repeated, by the fireside and in the church; by the wayside and in the market-place. They shall be delivered down from admiring sire to wondering son; and shall thus circulate from mind to mind, till they pervade and warm and animate the nation. Then, shall the end come. Then shall the gigantic evils against which he contended, be dose away; the grosser despotisms of the South shall cease; society shall take on new forms, and Humanity, on this continent, at least, will have taken a step forward.
Already have the name and spirit of John Brown reached Brighton; and have awakened so much sympathy with him—so much hostility to slavery and the slave system, that your easy, brainless gentlemen of leisure, like Mr. J. Dutton Russell, think it necessary to counteract their influence. So they call a Union-saving meeting, and put forth resolutions, declaring that, as a nation, we have a 'name without a spot'; that we should treat the matter of slavery in such a manner, that it may prove a blessing to both masters and slaves; with other things equally foolish and untrue. Then they import orators, like David H. Mason of Newton, and George S. Hilliard of Boston, to manufacture and 'circulate the latent views of the North among the people of the South,' and so assure them that there is not much anti-slavery here, after all, and therefore no occasion for alarm.
What a sickly demonstration was that Union-saving meeting in your town! How stupid, 'stale, flat and unprofitable.' are all such demonstrations! They are stupid, because they attempt to agitate for the purpose of suppressing and preventing <illegible>. As an adaptation of means to ends, they are not merely futile—they are utterly suicidal; for they discuss and agitate, with great violence, the very subject which, in the judgment of the movers, should be vigorously let alone. They defeat the very purpose for which 
<c03>
they are called or assembled. They may be useful, for aught I know, as signs of the times—symptoms of the condition of the body politic—indications that the patient is not dead, but only sleepeth; who, at the startling word, 'awake, arise, or be forever lost,' turns slowly towards you, rubs his half-opened eyes, yawns, and, in half-articulate words, begs you not to disturb his slumbers, but that he may be allowed to sink again into what you know will prove the sleep of death.
It may be that yours is emphatically a contented, happy, peace-loving, union-saving community. Possibly, there is something in the very atmosphere of a slaughter-house, which brings on this moral torpor, tending to political and spiritual death. Or, 'worse than all, and most to be deplored, as human nature's deepest, foulest blot, 'may it not generate and nourish the demoniacal spirit of slavery, which refuses to be cast out, and to the exorcist crieth evermore, Art thou come hither to torment us before the time? Depart from us; what have we to do with thee?'
God grant that your new minister may go forth in he spirit and power of his Master! May he cause a shaking among the dry bones of that region, and flesh to come upon them; may he breathe into them anew the breath of life! May the foul and malignant demons of intemperance, and slavery, and war, receive his sternest rebukes, even though the peace of the community should be temporarily disturbed; yea, though ecclesiastical and political revolution ensue! Agitation is the necessary antecedent, the means, and I believe the only means, of purification. First pure, then peaceable,' says the Apostle James. I am not come,' said Jesus, 'to bring peace on earth, but rather division.'
We are in the midst of a revolution. I cannot look on, I do not wish to look on, with indifference. God grant that I may think and feel and act worthily of 'the living present.'
The conflict between liberty and slavery is, in its very nature, inevitable; for slavery is involuntary; it is the compulsory, forced subjection of the will and faculties of one human being to the will and power of another. The desire of liberty and the right to liberty are innate, and therefore 'inalienable;' and whenever, or wherever, they are consciously violated or encroached upon, incipient rebellion ensues. It may be concealed, smothered for a time, but it cannot be extinguished. It only waits an opportunity to break forth—a reasonable, nay, sometimes a very unreasonable, prospect of success; and it will assert and vindicate their claims to the respect of those who disregard and trample them in the dust.
Assuming that negroes are men, we must concede to them all the natural rights which we claim for ourselves, and should be no less mindful of their rights than of our own. We claim the right to 'life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.' So do they; and should have their claims allowed. We claim the right to property, as a means of happiness. So do they; and should have their claims allowed. For, if we deny their right to bold property, we virtually deny our own. The right is human, and belongs equally to every individual of the human family,—black, brown, red, yellow, white. Provided he is strong enough, the black man may as rightfully hold the white man a slave, as the white the black man. Can property hold property The slave codes say no. I say no. It is preposterous. The idea of human chattelhood is an absurdity.
The black race and the white stand, side by side, upon the green earth, with the blue heavens above. Sun, moon and stars are, alike, the ministers of them all. God reigns; and His will shall yet be done, 'on earth as it is done in heaven.'
The white race claims property in the black. Suppose the black race should claim property in the white. Which should have its way? Neither, I say; for neither claim is just. What then? Shall they fight it out, and the one which is strongest and most numerous, the most cunning and persistent, the most 'wayward and overbearing, crush and trample upon the weaker, and forever dictate their condition, without consulting their wishes, their interests, or their rights?
Thus only has slavery been established: thus only can it be maintained. It is the selfish domination of the stronger party over the weaker. It is, in its very nature, the creature of force. It exists, and can only exist, by the assumption and assertion of arbitrary! and unhallowed power on the one side, and of unwilling submission on the other. The authority of the master is a usurpation, and is felt to be such. Hence the restlessness, the treachery, the plotting, the conspiracy, the personal defiance, the combination, the ever-threatening, ever-dreaded outburst of rebellion among the slaves. Hence, also, the terrors, the suspicions, the wrath, the revenge, which are felt, and the cruelties and torments which are inflicted by the masters. The relation of master and slave implies perpetual warfare.
There is, indeed, an 'irrepressible conflict,' not merely between the slave and the slave-owner, for the people of the Free States are the Constitutions allies of the slave-owners. Some of them, it is true, revolt at this. The Republicans, for example, in words, at least. Hence it is, in part, a sectional conflict.
The Democrats, even of the nominally Free States true to their selfish instincts, and their supposed Constitutional obligations, still adhere to their ancient allies, and are ready and zealous to maintain and extend the slaveholders' domain. Meanwhile, to the free negro, the right of citizenship is denied. He is expelled from the Slave States; and even where Republicans bear away, he is excluded from the Free States.
There is, therefore, a three-fold conflict:—A personal conflict, as between master and slave; a conflict of principle, as between the slave-owners of the South and the Republicans of the North, which may be called sectional; and a general conflict of races which may be called national.
With such a combination of forces, and such a mingling of elements, how or when the conflict will end, or what will be the result; what will be the fate or fortune, or, in the grand scheme of Providence, the function of the negro race, or its relation to the white, none can tell; none but the Omniscient can know.
The times demand the wisdom and direction of the wisest and best. May they be forthcoming.
Very respectfully, your friend and brother,
H. W. CARTER.

NO SLAVE-HUNTING.
Two large and very interesting meetings have recently been held in Hubbardston, at which the question was freely debated by the citizens of the town, whether Massachusetts ought, by law, to prohibit slave-hunting, at once and forever, upon her soil. The question had a special interest in the place, growing out of the fact that the representative of the town in the last Legislature, had voted against the enactment of a Liberty law, and that, too, after himself signing a petition asking for such a law! As that gentleman and his friends evidently scented a coming censure on his course, they used their utmost endeavors to defend him, and ward of the well-merited rebuke. At the second meeting, which was held on Monday evening last, as we learn from a correspondent, the largest hall in town was filled to overflowing, to hear the discussion upon the petitions to prohibit the taking of slaves from Massachusetts. After a three-hours' debate they resolved, by a majority of more than ten to one, 'that Massachusetts OUGHT BY LAW TO PROHIBIT SLAVE-HUNTING at once, and forever, upon her soil.'
It was very gratifying to see many of the oldest and, most reliable citizens of the town remain till a late hour, and repudiate, so emphatically, their <illegible>.
<c04>
FROM A DEVOTED FRIEND OF THE CAUSE.
EAST BEIDORWATER, Feb. 19, 1860.
MY DEAR FRIEND: —I see that I am credited with five dollars, instead of two, at the Subscription Festival. Would to God it could have been five hundred dollars! My will is better than my ability, to give: or, rather, to pay much more of what I owe to the cause so near to my heart; but I must be content to throw in my 'mite.'
I was surprised to near that Mr. Foss was coming here again so soon. The last time he was here, was in the midst of the Harper's Ferry excitement, when, it would seem, if anything would bring out the people to hear, it would be that great event. I took pains then to tell my neighbors that Mr. Foss would undoubtedly speak on that subject. And how many, do you think, turned out that pleasant evening to hear> Well, I will not say how many; for I am ashamed to do so. And this unparalleled apathy is backed up, on one side of me, by the 'Lord's new church,' and on the other by the cotton-gin business—both of which are in direct trade with the South.
I shall be rejoiced if my friend Foes can get one new subscriber to the Liberator. Those good old times when Lucy Stone had a 'book of worship' hurled at her head, and Parker Pillsbury was insulted in various ways, have passed away, and nothing is left but a trackless, gloomy desert, with not a single Oasis to cheer the weary traveller in his journey to the land of promise. In those good old times to which I have referred, we had five subscribers to the Liberator in our little village. A few friends were willing to work a little while; but when they had time to count the cost, they left our ranks, and now seem to be beyond hope of resurrection.
We have a great many discouragements to meet in our straggle at the North. In my opinion, nothing is more true than the words uttered by that noble philanthropist and seer, Parker Pillsbury, when he said, 'We are not troubled at all with your Cushings, your Choates, or your Everetts; but what shall we do against the influence of your Beechers and your Cheevers?' Well, sure enough, what can we do against the pro-slavery influence of Henry Ward Beecher at the present time? Six months ago, I had some hope of help from Plymouth Church. Where is the ground for hope now? The last flickering ray of hope from that quarter hat fled! And even Theodore Tilton, after his masterly anti-slavery speech in reply to Beecher—will he continue in that Church, and pay his money to that band of hypocrites in 'Pemberton Square'? And Henry Ward Beecher! There he stands, in Plymouth Church, a mighty power in himself, swaying the multitudes who flock to hear him, as sea-weed is swayed by the waves of the Atlantic. What is it that has dimmed his moral vision, that he should forsake us in the most trying emergency of the anti-slavery struggle?
Well, we must exert the more strength ourselves. I find many discouragements in our cause; but when I see such men as Garrison, Phillips, Pillsbury, and a host of kindred spirits, sacrificing their popularity and all that most people hold dear, in behalf of this cause, I take courage.
And there is another thing that nerves me on to make what feeble effort I can to emancipate the slave. It is a selfish one, perhaps. I have two little grandsons-little sprightly, active, chattering boys, My heart is bound up in them; and when I take them into my arms, I cannot help thinking what a rage I should be in, if any one should claim them as his property! They are both white, to be sure; but is that any reason why they should not be slaves? I am not able to see the difference; and I believe the most degraded slave loves his or her offspring as well as the most enlightened New England father or mother. And the question it not, whether the slavery of the African shall be perpetuated or not, but whether the laborer shall be owned or hired; and every child who is born without a silver spoon in his mouth is liable to be made a slave, whenever the time arrives that it can be done.
When I was leaving the Tremont Temple, at our late meeting in Boston, as I had to do, while Mr. Garrison was speaking against the Constitution, I met a 'white-cravated miscreant' (to borrow a Southern phrase,) who was peering in at the door. He said to me, 'Who is that speaking?' I said, 'Don't you know Wm. Lloyd Garrison?' 'No; I never saw him before, and I never heard a man curse the Constitution before.' 'Perhaps you never heard its operation to explained before,' I said. 'Well,' said he, 'he ought to be hung with John Brown.' I said, 'Yes, as much as Washington ought to be. 'He said, 'That was before the Constitution was made.' Now that man would enslave me, and my children, if he could. Talk about Southern slaveholders! They are not to be mentioned in the same book for meanness and cowardice with their abettors in the North, even in old Puritan Boston!
Yours, for the 'Irrepressible Conflict,'
JACOB LEONARD.
CONVENTIONS IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The second series of Anti-Slavery Conventions in New York opened very auspiciously at Port Byron, last week. The Convention there was fully attended, continuing two days. We learn, through a correspondent, that the Hall there was never so well filled and the interest, as well as the numbers, fully equal to the beat Conventions in the fine series of winter meetings recently held in that State. Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, and Susan B. Anthony were among the speakers.
To CORRESPONDENTS. A letter was tent to S. B ANTHONY, at Rochester, by S. M., Jr., to which an early reply is desired.
PARKER PILLSBURY will find a letter at Seneca Falls P.O.
CORRECTION. The donation to the Anti-Slavery Tract Fund, announced in last week's paper, was made by Rev. JOHN B. WIGHT, (not Wright,) of Wayland. 
ABATING NUISANCES IN KENTUCKT.—Kentucky pro-slavery mobs and Kentucky pro-slavery justice are synonymous. Here is the latest illustration: The Grand Jury of Campbell county found bills against about a score of persons for a riot, in the destruction of W. S. Bailey's paper, the Free South. The State's Attorney hearing of this, argued the matter before them, taking the ground that it was the law that where a nuisance existed which could not be reached by law, the people had a right to abate it. The jury sought the opinion of Judge Moor on the question, and he told them that it was the law; whereupon they reconsidered and quashed the indictments. So the law is in Kentucky that anything that is not in violation of law, a newspaper for instances may be destroyed by anybody who will declare it a nuisance. 'A Daniel come to judgment! 'is that Judge Moor.
The Senate's investigating inquisition continues to extract a large amount of nothing from the witnesses it examines concerning Mr. Brown's foray into Virginia, Why don't it summon Gov. Wise? He declares that he knows something terrible about the affair, which he wouldn't tell for rubies.' Wisdom is above rubies, and be ought to be pressed until he shall have yielded some of it. The gleanings of Wise might be found better than the vintage of all the other witnesses—Traveller.
A lady, whose husband lies awake nights to save the Union, says it seems to her the Union is a good deal like her choice preserves—it has to be scalded over once in four years to prevent its souting.
The Publishers of Redpath's life of John Brown state that they are printing 2,000 copies per day, said yet are unable to supply the demand. Over <illegible> copies were sold in advance of publication.
Stevens and <illegible> have been continued to be hung <illegible> on Friday, the 14th day of March next, between the hours of <illegible> o'clock A, M., and 2 o' clock, P.M.
Hon, judge <illegible> of Iowa, who made himself no popular with the invention of the country, white he held the <illegible> of <illegible>of <illegible>, has, we <illegible> New York.
<c05>
MORE OF SOUTHERN RUFFIANISM. The Lynehburg Virginian says: "We were shown, on yesterday, a beautiful cane, gotten up by a gentleman of Bedford, to be presented to the Hon. H.A. Edmundson, as an appreciation of his conduct in 'switching' John Hickman, in the streets of Washington, the other day. The cane has a heavy silver head, upon which is engraved, 'To Men. H. A. Edmundson, the man who whipped one of the eighteen million."
The Lancaster, (Penn.) Express says that the Hon. John Hickman is in a very precarious state of health. He came home from Washington, intending to return on Monday last, but his indisposition was found to be so serious that it was deemed unadvisable to undertake the journey, and his friends are fearful that he will not be able to resume his Congressional duties for some time.
The Dutch Government has swept away the last vestige of Slavery from its East India Possessions. On the 20th of September last, the institution ceased to exist. The Government offered an accessed compensation in money to owners, many of whom, however, refused to take it, white others took it, and made it over to the emancipated slaves themselves.
U. G. R. R -The last Ravenna Democrat says:—The Underground Railroad is doing an active business just now. A full freighted car passed through, on Wednesday, leaded with passengers from 'Old Tennessee. 'They stopped long enough to wood and water, changed conductors, and were off to Canada, where colored men are free. Among the passengers was a smart, active boy, the ton of a wealthy planter, who lives 'way down in Tennessee.'
After the 1st of April, strangers visiting Hayti must be provided with passports, as necessary in the continental nations of Europe 

PLEDGES 
TO the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
Mrs. Mary May, Boston, $50 00
Andrew M. Howland, Boston, 2 00
Richard P. Hallowell, Boston 3 00
[The above pledges, given at Annual Meeting, were entered upon a paper subsequently lost.]
Received, on account of 26th Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary.
'A friend.' $2 00
Mrs. E. Smith, 1 00
NINETIETH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
BOSTON MASSACRE,
MARCH 5.1770.
COMMEMORATIVE MEETING
AT THE MEIONAON,
ON MONDAY EVENING, MARCH 5, 1860.
The exercises of the evening will consist of speeches from Hon. THOMAS RUSSELL, Dr. JOHN S. ROCK, GEORGE T. DOWNING, CHARLES LENOZ RENOND, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., and WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON; interspersed with original and appropriate vocal Music, by the Boston Quartette Club—Mr. G. L. RUFFIN, Mr. JOHN A. GRIMES, Miss HESTER WHITEHURST, Miss PHEBE WHITEHURST.
Choice selections on the piano forte, by Mrs. C. HOWARD DEGRASSE and Mrs. AMANDA SCOTT DUTTON.
There will be exhibited a GOBLET, which belonged to CRISPUS ATTUCKS; also, a copy of the Boston Gazelle, of 1750, containing an advertisement for him, as a runaway from Framingham.
Also, a painting of the SCENE IN STATE STREET; and the FLAG presented by Governor HANCOCK to a Colored Military Company, for services in the Revolutionary War; together with other relict of early Continental History.
Tickets, 25 cents each, to be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill: of Bela Marsh, 14 Bromfield street; of S. S. Hanscom, 74 Cambridge street, and at the door on the evening.
Door open at 6—exercises to commence at 7 o'clock, precisely. 
Immediately after the meeting, a PROMENADE LEVEE will take place in the Twelfth Baptist Church Vestry, Southac street. Admittance free. Refreshments for those who desire.
Boston, Feb. 25, 1860. WM. C. NELL.

CALL FOR A MEETING IN BEHALF OF THE INDIANS.
The undersigned having heard or read, with shame and regret, of the outrages committed by our border settlers upon the Indians, particularly from the statement of a California paper, (Tahama Gazette,) and the report from that section, as published in the New York Daily Tribune of Feb. 11th, by which we learn that twenty men, armed with rifles and revolvers, have been hired and paid according to the number of Indian scalps they obtain, as proof of the number they kill; and that for three months they have warred upon these defenceless people, regardless of their being friends or enemies; and during which time, they have massacred over four hundred men, women and children, and taken six hundred prisoners, and that there are now one thousand four hundred held as captives in the County (Mendiconi) in which these horrors have been perpetrated—
The undersigned, having no words by which to express their tense of the wickedness and wrong of these proceedings, and of the suffering induced among the Indian tribes, but believing that the high moral sense of the Nation will promptly respond to a call for measures of redress, hereby invite a public meeting to convene at MUSIC HALL, on MONDAY EVENING, March 5th, at 8 o'clock, to reconsider or ratify the resolutions upon the subject, proposed at a meeting held in Faneuil Hall, in October last, and to adopt inch other meant as the case demands.
Edward Kirk, J. W. Dadmun, E. O. Haven, O. Dewey, T. S. King, J. M. Manning. E. M. P. Wells, A. A. Miner, David Reed, Charles Spear, S. Streeter, Robert R. Crosby, N. M. Gaylord, H. F. Gardner, J. B. Felt, Daniel C. Eddy, Rufus Ellis, W. L. P. Boardman, E. C Bowles, R. Dunn, Martin Moore, E. S. Gannett, H. James Prentiss, H. K. Pervear, H. W. Longfellow, John Pryor, John R. Manley, Sylvanus Cobb, W. L. Garrison.
To pay expenses, an admission fee of 10 cents will be taken at the door.

CONVENTIONS IN NEW YORK.
PARKER PILLBURY, AARON M. POWELL, and SUSAN B. ANTHONY will address Conventions as follows:
Seneca Falls, Monday and Tuesday, March 5,6.
Canandaigus, Thursday and Friday, March 8, 9.
Sessions at 2 and 7 o'clock, afternoon and evening.
SALLIE HOLLEY. an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:—
Barre, Sunday, March 4.
Petersham, Tuesday, March 6.
Athol, Thursday, March 8.
Athol depot, Friday, March 9.
South Gardner, Sunday, March 11.
Gardner Centre, Tuesday, March 13.
Hubbardston, Thursday, March 16.
Westminster, Sunday, March 18.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture at fellows:—
Harwich, Sundays March 4.
W. Brewster, Tuesday, March 6.
Brewster, Wednesday, March 7.
Orleans, Thursday, March 8.

RONGO DE LEO.
This is to inform those correspondents in Illinois, who have inquired of me concerning Rongo de Leo and his history, that I have no recollection of any such person WM. C. NELL.
CARD—SWRAW R. CARAN, M. D., Physician and Accoushour, 57 Bartlett street, Charlestown, (for several years a successful practitioner in Sharon,) offer her services to treat the diseases of Women and Children; and is ready to attend Mid wifery cases.
DIED—In Nashua, (M.H.) Jan. 3.CHARLES TAYLOR, ages 60. The friends of humanity deeply lament the decease of our brother. Though once within the precincts of the Church, he soon outgrew it, and came up to the higher light of <illegible> all mankind as brothers; and not only believing it, but living it-making it part of his life of give his money and influence to the despised reforms of the day, and not only was our brother a stanch reformer, but an affectionate husband, kind father, and good citizen. And now, while we mourn the loss us take courage by his calm and peaceful end, and renew our labors in the great cause of humanity.-[COM.
In Cambridge, Feb. 17, Mrs. HANNAH T. REDDING GALT, aged 26; also, Feb. 26, Mrs. DIAMA LEWIN DAVIDSON, aged 53.
In Brookline, Feb. 17, Feb. 17, Mrs. MARY W. ASHBY, aged 89 years, relict of the late WM. ASHBY, senior of Salem, Mass. <illegible>
<c06>
30th THOUSAND
NOW READY! 
The only Genuine and <illegible> authorized by, and for the <illegible> of the Family:
LIFE OF 
CAPT. JOHN BROWN,
BY JAMES REDPATH.
With an Auto-Biography of his Childhood and Youth.
In one elegant volume of 400 pages pointed on superb paper, and <illegible> bound in gilt cloth, fully illustrated, and embellished with
A MAGNIFICENT STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAIT
OF THE CLORIOUS OLD MAN,
by the best artist in America, from a <illegible>, entirely different from the photographs, and being the only authentic likeness of the PHILANTHROPIST and PATRIOT which has yet appeared.
At the extremely Low Price of One Dollar.
Comprising an account of his early life in youth and manhood up to the period of his going to Kansas; together with on intensely interesting narrative of his career in that Territory, giving authentic accounts of his famous battles, with all the details of his last attempt to liberate slaves at Harper's Ferry. Va., including his entire prison correspondence, and the PRIVATE LETTERS TO HIS FAMILY, NOT <illegible> PUBLISHED. Also, an
ACCOUNT OF HIS EARLY LIFE,
BY CAPT. BROWN HIMSELF.
This important document has not, and will not, appear in the public press, as it is the desire of the friends who contribute that it should appear <illegible> in our Publication, FOR THE BENEFIT OF HIS FAMILY, and any re-printing of it will be prosecuted as an infringement of copyright. Of this autobiography it is sufficient to any that nothing of the kind, since the AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANKLIN, has been published, which is at once so characteristic and so interesting.
A large percentage on every copy sold is secured by contract to the family of Capt. John Brown, and this work is published under their sanction and approval, as may be seen by the following letters:—
NORTH KLBA, (N.Y.) January, 1860.
We, the undersigned, members of the family, and relatives of the late Capt. JOHN BROWN, desire to express our approval and endorsement of the Bibliography of our honored and revered relative, written by James Redpath, and recently published by Thayer & Eldridge, of Boston, Mass. We think the work the best that can be produced on the subject at the present time, and in all matters of fact it is essentially correct, while it is written with an enthusiasm and eloquence which we thoroughly appreciate and admire.
The Publishers have issued the work in a style which recommends itself to all lovers of a handsome book, in regard to engraving, paper, printing and binding; and the friends of John Brown who wish to procure and preserve a memorial of his life and deeds will do well to provide themselves with a copy of this publication.
MARY A. BROWN, ANNIE BROWN,
SALMON BROWN, MARTHA BROWN,
ISABELL BROWN, ABBIE C. BROWN,
HENRY THOMPSON, SARAH BROWN.
THAYER & ELERIDGK. PUBLISHERS,
114 and 116, Washington street, Boston:
Feb. 24. tf

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and host styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderministers. &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities ),Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING,
ALL WHIGH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For and or approved credit.
Sept. 16

CHARLES HAZELTINE.
PIANO-FORTE TUNER
AND 
REPAIRER.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman's, 291 Washington street, and at the Neponset Post Office.
Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan, Wulf Fries, and their fellow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club: also, to Woodward & Brown, and Wm, Bourne, Plane-Forte makers; B. F. Baker, and W. R. Babcock.
Nov. 4. 6m

The Nat Turner Insurrection.
A FULL and reliable account. Copies sent to any address on the receipt of Five Cents.
Address THOS. HAMILTION,
March 4. P.O.BOX 1212, New York.

PHRENOLOGY.
By urgent request, Prof. N. WHEELER, well known as scientific and truthful Phrenologist, has opened rooms at 99 Court street, corner of Hanover, Boston, where be will make Phrenological Examinations, give written delineations of Character, and furnish Charts; heal the sick, import instructions relative to health and habits, and the management of children.
March 4. tf

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
SUFFOLK, so. To the next of kin, and all after persons interested in the persons of ELLRN STARR, of Boston, in said county, a miner.
WHEREAS, application has been made is no by LEWIS HOWARD, wife of said Lewis, of said Boston, to adopt said minor; you are hereby cited to appear at a Probate Court, to be held at said Bestow, on Monday, the nineteenth day of March next, at 10 o'clock before noon, to show cause, if any you have, against granting the same.
They, the said Lewis said and hereby directed to give public notice thereof three weeks successively in the newspaper called the Liberator, printed in said Boston.
Given under my hand, this twenty-seventh day of February, in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty. ISAAC AMES.

IMPOVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair-Dyeing.
MADAM RANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st., and 20 West st.,; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Worcester and elsewhere. Come and try for your selves.
Feb. 24 tf
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the atlantic Monthly.
'BRINGING OUR SHEAVES WITH US.'
The time for toil is past, and night has come,-
The last and saddest of the harvest-eves;
Worn out with long and wearisome;
Drooping and faint, the reapers hasten home,
Each laden with his sheaves.
Last of the laborers, thy feet I gain,
Lord of the harvest, and my spirit grieves
That I am not much with grain
As with a heaviness of heart and brain;
Master, behold my sheaves!
light, and worthless-yet their trifling weight 
all my frame a weary aching leaves;
For long I with my hapless fate,
And staid and toiled till it was dark and late,-
Yet these are all my sheaves.
Full well I know I have more tares than wheat,-
Brambles and flowers, dry stalks, and withered leaves;
I blush and weep, as at thy feet
I kneel down reverently, and repeat,
Master, behold my sheaves!
I know these blossoms,clustering heavily
With evening dew upon their folded leaves,
Can calim no value nor utility,-
Therefore shall fragrancy and beauty be The glory of my sheaves.
So do I gather strength and hope enew;
For well I patient love perceives
Not what I did, but what I strove to do,-
And the full ears be sadly few,
Thou wilt accept my sheaves.
From the Worcester Spy.
MISERERE, DOMINE.'
'Miserere, Domine!'
Tolling bells make mournful wail,
Heart is and cheek pale;
Truth and justice seem to fail!
Lord, our only prayer shall be,'
'Miserere, Domine!'
'Miserere, Domine!
Thick the air with death and sin!
Days in!
Doom and ow begin!
Rock, our Refuge be,
Heroes blood against us cries;
On our the stain lies;
Our hands bound the sacrifice.
From our evil set us free!
'Miserere, Domine!'
One man for the people dies,
Seeing with prophetic eyes,
Only thus Thy can rise.
Help us, Lord, that truth to see;
'Domine!'
'Domine!'
We must reap as we have sown!
Thoughtless, heartless, faithless grown;
self, and self alone.
In this day Thy wrath we see,
Domine!'
Domine!
'bell, with dreary sound!
Martial along ground!
Shuddering thousands gather'd round!
Bitter shall the harvest be!
Domine!'
Domine!'
May we, gallows' shade,
Saored now end holy made,
Learn the law this Saint obeyed.
For our faithlessness to Thee,
Domine!'
our hearts that gallows 
But its wood, in coming days,
Well may set the land ablaze.
Give us, Lord, that light to see!
Domine!'
Domine!'
Darker grows the hateful stain; 
Haevier weighs the cursed chain;
Bitterer far thy children's pain.
Lord their cry ascends to Thee,
Domine!'
Domine!'
Tolling bells accuse again,
Idle seen our prayers, and vain,
White our hands Thy work disdain,
Work to set our brethren free,
Domine!'
Domine!'
Make us instruments to save!
May o'er 
Learn the of the brave.
We, in weakness come to 
Domine!'
Domine!'
From the darkness of this hour,
When the clouds of evil lower,
May the dawn break forth in power!
Answered our prayer shall be,
'Domine!'
Worcester, Dec.1, 1859.
VERSES WRITTEN BY JOHN E.COOK 
One of Cook's last acts in this world to write an affectionate letter to his wife and child, enclosing the following verses;-
If upon this eart we're parted,
Never more to meet below,
Meet me, O thou broken-earted!
In that world to which I go.
In that world where time unending 
Sweeps in glory bright along,
no shadows there are blending,
And no discord in the song.
Where the Savior's flocks are resting
By the bright and fair,
And glory cresting
Every head that there
Where the anthem loud is pealing
Songs of praise Him alone;
Where the seraph bands are kneeling
Mid the radiance of the Throne.
There at last I hope to meet thee,
Never, never more to part;
In happy bowers to great thee,
Where no farewell tears shall start
And again in heaven united,
Mid those fair Blysian bowers,
We'll perfect the love we plighted
In this darkened world of ours
Thus look forward to that meeting,
Which shall know blight or wo-
That joyous 
'Mid Elysium's flow,
THE FAMILY.
The family is like a book-
The children are the leaves-
The parents are the cover, that
Protective beauty gives.
<c02>
NEW YORK STATE WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
The New York State Woman's Rights Convention assembled in Albany, at Association Hall, on Friday,Feb.3
At half-past 2 o'clock, the meeting was called toorder by B.ANTHONY, who submitted the following organization:-
President-MARTHA C. WRIGHT, Auburn.
Vice President-LYDIA, Albany; LUCT C. MAYO, do.
Secretaries-ELIZABETH MPOWELL, Ghent; CHLOE A. PECKMAM, Easton.
Business Committee-Rev Antoinette Brown Blackwell New York; France D. Gage, St. Louis; Wendell Phillips, Boston; J. Elizabeth Jones, Ohio; Aaron M. Powell, Ghent.
Finance Committee-Susan B. Anthony, Rochester; Lucy N. Coleman, do.
SUSAN B.ANTHONY first addressed the statement of the facts in relation to a series of Conventions which has recently held in about counties of our State, and of which this is the close. There is much to encourage in the interest which has been manifested by the people, not only in the meetings, but also in the Woman's Rights publications.
Rev. BROWN BLACKWELL, from the Committee of Business, reported the following resolutions:-
1. Resolved, Either that women have no rights which men are bound to respect, or that they have all rights which men claim for themselves.
2. Resolved, That if the Golden Rule, 'All things whatsoever ye would that should do to you, do ye even so to them,' is to apply to the women of the race, that then we demand their entire social, civil and religious equality with men.
3. Resolved, That we believe in the equal rights of all human beings.
4. Resolved, That if there are acts which are right and necessary for the full development of individual character and protection human rights, but which are unbecoming, unlady-like, or not consistent with feminine propriety, and if the Deity has made such acts so necessary, and has given women the desire and the ability for them, we urge women to do them, and leave the responsibility with Him.
. Resolved, That as representation and protection have always been inseparable in every government, and that as not one example can be found in history where an unrepresented class has ever been a protect ed class, and the unrepresented women of this country are not an exception to this rule, therefore, Resolved, that we demand of this government, State and national, that women be allowed by law to represent, and thus to protect themselves, by the exercise of all the franchises of American citizens.
6. Resolved, That while we would not undervalue other methods, the right of suffrage for women is in our opinion the corner-stone of this enterprise, since we do not seek to protect woman, but rather to place her in a position to protect herself.
7. Resolved, That as men of the nation have made laws to disfranchise the women-to subject them to taxation without -to reduce the wives to legal pauperism-compelling them to be dependent upon their husbands for a support, and rendering them incapable of earning a farthing for themselves, and taking from the mothers the custody of their children-therefore,
8. Resolved, That we declare women to be as culpable in passively submitting to this injustice, as men are in being thus actively unjust.
9. Resolved, That it is not only the right, but the imperative duty of every woman, to ask a full guaranty of her rights, and to earnestly demand it of all who would withhold the same. Not simply that she may have the means of securing her own life, liberty and happiness, but that she may have the power more completely to obey the Scripture injunction to' deliver the soul that is drawn unto death,' to remember those in bonds as bound with them, to give a cup of cold water the name of a disciple to the least of the children of God, that she may aid in delivering the weak from the lures of temptation furnished by the license system, which creates nine-tenths of the crime and pauperism of the Commonwealth.
10. Resolved, That the fact that, without tation, woman is not only powerless to resist governmental oppression and tyranny, but is compelled to assist binding, as chattel slaves, four millions of human beings in enforcing by law immorality and ignorance, in laying the heaviest curse of slavery upon women, in making every slave mother entail her own social condition upon her child, should arouse every
woman to resistance against such oppression.
11. Resolved, That as educated minds are the only safe basis of republican government; and as the right to labor in all channels carries with it the right to a fitting preparation for work; therefore, we claim that all the higher institutions of education, academic, collegiate and professional, ought to be thrown open to women, endowed and supported as they have been, in most instances, by public funds, and bound in
every instance to serve and protect the public of the Commonwealth. 
Mrs. Blackwell then spoke of the application of the Golden Rule to woman. Women should feel the responsibilities of life. They oppose this movement because it is fashionable to be idle. They are educated to it, however, and since we are all wrong together, there should be united effort to change society. Woman's highest, holiest duties are at home, and let her be faithful to these, but not think that charity ends at home. As warmth takes the temper from steel, so the heated air of our modern houses has taken the temper out of women, and they are ashamed to see one of their number attempt to word. Jesus forgot himself in the truth which he taught; let woman also rise above self, is disinterested, effort to elevate humanity. 
Mrs. H. M. TRACY CUTLER, of Illinois, followed. 
The right of suffrage is the stumbling-block. The education of woman granted, it is found to be economical. The blessings of education are four-fold through her children to society. Her advance the medical profession has been rapid. It admitted that the desk is not profaned by woman. The best men acknowledge that women would aid in the Temperance cause. What woman would place power in the hands of a man who would permit or assist in the degradation of her husband or sons? So far as her labors are for others, they are now approved. Then by what law of justice should she be prevented from advancing her own interests- from protecting herself? The power of self-protection must be secured by the ballot-box.
Mrs. FRANCES D. GAGE, of St Louis, considered the 8th and 9th resolutions. All are made responsible under this federal government, either by the tariff or by direct taxation Woman's money is used to sustain a in which she can have no choice. There is no way in which to even protest against enactments the recent decree of the Missouri Legislature, (vetoed by the Governor,) that all free colored people should leave the State. There are many women St. Louis who have labored for years to obtain their freedom, and they must look, not to themselves, but to man, for security. any that the women of the South rejoice in this, because they see in it a power which will help to overthrow slavery.
WENDELL PHILLIPS said, no question is more rtant During the last ten years, there has been an entire change in the property laws of some States. The question of the quality of the does not
<c03>
refer to the ultimate claim before American law. of logical discipline in the arguments of women quite equal to those found, in any body. It was once believed that a man could sell his wife, and it has taken three hundred, years to acknowledge that woman has a soul. America has gone ahead of Europe, but we must ask for one step more-the use of the ballot-box. Our fathers did not think it necessary to prove the usefulness of demanded rights, and no one a right to ask this of woman. The right of property is sacred, and she must have power to, maintain it. Women are hung, although the fundamental principle of this government is, that no native is bound by law unless he has assented to it. You say she has her husband to assent for her. You must prove it. There is an irrepressible conflict' between Jewish and American law. In the old the husband was punished for the misdemeanors of his wife. Now consents for her, but does, not suffer for her. If women know right from wrong, they know enough to vote. Society rests on two base-property and civil rights. Who the money? The husband lays up that which would the wages of the wife, had she labored in the relation of house-keeper. Law says that he may dispose of it he will. The wife should have the same right over it. 
After further remarks by Mr. Phillips, the Convention adjourned to half-past 7 o'clock in the evening. 
EVENING.MARTHA C. WRIGHT in the chair.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY called attention to Woman's Rights publications, and spoke of the rights secured to women in Kansas. 
Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES. The world must be made to elevate woman to the position which man occupies. The Pagan slave's philosophy, Because I am a man, I am interested in humanity,' should be adopted in this late period. We demand for the highest culture. What knowledge can be given to man, that would not benefit her? But the highest institutions of learning are closed against her, and the world does not require that she should know much. If superior advantages should be allowed to one human being more than to another, they should be granted to the mother, because of the impress leaves upon the race. 
Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL spoke of natural rights, and of the impossibility of one class of human beings to represent another. Woman cannot expect justice in the courts, for she appeals not to her peers, but to the peers of those from whom she suffers wrongs. Man needs in every place a coworker. He has tried to labor alone In the political world, and has failed to accomplish the proposed end. The influence of man and woman over each other, or the plane of humanity, is always for good. Nature has implanted in woman the principle of action.
WENDELL PHILLIPS again addressed the Convention:-
God gives all things to unfold the human soul. When Daniel Webster was called upon to plead his first case, he was stimulated by the great responsibility of the position to closest study and intense action, and thereby gained success. Thus responsibility is always God's Normal School. So long as woman has not its discipline, she must go down, and draw man with her into the depths of sin. Fill up the heart with noble aims, and you crowd the bad angels out. Purify the foundations of woman's soul by opening colleges and all honorable avocations, by yielding to her the ballot-box, and only healthful waters will flow therefrom. 
Adjourned to Saturday P. M.
SATURDAY. 
Convention reassembled at half-past 2, P. M.
MARTHA C. WRIGHT in the chair. Mrs. WEIGHT read a very interesting letter from RERECCA L., of Ohio. 
The resolutions were again read.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY spoke briefly of the various avocations in which woman is engaged. The basis of individual freedom is an independent livelihood. We need a public sentiment which will make it as necessary for girls as for boys to have active employment. 
FRANCES D. GAGE called attention to the fourth resolution. She said, every young woman who feels a power within her, for a special work, should be true to herself, and be the 'Ouverture.' Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell has conquered prejudice this country and in England, and henceforth there will not be a tithe of difficulty, compared with the past. Let those who have mechanical genius improve the gift. In great emergency, women have guided ships safely through a threatening storm. If thus powerful in emergencies, she can nerve herself to do great things in common life. The girls in the Pemberton mill have evinced concentration for any purpose. 
Mrs. LUCY C. MAYO, of Albany, related an incident proving the efficiency of woman in circumstances which require her best efforts. A woman accompanied her husband, a captain, on a voyage to sea, and, to occupy her time, she studied navigation. One day, while her husband was lying intoxicated in the cabin, a violent storm came on, and she called the sailors about her, and said to them-'Trust me, and I will guide the ship safely.' They obeyed orders, and no harm came to them. 
Mrs. JONES and Mrs. CUTLER addressed the Convention on the industrial pursuits of women. 
The Convention then adjourned to half-past 7 o'clock. 
EVENING SESSION. Mrs. WRIGHT in the chair.
The PRESIDENT read Memorial addressed to the several Legislatures; also, a letter in relation thereto from Georgia. 
The Secretary then read the following letter from Hon. J. J. ORMOND, of Alabama, addressed to Susan B. Anthony:-
TUSCALOOSA, 26th Dec, 1859.
MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY:
MADAM-In redemption of my promise to you to inform you of fate of the Woman's Rights Petition' to our Legislature, I have the honor to inform you that it was virtually rejected, being laid on the table. I interested a distinguished member of our Senate in its presentation, and, in addition, wrote a letter which, under ordinary circumstances, would have insured its respectful consideration, having expunged the word 'black' from the petition; as no one, I apprehend, would suppose that the Legislature of a State in which slavery was established by law would, for a moment, tolerate a petition based upon the supposition that the African race had equal political rights with the white race. But, after your petition was forwarded, came the treasonable and murderous invasion of John Brown. The atrocity of this act, countenanced as it manifestly was by great party at the North, as shown by the sympathy felt for him and the honors paid to his memory, has extinguished spark of fraternal for the people of the North. We now look as our worst enemies. we are all living under a Constitution which secures to as our right to our slaves, the results of which are more beneficial to the whole North, and especially to the New England States, than to us, you are secretly plotting murderous inroads into our peaceful country, and endeavoring to incite our slaves to cut the throats of our wives and children. Can believe that this state of things can last? We now look upon as our worst enemies, and are ready to sepate from you. Measures are now in progress as for as possible to establish non-intercourse with you, and to proscribe all articles of Northern manfucture or origin, including New England teachers. We can live without you. It remains to be seen how you will get along without out us. You will find that fansticism is not an
<c04>
element of national wealth, or conducive to the happiness or comfort of the people
In conclusion, let me assure you this written more in sorrow than in anger. I am not a politician, and have always until now been a strenuous friend of the Union. I am now in favor of a separation, unless you immediately retrace your steps, and give the necessary guarantees, by the passage of laws, that will faithfully abide by the compromises of the Constitution, by which alone the slaveholding States can with safety or honor remain in the Union. But that this will be done, I have very little hope, as 'madness seems to rule the hour'; and as you have thus constituted yourselves our enemies, must not be surprised at finding that we are yours. J. J. ORMOND. Mrs. J. E. JONES then read to the Convention a very written address on the political position of woman in America, 
Mrs. F. D. GAGE and Mrs. TRACY CUTLER followed, making effective closing speeches. 
The resolutions were unanimously adopted. 
After brief remarks by SUSAN B. ANTHONY, the Convention adjourned, sine die
MARTHA C. WRIGHT, President.
ELIZABETH M. POWELL, Secretarises
CHLOR A. PECKHAM, 
The lady above will please accept the thanks of the Printers of the for the methodical, plain and legible manner in they prepared manuscript of these proceedings for the press. Why! they have done quite as as even men could do!]

From the New York Tribune.
BRACKETT'S BUST OF BROWN.
The best things of this world never obtrude them selves on public notice. Walking up Washington street, one may see plenty of rich jewelry sparkling in the windows, graceful statuettes, and vases moulded every form of beauty. But the gem of gems, the thing most worth seeing in all the city, is in an artist's studio, up two flights of stairs. No. 24 Tremont-row. There those who visit Boston can see Brackett's wonderful bust of John Brown. That the whole press has not lauded it, with one universal chorus of praise, is merely because the name of John Brown is, at this time, an apple of discord.
Those who knew the martyred hero well, pronounce it an admirable likeness. Such the written testimony of Sennott, the lawyer who was with him during his trial. The artist labored under the disadvantage of not being allowed to enter the prison when he went to Virginia for the purpose of making this bust. But a friend took accurate measurements for him, and he had enlarged photographs to guide him. It also a fortunate circumstance that he chanced to meet John Brown in the streets of Boston several months before brave bearing at Harper's
Ferry had made him world-famous. The expression of the face and the carriage of the head attracted his artistic eye. He said to himself, 'There's a head for a sculptor.' He looked after him earnestly, and went back in order to pass him again. Upon inquiring who it was, he was told, That is old John Brown of Kansas.' The strong impression then made on his mind had much to do with subsequent desire of
going to Virginia for the purpose of modeling his head. The Virginians refused to grant opportunities for this work, partly because they suspected he was secretly employed to make a plan of the jail with a view to rescue, and partly because they wanted John Brown to die, and there to be 'an end of him,' as some of them expressed it; a wish which does not seem to be in a very fair way of fulfillment.
When the artist returned, his soul so completely absorbed in his work that John Brown was continually before him, in the dreams of the night and the mental visions of the day. He read attentively all his writings and sayings, in order to become thoroughly imbued with his character. With such concentration of thought, perhaps it is not extraordinary that he should have produced an excellent likeness. But it required genius to make it so live. It is this that makes it impress me more deeply than anything I have seen of modern sculpture. There are many statues with graceful outline, and exquisitely cut; but the soul, that made the marble seem to breathe in ancient sculpture, is almost always wanting. In Bust of Brown, the character of the man looks through the features wonderfully. Any good judge that examines it, without
knowing whom it was intended to portray, would say, ' There is a man of strong will and lofty courage; kindly of heart, and religious to the very core of his being.'
A Boston gentleman, who had lived much in Europe, exclaimed, 'It is singularly like Michael Angelo's Moses!' Other visitors have also observed this resemblance. But Mr. Brackett has never seen Michael Angelo's Moses, nor any representation of it. In fact, the similarity is merely in character. It is the sublime expression, the air of moral grandeur, which connects the two in the imagination of the spectator. This is not surprising, when we reflect that Michael Angelo had for his ideal the ancient hero who led brethren out of bondage at the command of Jehovah, and Brackett sought to embody the modern hero, whose soul filled with the same great idea.
That the effect produced on my mind is not peculiar, I will prove by two witnesses, whose prejudices would have them to be unfavorable critics. The sculptor's conservative friends were, of course, not pleased with object of his visit to Virginia. One of them, meeting him in State street a short time ago, said, 'What are you doing now, Brackett?' 'I have just finished my bust of John Brown,' was the reply. 'Ah, I was sorry to hear of your going to Virginia. It will be a great injury to you,' said the Conservative. The sculptor replied, 'An artist must seek materials where he can find them; and rarely can material be found as the head of John Brown. You had better come and see
it.' 'Not I. The old murderer " was the abrupt answer. 'Then come and look at the bust of Choate; for I have completed that also,' said Mr. Brackett. A few days afterward, the Hunker gentleman called to the bust of Choate. As he stood before it, he glanced furtively, from time to, at the head of John Brown, stood near by. It seemed to attract him powerfully; for he soon turned and gased upon it. At last, he asked, 'Is that a good likeness? 'Those who know John Brown well, agree in me,' replied the Sculptor. The Hunker looked at it thoughtfully, and said, 'I would give a good deal to think it was a fancy sketch.' In the presence of that calm, strong, reverential head, he could not repeat the words, An old murderer.'
An artist who was extremely hostile to John after looking at this magnificent head, exclaimed, 'The old curse! He ought to be ashamed of himself, for making all the rest of us look mean!' 
The remarkable bust is ordered in marble. There are also many orders for copies in plaster. Admirable photograph, of it are for sale; but, of course, the best of photographs never do entire justice to statues.
Should this head be dug up, after lying for centuries, and there should be no clue to its history, it would at once take conspicuons rank in galleries Art, and men would say to each other, 'It might be a head of Jupiter, were there not something so Christian in its character. 'L. MARIA CHILD.
RIGHTS OF MARRIED WOMEN. A bill is now before of New York, and will probably be passed, exempting the earning, of a married woman from attachment for the debts of her the xclusive control of her earning, as she now has of the property which she possessed at the time of her marriage.
<c05>
EXECUTIVE 
MR.GARRISON-The 'humane dead' meatioaod in the last Liberator for which some one k anxious President Buchanan should 'have due credit,' when fully stated and viewed in its connections, anything but credit. 'credit.'
It is stated that, 'harboring his own [innocent] son, a man was thrown into prison untill he could pay a fine of $200. A statement of the case showed it to be one of peculiar cruelty, and the President at once pardoned him.
I suppose reference is made to the of Manuel Moran, who imprisoned for this offence in, and not pardoned till after sixty days' confinement.
A father does what God and suggest and enjoin and what no law can forbid; and for performing this duty, e is cruelly imprisoned to pay a fine f $200 in the capital of this Republic! And the, President, being informed that it is a case of' peculiar cruelty,' and humbly petitioned after sixty days orders the prison-door to be Christianity, 'to open the prison-door, and let the go free'! Proclaim it to the world as' a riumph of the gospel in America' Had a thing been done to one of our native-born by a savage tribe, how much bloodshed might have been caused! But performed by our enightened Christian government, led off by our eminently pious President, all is so quiet that the left hand scarcely knows what the right hand does.
It was but few days that our good Christian President made another series of prompt and feeling visits to 'one of these tittle onces' in a Washington prison; it all went off so that no one would have again thought of the fact, had not the blessed results appeared of late in the serious bearing of this subject of these visits.
But, in this of Manuel Moran, we, the people, should have some 'credit.' It was in our capital, where our laws are enforced, that this father was fined and imprisoned sixty days for doing what God and nature would frown on him for not doing. But he was one of those' who (in this country) have no rights which a white man is bound to respect.' Besides, his son was a slave, and 'we have nothing to do with slavery where it exists.' The son was the' property' of one of 'our Southern brethren,' which ) the Constitution binds to protect. These 'constitutional rights' must be sacredly preserved- rights, a father's duty, a mother's affection,-evident truths,' to the contrary notwithstanding. 'We are a law-abiding and Bible-loving people,' and conquer all these prejudices. J. H. F
Boston, Feb. 25, 1860.
RIGHTS OF MARRIED WOMEN&c.
Senator Parish, of the Huron and Erie district, has introduced a bill in the Senate, to define the rights of married women in relatio to holding property, &c., and the bill occupied the attention of the Senate in Committee of the Whole, Monday. As the matter is one which interests a of readers of both sexes, we clip as follows from the official reports:-
Mr. Jones moved to strike oat all after the enacting clause. 
Mr. explained the objects of the bill:- 1st. It exempts the property belonging to a woman before marriage from the control or debts of her husband upon her assuming the marital relations, and continues it in her right. 2nd. It also secures' property belonging to a woman already married, the rents, profits, &c, of it to her, the same as if she were single, excepting in so far as the property may already have become liable for her husband's debts; and it releases husband from liability for debts of the wife, whether contracted before or after marriage. Sec 3 Allows married women to take by, devise, &c., and to sell, &c, any property, the same as an unmarried woman, and it shall be from her husband's authority-provided, that if she permits her husband to use her property in business, said property shall be liable for his debts contracted in said business. 
Sec. 4 Enables married women to make contracts, to sue and be, plead, &c, as if they were single, except as to their husbands. No such proceedings to abate by marriage.
Sec. 5 Allows women during coverture, right to their time and to profits of their labor, earnings, &c-provided, husband and wife shall be jointly and severally bound for the support, &c, of their own children, and for their own mutual support while the relation exists. 
Sec. 6 Enables a woman who was executrix, &c., before marriage, to act in that capacity afterwards,and makes married women eligible to position. 
Sec. 7 Contracts between in contemplation of marriage, to remain in force after marriage.
Mr. expatiated upon the evils of the existing laws in relation to women, and advocated revolution in premises. He was in favor of securing to women the fullest legal rights compatible with their natural rights. He said the first three sections of the bill are almost verbatim the law now on the statute books of New York. He did not claim that the measure is altogether a new thing, although it is new here. He submitted that an equalisation of the of men and women would contribute to the welfare of society. Among other reforms he it would be apt to, would be a reduction of divorce cases, he was opposed to laws which require women to go out of legal existence upon entering the marriage condition. 
Mr. Cox was not satisfied with the arguments of the gentlemen for his bill. progress in society, did not regard the making the direction of the interests of husbands and wives more and more several, in the right line of progress. He regarded it wise legislation to protect and make more sacred the family relation. The bill before the committee not do this, as it makes distinctions and interests which should be united. The true policy is to protect the personal independence of the wife, but make the of husbands and wives joint, and closely united as possible. 
Mr. Jones thought that the existing statute meets necessities of the case, if men and their wives would live together as they should do. He thought infidelity increased in proportion to the legislation which makes separate the of and wife, in contravention of a law of the author of our being. It is declaring that man and his wife are no longer one flesh, twain. He did not like the partnership interest alluded to by the gentleman from Trumbull. Instead of making a union such as contemplated by marriage, it was but a partnership
Mr. Parish though the progress contemplated by the bill would not affect the sanctity of the marriage relation, but would produce happy results. He thought it just to relieve the wife from the restraint to which she is now subjected, and would promote the objects of marriage. 
Mr. Monroe objected to the bill, because he did not believe the philosophy which underlies legislation to protect the rights of married women. The happiness of the family will be best promoted, the nearer you can come to perfect unity. Hence he was opposed to legislation that tends to make husband and wife separate powers. Just in as unity promoted you increase the family and social happiness. He deemed it indispensable to the happiness of a couple, that one the other should go as nearly out of legal at possible, and could not the evils resulting from it which his friend from Erie seemed to deprecate. He thought the worst off family in the world, is the family head; and the natural endency of bills like this is apt to destroy that headship in the family promote discord. Mr. Key would not support the bill of the Senator from Erie, but he was fully of the opinion that there should be further legislation in Ohio for the protection of the property and earning of married women. Separate propert and the right to their own earnings, would afford greater security against reform on this subject was attributable to the act that General Assemblies were composed chiefly of married men; and it was apparent that the great body of this class of citizens were determined not only to posses wives, but also to appropriate to themselves everything which <illegible>possess.
Mr. Cuppy concurred with Mr. ey.
The motion to strike all after the enacting clause was carried-Ohio Paper. 
<c06>
Is there any virtue in 
MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR TO THE OF My age is sixty, One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been falling, untill, on the crown it had quite than. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. Allen's Restorer,'No.1 according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its color, and the has appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PERPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRFTIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M.
Bridgewater, Oneida Co.,N.Y.,Nov.22,1855President J.J, EATON, LL. D., Union University Tennessee.
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle S. World's Resterer, &c., and give it a trial. I commenced it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its TE PALLING OFF OF HAIR and my locks, which before were quite GRAY,WERE CHANGED I do not consider that I have given it a fairtrial but, from what I have seen of its is by own case, I have eason to belive that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM OFF, and to GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.' 
Mrs. D.W.CLARK, wife of D. W. Editor 'Ladies' Repository, 'Cincinnati, Ohio,
'I have been using S. mum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recomm yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, appearance, and retains it is any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E ROBIE. Editor 'Christian Adrecate, 'Buffalo, N.Y.
Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c. Rev. E.R.FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec American and Foreign Christian Union, N.Y. City.
'have been used in family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommeding them to such as have occasion to use such preparations'.
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era, 'Boston Mass. 'Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobaisamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am neither nor gray; my was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H.V.DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness, among our other advertisements, we insert from setual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where bladness had commenced, we have now the evidence of your own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.
 Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro,' Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S.A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the' crown of which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with then same effect. The I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.' 
Rev. DANIEL T.WOOD, Middletown, Orange N.Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W.B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashirs, Englad.
'Your Hair is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color.-not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy answering the queries of any you may to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place,(Pacific street,)Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R.H. POLLOCK, Ed, 'Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
 is our settled policy to advertise nothing till as know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs.S.A.Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I pleased to insert advertisement,' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Educations R. D. Church, 337, N.Y., and New Baltimore, Greene, N.Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster, N.Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair have produced all the effects described in her advertisement in the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or in luxuriance.'
Rev. B.C.SMITH, Prattsbury, N.Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair socaturned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvasia.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and cashed a new growth, although I did not attend to it us your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, N. H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.
Rev. Mrs. E.S.ANDRUS,(many years Missio to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N.Y.
In consequence of her long residence in <illegible> island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's, she writes to the 'American Baptist,' 'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S.A, Allen's World's Hair Restorer and; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S.A.ALLEN.'
We think that if these fail to convince than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell <illegible> on which they make more profit than on these; INSIST on having these. These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe. We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; It is a bottle. Balsam, 87 1/2 cents per bottle. Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S.A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No<illegible> Broome Street, New York.' The A. Allens,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappen, in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles none other is genuine. Signing the name by other is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a crim few offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD <illegible> Oct 14 lyeep
