<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to 4be directed(POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for time insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
<c01>
Selections.
RESTORATION OF THE REBEL STATES.
ADDRESS BY HON. GEO. S. BOUTWELL.
Hon. George S. Boutwell, on the invitation of a large number of the citizens of Boston, delivered an eloquent address at Tremont Temple, on Wednesday evening, July 26th, on the subject of "The Restoration of the Rebel States." From a full report in the Boston Journal, we make the following extracts:
If the Proclamation of Emancipation is to stand, these four million of heretofore slaves are to be free. They reside in the fifteen old slave States. These States are to have political power in Congress, not only according to the number of white persons within their limits, but according to the number of free persons, black as well as white. What is the result? To-day, upon the census of 1860, under the three fifths rule, there are nineteen seats in the House of Representatives which may be filled by men whose constituency, if they were voters, would be negroes of the South. In 1870 there will be a new census, and a new apportionment of political power. The South will take political power in the House of Representatives according to its combined white and colored population. I have made an estimate, which is probably not far from what will prove to be true in 1870. There will be about four and a half million of colored people in the old slave States; there will be about nine million of white people in the old slave States; and there will be, about twenty-five million of people in the free States-making thirty-five and a half million in all. Upon the constitutional basis, political power will be apportioned, in 1870, in this wise: To the four and a half millions of negroes in the South, thirty Representatives; to the nine million white people in the South, sixty Representatives-ninety Representatives from the South. To the twenty-two million of people in the North, one hundred and forty-four Representatives in Congress. Now, what is the inevitable result of the doctrine that these eleven rebellions States are States in the Union, and have a right to be represented as States? It is this: that the nine million of white people in the South are to do all the voting in the fifteen old slave States; and when you consider that the war in the South has proved pretty nearly a war of extermination of all the men between twenty and forty-five years of age, and that the proportion of women and children is vastly greater than the natural proportion of women and children to adult males in any community that has not been ravaged by the fires of war, you will understand that the number of voters among those nine million of people will be but a small proportion of the whole. These white voters of the South are to elect ninety Representatives to Congress. And who are these white men of the South? They are the men who have been in arms against the Republic and against the soldiers of the Republic. They are of a race which through two centuries has been contaminated by the vilest crime, the crime of slavery, until the whole public sentiment of the South has become delauched, until it has given birth to conspiracies for the perpetration of the crimes of arson, of murder, of treason, of assassination, in all their hideous and unnamable forms; such crimes as could not have been committed, or even contemplated, in any other country or by any other people. It is out of the institution of slavery that there came the infamous decree by which sixty thousand of the soldiers of the Republic were starved in the prisons and pens of the South; and will the people of this country, if they have a prejudice against the negro race such as human beings never felt toward any of the animate creation, from the foundation of the world until now-will the people of this country, if they have such a prejudice even, exclude the negroes from the ballot-box, and allow it to be controlled by these nine million, or the representatives of these nine million, of white people in the South? Under all circumstances, a majority, a confessed majority of the white people of the South, have shown themselves the enemies of this country. The loyalists among them-the men who have stood by the old "flag-have been a few," like angel visits." On the other hand, the black man, despised, down-trodden, with no reason to cheer or bless the flag of the Republic, which to him, from the foundation of the government until the signal shot upon Fort Sumter, had been only the ensign of oppression, with no reminiscences or traditions in its behalf, has proved true to the country, has led and guided and cheered the soldier, has enlisted in the armies of the Republic, has fought for the integrity of the nation and the safety of freedom. And can it be-can it be in the heart of any man of the twenty million of inhabitants in the North, with an ingratitude unexampled save in the instance of Judas Iscariot, now to consign these people, their race, and their posterity to the tender mercies of the men who instituted Libby prison and Andersonville, who sent to the islands of the ocean for the pestilence with which they hoped to blast the cities of the North, who instituted arson as a plan, and finally closed their career of systematic and organized crime by the assassination of the President of the Republic? Do you propose to allow these people to send ninety representatives into the Congress of the United States, when according to numbers they would be entitled to but sixty? Upon the basis of thirty-five and a half million of people, a constituency would consist of one hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants; and, the number of members of the House being limited by law to two hundred and thirty-four, the white voters of the South would take sixty members in their own right, and thirty more upon the basis of the negro population-giving them ninety votes. They would then back but twenty-eight votes of a majority in the House of Representatives; twenty-eight votes, which New York alone could give, which two or three other States in a moment of disaffection might give. And what is the result, or at least the possible danger? The government of this country is in the hands of rebels. Will not the men interested in public securities, look to it that no such exigency arise? We have issued two and a half thousand million of public securities, the value of which depends entirely upon the good faith of the people of this country. If you put the power into the hands of these rebels, one of two things is sure to happen-either that the rebel debt will be foisted upon the National Government or the National debt will be repudiated. And more than that; if these nine million of people in the South are to elect ninety representatives, they will elect one for every one hundred thousand white persons represented by the voting population; while in the North it will take one hundred and fifty thousand persons to constitute the basis of representation; that is, two voters in the South will have equal power in the government of the country with three voters in the North. I submit that the people of the North, unless they are infatuated, so that there is no hope of their being able to comprehend the means necessary for their own salvation, will reject-once,
<c02>
twice, thrice, continually reject-every proposition which recognizes those States as States of the American Union. One of two things must happen-either that the negro shall be allowed to vote, or that, by an amendment to the Constitution, the representative power shall be based upon voters; and if, as is contended by those who oppose negro suffrage, these eleven States are States in the Union, as it requires three-fourths of the States to make an amendment to the Constitution, and as the eleven States are more than one-fourth, and are interested in the maintenance of the present condition of things, there is no hope of an amendment of the Constitution. Therefore, fellow-citizens and countrymen, you have but one path before you, and, thank God, it is the path of justice, and in it you must walk; and that path leads you to contend for and to secure to the negro the right of suffrage in this country.
We are told that the negroes will vote with their masters. I do not know whether they will or not; but it is no excuse for us, in denying them their rights, to say that they will vote in a particular way. If they have the right to vote, we are not to trample that right under our feet, because we infer that they will hereafter exercise it in some way disagreeable to us. But the same persons told us, in 1861 and 1862, that if we put arms into the hands of the negroes, they would fight on the side of their masters. Was that prediction verified? By no means. And neither will this prediction be verified, unless the spirit of the masters is changed, and they vote, on the side of this Government. 
By the Emancipation Proclamation, we have taken the initiatory steps toward the freedom of the negro; but how are liberties secured? Are there laboring men here to-night? What security have they for the integrity of their families? What security have they for the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus? What security have they for the education of their children at the public expense? What security have they that their testimony shall be taken in a court of justice? Their security is in the ballot. We say that men possess certain " natural, essential and unalienable rights." How are those rights to be defended? Either by the bayonet or by the ballot. If the negroes are to protect themselves in their rights, it is for the country to give them the means by giving them the ballot. And it is not less in favor of the South than of the whole country that we advocate negro suffrage. We of Massachusetts remember the difficulties in Rhode Island, less than quarter of a century ago, when men of our own race, having the political power of the State in their own hand exclusively, refused to recognize the rights of other men of the same race, the same blood, equally qualified with themselves, until the concession was extorted from them by revolution; and do you expect that the white men of the South, if you allow them to institute governments with political power in their own hand, exclusively, will ever concede it to the negroes, until the negroes extort it from them at the point of the bayonet? These negroes are four million to-day. They will increase through decades and centuries until they are eight, ten, twenty million; and if you do not give them the right of suffrage now, at some future time they or their posterity will demand it and secure it by force. Instead, therefore, of being the enemies of the South, when we demand negro suffrage, we are its real friends, because we take security in their behalf, at this early day, that hereafter they shall be saved from intestine commotion, from civil and social wars.
Perversion and misrepresentation are powerless, and argument thus far has not been heard, in behalf of the monstrous proposition that the North should consent to such a reconstruction of this government as will guaranty perpetually to two white, men in the South the political power that is accorded to three white men in the North. Who are they and what are they, if they exist at all within the limits of the loyal States, who are prepared to maintain the doctrine that Virginia, South Carolina, Florida and Texas have the same immediate and indisputable right of representation as is enjoyed by New York, Illinois, Pennsylvania and California? That they have not this right is conceded by all, or by nearly all among us. No one is prepared to accept South Carolina with her old constitution. The veriest stickler for State rights demands some alteration. This demand, however slight it may seem in its practical application, is the equivalent in principle of the demand I make. South Carolina is in the Union with her constitution of 1860, or as a political organization known as a State she is not in the Union at all; and if she is not in the Union as a State, her application for admission may be rejected until she appears with a frame of government in substantial harmony with the policy of the nation. You must be just to the negro. When you invited him to assume the uniform of the army of the Republic, when you put the musket into his hand, when you asked him to jeopard, and, if need be, to sacrifice his life in defence of the country, you did, in fact, if not in terms, agree that if the cause -his cause as well as your own-was successful, he should have the same part in the government as yourselves, and therefore you cannot, without the basest ingratitude, now reject him. I am compelled to declare to you, my friends, in all sincerity, heinous as are the crimes of these Southern men, infamous as they will be upon the page of history, that if the people of the North, now that they have acquired liberty for themselves, now that they have secured the restoration of the Union by the services and sacrifices of the negro, in common with their own services and sacrifices, should surrender him, bound hand and foot, as he will be if he does not enjoy the right of suffrage, into the custody of his enemies, made doubly ferocious by the events of this war, and into the custody of your enemies, also, your position upon the page of history, and in the judgment of posterity, will be only less infamous than theirs. I know of no excuse that we can offer to ourselves, I know of no excuse that we can offer to this generation in other countries, I know of no excuse that we can offer to mankind in the coming ages, if, having accepted the services and the blood of these men in defence of the flag, of liberty and of the Union, we turn and conspire with these their ancient oppressors, and trample our faithful allies in the dust. Let it not be that this infamy is reserved for the people of this country. Of all the woes of which we have drunk through these four years, of all the instances of degradation which have been treasured up in the long annals of mankind, I know of none which will compare with the woe and the degradation of a free people, who, having secured their own liberties by the blood of their fellow men, with base ingratitude offered their allies to the common enemy, to the enemy of the country, of liberty and of mankind.
The Tribune says it is now disclosed that Barnum's Museum was fired by incendiaries in half a dozen places simultaneously. It is suspected that the guilty parties were rebel sympathizers, offended by the prominence Barnum has given to the manner of Jeff. Davis capture.
<c03>
A SPEECH BY GENERAL LOGAN. 
HIS VIEWS ON FREE LABOR AND THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. 
Major-General Logan delivered a forcible and eloquent speech in Louisville, K y., on Friday last, in which he gave some sensible advice to the Kentuckians. We subjoin the following extracts: 
EDUCATION IN THE SOUTH. 
We look in vain through the Southern States for public schools. Ignorance sits enthroned where the flowers bloom in mid winter, and waste their fragrance upon the desert air. Why is this so? The riddle is easily read. The educated man will think, and, if his heart is educated, he will feel, and "out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh." Surely, then, that same policy that made it a legal crime to educate a slave, must, in the inexorable spirit of its theory, oppose the education of any and everybody who, by possibility, may become the friend of the slave. The people of the South having resolved to perpetually persist in holding on to this institution, pursued a politic plan to prevent the spread of popular education. Can any man fail to see, or fail to feel, that any institution, the interest of which must make such exactions, is bound to be a country's curse? Lycurgus, who was a great and good Grecian lawgiver in his day and generation, insisted that children were the property of the State. There is but one use to which the State can put children, that is to educate them. Intelligence is heaven's rarest gift to earth; it is the attribute that gives man a claim to an affinity with angels; and that State is false to her most sacred trust, as well as to her most vital interest, that fails to develop all of her moral resources. Had a wise system of popular education been adopted at the South at the same time it was at the North, that section might not be to day, as it verily is, without the light of a single great mind to guide it through the dark wilderness of its troubles. Attribute, If you please, the degradation in which is found buried the Southern mind, either to a jealousy of education or the selfishness of affluence, and still it is the institution of slavery that causes it. 
NEGRO EQUALITY. 
I see it is asserted by those hostile to the proposed amendment, that the second section gives Congress power to legislate on the question of negro suffrage in the States. This I do most emphatically deny. The second section is simply designed to make the first effective-in other words, to practically execute it. The Constitution of the United States has already distinctly committed to the keeping of each State the regulation of the suffrage question. I have frequently felt emotions of amazement and amusement at the holy horror with which some stump orators of quondam slave States deprecate what they affect to believe are the intentions of Congress, should this amendment be adopted, in regard to one question over which, it does occur to me every man with a thimbleful of brains in his head ought to know Congress never can have jurisdiction. I allude to the delicate question of social equality and intercourse. How can Congress pass a law to make any one white man say that any other white man or black man shall be his guest and companion? Social intercourse will regulate itself, and at the same time it will regulate all questions of quality and equality belonging to the private walks of social life. To these gentlemen I will say that I was born and reared on tree soil, and that there I never saw a black man with a white wife, nor a white man with a black wife. There white people are white people, and black people are black people; whereas I find throughout the South " kinky-heads" almost as white as anybody. It is an unfortunate thing for the negroes of the South that they take their status from their mothers. If from their fathers, they would be almost as universally free as, under the existing rule, they are slaves. The truth is, that the practical amalgamationists are the Southern people. 
AN ANECDOTE IN PART. 
I was told an amusing story last winter, while in Savannah, to this effect: There was before the Legislature of Georgia a bill to expatriate all the free negroes in the State. Against this barbarous measure the citizens of Savannah uttered a most pathetic protest. A remonstrance went up from that goodly city to the Legislature, signed by almost everybody. The reason for this remonstrance, it was said by the friends of the measure, was that all the folks in Savannah were" kin." 
THE LABOR QUESTION. 
There is another objection urged to the emancipation of slaves in Kentucky. It is said that if the slaves are made free, Kentucky will be without labor. This is a great mistake. If made free, the probabilities are that they will remain, and, for wages, labor with much more energy than heretofore. If not made free, with no laws to protect the institution, surrounded as you are by free States, offering to them an asylum and wages for their labor, they will desert their masters, and find for themselves a home in a foreign State, where the spirit of freedom is universal, and the curse of slavery driven from the land. It is natural that they should do so, and no man but a crazy man could calculate otherwise. And would it not be better for Kentucky to show her magnanimity, her patriotism, her desire for a lasting peace, and the return of fraternal feelings, by at once doing that which, if she does not do, will soon do itself? Think of the great desire on the part of the civilized world that the chains of slavery, still clanking in your State, should be stricken from the limbs of the black man by the generosity and Christian spirit of your own people! Let your cloud-kissing hills and smiling valleys once test the energies of free labor, and ere long the number you are behind your sister States in population you will gather, the deficiency in wealth you will accumulate. Enterprise, capital, intelligence, and Christianity will leap for joy over the new and bright prospects before them. Kentucky will then take the position she ought to occupy among her sister States, and claim rank and respectability second to none.
WHAT SLAVERY HAS DONE. 
Our land is swarming with thousands of cripples; some have lost legs and others arms; why do not these men go abroad among the people, and hold up their shattered limbs, and tell the slaveholder, "This it what your institution has cost me. While you were basking in the sunshine of safety at home, I was at the front. When slavery took the form of armed rebellion, and soldiers were called into the field to put it down, you found irresistible fascinations in the attractions of home. I did my duty. I return now to my home to drag out, through a few lingering years, a miserable life; but mock me not. I do, in Heaven's name, implore you to stop this eternal parade before my aching eyes of this most odious institution." Oh, that I had the power to night to bring together all the slaveholders of this land, and have them look on in solemn silence, while the crippled, the widows and
<c04>
orphans that have been made by this war, could pass before them in grand review, and tell their tales of misery and woe that slavery has brought upon them. Were their hearts made of stone, they would melt while gazing on such a scene, and with one voice let the land be at once rid of the curse that has caused such a dreadful scene. But, suppose we have no personal grievances over which to mourn, let us cast our eye down along the banks of the mighty father of waters, and then, returning, start again at Perryville, and glance along that broad and deep channel over which the red tide of battle rolled through the gorges of the Cumberland, and down along the plains of Georgia, on to the sea. Then pursue it around through the Carolinas, to Raleigh, and all over the crimsoned soil of Virginia; and as you count the almost countless graves that lie all along the banks of that river of blood, thick as " autumn leaves in Vallambrosa," pause for one moment to contemplate the seas of tears, the paroxysms of unutterable agony, all these must have cost when "somebody's darling" had to fall at every blow; and then tell me, if you can, when you know that slavery caused it all, can you still cling to it? It has filled the lunatic asylum with maniacs. It has filled houses of refuge with paupers. It has filled all the land with mourning. It has deluged your land with fraternal blood. It has snapped in twain the tendered ties of social society. It has caused desolation to reign in princely palaces, where happiness had always held its revels. It has smitten with want and woe millions who were born in the lap of luxury.
How, under Heaven's name, can any mortal man, not given over to the demon of selfishness, desire to see such a cause of sorrow and suffering, injury and infamy, hypocrisy and hate, perpetuated among the institutions of his country? In Heaven's name I implore you, strike at once, and give it a deathblow! Let it be proclaimed from the ends of the rivers to the ends of the earth, that we live in a land of universal liberty, where the fires of patriotism, being rekindled, will glow on as brightly as ever, in a Union that has battered down, the walls of treason. 
SOUTH CAROLINA UNIONISM. 
Extraordinary Speech of Governor Perry, of South Carolina, al Greenville, S. C., July 3d-Lincoln no Loss to the South-Lee ranks next to Washington-Freedom a Curse to the Negroes, &c. &c. 
We present below some extracts from the speech of Gov. Perry, of South Carolina, to the people of Greenville, in that State, on the 3d of July, which we regard as the most extraordinary utterance ever made by a Union official:- 
MR. CHAIRMAN,-This public meeting of the citizens of Greenville is one of deep humiliation and sorrow. A cruel and bloody war has swept over the Southern States. One hundred and fifty thousand of our bravest and most gallant men have fallen on the fields of battle. The land is filled with mourning widows and orphans. There is scarcely a house which there has not been weeping for some loved one lost. Three thousand millions of dollars have been spent by the Southern States in carrying on this war. And now we are called upon to give up four millions of slaves, worth two thousand million dollars more. Our country has been ravaged and desolated; our cities, towns and villages are mouldering ruins. Conquering armies occupy the country. The Confederacy has fallen, and we have been deprived of all civil government and political rights. We have neither law nor order. There is no protection for life, liberty or property. Everywhere there is demoralization, rapine and murder. Hunger and starvation are upon us. And now we meet as a disgraced and subjugated people to petition the conqueror to restore our lost rights. Such are the bitter fruits of secession! 
THE GOVERNOR FEELS DEGRADED BY COMING BACK.
Mr. Chairman, I will here frankly say, as I have often said during the past four years, that there was not a man in the United States who more deeply regretted the secession of the Southern States than I did at the beginning of the revolution; and there is not now in the Southern States any who feels more bitterly the humiliation and degradation of going back into the Union than I do. Still, I know we shall be more prosperous and happy in the Union than out of it.
JEFF. NOT TO BLAME. 
It has been too common, Mr. Chairman, to attribute the failure of this great revolution to the President of the late Confederacy. That, sir, is a mistake. The people were themselves to blame for its failure. They were unwilling to make those sacrifices which were essential to its success.- Many who were most prominent in the movement never did anything for it after the war commenced. Instead of seeking their proper position, in front of the battle, they sought " bomb-proofs" for 
themselves and their sons. There were others who got into " soft places," and "official positions," where they could speculate and make fortunes on Government funds.
In fact, toward the latter part of the war, it seemed that every one was trying to keep out of the army, and was willing to, pay anything and make any sacrifice to do so. When Gen. Johnston surrendered his army, he had on his muster roll 70,000 men, but only 14,000 to be carried into battle! General Lee's army was in the same condition. Where were the absentees? At home, on furlough, staying over their furloughs, deserted and straggling! At no time during the last three years of the war was there more than one-third of the army ready to march into battle! How was it possible for the Southern people to succeed, acting thus? 
MR. LINCOLN NO GREAT LOSS TO THE SOUTH. 
It has been said and repeated all over the Southern States, that the South has sustained a great loss in the death of President Lincoln. I do not think so. President Johnson is a much abler and firmer man than President Lincoln was. He is in every way more acceptable to the South. In the first place, he is a Southern man, and Lincoln was a Northern man. He is a Democrat, and Lincoln was a Whig and Republican. President Johnson was a slaveholder, well acquainted with the institution, and knows what is proper to be done in the great change which is taking place. President Lincoln was wholly unacquainted with slavery and Southern institutions. President Johnson is a man of iron will and nerve, like Andrew Jackson, and will adhere to his principles and political faith. On the other hand, President Lincoln showed himself to be nothing more than clay in the hands of the potter, ready to change his measures and principles at the bidding of his party. President Johnson has filled all the highest and most honorable offices in the State of Tennessee, with great ability and satisfaction to the people. There is no stain or blot on his private character. The ablest speech ever
<c05>
delivered in the Senate of the United States, on the issues between the North and South, was made by President Johnson. He voted for Breckinridge in the Presidential canvass of 1860. Judging, then, from his antecedents, the South should have every hope and confidence in him. 
FREEDOM A CURSE TO THE BLACKS. 
The idleness and vagrancy of the negro, in a free State, may be a nuisance to society. It must be corrected in the best way we can. I have no doubt, in nine cases out of ten, freedom will prove a curse instead of a blessing to the negro. No one should turn off his negroes, if they are willing to remain with him for their victuals and clothes, and work as they have heretofore done. They have had no agency in bringing about the change which has taken place, and we should feel no ill-will towards them on that account. 
REBELLION NOT TREASON. 
The resolutions submitted to this meeting express a hope, on the part of the people of Greenville, that the President will enlarge his amnesty proclamation, and grant a pardon to all who are liable to prosecution. The secession of the Southern States was far greater and very different from a rebellion proper. It was organized by constitutional sovereign States, acting in their sovereign capacity, and not by unauthorized assemblages of citizens. Treason may be committed against the State of South Carolina, as well as against the United States. After South Carolina left the Union, all her citizens were liable, as traitors, in the State Courts, who took sides with the United States and fought against her. If they were liable to be punished as traitors in the United States Courts, for taking sides with the State, then all were traitors and liable to be executed as traitors, whether they fought for or served for the one or the other government. This would, indeed, be a most cruel and lamentable condition. Death was their portion, act as they might. To stand neutral they could not and to choose between the State and United States was death. Surely a principal so monstrous and absurd cannot be enforced. There were thousands and hundreds of thousands in the Southern States who deeply regretted the secession of their States, but after the State had seceded, felt that their first allegiance was due the State. 
NOT A REBELLION. 
But, Mr. Chairman, the secession of eleven or twelve sovereign States, composing one half of the territory of the United States, was something more than a rebellion. It was legitimate war between the two sections, and they acted toward each other throughout the war as recognized belligerents, and none were treated as traitors during the whole of the four years' war. Hundreds of thousands of prisoners were thus exchanged. The highest generals as well as the humblest privates were treated as captured soldiers by both Governments, and exchanged. Surely a general officer who has been exchanged while this gigantic war was waging cannot now be demanded as a traitor, tried and executed as a traitor.
There have been few national wars in Europe in which greater armies were carried into service and on the field of battle. To call such a war a rebellion is simply a misapplication of terms. The greatest and best men of the Southern States were conscientiously leading this war, either in council or on the field of battle. 
LEE RANKS NEXT TO WASHINGTON. 
In all history, there is not a more perfect model of a pure and great man (save Washington) than General Lee. That he should now be hanged as a traitor would be an act of national infamy that would shock the whole civilized world, and render the name of the United States odious in history. 
HEROISM OF THE SOUTH. 
While I do not think, Mr. Chairman, that the whole people of the Southern States have behaved well in this war, and done their duty at home and on the field of battle, yet there is a very large proportion of them who have won immortal honors, and whose glory in war and wisdom in council will illustrate many a bright page in history. They have been unsuccessful in their revolution, but this does not and should not detract from their heroie valor on the field of battle, or their statesmanship in the cabinet or halls of legislation. They will be remembered and honored as patriots and heroes, not only at the South, but in the North too, as soon as passion subsides, and sober reason and calm reflection assume their sway over the public mind. 
WHAT THE SOUTH CANNOT FORGET. 
I cannot and would not, Mr. Chairman, ask my fellow-citizens to forget the past in this war, so far, as the North is concerned. There have been deeds of atrocity committed by the United States armies which never can be forgotten in the Southern States. 
AS YOU LIKE IT. 
The N. Y. Times has the following:- 
GOV. PERRY, OF SOUTH CAROLINA. In our Washington despatches will be found an explanation of the circumstances under which Gov. Perry, of South Carolina, delivered his Greenville speech. At the time the speech was delivered, Mr. Perry was unaware of his nomination to the office of Governor. He spoke, therefore, with the freedom of a private citizen; and in that light his speech must be viewed. 
The lack of principle shown by this extract would astonish us greatly, were it not in such perfect keeping with the usual political utterances of that paper. Indeed, when the role which its relations to the government seem to force it to play is considered, the above paragraph is not singular. Nor is there anything, after all, in the least new or original in the manner in which it shapes its oracular utterances to suit those of its master. Polonius set the example years ago. Hamlet-Do you see yonder cloud, that's almost in the shape of a camel? Polonius- By the mass, 'tis like a camel indeed. Hamlet- Methinks it is a weasel. Polonius-It is backed like a weasel. Hamlet-Or like a whale. Polonius-Very like a whale.
But aside from the time-serving spirit which the above displays, the political morality which it inculcates is surely lamentable. The case is simply here. Mr. Perry makes a speech to the people of Greenville, S. C., in which he expresses himself at length, giving utterance to his own private feelings -which we presume is the feeling of the mass of even Southern Unionists. The Republican press, supposing it to be a speech of Mr. Perry as Governor, straightway take exceptions to the speech, and call for his removal. It however soon comes out that Mr. Perry made this speech as a private citizen, not having at that time been aware of his appointment of Governor, and that this speech, must be viewed in that light. Now, so far as this statement goes to show that Mr. Perry was not, in his speech, giving the views of the Administration, but his own, it is well enough; and more than that, it is 
<c06>
proper, perhaps, that the public should know the circumstances under which the speech was spoken. But the public are made just as clearly to understand that Mr. Perry holds one set of political views as a private citizen, and another as Governor-that as a private citizen he feels most bitterly the humiliation and degradation of coming back into the Union, but as Governor his feelings are in entire accord with those of the Government!
With regard to Mr. Perry himself, to say the least, the attempts of the Administration press to excuse the speech place him in the unenviable light of a mere demagogue-a Vicar of Bray, always swimming on the strongest tide. When, moreover, the press, which should guide the public in good paths, preaches such time serving practices, it is high time for the public to be warned.
It seems to us that the country is likely to be better served by honest men who speak their sentiments frankly and clearly in reference to the past, than by any hypocrites who profess sudden repentance and conversion. We would rather see a Provisional Governor at the South, honestly stating his feelings, and going deliberately to restore Peace and Union as the necessary result of the war, than any man who has been a rebel, and who should commence whining and crying for office, pretending that he is now convinced of his sins, and thoroughly converted to negro suffrage and equality ideas. If the people of the South are ever to be valuable citizens again, they must be led back by honest, fair, frank men, and not by political jugglers.-Journal of Commerce. 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
The following is an extract from a letter from Rev. G. de Felice of Montauban, (France,) dated May 7, 1865:- 
" Let us come now, my dear friend, to what is of immeasurably greater importance: your American affairs.
At the date of your last letter, the city of Richmond had been taken, and you manifest a very justifiable joy at this event. It was a decisive victory over the rebellion, and the pledge of a speedy reestablishment of union in your great and glorious country.
Alas! who could have foreseen that your upright, excellent, illustrious Abraham Lincoln was so soon to fall under the bullet of an infamous assassin! Political assassination was unknown to the Americans. Never had any of your men of State perished in this odious manner, as did our ancient Kings Henri III. and Henri IV. under the poinard of Jacques Clement and Ravaillac; and Abraham Lincoln was destined to furnish the first and most fatal example.
It is impossible, my dear friend, to describe to you the indignation, grief and horror of our people at hearing of this execrable deed. Sadness and grief penetrated the bosom of every family. It seemed as if each one had lost his most excellent friend, his best of brothers; and not only the French nation but entire Europe has united in the universal manifestation of sympathy, respect and sorrow. The death of no sovereign of the Old World could have produced so profound an emotion, or called forth so general an expression of veneration and grief.
Abraham Lincoln has well deserved all this. If he did not possess the military genius of a Julius Caesar or a Napoleon, the lofty eloquence of a Chatham or a Fox, or the consummate ability of a Cardinal de Richelieu or a Prince de Talleyrand, he had the capacities and the virtues which are needed for the best Chief Magistrate of a Free People, namely, an admirable practical good sense, an upright, irreproachable conscience, a solid judgment, firmness in adversity, moderation in prosperity, with the character of a good man and a Christian.
The name of Abraham Lincoln will be placed in history immediately after that of Washington; and these two men will suffice to render illustrious, to the remotest posterity, the nation which produced them and called them to its service.
The death of Lincoln, moreover, very far from reclevating the cause of the Southern rebels, will, as far as I can foresee, on the contrary, contribute to hasten their ruin. The insurgents had been conquered materially: now they are conquered morally. This is the last blow they could have had dealt to them, and the most terrible. The bullet of Booth has penetrated Jefferson Davis and his accomplices to the heart; these, also, have received their death wound. What man of heart or honor would any longer dare to declare himself in favor of the rebels, whose flag has been stained by the noble blood of Lincoln? Even our Jesuits, so ardent friends of the South, have been constrained by the power of general opinion to express their horror at such an assassination.
The only essential point now for the Unionists of the North is to maintain and put in practice the wise and lofty moderation, of which Lincoln has furnished so complete a model. No cruel vengeance, no exasperation or excess. True strength and power are ever tampered by the virtues of moderation and clemency." 
Henri Martin, the great French historian, has published in the Siecle, of Paris, the following nervous sentences,-each with an idea in it,-on the assassination of President Lincoln: 
A GREAT MARTYR OF DEMOCRACY.
Slavery, before expiring, has gathered up the remnants of its strength and rage to strike a coward blow at its conqueror.
The Satanic pride of that perverted society could not resign itself to defeat; it did not care to fall with honor, as all causes fall which are destined to rise again; it dies as it has lived, violating all laws, divine and human.
In this we have the spirit and perhaps the work of that infamous secret association, " the Golden Circle," which, after preparing the great rebellion for twenty years, and spreading its accomplices throughout the West and North, around the seat of the presidency, gave the signal for this impious war on the day when the public conscience finally snatched from the slaveholders the government of the United States.
The day on which the excellent man whom they have just made a martyr was raised to power, they appealed to force to realize what treason had prepared.
They have failed. They did not succeed in overthrowing Lincoln from power by war; they have done so by assassination.
The plot appears to have been well arranged. By striking down with the President his two principal ministers, one of whom they reached, and the General-in-Chief, who was saved by an accidental occurrence, the murderers expected to disorganize the government of the Republic, and give fresh life to the rebellion.
Their hopes will be frustrated. These sanguinary fanatics, whose cause had fallen not so much by the material superiority as the moral power of democracy, have become incapable of understanding the effects of the free institutions which their fathers 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
" I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES from the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution, of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves takes or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a w power; and what your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of Invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the glares in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
gloriously aided in establishing. A fresh illustration will be seen of what those institutions can produce.
The indignation of the people will not exhaust itself in a momentary outburst; it will concentrate and embody itself in the unanimous, persevering, invincible action of the universal will. Whoever may be the agents, the instruments of the work, that work, we may rest assured, will be finished. The event will show that it did not depend upon the life of one man, or of several men.
The work will be completed after Lincoln, as if finished by him; but Lincoln will remain the austere and sacred personification of a great epoch, the most faithful expression of democracy.
This simple and upright man, prudent and strong, elevated step by step from the artisan's bench to the command of a great nation, and always without parade and without effort at the height of his position, executing without precipitation, without flourish and with invincible good sense the most colossal acts, giving to the world the decisive example of the civil power in a republic, directing a gigantic war without free institutions being for an instant compromised or threatened by military usurpation, dying finally at the moment in which, after conquering, he was intent on pacification-and may God grant that the atrocious madmen who killed him have not killed clemency with him, and determined, instead of the peace he wished, pacification by force-this man will stand out in the traditions of his country and the world as an incarnation of the people and of modern democracy itself.
The great work of emancipation had to be sealed, therefore, with the blood of the just, even as it was inaugurated with the blood of the just. The tragic history of the abolition of slavery which opened with the gibbet of John Brown, will close with the assassination of Lincoln.
And now let him rest by the side of Washington, as the second founder of the great Republic. European democracy is present in spirit at his funeral, as it voted in its heart for his reelection, and applauded the victory in the midst of which he passed away. It will wish with one accord to associate itself with the monument that America will raise to him upon the capital of prostrate slavery.

HENRI MARTIN.
ADDRESS OF GOVERNOR JOHNSON.
Gov. Johnson, of Georgia, has issued a proclamation, calling upon the people of that State to elect delegates to a convention to be held on the fourth Wednesday of October next. The election is to be held on the first Wednesday of the same month. The Governor also delivered an address in the City Hall, Macon, on Saturday evening, July 15. He said he had been appointed for the single purpose of enabling the people of the State to form a government. He had not been authorized to appoint civil magistrates, and would not do it. He advised the people to receive the amnesty oath, and thus prepare themselves to become citizens. On the slavery question he was thus explicit:
"I now feel bound to declare to you one thing which you must recognize as accomplished, and the sooner you know it and conform to it, the sooner you will be relieved from military rule. Slavery exists no more. This is decreed. Its restoration under any form is utterly out of the question. Slavery has been extinguished by the operations of the late war. I do not propose, in this connection, to enter upon a lengthy argument to prove it. I simply state what is acknowledged by all writers on national law, that belligerents have the right to make captures of persons and property, and that they may make what disposition they please of the property captured. The vanquished are at the disposition of the conquerors, and may be disposed of as they think proper. Such is war, and it is a sin against God and humanity that it should be waged. We must submit to the result of the war. Congress, by the Constitution of the United States, has the power to give the President the regulation of captures, by sea and land; and the President, in the exercise of this power given him by the Constitution and by Congress, issued his proclamation disposing of these captures, declaring that all negroes who were slaves in the revolted States should, by virtue of that proclamation, be emancipated. Such is my judgment of the law, and I believe the Supreme Court will so decide.
"I come to another point. The Constitution which the people of Georgia shall adopt in convention will be required to recognize this fact. The convention will be called upon to agree to this amendment to the Constitution, that slavery shall no longer exist in these States. They will be called upon to decide this before their restoration to the Union, in order that this quarrel about slavery, which has existed since the beginning of the government to the present time, shall never be revived and, in order that there may be no dispute among the people of this State on the subject. They must provide for its extinction now; and so I tell you to-day, if you wish to be admitted into the Union, this convention of the people of Georgia must be composed of such material as will recognize the fact of the extinction of slavery in Georgia, and agree to the amendment of the Constitution of the United States, which will extinguish slavery throughout the country.
It is claimed by some that the negroes will not work. I know that those who have been driven off the farms will not work, because they have no opportunity of working, and some of them will not work where they have not been driven off. For this latter class the legislature must make laws, declaring them vagrants, and punishing them as such. The negroes will not work! How do you know they will not? I saw them working very well in New York and other places where I have been. It is true they sometimes commit crimes in those places, and they are punished for it. They must work-they can work-they must either work or perish. What is the difficulty? Do not the people have to work in Germany, in France, in New York, in Ohio? What is the reason they will not work? I tell you they will work; and I must say, that under the peculiar circumstances by which they were surrounded, no people have ever behaved better than they have done. Those who tell you they will not work have hopes of continuing their control and dominion over them. They will work under contracts of hire, and if they fail, they become vagrants, and may be punished or exiled as the laws of the State may direct.
While we have been hurt and chastised for the present, yet let us remember that we may accumulate property in the future; and all our surplus capital, instead of being laid out in negroes, will be expended in permanent improvements, in increasing the comforts of our homes, manuring our lands, planting orchards, building permanent fences, and in manufactures of all kinds. Attracted to this land, immigrants from other parts of the world, and from the North, will come to settle among us, because we have as good climate as any under the sun. Our towns and villages, instead of going to decay, will improve, and art and sciences will flourish among us. Such, I believe, will be one of the results of this war.
And not only that, there is another advantage. We have been very sensitive as a people. We allowed no man to think that slavery was a moral, social, or political evil, and if any one thought thus he was deemed unsound, and arraigned before vigilance committees. Even when Lord John Russell, in England, took occasion to say that he hoped slavery would be abolished by this revolution, our people commenced abusing him as if he had trespassed upon our rights. We abused mankind when they differed with us, and we carried our opposition to men's thinking as they pleased to such an extent that men. among us who dared to differ with us on this subject were arraigned, not by law, or before a legal tribunal, but before vigilance societies, and personally abused. Civilization was almost driven from the land-law and order were suppressed by these lawless men. But now we can look over this land, and pray as Solomon did, that all of Adam's race may be elevated to dignity and happiness. Now every one may, in the exercise of his constitutional rights, advocate slavery or denounce it, surrounded as he is by the power of the Government of the United States, which protects us fully in the enjoyment of these rights.
"It seems to be the order of Providence in dealing with nations, as he deals with individuals, that they shall be perfected by sufferings. We shall come out of this controversy a more glorious and happy people. The presence of liberty will be well guarded among us. We shall remain a free and united people. In looking down the vista of time, I see Georgia ten-told more prosperous; and when all our sectional prejudices shall have died away, we shall meet together, North and South, as brethren, rejoicing under one government, and
<c02>
marching on to the glorious destiny which is before us. Not only will Georgia increase in wealth and population, but the whole Southern country will be more prosperous in arts, manufactures, wealth, and civilization. I see them marching in this new order, of things. The whole country, united in the bonds of charity and love, must go on prospering until this great nation shall be unequalled by any power on earth. This is our country; these are her prospects. To this standard I invite you to rally.
Tis the star-spangled banner, oh, long may it wave 
O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave!'

EQUAL POLITICAL RIGHTS.
We make the following extract from the able and well-reasoned Address of the Republican State Committee to the People of Massachusetts:-
The people of the free States do not intend to enter upon any crusade against the ancient right of the States to fix the qualifications of voters. Whether such qualifications be of property or of education, or of age and sex alone, is a matter of State concern, with which no one desires to intermeddle. But when the late rebel communities, denuded by their own act of their State governments, without legislative, executive or judicial departments, without even a justice or a constable who can legally exercise the functions of civil office, come forward as suppliants for pardon and for restoration into the family of States, it is an exercise on our part of the simplest instinct of self-defence if we require that all constitutional and statute provisions, all customs, and usages, and traditions, solely based upon that institution of slavery which was the origin and mainspring of the rebellion, shall be made to give way. Laws and ordinances made for the government of chattels must not be perpetuated for the government of men. We do not ask the President or Congress to make use of any doubtful powers; but the power to preserve what the valor of our soldiers and sailors has won is not doubtful: the power to keep the country from again falling into the possession of an aristocracy of caste-the power to preserve us from another quarter of a century of slavery agitation, to be followed, perhaps, by new rebellions and more devastating wars, is a power which the people will not relinquish, and which their servants, we cannot doubt, will sooner or later be obliged to use. Loyalty, as everybody admits, must be insisted on as the indispensable qualification of all voters, no matter whether constitutions or laws prescribe it or not. But a dark skin, or a trace more or less distinct of African descent, is no evidence of disloyalty, nor is it any test of intelligence. It is simply a badge of that servitude which we have been obliged to abolish in order to preserve the national existence. Shall we consent to the restoration of the rebel communities under the two-fifths constitutional provision, which greatly enlarges the political power of their voting population, and under a system which excludes from the polls a loyal people quite as intelligent as the great body of the whites, whose good-will towards our government has helped to save it from destruction, and whose continued friendliness will be no less indispensable in the future?
It is no answer to this to say that some of the loyal States do not allow colored men to vote, and that we may as well undertake to exclude Ohio from the Union as to keep South Carolina from coming back with full congressional powers. Such inequalities, where they have not endangered the loyalty of the States where they exist, and where they do not threaten hereafter to put in peril the public peace, may be safely left to the reviving spirit of justice in the Northern people, stimulated to friendliness towards a race which has performed for us a useful national service. At any rate, we possess and claim no right to interfere with the electoral laws of loyal States. But the rebel States, as everybody admits, are in a condition which requires reconstruction, or restoration, and which justifies guardianship and the strictest watchfulness on the part of our government and people. Whatever safeguards may be found necessary for the permanent pacification of the country, and for the fulfillment of the national pledge of freedom, in spirit as well as in letter, to the enfranchised blacks, must be insisted upon.
We would not lay undue stress upon the mere question of suffrage as a matter of right, or seem to insist upon giving to the freedmen new powers, which, however valuable to them, might not be deemed to be imperatively demanded by public considerations affecting the whole country. We are aware, too, that there are other questions of administration, the solution of which is in the hands of the President and Congress, and which, if rightly settled, as we believe they will be, will go far to ensure for us tranquillity and safety. We notice with great satisfaction that many inevitable abuses, which have been brought to light since the close of hostilities, have been promptly corrected by the civil and military power. And we arc confident that a wise and humane policy will do what can be done in the future to protect the colored loyalists from the spirit of hatred and oppression. But it will be found that the secret of our peace policy is precisely what was found to be the secret of our war policy, that is, the necessity of doing justice to this people, and of placing in their hands the power to protect themselves, to secure their own rights, and redress their own wrongs. To this complexion must it come at last. And the great industrial interests of the nation, its financial stability and honor, the progress of the new civilization which is to make the peaceful abode of a hundred million self-supporting citizens, all demand that the work of statesmanship shall be wisely commenced and thoroughly carried on.

KINDNESS CONCENTRATED.
We have already given the preamble and resolutions of a political meeting in Dooly County, Georgia, at which it was whereased that we have for four years most bravely and gallantly contended for our rights with the United States," and been overpowered by numbers," and resolved that we will for the present submit to the Constitution of the United States, and all laws in accordance with the same." Upon this for the present" the N. Y. Tribune comes down in this style, suggesting that there by hangs a tale:"
"Thank you, gallant gentlemen! What will you take? We do not refer to simple drinks; but is there anything substantial which we can do to show our gratitude? That awful condition, for the present,' may well appal us. Relieve us from our consternation by stating your terms! Take away the Damocles sword suspended over our festive board! Leave us not a prey to bewildering uncertainty! In short, state plainly what you will charge for a solemn promise never to take your country out of the Union! Do not tantalize us with your for the present'-for what should we do without you? We know that you are brave and gallant.' We have it upon the best of authority-your own! What could this lovely Republic do against you and your desperation? What would happen to us if you should take it into your heads to be brave and gallant' again? Name your terms! Niggers?- takeem! workem! flogem! pickleem! sellem! swindleem! starveem!- only do not again turn upon us, dear county! Do you want money? Send down to McCulloch, and he will give you cords of greenbacks! Whisky? Hogsheads of it, warranted to eat holes in your stomachs in five minutes after its reception, shall be drawn to your very doors by government mules; and, if government does not know what real rifle whisky is, it is no fault of the contractors. So, name your terms, brave and gallant chevaliers! Flesh-pots, porter-pots, money-pots-land, niggers,' cash, boots, coats, anything-only take back that painful for the present.
The same Dooly county meeting further resolved, that we will put down all vagrancy and crime, ESPECIALLY AMONG THE BLACK POPULATION; upon, which the Tribune continues:
This reminds us of the colored person who said he loved both his children alike-specially Pomp.' It seems the white vagrants and criminals are to have a long day-to be punished at leisure. The first fresh efforts of these friends of morality and industry are to be bestowed upon the blacks."
EUROPEAN TOLERATION OF COLOR. At one of Mrs. Louise de Mortie's musical soirees in New Orleans, in favor of the Orphan's Home, Mr. Edmond Dede took part Mr. Dede is a black man, as black as any one can be. Dragged from his country by the stubbornness of prejudice, he went to France, and is now leader of an orchestra in one of the Bordeaux Theatres. His fame as an artist is European. He contracted matrimony, in legitimate bonds, before the Mayor of that Imperial city, with a young lady of accomplishment, belonging to one of the best families, and, of course, of Caucasian blood.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 1865.
A CONGRATULATORY WORD.
Our readers will pleasantly remember the visit of that devoted and accomplished English missionary from Barbadoes, Rev. Henry Bleby, to this country, a few years since, and the excellent service he rendered to our then struggling anti-slavery cause by his valuable testimony to the beneficial workings of West India emancipation. He has been, for some time past, a resident of George-Town, Demerara. In a letter written by him in April last, he says:-
"What stupendous changes have been wrought in connection with the great and good cause to which your life has been so largely devoted, within the last four years! You have lived to see your labors crowned with success beyond your most sanguine expectations. I trust you will be spared to see liberty and peace overspreading the whole land."
He had not then heard of the assassination of President Lincoln, nor of the surrender of General Lee and the utter collapse of the rebellion. While the former event will fill his breast with the deepest sorrow, the latter will cause him to leap for joy. It will be remembered that Mr. Bleby perilled his life and suffered various outrages in behalf of the downtrodden colored people of the British West Indies, before the abolition of slavery in those colonies; that he was a witness to the disastrous and oppressive results of the apprenticeship system; and that it was his privilege to see unconditional emancipation proclaimed at last, and from that hour to the present nothing but good attending the experiment-if an act of simple justice can be properly styled an experiment. What an experience has been his, and what wonders he has lived to see wrought in the isles of the sea, and in the United States, with reference to the freedom and elevation of that race in whose service almost two score years of his missionary life have been devoted! We beg him to accept our warmest congratulations in return for his own. Hereafter, the first of January will be our great American festival to commemorate a deliverance far transcending that of the extinction of West India slavery on the first of August.

GENERAL GRANT IN BOSTON.
On ascertaining that General Grant was at Albany, last week, and might probably extend his journey still further east, Gov. Andrew deputed Gen. Schouler to take a letter to him, inviting him to Boston, and assuring him that it would confer great pleasure on the people of Massachusetts to accord him some reception which might help to express their cordial sentiments of honor and gratitude for the services he had rendered his country. In accordance with this invitation, Gen. Grant arrived in this city on Saturday evening. For two hours, an immense assembly waited eagerly to give him their all hail," at the Worcester depot.
At about 7-says the Journal-the Independent Corps of Cadets, in command of Lieut. Col. C. C. Holmes, and accompanied by the Brigade Band, marched into the station, and were drawn up in line upon the platform. Loud cheering from the lower end, outside, announced the approach of the train, and at precisely ten minutes past 7 o'clock it entered the station. As the General descended from the car, supported on the arm of Adj. Gen. Schouler, and followed by his staff, family and the other gentlemen of the party, he was met by President Twichell of the Worcester Road, Superintendent Prescott of the Eastern, Hon. Henry Wilson, Mr. Wm. H. Kennard, Mr. Geo. L. Sawin and other prominent gentlemen, while the escort presented arms, and the band saluted with Hail to the Chief." On the appearance of the distinguished party at the entrance of the station, such cheers rent the air as were never heard in greeting of any man. A welcome so ardent and enthusiastic has never been given to any one in this city before, and in no other city, we are told, has it been equalled.
As the General stepped into the carriage in waiting, the immense multitude assembled made a rush and crowded round it to obtain a grasp of his hand. It was with difficulty that the police were able to force them back, and they were obliged to use their billies pretty freely before the crowd gave way, when the other carriages were filled as speedily as possible, the escort fell into column, and the cortege moved on. General Grant rode in the first barouche, which was drawn by four splendid steeds who seemed to step with a certain pride, as if they knew they were harnessed to the chariot of a hero. On the seat beside him was Col. Babcock of his staff; in front, Adjutant General Schouler and Col. King. The next carriage contained the General's family; the third the remainder of his staff, and another the City Committee. The route was taken through Beach to Washington, Washington to Boylston, Tremont and Court to the Revere House. The streets were thronged. Cheer upon cheer rose from the crowds upon the sidewalks, on the balconies and at the windows. As the cortege passed the Common, a national salute was fired by a section of Capt. French's Battery. 
Among those present at the Revere House to receive the General were Gov. Andrew and his staff, and a number of distinguished gentlemen, among whom were Hon. Samuel Hooper, Hon. Henry Wilson, Hon. Charles Sumner, the Marquis de Chambourd, Mr. Loring Lothrop, and several ladies. The Governor having welcomed the Lieutenant General in behalf of the State, and the ceremonies of introduction being over, while tremendous cheering was going on outside, the General and party retired to their rooms, and about an hour afterward came down to supper. The General, on arrival, was dressed in plain clothes, with only his military hat, but on entering the supper room wore his full uniform as Lieut. General, without arms. His Excellency the Govern or presided at the table, with Mrs. Grant on his right and, and the General on his left.
At 9 o'clock in the evening, Gen. Grant was serenaded by Gilmore'a magnificent full band, playing Hail Columbia, The Star Spangled Banner, The Red, White and Blue," Tramp, tramp, tramp," Yankee Doodle," &c. At length, the General made his appearance on the balcony, with His Excellency the Governor, Col. Babcock of his staff, and his son Frederick, the band playing Hail to the Chief," and the vast multitude which filled the square and showed a sea of heads far down Cambridge, Green, Chardon and Court streets, cheered louder than ever. As the tumult was about to subside, a stentorian voice called out, Three cheers for the old bull-dog of the Weldon Railroad!" which was the signal for another outburst of enthusiasm from the crowd, mingled with cries of Speech, Speech, Say something, General," and similar calls, with loud and long-continued cheering. As soon as it was possible to be heard, Governor Andrew said:
Gentlemen: The General desires me to say that he highly appreciates the honor of your call this evening, and that he will be happy to meet his friends and take them by the hand at Faneuil Hall on Monday, at 12 o'clock.
Again the cheers broke forth, and the General, with His Excellency, retired to the parlors, where a number of merchants and gentlemen of the city were introduced. At 10 o'clock carriages were brought to the Bulfinch street entrance, and while the Band was discoursing some of their most beautiful music, to which the multitude were listening, General Grant and his Staff, with the Governor and His Honor, Mayor Lincoln, (who had arrived during the evening, and came directly to the Revere House,) were driven off to the Union Club, where the General was received and entertained by the members of the Club, and remained until after 11 o'clock.
On Sunday forenoon he attended religious service at the Old South, where a discourse was preached by Rev. J. M. Manning.
<c04>
His Excellency the Governor dined with the General at 3 o'clock P. M., at the Revere House, and at 6 1-2 o'clock the whole party, consisting of Governor Andrew, Lieutenant-General Grant, Mrs. Grant, Masters Frederick and Ulysses, and Misses Ellen and Jessie, with Col. Babcock and two sons of the Governor, were driven out to the suburbs, and on their return were stopped at the residence of His Honor Mayor Lincoln in Louisburg Square, where they met a few friends, and remained during the evening.
On Monday morning, Gen. Grant visited the Navy Yard at Charlestown, and was received by Rear Admiral Stringham, the Commandant, and members of his staff, who proceeded to conduct the company through the yard. The marine guard, in command of Lieut. Pope, were formed in line on the parade, with the Navy Yard Band, and presented arms as the General passed, the band playing Hail to the Chief." The workmen of the yard, numbering about thirty-five hundred, were assembled on either side of the principal street, reaching nearly down to the ship-houses, and as the distinguished party advanced blended cheer upon cheer with the music of the band and the salute that thundered forth from the guns of the water battery. After passing through the various workshops and inspecting the new vessels now in process of construction, the company returned to the Admiral's house, where an elegant collation was served, and the officers of the yard were presented to the General in the order of their rank.
From the Navy Yard the General was taken to the residence of Hon. G. W. Warren, and from thence to the Monument grounds, where the principal features of interest were pointed out.
Returning to Boston, at noon, the General was escorted to Faneuil Hall, in and around which were thousands of citizens, eager to do him honor, and whose enthusiasm on his appearance was boundless. Mayor Lincoln introduced him as follows:
Fellow-Citizens: We have assembled to do honor to a distinguished guest, whose name is a household word in every patriot home-a man of deeds and not of words, whose eloquence is of that kind which has stirred the people's heart more than any form of speech, and who is here at our invitation to receive that gratitude and admiration for his eminent services which we rejoice in the opportunity of extending to him. If our lips had been dumb, these very walls would have reproached us, these pictured faces would have rushed from their canvas to bid him welcome to Faneuil Hall. I am desired by him to express to you his thanks for this demonstration, and to say that he is not in the habit of speaking, and will not address this assembly. A portion of you, however, he will gladly take by the hand, but as he has not an arm of iron, it can hardly be expected that he will be able to greet all of you as you pay your respects to him.
Mayor Lincoln then presented Gen. Grant to the assembled multitude. When the hero stepped upon the rostrum, the cheers and applause again burst forth, louder, longer than before, the band playing Hail to the Chief."
From Faneuil Hall the General was driven to the Revere House, where an elegant lunch was served; after which, he was taken to the College at Cambridge,-to Mount Auburn,-to the beautiful country-seat of Mr. Alvin Adams,-to the Watertown Arsenal,-and, finally, to the Union Club in Park Street, where a private dinner party was given to his honor-Gov. Andrew being present.
The General, with his family and suite, left Boston for Portland at half-past 8 o'clock on Tuesday morning, in a special train over the Boston and Maine railroad, stopping at Lawrence to view the Pacific Mills and other objects of interest.

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXXIX.
NEW YORK, July 27, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
It is a little less than half a century since Sir Francis Burdett introduced into Parliament a scheme of reform which provided for universal male suffrage, equal electoral districts, one day for all elections, voting by ballot, and an annual renewal of Parliament. His motion was seconded by Lord Cochrane, who was appointed teller with him on the call for the previous question. The House gave them little trouble in counting their supporters: 106 said no, and not a soul said aye. There have been many reforms since in England, though no great progress has been made towards the democratic model in regulating the franchise. Up to this time there has been wanting a striking and irrefragable proof of the security of our American system; but the liberal party across the water is to-day enabled to contrast the rioting which preceded and in some measure attended the recent elections there, with the absolute sobriety of our national election last November, when the very existence of Government was at stake, and the rebellion cast all its moral (say, rather, immoral) weight, and what of physical it could, into the balance. This fact alone, which shines like a kohinoor in the experiment of popular self-rule, would probably secure at the present epoch a more respectful hearing for a proposition like Sir Francis Burdett's, and perhaps a decent minority favorable to its adoption. Certain is it, that one staunch friend of human equality has been triumphantly carried into Parliament, in the person of John Stuart Mill, not the least of whose recommendations was, that he had been the steadfast champion of the cause, the principles and the politics of our loyal North. Mr. Mill had serious difficulties to encounter-wealth that corrupted, and bigotry that undermined the consciences of the electors. He was chosen, after all, as much in spite of certain views which he publicly avowed, as because of his general opinions on the question of reform. We may not pretend, therefore, that his election signifies any approval of his belief that women should have a voice at the polls as well as men-a doctrine which even Sir Francis could hardly have swallowed, or undertaken to deduce from the Magna Charta. We may well be surprised, however, that the conservative opposition were unable to defeat the logician by showing whither his reasoning led him, when once he had launched upon the vortex of democracy. Let me recall, as a curious coincidence and parallel, the struggle for Westminster in 1818, when Sir Francis Burdett was returned by the electors, because of his views on a general extension of the suffrage, together with Sir Samuel Romilly, whose name is synonymous with purity and humanity. The latter, we are told, was brought in at the head of the poll, without having either spent a shilling or asked a vote, or even once made his appearance on the hustings." 
President Johnson may be deemed to have acted from a judicious motive when he preferred for Provisional Governors Southern-born men, and, if possible, natives of the States over which they were wanted to preside. This policy had its perils as well as its advantages-both too plain to need pointing out The newly created officials have in fact entered on their functions with considerable equivocation, making an oblique and awkward bow, as who would fain be spared the impoliteness of turning their gubernatorial backs on the setting or the rising sun. The introduction over, their language has begun to improve, and perhaps it would be unfair to charge any one of them with a design to impede the legal extinction of slavery by national and State enactments. For the rest, they are mainly concerned to hurry reconstruction through the summer, order and hold elections in the Fall, and send up to Congress, hat in hand, a full delegation of Senators and Representatives. Gov. Perry is confident that South Carolina will be on hand in December. It is more than likely. But it will require a number of anti-Greenville speeches to render the State acceptable in the eyes of Congress. Mr. Perry had the misfortune to be a common citizen before he was a Governor, and to be called on to make a public confession before he knew that his were already official lips. Having read his remarks with some diligence, I venture to append a condensed report, which I am aware possesses a mixed character, but I think not more so than its original. The orator exhibited a singular dexterity in neutralizing every good thing that he said, and while easing to encourage the people to be submissive,
<c05>
and prompt to reconstruct the State on the basis prescribed by Government, set a very mischievous example of how not to do it.
ADDRESS OF HON. B. F. PERRY,
TO HIS CONSTITUENTS AT GREENVILLE, S. C., BEFORE
HE KNEW THAT HE WAS GOVERNOR IN POSSE.
"I always told you howt would be-
There wa'n't no chance of breaking loose.
You doubted; but circumspice!
You've lost your egg and killed the goose.
But let me tell you privately,
I could have wished you hadn't failed;
You had, as long as you were at sea,
The prettiest craft that ever sailed.
"That ever sailed or sunk," says he,
"Or sunk,-the Honorable B.
F. Perry says reluctantly,
This gouverneur malgre lui.
"And how about your slavery?
What's niggers worth, I'd like to know?
Youve got to letem all run free
Prestissimo, prestissimo.
The wretches, though, twixt you and me, 
Will find their blessing prove a curse- 
From bondage into liberty
Is going straight from had to worse. 
"From bad to worse; but nay," says he, 
"From good,-the Honorable B.
F. Perry says decidedly, 
This gouverneur malgre lui.
"O Union! true was I to thee 
When all around secession ward
Were tending, like a honey-bee 
That makes for clover on the sward. 
Yet, friends, I own that bitterly 
I grieve that we return again, 
With curving back and bended knee,
The mates and not the lords of men. 
"The mates, not lords of men," says he, 
"Not lords,-the Honorable B.
F. Perry says regretfully, 
This gouoerneur malgre lui.
"Although you strayed from your alle-
giance rashly, you were never knaves: 
You lacked my gift of prophecy, 
Immortal, unsuccessful braves! 
And that heroic generali-
ssimo, who nobly led you on, 
The dauntless, spotless General Lee, 
Is fit to rank with Washington. 
"To rank with Washington," says he, 
"Or next,"the Honorable B. F. Perry says assuredly, 
This gouverneur malgre lui. 
" By-gone it is, and let it be 
The past that brought no gain to you: 
Take on your cruel destiny, 
And wear it like a well-used shoe. 
But, ah! the North's atrocity 
I would not have you e'er forget, 
Nor cease to recollect that we 
Are loyal to the bayonet 
Loyal to bayonet," says he, 
" Loyal!the Honorable B.
F. Perry says remorsefully, 
This gouverneur malgre lui.
Is this your boasted loyalty?" 
The nation cries, with wrath and scorn: 
"Sooner than mouth it, better die-
Oh! better never have been born!
"Time was, I will admit," says he, 
"The word meant something else; but, la!
The times have changed quite latterly,
And nous avons change cela." 
"Avon change cela," says he, 
"Tout ca," the Honorable B.
F. Perry says, to quote le dit 
Du medecin malgre lui."
You will pardon me if the above undertaking has left me little strength to talk of other topics this week. It may be permitted, while the hot weather lasts, to improve the beautiful spectacle which the late rebellious South presents. Each State has a Governor; or, to speak more accurately, every Governor has a State. How many the Union has of the latter cannot be settled before December. I anticipate considerable contention and some disappointment in the effort at re-admission. Shutting my eyes on that prospect, I intend to enjoy the Provisional State of South Carolina as long as I can.
M. DU PAYS.
THE RENOVATION OF THE SOUTH.
The leading and most efficient means of renovating any country or section of a country is the instruction of the people. The want of instruction is peculiarly the condition of the South at the present time. No portion of Europe for the last hundred years has been more hopelessly sunk in ignorance, not only of human rights and true political ideas, but of the necessary domestic thrift, and the means for the attainment of personal comfort by well- applied and judiciously managed manual labor. Indeed, the leading themes on which social conversation and the intellectual energies of the people were expended were, in general, more characteristic of African heathenism than of Caucasian civilization. With few exceptions, the public mind has been cabined, cribbed, confined to the gross sensualism of trade, without its expansive and liberalizing influence, felt in the free North and throughout the civilized world. And so far from the South ever having been a strong, wealthy, self-sustaining section of the country, it has always been hopelessly bankrupt in money as well as in character. The high price of cotton, some few years, has given it a galvanized appearance of rapid accumulation of wealth; but the extra profits of those years have been always absorbed, either in paying off old debts or in outlays to forestall the rainy days sure to come in the next few years. No country can be safely called rich, or even absolutely prosperous, that is dependent for its whole support upon one staple. The rice and sugar productions of the South occupied but small fractions of the inhabitants; not enough of the cereals were grown for their own consumption; their beef, pork, hay, butter, cheese and mules came from the North and West; and, leaving out Virginia, Kentucky and Missouri, their horses and cattle were of but little account. Cotton was their sole dependence. Its culture cost six cents a pound by the cheapest labor; and when it sold for ten, or even twelve cents, it left no margin large enough to furnish the planters, great and small, the means of gratifying their luxurious and wasteful tastes, after relieving their necessities. Hypothecation of future crops and mortgaging of plantations were of course the final resort in multitudinous cases, and as the years rolled on, bad matters only became worse.
The stupidity of the people, induced by the sloth begotten of slavery, and the gradual disuse of the reflective and perceptive faculties, forbade any general awakening to the real condition of things; and an obstinate pride and arrogant self-conceit, the natural children of stupidity and sloth, shut the door to instruction from without; and to an honest, thorough and keen observer, there could not be found in the world, not excepting China and India, a more dismal case of the steady progress of the disintegration of society than was there presented. Rapidly and surely the moral pillars of their social edifice were giving way; and it only required the earthquake of civil war to prostrate the temple reared by Southern devotion in irretrievable ruin. Now the great deep of Southern prejudice is broken up by the rude hand of the rebellion, and the miserable wrecks of a poor, proud, stupid and ignorant people lie, a chaotic mass, in full view of the gaze of all Christendom. There is no mistaking the real nature of the beast that ruled with such despotic sway under the guise of a purse-proud oligarchy, and bent into one solid phalanx of evil the base but stubborn will of the ignorant masses. Once the name of slavery or the South could stand against the world; now none so poor to do it reverence." There is no apologist for the modern hydra whose fifty heads are now being cut off, and seared with the hot iron of universal contempt.
Now, how can these masses of human beings, black and white-for there is virtually no difference in moral condition at present-be raised to a fit position in the republic? The question being asked admits of but one answer-they must be instructed. To a New Englander, born amid free schools, having never lived beyond the sight of a church steeple and school-house, the answer involves an enormous outlay of money in the erection of school-houses, elegant furniture, libraries, text-books, well-paid teachers, the arts and sciences, academies or high schools, colleges
<c06>
clergymen at high salaries, and school committees everywhere like the frogs of Egypt, disturbing every thing. But to a practical mind, that has travelled the road from ignorance to intelligence by the only way an individual can reach that eligible condition, that is, by his own efforts, aided simply by the wisdom with in reach of every hungry or aspiring mind, there is a readier and more acceptable way than to wait for <illegible> these glittering generalities."
In this view, first, the necessity of being taught to read and write-attainments that in ordinary exercise can be reached in a year by any usually bright boy or girl over ten years of age-will be admitted. To acquire this will require simply the help of those laborious souls imbued with the missionary spirit, who are willing to impart instruction of this rudimental nature, without regard to convenience or elegance of school-room or church. In this line are needed, as suggested in our former discussion of this subject the intelligent, colored people of the North and their friends, now leading the way. The other branches can follow; but just now, let the whole effort be directed to opening the gate of the mind to the reception of truth by or from the printed page-knowing this, all the rest will come in good time, early and easily enough; and, indeed, in the uplifting of an emasculated people from the degradation of <illegible> many things are more necessary to be taught and understood than geography and grammar, &c, and those are the ways and means for physical support from the right application and economy of labor, and how to defend their persons and property from attack, and render them safe at all times. If children only, as in New England, are to be instructed, the usual school plan is the best; but in this case we must educate millions of adults, of both sexes, and all colors.
And in order to bring the knowledge of reading into full and immediate use, so that the ability to read may increase, and its practical use be immediately felt in the improvement and upbuilding of the people in thrift, morals and intelligence, the newspapers must be invoked. And on this point we wish to add a few desultory suggestions. 
While it will be admitted that no agency has done more-notwitstanding the evils connected with its administration-to enlighten and expand the liberalism of the North, it will not probably be denied that the main influence of the newspaper press of the South has been pernicious. Leaving out a small amount of smartness of literary composition, or in turning paragraphs, and the little local news admitted to their columns, it will hardly be claimed that the Southern papers of the old style were or are worth reading. It is easy to see how the people could remain in such enfeebling ignorance of their State, the country at large, and the North in general, as appears to have been the case. Light was studiously kept from their eyes, and darkness, dense as that of Egypt, was spread over the land, and the newspapers seemed to vie with each other to increase it.
Now, this must be reversed. The main effort of the philanthropist must be to set up the printing press all over the South, as fast as possible, and furnish the people with the needed simple information on the various matters connected with thrift and self-reliant independence. Let all abstract speculation rest awhile till the people are informed in the proper culture of the soil, the proper use of tools, the simple mechanic arts, the necessity of self-defence, and how to attain to it, as well as the knowledge of human rights.
There are perhaps a few such papers now in existence, but we do not see any. We are informed that the Black Republican, a newspaper purporting to be edited by colored men in New Orleans, is a spurious affair. If so, we are sorry. There ought to be a good, smart, spicy paper, if not a large one, fitted to the comprehension of the common people, not only in New Orleans, Memphis, Louisville, Nashville, Mobile, Savannah, Charleston, Norfolk and Richmond, but in fifty other places in the Central South, as soon as possible. And in as many as possible our colored friends should have a leading interest, and editorial partnership, if not full control. And there should be no dillettantism as to the fineness of the paper or elegance of type. Print, if necessary, on the coarsest and blackest of printing paper, only get the proper matter before the people in a cheap and simple form. In this way can the masses be educated in the proper ideas of life and labor. In this way thought can be quickened, and public sentiment aroused to consider those matters that have been <illegible> long beyond its reach. The rights of men will be sooner understood. The claims of all human beings to the same privileges will be more easily seen. Prejudice will disappear; ignorance will give place to useful knowledge; the perceptive faculties of the whites will be excited, strengthened and brought into use; and the blacks, who have been compelled to learn through the eye and ear, while the tongue was silenced, will find a use for their developed perceptions.
Cannot the abounding sympathy and pecuniary generosity of the great North do something in this line that shall beget in the South the counterpart of our excellent institutions? Verily, the thought forces itself upon us, that ten years of these and kindred appliances will inaugurate in the South the operation of those moral forces founded upon the pecuniary and political prosperity of that section, that will build up in that sunny clime, at no very far distant day, the New Jerusalem of modern and Western civilization.
ELLEN CRAFT AND HER MOTHER.
NEW YORK, July 31, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The following autograph letter from Major General Wilson was elicited by an enquiry in behalf of Ellen Craft, now resident in England, for her mother, one of the redeemed from out the house of bondage. The good-will and courtesy of the General need no commendation from me. W. P. G.
[COPY.]
MACON, (Geo.) July 19, 1865.
DEAR SIR: Your letter of June 28th was received day before yesterday.
I have the pleasure of informing you that Maris Smith, the mother of Mrs. Craft, is now living comfortably with some colored friends within two hundred yards of my headquarters. Having discovered her residence, I sent for her yesterday, and read your letter to her. She was delighted to hear from her daughter and son-in-law, and requests me to say that she wishes to join them just as soon as they can send the money necessary to pay her travelling expenses. She is in good health, very hale, and young-locking for a woman of her age.
I shall take great pleasure in transmitting any lectors that may be sent to my care for her.
Very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
(Signed,) JAS. H. WILSON, Maj. Gen.
FIRST OF AUGUST CELEBRATION. The customer meeting to celebrate West India Emancipation was held on Tuesday last at Island Grove, Abington, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. A large number of the friends of freedom assembled, as usual, and were addressed by the following speakers, namely-Rev. Samuel May, <illegible> Henry C. Wright, John Wetherbee, Jr., Rev. N. <illegible>, Mrs. Frances E. W. Harper, Andrew T. <illegible> Rev. S. E. Howe, William A. Jackson, and Rev G W. Stacy. Letters were received from Hon. N. E. Whiting and Rev. W. J. Potter, which, with the proceedings of the meeting, will be published in next week's Liberator.
In New Bedford there was a procession, in which the Shaw Guards, of this city, Capt. Lewis Gaul, appeared, and in the evening a levee and ball. A large number of people were present from this city.
There was also a picnic of colored people at Myric's Station, which was largely attended.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
SAFETY OF THE FREEDMEN.
HEADQ'RS BUREAU OF REFUGEES, FREEDMEN AND 
ABANDONED LANDS, STATE OF LOUISIANA,
NEW ORLEANS, July 14, 1865.
CIRCULAR No.2.
As information from various sources goes to show that the liberty guaranteed by the Proclamation of Emancipation, issued by the President of the United States, to persons formerly held in slavery, is violated in many localities of the State; and as many bad men go about inflicting personal violence upon freedmen, and in some instances murdering them; and as it is made my duty, in accordance with the law of Congress, and the orders of Major General Howard, Commissioner Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned Lands, to proclaim their freedom and protect them in the enjoyment of their liberty, it is therefore ordered.
1. That the Emancipation Proclamation of the President of the United States be read by each Provost Marshal or Assistant Superintendent, on every plantation within his jurisdiction, and that at least two copies (one in French and one in English) of the same be left with the freedmen on each plantation or other place of employment; one of each with the planter or other employer, and one to each civil officer of the State.
2. That all officers acting under orders from these Headquarters within the State of Louisiana, (and the State of Alabama, till the Assistant Commissioner for that State arrives,) will adjudicate in all cases arising within their respective districts between freedmen themselves, or between freedmen and white persons when the Civil Officers by reason of old codes fail to do them impartial justice.
3. That in order to convince all evil-disposed persons of the determination of the Government of the United States to defend the freedom secured to the slaves at the cost of the best blood of the nation, the following extracts of orders from Major General Howard, Chief of this Bureau, will be posted upon a conspicuous place in each office established in the various districts in connection with these Headquarters:
WAR DEPARTMENT, BUREAU OF REFUGEES,
FREEDMEN AND ABANDONED LANDS,
WASHINGTON, May 30th, 1865.
CIRCULAR No. 5.
[EXTRACT.]
5. Simple good faith for which we hope on all hands from those concerned in the passing away of slavery, will especially relieve the Assistant Commissioners in the discharge of their duties toward the freedmen, as well as promote the general welfare.
The Assistant Commissioners will everywhere declare and protect their freedom, as set forth in the Proclamation of the President and the laws of Congress.
7. In all cases where there is an interruption of civil law, or in which local courts, by reason of old codes, in violation of the freedom guaranteed by the Proclamation of the President and the laws of Congress, disregard the negro's right to justice before the law, in not allowing him to give testimony, the control of all subjects, relating to Refugees and Freedmen being committed to this Bureau, the Assistant Commissioners will adjudicate, either themselves, or through officers of their appointment, all difficulties arising between negroes themselves, or between negroes and whites or Indians, except those in military service, so far as recognizable by military authority, and not taken cognizance of by the other tribunals, civil or military, of the United States.
(Signed) O. O. HOWARD, Maj. Gen.
Commissioner Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned Lands.
Approved, July 2, 1865.
(Signed) ANDREW JOHNSON, 
President of the United States.
4. That freedmen everywhere be enjoined to work, and in doing so they will in all cases enter into free and voluntary contracts with employers of their own, choice, and employers with them, the contracts to be duly approved and registered in each office, and not to be broken by either party except for sufficient cause. In no case will freedmen be forced to work for employers who are obnoxious to them, and officers carrying out this order must, in all cases, give the freedmen to understand that they are entirely free to work where and for whom they please, and at the same time that a life of idleness will not be encouraged or allowed.
Maj. Gen. Canby, Commanding Department of the Gulf, having in General Orders No. 101, current series from his Headquarters, transferred the charge of feedmen heretofore exercised by him to these Headquarters, and there being now no other authority having the right to take charge of questions relating to Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned Lands, within the State of Louisiana, than that exercised by these Headquarters, under the authority of Major General Howard, acting under the laws of Congress, Act of March 31, 1865, all orders, rules, ordinances, or laws issued by any authority whatever, which are in conflict with the rights and liberties of the freedmen, are null, void, and of no effect; and any person or persons acting under any pretended authority, in violation of this order, will be arrested and punished.
THOMAS W. CONWAY, Asst. Com.,
Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned Lands, State of Louisiana.
THE RIGHTS OF FREEDMEN. The N. Y. Post has the following dispatch from Washington:
Information of an interesting case in Mississippi has just reached the headquarters of the Freedmen's Bureau. On the fourth instant, a man named Jackson shot a colored man in his cotton field in Washington county, Miss, and after waiting two weeks for the civil authorities established by Gov. Sharkie to take the matter in hand, Col. Thomas, the Assistant Commissioner of Freedmen's Affairs for that district, arrested Jackson, and committed him to jail to await trial by military commission.
Judge Mervin, with the whole legal fraternity of that region, made a demand for the release of the prisoner, and finally sued out a writ of habeas corpus, intending if that failed to get up a delegation to Washington, and make capital out of the alleged usurpation of civil authority by Col. Thomas. The latter, upon learning of the writ, immediately telegraphed to Washington for instructions, and mounting his horse, left for Davis's Bend, giving orders to notify him by courier of the arrival of the reply from the authorities here. The Sheriff, armed with the writ, soon after appeared, but could find no one to servo it.
An effort was then made to rescue Jackson, but the guard threatened to shoot the first man who attempted it; and while the sheriff was searching for the Colonel, a satisfactory answer was received from Washington, Under the circumstances it was ordered that the prisoner be detained, and his trial by the military commission is now in progress. This question was an important one to the Bureau, the wariness of Col. Thomas not only having enabled the authorities here to avert much difficulty which would have eventually followed the rescue of Jackson, but indicates the course to be pursued throughout the South whenever the civil officers ignore the rights of Freedmen.
GOV. PERRY AND THE FREEDMEN. Just prior to his departure for South Carolina, Provisional Gov. Perry addressed a letter to Gen. Howard, stating that he was not only willing but desirous of cooperating with his bureau in the management of the affairs of the freedmen in his State, and asking for instructions to enable him to carry out the intentions of the Government in its treatment of the negroes. Gen. Howard will at once furnish to Gov. Perry copies of all letters, orders and circulars issued from time to time from his bureau, from which it is presumed he will receive the necessary instructions for the furtherance of his philanthropic designs.
Gen. Thomas has issued orders directing the arrest of Wm. Galloway and M. S. Farenson, of Columbia, Tenn., and suspending Mayor Andrews and Justice Welch, for persecution and abuse of the freedmen.
Col. Brown, Superintendent of Freedmen's Affairs at Richmond, in an unofficial note to Gen. Howard, says that a number of intelligent freedmen of that city have asked the aid of the Freemen's Bureau in obtaining compensation from their masters for the labor performed by them from the issuing of the Emancipation Proclamation, January 1, 1863, to the time of the occupation of Richmond-claiming that they are legally entitled to wages during that period.
THE FREEDMEN. Gen. Saxton has within his present district over a hundred thousand negroes. He claims that all these are now absolutely self-sustaining, save those swept in the wake of Sherman's march. Even the rations issued to these are charged to them, and the thrifty negroes make all haste to quit leaning on the Government, lest their debt should swell to too great proportions. Most of the older settled negroes, who were originally dependent on Government support, have already repaid the advances thus made them, and many have besides accumulated what is for them a handsome competence.
SECRETARY STANTON'S EQUAL LIBERTY ORDER.
The Secretary of War has ordered that to secure equal justice and the same personal liberty to the freedmen as to other citizens and inhabitants, all orders issued by Post, District or other Commanders, adopting any system of passes, or subjecting them to any restraints or punishments not imposed on other classes are declared void. Neither whites nor blacks will be restrained from seeking employment elsewhere when they cannot obtain it at a just compensation at their homes, and when not bound by voluntary agreements. Nor will they be hindered from travelling from place to place on proper and legitimate business. All honor to Secretary Stanton for his vigilance and fidelity!
<c02>
TESTIMONY OF COLORED PERSONS.
A very remarkable case was briefly reported in our local columns yesterday, involving a highly interesting legal question. The case, as reported to us on excellent authority, is as follows: A homicide took place in Gallatin some two or three months ago, which came up for trial week before last at the Gallatin Court, before Judge Shackle ford, one of the most prominent members of the bar in Middle Tennessee, and Chancellor in that district appearing for the defendant.
It seems that the only witness of this affair was a negro woman, whose testimony was regarded by the defendant's counsel as important for the safety of his client, whose life was at stake. Judge Guild therefore moved to introduce the colored woman as a witness, and argued at some length and much ability in favor of it. He based his argument on the example and precedent set by the highest military tribunal of the Federal Government, which has admitted negro testimony in multitudes of cases, and especially in the great conspiracy trial now going on at Washington; on the laws of Congress declaring colored persons competent witnesses in all the courts of the United States; and, finally, on the intrinsic right of admitting the testimony of colored persons.
Judge Shackleford, of course, had to rule out the witness, for the State law is pointedly against such testimony, but at the same time said that such testimony ought to be admitted. Taking into consideration the fact of Judge Guild's being with the rebellion, the fact that Sumner county has been considered one of the strongholds of pro-slaveryism and rebellion in middle Tennessee, the case is exceedingly suggestive of the drifting of the popular mind. No lawyer would have risked such an argument four years ago in Tennessee, for he would have been left without clients. It is also a fact worthy of note, for which we have the evidence of many members of military commissions and courts of claims, that slaveholders have never hesitated to introduce the testimony of their own negroes before these tribunals, whenever their evidence would be beneficial to them. No slaveholder ever hesitated to claim damages to the amount of one thousand dollars from the Government because a slave was the only witness in his behalf-Nashville Press and Times.

HENRY A. WISE AND HIS AFFAIRS.
The correspondence between Henry A. Wise, ex-Governor of Virginia and ex-rebel Major General, and the military authorities at Norfolk, relating to his extensive estate near Norfolk, has been published. Wise states, after favoring Col. Howard, commanding at Norfolk, with copies of his parole papers, that after the immunity from arrest they gave him, he started for Norfolk, adding:
"I am now desirous of going to my home, at a place called Rolliston, in Princess Anne county, within four miles by water and eight by land of Norfolk, situated on the right bank of the east branch of Elizabeth river, and ' there to remain undisturbed and unmolested in every respect,' according to the agreement by which I was paroled as a prisoner of war. But, upon proper inquiry and information, I find my home occupied by a considerable number of freedmen and others who hinder and disturb my possession, and molest the premises thereof, and I am unable to return thereto, and to take possession thereof, by reason of their entry and occupation; and it is probably unsafe for me even to visit it and see it in person. I respectfully ask that said negroes, or so-called freedmen, may be removed from the said place or plantation, called Rolliston; that General Orders No 43 be carried into effect; and that I may be enabled, in accordance with my parole, to return to my home, and to remain there without disturbance or molestation in any respect."
The above application, which was disapproved at headquarters of the sub-district of Norfolk, Gen. Mann indorses as follows:
"I see no reason why Mr. Wise should take possession of this house, now used by the Freedmen's Bureau, until he has been pardoned by the President; and even then it may be necessary for Mr. Wise to prove ownership, as his brother, probably, has a legal claim to it." 
Gen. Terry assigns the following reasons for disapproving the application:
"The petitioner, Henry A. Wise, abandoned the land and buildings known as Rolliston, Princess Anne county, Va., in 1861, and found a new home for his family, in order that he might to better advantage engage in rebellion and civil war.
The premises thus abandoned were duly taken possession of by the agents of the Government, under the laws in such cases provided, and the application now under consideration is Mr. Wise's first attempt to return to his former home. When he left it, his purpose to return, or animus revertendi, if he had any, was evidently conditioned upon his ability to conquer the United States, and forcibly dispossess their agents. He had chosen another home until he could accomplish that result He has not succeeded. Though he wishes to go to his former home, he does not abandon his status as a 'so called' officer, but, in fact, makes his claim specifically in that capacity; and as he does so, (neglecting to seek pardon and a restoration of right,) he must be treated as a rebel prisoner of war, with no rights that we are bound to respect, save those appertaining to a person in that condition, as they may be modified by the terms of the parole.
The quoted order of Major Gen. Gibbon is only for the instruction of his own command, and has nothing to do with the question.
The terms approved by Lieut. Gen. Grant permitted Brig. Gen. Wise to go to his home and remain there undisturbed, so long as he observed the laws in force where he might reside. It is clear that this referred only to Gen. Wise's 'last usual place of abode'-the place where his family resided under his direction- the place where a sheriff would leave legal notices; for, in many cases like this, the abandoned lands are in possession of Treasury agents and commissioners of the Freedmen's Bureau, and it is and was expressly provided by orders from the President that such lands shall be released only by special authority from the Secretary of the Treasury. Lieut. Gen. Grant, it is presumed, had not in his mind the restoration of any lost, abandoned or forfeited property whatever to those whom he captured.
The Major General commanding therefore says that he has no power to restore the place called Rolliston to Brig. Gen. Wise, and certainly he cannot advise such restoration before the latter takes the oath of allegiance to support the Government of which he asks so great a favor. And, moreover, Gen. Wise is ad-monished that in order to enjoy the privileges of his parole, he ought to go to the present home of his family, as selected by himself, and obey the laws in force, which require him to leave undisturbed the lawful occupants of ' the place called Rolliston.'
Gen. Wise apparently objects to the term 'freedmen,' as applied to certain colored citizens of Virginia, thus showing that he acknowledges neither his defeat nor the supremacy of the laws in force where he resides. It is a word used merely for convenience in classifying the people. All men are free in Virginia and will so remain. The barbarous practice of enslaving prisoners of war and their descendants will never be revived on this continent."
The following anecdote of Wise is related by a correspondent of the Tribune:"
"At the railroad depot of Appomattox Court House, just after the surrender, Wise, with all the paraphernalia and pomp of a rebel officer, attempted to enter a car set apart for our own officers. As he sought to enter he was informed that was not the car for paroled prisoners,' and inquired of if he was not the man who hanged John Brown. 'No,' was the reply, 'I did not do it; it was the law of Virginia.' 'Well, you should be hanged not only for treason, but for the murder of John Brown.' In a state of furious rage, Wise observed: ' Young man, I'd rather take a bullet than those words.' The reply was: 'You can have both; ' but Wise took the prisoner's car."
STANTON AND SHERMAN. The Troy Times relates the following anecdote of the Rev. J. D. Fulton, who delivered the 4th of July oration at that place. It is given on the authority of an Albany editor, and has not before been in print:-
At the second day of the great review in Washington, when the stalwart army of the West, who had "marched down to the sea" with Sherman, were filing through the streets at Washington, the climax of the scene centred at the stand of the President, where all the civil and military dignitaries of the land were assembled to witness the pageant. It is well known that as Sherman approached the Secretary of War, he refused the latter's proffered hand. At this moment, Mr. Fulton was standing a short distance from the spot, with a clear space between him and the stand. In a voice which, for clearness, has few equals -, he thus spoke:
"Edwin M. Stanton, savior of your country, organizer of victory, rise up, and receive the greetings of your fellow-citizens!"
Mr. Stanton turned pale, but arose. President Johnson shook him by the hand. So did Grant. And then the crowd, like the rushing of many waters, gave cheer upon cheer for the Secretary of War.
SHOULD BE LOOKED AFTER. The Newport (R. I ) News says that Henry A. Middleton of South Carolina, who was a thorough-going rebel during the war is still a rebel in his views, insists that the South is not conquered and that she will have slavery back again-has come to Newport, and taken possession of about $30.000 worth of property he owned there before the war, and intends to sell it. The News very properly suggests that Mr. Middleton's case comes under the confiscation law, and ought to be attended to.
<c03>
DEATH OF RICHARD HILDRETH.
Information has been received by the Department of State at Washington, of the death of Richard Hildreth, late U. S. Consul at Trieste. He died on the 11th of the present month.
Mr. Hildreth was born June 28, 1807, in the old own of Deerfield, Mass. His father was the Rev. Hosea Hildreth, a prominent Congregational clergyman, who was the last old school divine of latitudinarian views to join the Unitarian from the Calvinistic church of New England, and in his profession always stood in high esteem for ability, public spirit and active benevolence. Being fitted for college at Phillips's Exeter Academy, his father having removed to that town, Richard graduated at Harvard in 1826, having proved himself a successful student of the prescribed course, without, however, entirely confining himself to it. Besides his extensive readings in history, political economy and ethics, he became familiar with the whole body of Greek and Latin authors in their original languages. He then entered the office of Theophilus Parsons, afterward Dane Professor in the Law School of Cambridge, where his remarkable power of close and long-continued application excited the astonishment of all who knew him. In 1827, during Mr. Hildreth's residence at Newburyport, his literary life took its commencement in a series of articles contributed to a magazine then lately started in Boston by Mrs. Sarah Jane Hale. Not long after, he became a contributor to Willis's Boston Magazine-the first editorial experiment of that popular writer; and still subsequently to Joseph T. Buckingham's New England Magazine.
In July, 1832, while practising the legal profession in Boston, he was induced to accept the post of editor of the Boston Atlas, the exponent or organ of Rufus Choate, Caleb Cushing and other rising politicians, who were then associated together, and for several years Mr. Hildreth's connection with the new paper gave it a decided preeminence among the political journals of New England. Ill health, in the autumn of 1834 compelled Mr. Hildreth to seek a residence on a plantation at the South, where he lived for about a year and a half, and wrote the story of "Archy Moore," subsequently, in 1842, republished in an enlarged form under the title of "The White Slave."
During the summer of 1836, Mr. Hildreth enployed his pen in translating from the French of Dumont a work under the title of "Bentham's Theory of Legislation." He also at the same time wrote a "History of Banks," and passing the winter of 1837-38 in Washington as correspondent of the Boston Atlas, returned to the editorial chair a warm supporter of the election to the Presidency of Gen. Harrison.
Abandoning journalism, Mr. Hildreth next published his "Despotism in America," and in 1840, for the benefit of his health, again had resort to a warmer climate. During a three years' residence at Demerara, in British Guiana, he acted successively as editor of two newspapers published in Georgetown, the capital of the country, and also found time to write his " Theory of Morals," published in 1844, as well as the "Theory of Politics," printed in 1853. Mr. Hildreth then turned his attention to completing his "History of the United States." This afforded him constant occupation for seven years, during which he wrote little else. The first volume was issued in 1849, and the entire work in the three succeeding years. 
The amount of literary drudgery, such as editing geographical cyclopedias and works of a similar character, which he has performed, attests his singular mental vigor and activity, as well as the inadequate remuneration of more congenial literary labor. Having busied himself in his comparatively leisure hours with the writing of his "Japan as it Was and as it Is," his health shortly afterward entirely gave way, which, in addition to the severe attacks of mental depression to which he had always been subject, prostrated him utterly.
In 1861 he received the appointment of United States Consul at Trieste, being then by the dying bed of his eldest sister, through whose earnest and tender solicitations he was, after much doubt and fear, induced to accept the position, and left her grave to embark for Europe. His wife and son accompanied him, and under the sunny skies of Italy he for a time recovered a good measure of his former health. But it soon again gave way under the pressure of his official and still continued literary labors. During the summer of last year he became almost insane, and recovered his mental consciousness only to sink gradually away into the arms of death at the age of fifty-eight years, one month and three days. He leaves a wife and a son about eighteen years of age to mourn his loss..-Boston Journal.

THE NATION.
This new journal sends us its first number, in return for which we give the right hand of fellowship. The imprint of "Joseph H. Richards, Publisher," has been so long a household word with us, that we cannot regard this new journal as a stranger, but as a familiar friend. It is a weekly sheet, of imperial octavo form, folded into thirty-two pages, and resembling in appearance (but fortunately not in temper) the London Saturday Review. The first number of The Nation lacks nothing in ability, but something in vivacity. Nevertheless, with such a phalanx of pens as we know are engaged upon its columns, we believe that this grandly-projected and richly endowed journal will speedily take the highest possible rank as a literary, political, and critical review. Having a field peculiarly its own, it enters upon no struggle with rivals, .but will win its success without hindrance. Mr. Godkin, long well-known as one of the ablest writers of the New York Press, is the Editor-in Chief, assisted by Mr. Wendell P. Garrison, late our own associate in the Independent, a young gentleman who has no superior in those admirable literary qualifications which he carries to his new post. For reasons of kinship and of personal friendship, we cannot help taking a more than usual interest in the success of this new enterprise, to which our former co-laborers are now lending their skill, their energy, and their enthusiasm. We owe it to these old comrades to say, in this public manner, that we have never been acquainted with two young men of more estimable personal character, of higher moral aims, and of more signal fitness for their new field of usefulness than Mr. Garrison and Mr. Richards. May The Nation realize their highest hopes!-N. Y. Independent.
THE NEW YORK "NATION." We have received three numbers of the New York Nation, published by Joseph H. Richards. It promises to take very high ground in politics, literature, science and art; and thus far it has redeemed, amply redeemed, its promise. It discusses the question of Reconstruction with great ability, and bases it on universal suffrage. We hope the "nation" at Washington will heed the voice of the Nation at New York. The literary notices form a marked feature of the new journal. They are independent, thorough and impartialas witness the notice of "Forsyth's Cicero," in the third number. The terms are three dollars a year. We trust the enterprise will meet with the encouragement it deserves-Boston Universalist.
SOUTHERN OPINIONS. Excepting only the absence of the many announcements of rewards for "My boy" or "My light-complexioned negro woman," who have run away, the character and tone of the Southern papers in general are very like what they were before the war. This is especially the case with the journals in the Gulf States. Bullyings and threatenings, covertly and more directly, constitute the staple of their political contents. The following is a very mild sample from a Louisiana paper:
"The negro, although emancipated, must occupy a subordinate position in this country. The New England States may grant the right of suffrage, but the Western and Southern States will never consent to such a policy.
We venture to assert, that nineteen out of twenty in the Western armies repudiate the doctrine. They recognize the fact, that this government was made by white men, for the benefit of white men. Those who poison the minds of the negroes with false ideas of equality are their worst enemies. The negroes should be taught to be polite and respectful in their new relation, to their former owners. They should be told that they are ignorant, and totally unfit for the exercise of political rights, and that they must depend in a great measure on the kindness and protection of those who were formerly their masters. Those who deceive them, and mislead their minds by suggestions calculated to make them insolent and unruly, should be restrained by the military authorities; and if they persist in their radical and fanatical teachings, they should be relieved from duty, and their places filled by men of enlarged and liberal views.
The planters, many of whom are gentlemen of high character and intelligence, should not be humiliated in the presence of these deluded negroes, and their veracity should not be called in question by men who shelter themselves behind bayonets. Such men have never exposed their delicate persons in the front of battle, and only follow in the wake of victorious armies, to insult our people and corrupt the minds of the negroes."
THE ANDERSONVILLE ATROCITIES. A Washington despatch says:-
"The country will be gratified to hear that Capt. Henry Wirz, late prison-keeper at Andersonville, is shortly to be put on trial for the cruelty and brutality practised upon the prisoners confined at that place. The Military Commission sitting in this city, of which Brig. Gen. A. B. Underwood is President, and Col. N. P. Chapman of the War Department is Judge Advocate, has been directed to try the case.
"The charges embrace a list of atrocities that are little short of fiendish, and will arouse the indignation of the civilized world. The Government is now engaged in collecting testimony preparatory to the trial. Let the soldiers who have survived their imprisonment at this prison put Col. Chapman in possession of any essential facts."
<c04>
GEN. SHERMAN ON SLAVERY. A grand banque was given to Gen. Sherman at Indianapolis, July 25, by officers and ex-officers of the army, at a cost of $2,000. Gen. Sherman, responding to a toast, made a lengthy and argumentative speech, in which he said his ancestors, being in the sea-faring line, contributed largely to the importation of African slaves; and he felt it his duty as far as possible to atone for the sins of his ancestors. He considered the slaves free by the action of the secessionists. It was the duty of the Government to protect and educate them. They might be colonized in Florida, and admitted to representation in Congress. He opposed negro suffrage, and indiscriminate intercourse with whites. His observations in Mexico and South America led to this conclusion. He believed the whites must have the governing power, and that Omnipotence inaugurated the rebellion to break down the legal hedge which had protected slavery from the just indignation of the civilized world. He thought plenty of the Southern States would vote to ratify the Constitutional Amendment. As to the subject of military power, he did not feel that there was any usurpation; it was the natural law of self-preservation; but when the necessity was passed, he hoped the civil law would resume its away.
NEGRO CELEBRATION. The freedmen of Savannah celebrated the anniversary of the independence of Liberia on the 26th of July by a procession and a picnic in a grove near the city. The grounds were very tastily prepared, and long lines of tables filled with all the luxuries of the season stretched out an inviting feast, while the American colors were tastily draped from the trees and arranged in harmony with the numerous banners, and gave the grove a very gay and holiday attire. An oration was delivered by Rev. Mr. Sims, and everything passed off happily.
CAPTURE OF KIRBY SMITH AND HIS SPOIL. A Brownsville letter of the 13th inst., to the New Orleans Times, states that Gen. Kirby Smith and his entire party were captured July 4, at Piedras Negras, by the Governor of Saltillo, together with four pieces of artillery, 900 new rifles, and 75 wagons laden with ammunition and provision. The officers and men were paroled.
THE STATES. Thirty-six States were in the Union on the Fourth. We ought to get in three more in less than a twelvemonth, so as to have thirty-nine by next Fourth of July. "The old thirteen" would then be trebled in ninety years. They were doubled in sixty years, and thirty years should suffice to add a third thirteen to the constellation. Nebraska and Colorado are all ready to come in, and there should be no difficulty in finding a third among so many flourishing Territories as the restored Union possesses.-Traveller.
NEW YORK, Aug. 2. The steamer that took the conspirators to the Dry Tortugas has returned. The prisoners were landed on the 25th ult. When informed of their destination they were quite depressed, but on finding a good sea breeze there, and the place pleasanter than they anticipated, they were more resigned. Mudd was assigned to duty as assistant surgeon, Arnold a clerkship, Spangler as carpenter, and O'Laughlin was given employment at what he was fitted for. There are about 500 prisoners there.
SLAVERY IN MEXICO. News from Mexico states that Maximilian has made a contract with a foreign speculator for the introduction into Mexico of several thousands of negroes, who are to be kept in slavery; that they will be obliged to work during ten years for the benefit of their masters, and made to renounce the right of complaint before the magistrates in case they may be ill-treated or abused. Their temporary bondage can be renewed, and they can be transferred by sale without consulting them. It is doubtful that Maximilian will dare to outrage the public sentiment of this continent and of the world by such an arrangement. When Spain is talking of emancipating her slaves, it will not do for Mexico to inaugurate a system of bondage-Boston Journal.
SPAIN AND THE SLAVE TRADE. In the Madrid Senate, on the 7th inst., Marshal O'Donnell, in reply to a question put by the Marquis of Manzanedo on the subject of the slave trade in Cuba, said:-
"The government have determined that the slave trade shall cease, since this is a matter affecting the honor of the Spanish nation and the tranquillity of the colony; and if the present law be insufficient, another bill will, in due time, be submitted to the legislative body to attain the end in view. This I believe to be a duty for the Spanish nation, as well as a guaranty for the tranquillity of the colony, and we thus remove a cause of possible difficulties, which might even result in international misunderstanding."
HARTFORD, CONN., Aug. 1. A horrible murder was discovered at daylight this morning in the village of Oakland, in Manchester, nine miles east of this city. Mrs. Benjamin Starkweather, aged 46, and her daughter Ella, aged 14. were chopped to death in bed with an axe. The blows severed their skulls each time, and their bodies presented a horrible appearance. They were also stabbed in several places with a butcher knife, which, with the axe, was found. A son of Mrs. Starkweather, named Albert, 24 years of age, is under examination to-day by the Hartford police, and it looks as if he committed the murders for a sum of less than $400 in money, which was found in a drawer with a knife. He first gave the alarm, and the beds were found on fire-his own and his mother's. The daughter still breathed, but died in ten minutes. The scene was more awful than anything ever known here before.
GREAT DESTRUCTION OF NEW BEDFORD WHALERS. The telegraph from San Francisco brings bad news to New Bedford merchants. Whaling bark Milo had arrived at San Francisco, from the Arctic Ocean, with the crews of several whalers destroyed by the pirate Shenandoah, last month. The whalers Edward Cary, Hector, Abigail, Euphrates, William Thompson, Sophia Thornton, Jireh Swift, and the Susan and Abigail (?) were captured, and most of them were burned.
The Shenandoah was continuing her wholesale destruction of whalers, and would probably soon destroy another fleet, numbering sixty vessels. Her commander was informed of Lee's surrender and of the collapse of the rebellion, but did not believe it. He believed in Mr. Lincoln's assassination, for he expected it. The Shenandoah coaled last at Melbourne.
A singular case of retribution, or, at least, a singular coincidence-suit yourselves, gentlemen, in the use of terms-has occurred in this city. When the news of the assassination of the President was received here, a she Copperhead went upon the piazza of her house, and danced for joy. Very soon thereafter she was attacked by a disease which has rendered her legs useless, and the attending physician pronounces her a cripple for life. The female's name is in our possession-Biddeford Unionist.
An ancient Alabamian, 72 years of age, was arrested recently in Philadelphia for using language of the most violent and seditious character in regard to the assassination of Mr. Lincoln. When brought up for trial, he claimed to have been driven from the South on account of his Union principles!
It is said that eighty plantations in Louisiana have recently been confiscated. These embrace many of the finest sugar estates of the Southern country. Mr. Conway, the government agent, is making arrangements to divide up these estates into forty-acre lots for freedmen and poor whites.
RALEIGH, N. C., July 28. The Standard says rebel papers are springing up in all parts of the State, which openly denounce the government and promulgate treason.
Most of the Federal appointees in the State are unable to qualify, not being in a position to take the oath prescribed by Congress; among the number is District Judge Dick.
WASHINGTON, July 27. During the past few weeks the colored people of Washington and Georgetown have been earnestly discussing the right of suffrage. This evening a meeting of the ward delegates was held, and a memorial for presentation to Congress submitted for approval.
The Houston Telegraph rejoices over the fact that all the drays and omnibuses there are driven by white men, and that the city is fast filling up with industrious white mechanics and laborers. A number of freedmen have established shoemakers' shops in the city, and gone into business on their own account.
Capt. Geo. A. Ames, of Mass. 2d U. S. Artillery, has been appointed Superintendent of Freed-men's Affairs for the Fifth District of Eastern Virginia, headquarters at Alexandria.
The Dubuque Times, after noticing the well known fact that whiskey is a cure for snake bites, says it is also a preventive for hydrophobia. It gives the instance of a little girl in that city, five years of age, who was bitten by a bad dog. The physician prescribed whiskey. She drank a pint before she was in the least intoxicated. It is a curious peculiarity of the remedy, that the whiskey does not affect the healthy part of the person until the poison is neutralized.
CONSISTENCY. The some court and jury which declared Miss Harris not guilty of the murder of Burroughs, this week condemned Horatio Maloney to eight years' imprisonment for stabbing a faithless mistress named Florence Wilson. A Washington letter says: "If he had killed her, it is understood they jury would have acquitted him.
Among the persons who took the oath of amnesty before the Mayor of New Orleans, on the 20th ult., was the distinguished Confederate raider, Jeff. Thompson, who has applied to the President for a special pardon.
<c05>
Personal observation by an intelligent merchant who has lately traversed the central and western portion of the Carolinas and northern Georgia shows the condition of the black population to be worse than the slavery which existed before the war. Except in rare cases, they not only receive no remuneration for their labor, but are maltreated in every possible manner by masters who seem only incited to diabolism by the Proclamation of Emancipation. Most of the able-bodied colored people, are leaving as fast as they can for the plantations on the sea coast, where they will receive the protection of the government.
The aged and helpless who are left behind are treated with the utmost cruelty. 
PERSONAL. Merle d'Aubigne, the well known author of the History of the Reformation, wrote to our Minister in Switzerland a very earnest and sympathetic letter concerning the death of Mr. Lincoln. It has just been made public. 
THE RICHMOND ELECTION. For Mayor, Sturdivant received 1685 votes, and Taylor, who ran" as a Union candidate, 901. For other officers the result was about the same. The Unionism of both candidates for Mayor was very weak. Sturdivant denounced as liars all who charged him with secessionism, but nevertheless received the votes of all those whose feelings ran that way. In nearly every instance where the soldiers of the late rebel army were candidates, they were elected by large majorities.
A miniature locomotive made of gold and silver, with a ruby for a head light, and costing .$4000, is on exhibition at Taunton. Its wheels are driven by clock work.
The Dean Richmond is the name of a superb new steamboat, just completed at a cost of $700,000, for the People's Line of New York and Albany packets. The vessel is 370 feet long; can accommodate 900 first-class and 600 second class passengers.
Robert Toombs is reported to have left the country and gone to Cuba, where, instead of "calling the roll of his slaves," he will play the role of a refugee.
The Louisville Democrat estimates that over 60,000 slaves have crossed over the Ohio river, under Gen. Filmer's passes, since the 1st of May. At this rate, the whole slave population of Kentucky will "pass away" in less than one year.
The Jackson Mississippian says:- We learn that unbleached domestics in this city have fallen from seventy-five to forty-five cents per yard." On which the Vicksburg Herald sagely observes: "'Unbleached domestics' have fallen here from eighteen hundred dollars to zero per head."
The King of Italy will send to the Dublin exhibition the biggest emerald in the world-next to the "Emerald Isle." It is six inches long, four broad, and three thick, and has engraved upon it the Lord's Supper, after Domichino.
In 1819, at a dinner to Mr. Adams, at Brown's Hotel, Washington, Mr. Calhoun proposed the following sentiment: "Universal suffrage and universal education."
Lewis Cass, who has had the reputation of being worth several millions, reported for 1864 an income of $20,747.
The statistics of the United States census show that the number of deaths among the colored population of Boston is nearly twice as large as the number of births, and that if it were not for the accessions from the South, the negro population would soon be extinct.
Mr. Isaac Taylor, brother of Jane and Ann Taylor, and himself one of the most thoughtful writers of the day, died recently in London, in the 77th year of his age.
The palace for the Paris exhibition at Vaugerard will cover at least forty acres, and cost $4,000,000. It will be removed at the close of the exhibition.
An ingenious pocket time-piece, "warranted to denote time correctly," is selling in London for a penny.
A MILITARY DEMAGOGUE. Gen. F. P. Blair, in his farewell order to the 17th army corps, told his men, in effect, that if Napoleon should persist in his Mexican scheme, their services might again be required.
REMEDY FOR CHILBLAINS. In the winter season of the year, many are troubled with chilblains. When they come in from the cold and seat themselves by the stove, the feet begin to itch most intolerably and swell. Now, the application of kerosene oil cures them. Try it, sufferers.
A movement is on foot by colored men to purchase the Charleston Mercury, and publish it as an anti-slavery journal. Some progress has been made, and money is being subscribed with a good prospect of success. Progress in a New England direction.
A young Kentucky giant named Bud Bates is seven feet tall, and weighs 340 lbs. He is indeed a bud of promise.
The friends of Mrs. Surratt contemplate, placing over her remains, when the government is through with them, a stone, with her last words on the scaffold, " I am innocent; but God's holy will be done." An officer at the execution says her last words were, "You are a scoundrel," addressed to him.
The degree of LL.D. was conferred on Gen. Grant and Secretary Stanton by Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., during the commencement exercises of last week.
NORTH CAROLINA AND THE WAR. Official documents at Raleigh show that North Carolina furnished 118,160 troops for the rebel army.
COLORED YOUNG MEN WHO HAVE BEEN PROMOTED IN THE SERVICE OF THEIR COUNTRY. In the 55th Mass. Regiment we have three lieutenants, Messrs. Trotter, Dupree and Shorter. In the 54th, Messrs. 1st Lieutenant Swails, and 2d Lieutenants Voglesang and Welsh.
Gen. Sherman is making up for his reticence in the field by making speeches now at every little town where he is called out. He is not at all modest in claiming glory for what he has done. In the mean time, Lieut. General Grant smokes and is silent.
Hon. Anson Burlingame, Minister to China, arrived with his family, at his home in Cambridge, a few days since.
A meeting was held in Dresden, on the Fourth of July, by a national club of Germans, at which representatives from Italy and Greece and other countries were present, and at which the triumph of popular government in America was most enthusiastically welcomed. At Berlin, Breslau and other cities in Germany, similar demonstrations were made.
The surgeons' reports show that our armies have suffered greatly from chills and fever which are induced by the miasma and change of climate to which they are exposed. They also find Ayer's Ague Cure is an effectual remedy for this distemper, and are urging the government to adopt it within the greulations. The Surgeon General hesitates, because it is put up in a proprietary form. However great that convenience to the public, he prefers the physicians of the army should give their own directions for the doses. Whatever professional pride may dictate, he knows as well as we do that Dr. Ayer's "Cure" is an almost perfect antidote for the Ague, and that the soldiers should have the benefit of it, as well as the people.- Washington (D. C.) Correspondent.
Paymaster Wilson has just returned from the interior of South Carolina, and reports the people in that section very bitter at heart against the Union and Federal authority. The people are a unit against negro suffrage, and retain the old prejudice against the race.
THE CENSUS OF BOSTON. The increase of population during the past five years in this city, according to the new census, is 14,362-the population of 1865 being 192,264 against 177,902 in 1860.
Adjutant-General Thomas estimates the present strength of the negro troops now in service at a little less than one hundred thousand men. Just previous to the close of the war, these troops numbered about one hundred and ten thousand men, which has been reduced by the discharge of State regiments whose terms of service have expired. It is a remarkable fact that the proportion of colored men who desert is fifty per cent. less than among the white soldiers.
A gentleman from Marshall county, Miss., says that some planters still misunderstand their relations with the blacks, and treat them with extreme cruelty. He reports that one planter named Richards, who lives seventeen miles from Holly Springs, recently whipped one of his slaves so severely that the black is not expected to live. His only offence was, that he was found reading a Northern newspaper.
The Superintendent of Government farms in St. Mary's county, Md., writes to the Freedmen's Bureau that the farmers there are turning off all the old and disabled negroes whose life-long labor they have received, saying that the government having freed them, must now support them. This gentleman informs the Bureau that no legal justice can be obtained for the colored race before Maryland magistrates in that section, instancing the case of a black man assaulted and badly beaten by a white man, who, though he had white witnesses to support his case, was absolutely refused a hearing by the justice. - Washington corr.
Ten thousand freedmen and their families are farming for themselves in the neighborhood of Vicksburg, with excellent results-doing much better than those who work by the month for wages.
<c06>
THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE,
SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be-
First-The discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second-The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Third-The earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fourth-The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation.
Fifth-The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory.
Sixth-The collection and diffusion of trustworthy information as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh-Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form, one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers posessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide.
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors:
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW,
J. R. LOWBLL,
JOHN G. WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT, (Ex-Pres. Trin. College, Hartford,)
Prof. TOBRRY, (Harvard,)
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,)
CHARLES E. NORTON,
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W. D. WHITNEY, (Yale,)
Prof. D. C. GILMAN, (Yale,)
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia, College,)
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr. MCCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON,
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C. J. STILLS,
HENRY T. TUCKERMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR,
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THEODORE TILTON,
GAIL HAMILTON, &c. &c.
Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS, Publisher,
No. 130 Nassau at, Now York.
June 16.
WOOL.
THE undersigned, late in the employ of Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, having leased the lofts at Nos. 6 and 8 Channing Street, is prepared to do the WOOL COMMISSION and BROKERAGE business.
He takes this method of calling attention to his facilities for selling, his store being admirably located, and his acquaintance with manufacturers large. Consignments are respectfully solicited, and consignors are assured that all Wool sent to him will be carefully graded and faithfully handled. Liberal advances made when required.
Orders from manufacturers for the purchase of Fleece or Pulled Wools, either in the Boston, New York or Philadelphia markets, will receive immediate attention.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, JR.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, July 14, 1865.
Ayer's Sarsaparilla
Is a concentrated extract of the choice roots, as combined with other substances of still greater alternative power as to afford an effectual antidote for diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. Such a remedy is surely wanted by those who suffer from Strumons complaints; and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove, as this has, of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found in the following complaints:-
Scrofula, Scrofulous Swellings and Sores, Skin Diseases, Pimples, Pustules, Blotches, Eruptions, St. Anthony's Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ringworm, &c.
Syphilis or Venereal Disease is expelled from the system by the prolonged use of this SARSAPARILLA, and the patient in left in comparative health.
Female Diseases are caused by Serofula in the blood, and are often soon cured by this EXTRACT OF SARSAPARILLA.
Do not discard this invaluable medicine because you have been imposed upon by something pretending to be Sarsaparilla, while it was not. When you have used AYER'S, then, and not till then, will you. know the virtues of Sarsaparilla. For minute particulars of the diseases it cures, we refer you to Ayers American Almanac, which the agent below named will furnish gratis to all who call for it.
AYER'S CATHARTIC PILLS, for the cure of Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Heartburn arising from Disordered Stomach, Pain, or Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, and for a Dinner Pill.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best Aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Aug. 4. 2m.
WM. P. POWELL,
ATTORNEY AND SOLICITOR,
IN THE ADJUSTMENT AND COLLECTION OF 
CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES,
Office Nos. 1 and 2, Dover St., New York.
NOTARY PUBLIC AND COMMISSIONER FOR THE STATES OF VERMONT, MASSACHUSETTS AND CONNECTICUT.
Passports and Protections Procured.
REFERENCES.
Hon. HORACE GREELEY, Ex-JUDGE BEEBE,
Brig. Gen. WM. HALL, Col. VINCENT COLYER,
WM. A. BOOTH, Esq., J. S. SHULTZ, Esq.
JAMES McCUNE SMITH, M. D. Rev. HARMON LOOMIS,
R. WARREN WESTON, Esq., SAMUEL. GLOYNS, Esq.
New YorK, Aug. 2.
WANTED
A SITUATION as travelling nurse to wait upon an invalid lady. Good references can be given Apply at 57 Joy street, or at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street, Boston, Mass.
Poetry
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
PEACE SMILES AT LAST.
BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Four summers coined their golden light in leaves,
Four wasteful autumns flung them to the gale,
Four winters wore the shroud the tempest weaves,
The fourth wan April wept o'er hill and vale,
And still the war-clouds scowled on sea and land,
With the red gleams of battle staining through,
When, lo! as parted by an angel's hand,
They open, and the heavens again are blue!
Which is the dream, the present, or the part?
The night of anguish, or the joyous morn?
The long, long years with horrors overcast,
Or the sweet promise of the day new-born?
Tell us, O father, as thine arms enfold
Thy belted first-born in their fast embrace,
Murmuring the prayer the patriarch breathed of old,-
"Now let me die, for I have seen thy face!"
Tell us, O mother,-nay, thou canst not speak,
But thy fond eyes shall answer, brimmed with oy,-
Press thy mute lips against the sun-browned cheeks,
Is this a phantom,-thy returning boy?
Tell us, O maiden, Ah! what canst thou tell
That Nature's record It not first to teach,
The open volume all can read so well,
With its twin crimson pages full of speech?
And ye who mourn your dead, how sternly true
The cruel hour that wrenched their lives away,
Shadowed with sorrow's midnight veil for you,
For them the dawning of immortal day!
Dream-like, these years of conflict, not a dream!
Death, ruin, ashes tell their awful tale,
Read by the flaming war-track's lurid gleam;
No dream, but truth that turns the nations pale!
For on the pillar raised by martyr hands
Burns the rekindled beacon of the right,
Sowing its seeds of fire o'er all the lands,
Thrones look a century older in its light!
Rome had her triumphs; round her conqueror's car
The ensigns waved, the brazen clarions blew,
And o'er the recking spoils of bandit war
With outspread wings the cruel eagles flew;
Arms, treasures, captives, kings in clanking chains,
Urged on by trampling cohorts bronzed and scarred,
And wild-eyed wonders snared on Lybian plains,
Lion and ostrich and camelopard.
Vain all that praetors clutched, that consuls brought
When Rome's returning legions crowned their lord;
Less than the least brave deed these hands have wrought
We clasp, unclenching from the bloody sword!
Theirs was the mighty work that seers foretold;
They know not half their glorious toil has won,
For this is Heaven's same battle,-joined of old
When Athens fought for us at Marathon!
Behold a vision none hath understood!
The breaking of the Apocalyptic seal:
Twice rings the summons-hail, and fire, and blood!
Then the third angel blows his trumpet-peal
Loud wail the dwellers on the myrtled coasts,
The green savannahs swell the maddened cry
And with a yell from all the demon hosts
Falls the great star, called Wormwood, from the sky!
Bitter it mingles with the poisoned flow
Of the warm rivers winding to the shore;
Thousands must drink the waves of death and woe,
But the star Wormwood stains the heavens no more!
Peace smiles at last; the Nation calls her sons
To sheathe the sword; her battle-flag she furls,
Speaks in glad thunders from unshotted guns,
And shides her rubies under milk-white pearls.
O ye that fought for Freedom, living, dead,
One sacred host of God's anointed Queen,
For every holy drop your veins have shed
We breathe a welcome to our bowers of green!
Welcome, ye living! from the foeman's gripe
Your country's banner it was yours to wrest.
Ah! many a forehead shows the banner-stripe,
And stars, once crimson, hallow many a breast.
And ye, pale heroes, who, from glory's bed,
Mark when your old battalions form in line,
Move in their marching ranks with noiseless tread,
And shape unheard the evening countersign,
Come with your comrades, the returning brave,
Shoulder to shoulder they await you here!
These lent the life their martyr-brothers gave,-
Living and dead alike forever dear.
HAREBELLS BY THE RIVER.
BY KATY CARLISLE.
"The river that we would not wish to forget, even by the waters of the River of Life.-D. A. WASSON in Atlantic Monthly.
Sweet blue harebells!
Fifteen Mays have come and passed 
Since your beauty gladdened and thrilled me last,
When my careless feet in childhood strayed
Where ye nodded and drooped in the dewy shade.
Fairy harebells!
Now in memory clearly seen,
As if the great sea had not rolled between
The fair, broad land where my lot is cast,
And the small green isle where I saw ye last!
Far-off harebells,-
The fairest of all New England streams,
The beautiful river I see in dreams,
Which the noblest lyre in the world hath sung,
Hath its banks with trembling harebells hung!"
Happy harebells!
Do ye not tremble with joy to hear
The musical beat of its waves so near;-
Quiver with ecstacy-catching, in play,
The precious pearls of its falling spray?
Northern harebells!
Fair as a dream are the lakes that sleep 
Under the Mexico zenith deep;
And fair are the flowers that round them lie
In the noontide glow of that tropic sky;
As if some great fairy net were brought,
And all hues that fly in the light were caught, 
Mingled and tangled and breeze-o'er-swept,
And still in its cunning meshes kept
Till they ceased to struggle with fate, grew tame,
And that fairy prison a home became!
Yet, blue harebells!
Lovelier, lovelier far than the dream
Of tropic flowers by the Mexico stream
Are the wild and sweet imaginings
That the verse of the North's great Poet brings;
Till I listen and watch by the rocky shore
For the whitening waves with their deafening roar,
Or in some sweet valley the dark-blue gleam
And musical glide of that shaded stream,
And see the blue harebells quivering droop,
And the branches above them lovingly stoop, 
For pavement and canopy over the sod
Where the feet of the New-World muses trod
Oh! ye harebells!
What thought-woven music hath echoed wide
From a sacred nook by that river's side!
How it thrills us and fills us-that glorious song-
With love of freedom and hate of wrong,
With patience the crosses of truth to bear,
With passionate yearnings to do and dare 
And wherever its softer notes breathe low,
There's a sound as of that sweet river's flow;
And its sweetness hath stolen through life and heart
Till it seems of our very soul a part!
Old-time harebells! 
The dear young brother that played with me
Among the blue harebells, over the sea,
Is gone to the front," where the thunders of war
Are clearing the heavens for Freedom's star;
My New-World home! he hath suffered for thee,
And now thou art dearer than ever to me
<c02>
Sweet home-harebells!
I mourn that far green isle no more, 
For you-ye bloom on a dearer shore.
Oh! to fling myself down, some day,
Where the bank is green 'neath your river's spray;
To love you and pet you and play with you there,
As a babe might play with its mother's hair;
While I weep for happiness, thanking God
For the touch of New England's sacred sod!
Precious harebells!-
Friends, if ye love me, make my grave 
Close, very close by the murmuring wave;
Plant birches and maples for cypress and yew, 
And cover the mound with the harebells blue!
Auburn, N. Y., 1864.
The Liberator.
SHALL BLACK MEN VOTE?
Extract from a letter to a Northern soldier in the South:-
BOSTON, July 26,1865.
You speak of the length of time that must elapse before the mass of negroes at the South can vote intelligently, which is very true; and proceed to judge that it would be a prostitution of the ballot-box to open it to the freedmen at once," which is not so certain. At least, there is something to be said on the other side.
The self-evident truth stated in the Declaration of Independence about governments deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed " seems to take for granted that voting is a natural right of the human being on arriving at the age of citizenship, irrespective of intelligence. My idea would be to concede that right, and then encourage the acquisition of knowledge by granting citizenship a year earlier to those who fulfilled certain specified conditions.
To proceed from general ideas to the particular circumstances of the present case-the question for our country now is, whether black men as well as white men may vote in State and National elections.
The sooner we disuse the term freedmen," I think, the better. To distinguish this class of people by name and treatment from others was one of the devices of slavery. Our part is to consider them (and as far as possible cause them everywhere to be regarded and spoken of) as a part of the American people. When the Constitutional Amendment shall have been ratified, the freedmen will be free men, and need not be mentioned as forming a class different from other free men, especially as the same varieties of intelligence appear among them as among the whites.
Shall black men as well as white men be full citizens, equal before the law? This is the question.
Apart from the natural right above mentioned, there are two reasons of present advantage, immensely important to the country, why it should be so.
1. Our great present foe, North and South, is disloyal feeling. Favor to the ideas and interests of those who have been making war upon us for four years, coming up in State and National action, is our great present danger. The blacks are all loyal. Their wish to sustain the U. S. Government, against any opposing wishes and plans of disloyal men, may be thoroughly depended on. This is a point of very great importance. 
2. With the Nation's general interest to hold under effective control the action of its disloyal members, goes its special interest to guard the old gap through which their disloyalty formerly attained such power, namely, their tyranny over the colored people. To give political po wer to those colored people, enabling them to act effectively in the interest of the Nation, and, by the very same act, to secure those rights of their own which the Nation needs to have secured as a part of its defence against the disloyal, seems the readiest means to accomplish both purposes. 
It seems to me that these two reasons, first the security of the Nation, and next the concession of justice to the blacks, (which is not only coincident with the Nation's security but an essential part of it,) demand an immediate grant of the suffrage to the colored people. The ignorance of so many of them is unfortunate, just as the equal ignorance of so many of the whites is unfortunate. But even at first, the most ignorant of the blacks will not vote so badly as the most ignorant of the whites, because the latter favor the disloyal leaders, while the former will not favor them. Then, the ballot is an immense educational influence; and, looking to coming years, the ignorant black class in the South, if thus helped, will gain intelligence much faster than the ignorant white class. The education and civilization of the South would be immensely forwarded by this movement.-C. K. W.
TWENTY REASONS
WHY MINISTERS OF THE EVERLASTING GOSPEL 
SHOULD NOT USE TOBACCO.
1. The habit renders you offensive to many people who think cleanliness next to godliness." Converts sometimes recoil from baptism, and communicants from receiving sacramental bread from tobacco-using ministers ; dying saints, well-nigh suffocated with the poisonous odor, have, with trembling hand, waved pastors from their bed-sides. Humiliating fact!
2. The habit desecrates your lips. You roll a noxious poison under your tongue, and your throat some times painfully reminds us of an open sepulcher. Impure lips are an abomination to the Lord, and they should be to you, his ministers.
3.The habit ill-becomes Christian gentlemen, such as clergymen commonly are. St. Paul," says Bishop Hooker  was emphatically a gentleman." Paul chew the cud "! Paul among the votaries of smoke! The church of God resents the imputation!
4. The habit injures your voice. The cigar makes it weak-and husky; the quid gives it the rough and frog-like note; while snuff, as all know, gives it the nasal twang. Why ruin the rich and manly notes of an eloquent voice, so charming and effective in our pulpits Have we an excess of sacred eloquence?
5. The habit is pernicious as an example. What if your whole charge, men, women and children, should copy it,-all turn smokers? How long would you live with such a people? You would ask a dismiss ion in twenty-four hours.
6. The habit is expensive. Your salaries are not large, and irrespective of the sin of wasting money on a rank poison, the habit in clergymen is eminently in bad taste, on a financial score.
7. The habit diminishes self-respect. It lowers the type of any man, much more that of a Christian minister. It renders many despicable in their own eyes. I love my pipe," said a clergyman, and despise myself for using it." 
8. The habit disturbs the circulation of the blood and the action of the heart Many tobacco-users fall dead suddenly. You may fall dead in your pulpits. Some preachers have. Consult Dr. Twitchell on sudden deaths, and heed his warnings. 
9. The habit injures the mind; it completely enslaves it. Said a young minister, aiming to break his chains, I need tobacco to give me resolution to give up tobacco." Sooner or later it renders clergymen unmanly, undecided, and the sport of caprice.
10. The habit enfeebles the memory. The minds of smokers are sometimes completely oblivious. The machine seems to stop, mental action to cease, and there has been a mental suicide for the time, a violation of the Sixth Commandment.
11. The habit is an assault and battery on the whole nervous system. It tends to dethrone reason, and makes imbeciles and maniacs of many ministers and sedentary men, and our insane asylums confirm this statement.
12. The habit tends to soothe, and in turn to exasperate the sensibilities and passions. It produces a morbid irritability, and renders many an amiable clergyman unamiable, and unfits him to deal with unreasonable men and wrangling parishes.
<c03>
18 The habit ranks with the works of darkness." Satan has much to do with it . King James said, It bewitcheth him that useth it." It seems to bewitch its clerical victims more than other men. Clergymen, like fine violins, are easily put out of order.
14. The habit aims higher, and does violence to the moral sense. You cannot maintain a clear conscience, and be the votaries of tobacco. It wastes time, money, strength and life, and tramples on the laws of nature, which are the laws of God, and is sinful, or a sin, if anything is a sin.
15. The habit unfits you to preach against intemperance. Tobacco is an intoxicant . Men and boys get drunk on it . Should you in good earnest denounce dram-shops and reprove drunkards, they would storm on you with the cry, Physician, heal thyself!"
16. The habit tends to stupify all the Christian affections, and render the soul apathetic and inactive. Some clergymen ensconce themselves in then? their studies, envelop themselves in smoke, and care little or nothing about glorious revivals and glorious reforms, and repose as an incubus upon our churches.
17. The habit destroys the souls of many of your hearers-young men in scores. They see you and other gentlemen smoke, and they smoke with a ten-fold fury. With them it becomes a mighty idol standing between their souls and Christ.
18. The habit is a self-indulgence in conflict with lie the self-denying life of Christ, whom you call Lord, Lord," and profess to imitate. Is this the way to fill up what is behind of the sufferings of Christ," which the Apostle enjoins?
19. The habit, by destroying health, abridges life, and thins the ranks of the ministry. The cry of the South and West now is, Come over and help us. The laborers are few."
20. The habit narcotizes whole tribes, whole na-ions! nations! It wields a sceptre over nearly two hundred millions! It hinders the conversion of the world! We beseech you to preach against it; but how can you whilst you are its votaries?
Break, dear brethren, break from this body-destroy-ing, soul-vitiating narcotic in all its forms! Banish it, and in a few days you will get habituated to do with-out it, and in a few months you will be a newly-organized person. By all the value you place upon yourself-by all the solemnity of the laws of your being-by all the authority of God's commands to do your-self no harm, we beseech you to break from it at once, and let it be forever.
GEO. TRASK.
GEN. BUTLER, ON THE STARVATION OF PRISONERS.
At the celebration of the 4th at Lowell, Gen. B. F. Butler being called to respond to the toast, Our Volunteers," said:
The Volunteers of the United States Army-but another form of words for the Army of the United States, as, with the exception of a handful, all the army were volunteers.
How they have fought! What battle-fields have been rendered illustrious by their valor! What rights have been preserved by their constancy! What benefits to mankind by their success! How freedom to all men has been secured as a result of their labors! The pen of history has preserved a record enduring forever.
It is fit, on this birthday of the nation whose very existence is preserved by their heroic patriotism, in our joyous commemoration, that we should honor them for their services, and mingle our congratulations with theirs in praise upon the return of peace. 
Would that they were all here to meet us, and to receive our greeting! But, alas! in every home by the mountain side, in the fertile valley, or on the smiling plain, as in the crowded city, there is a vacant chair which a much loved brother, a fondly endeared husband, a revered father for whose coming orphans have hoped, and, wearily watching, wept, or a son vainly waited for with the yearnings of parental affection, shall never again fill. 
In the far South, by the turbid river, in the sands of the Carolinas, or on plains and amid the Wilderness of Virginia, there are little mounds, fast disappearing under the tooth of time, which contain all that is left, save our memories, to weeping sister, wile, children, bereaved mother or country, of our gallant, loyal, devoted soldiers who have died that the nation might live, even so long as to celebrate as a people the return of this day with its memories of patriotism and glory.
Would to God that the graves of these loved ones were all we have to mourn! Death on the battle-field, or to those who fall by disease even in the path of duty, has its solace where the cause sanctifies and hallows it as the inevitable result of a struggle for Liberty and Law. But look once again. On a sandy plain in the midst of the pine forest, bounded by a murky swamp, there is a pit filled with dead men's bones, unnumbered, unnoted, uncounted, unrecorded, unnoticed, without sepulture or the sacred rites of burial. By thousands, not dead by the bullet, nor stricken by disease from the hand of God-starved to death with the cruel torture of hunger, amid such plenty that an immense army, with its cattle and horses, could subsist on the surplus provision of the country in a rapid march past Andersonville-or murdered with frost under the shadow of the dark pines, which sang sad requiems to their memories as the winter winds moaned through the branches, whose very sighing called up in frenzy the happy homes and warm tieartbshearths of the North to the wandering minds of the dying martyrs.
Shall we do nothing but mourn and mingle our tears with the sorrow-bowed ones of their homes, for these our heroes, loved and lost? Is there no responsibility for these so great wrongs? Are idle grief and useless sorrow all the solace that a grateful country and powerful people can give to the sorrowing sister, widowed wife and mourning mother for the brother, husband, son, thus foully, cruelly, basely murdered, with the set purpose to deprive that country of the service of its soldiers?
Shall we take to our hearts and to our social and political fellowship the cruel jailors who did these, wholesale murders by famine and cold on our brothers and sons, helpless prisoners of war, entitled to food and warmth by every law, municipal or national, human or divine? Not in vengeance, but in mercy; not in retaliation, but in precaution; not in revenge, but in prevention, that this thing may never be done again among civilized men, as it never has been done before by a savage people, shall these butchers be brought to condign punishment.
Who in all the world, philanthropist or politician, editor or historian, soldier or civilian, has sent up or will send up a petition, that the keepers of the murder-pens, Libby, Belle Isle, Millen and Andersonville, shall be pardoned? The undried tears of the sister of every massacred soldier demand their execution. The forlorn woe of each lonely widow cries for it. Heaven's justice, the silent agony of every bereaved mother mutely pleads that her son's murderer shall not blast her sight in life. All nature and nature's God by his holy law has decreed that the brother's murderer shall not live. Who, then, shall stay the hand of justice? Who shall stand between these men and the penalty of the law? There is none-not one.
But, hold! Is there no answer for these prejudged criminals? Have they no plea to put in when so summarily arraigned at your bar? Hear them in mercy, and deal with them in justice. Hear them as they answer for their "lives: We, the jailors of Andersonville, Libby and Belle Isle, were but inferior military officers. We did but carry out the orders of our superiors. If we had refused to do their bidding, we should have been court-martialed and hanged. We were but the hands to do what the heads willed. We but followed out the policy of Jefferson Davis, the President of the Confederate States, to deplete by starvation the armies of the United States, and only executed the orders of Robert E. Lee, Commander-in-Chief of our armies, to prevent reinforcements coming to you, our enemies, by exchange of prisoners. Why hang; us, and subscribe $60,000 in New York as a testimonial to him? What kind of justice in your Government is it to shut us up in prison for obeying his orders, and permit him to retire to his home in -Virginia, like another Cincinnatus, returning not from serving but ruining his country ? ? Why visit all your punishment upon us? We are poor illiterate men-mere jailors. We were not educated at the people's expense at West Point, as were President Davis and Gen. Lee. We have never sworn fealty to your flag in solemn service. We did not hold, at the beginning of the war, high offices, civil or mil-
<c04>
itary, in the Senate and army of the United States. If we were guilty of the death of your soldiers at Andersonville as subordinates, were they not equally guilty as superiors? Besides, did they not bring on the war by their action in the Senate and army, and without them and such as they, would the war ever have been begun or carried on at all? Are they not guilty, then, of the death of all your brothers, sons, husbands and fathers on every battle-field, in every hospital, and in every prison? If you-punish not them and such as they, why punish us?"
And their questions are hard to answer. 
These men, does not justice say, ought not to be hanged-at least alone.
If, then, we believe that our men were murdered at Andersonville ; if we have not put forth a solemn falsehood to the world in this behalf against the South; if treason aggravated by murders most foul and numberless is worthy of death ; if our sons and brothers are dear to us; if their Wood has not been shed in vain; if our country, for whose safety so many good and brave men have been offered up, is worth the sacrifice of the lives of great criminals-then let these leaders (as representative men) be executed, as a warning and example that all men may understand hereafter that he who aims a blow at the life of his country shall surely die.
I give you, therefore, Justice and Mercy-both equal attributes of the Deity.
ROEBUCK'S MISTAKE.
John Arthur Roebuck, M. P. from Sheffield, now 64 years old, is one of those ex-Reformers, (like the late Sir Francis Burdett and the remaining Henry Lord Brougham,) who, having grown rich and timorous, turn their backs on themselves, and balance the reluctant homage they are still obliged to pay to certain ancient professions and watchwords of liberalism by a deadly, unceasing war upon all new ideas and measures of reform. Roebuck, like Brougham, has been our persistent enemy throughout our late struggle, and is now annoyed at our triumph, but (unlike Brougham) still shows his teeth at us, and honestly avows that he wished this country broken up because he hope its fragments would be less powerful and better behaved" than the Union. This is candid, and we thank him for it. But he proceeds to excuse his sympathy with the side of slavery in our contest as follows:-
"But then it is said that the North-the Federals, as they then called themselves-were the enemies of slavery, and the South the friends of slavery. My answer was, The Federals are the foes of slavery; but there is one thing they hate more than slavery itself, and that is the black slaves.' Wherever you find a black person in the Northern cities of America, he is most wretchedly treated; he is treated worse than you would treat a dog, and you have poisoned a great number of them in Sheffield. At this moment, there are fights constantly taking place in Washington and other cities, because the poor black man wishes to ride in an omnibus. I said the people who would do that are not the friends of the black man. I said, I am his friend; I believe that if you had allowed them to go on quietly, they would have been liberated, care fully, wisely, for the Americans and for the negro; and he would not have been as he is now a wretched, miserable, starred creature, ill-treated on all sides, buffetted and thumped, cruelly maltreated, and miserable. There is my defence about America."
Now, Mr. Roebuck cannot be innocently ignorant of the truth, that the American abusers of the blacks are all but universally Copperhead, ands, open or secret sympathizer with the Slaveholders' Rebellion. We personally know hundreds who are down on the nigger," as they phrase it; but not one of these was heartily devoted to the Union cause in our late struggle, while a majority of them were just as disloyal as they could be, and keep out of Fort Lafayette. The anti-draft rioters in our city, who burned the Colored Orphan Asylum two years since, and hunted poor negro women and children out of their homes and often into their graves, offered $500 for the sight of a Black Republican," and assailed the Tribune office as malignantly, as persistently, but not quite so successfully, as if it had been a negro-hut Search from Maine to Texas, and where-ever you find an abuser of negroes, no matter if in our National uniform, you have one who hoped for the triumph of the Confederacy, either through Disunion outright and permanent, or a reconstruction " which should make the slavery of blacks a fundamental law of our whole country, and the Slave Power its omnipotent and perpetual dictator. These are. facts which Mr. Roebuck need not cross the Atlantic to learn, and they brand his attack upon us with essential and inexcusable falsehood.-N. Y. Tribune.
STATE POLITICS.
Since the State Committees of the two political parties in this State have called their respective Conventions for the nomination of candidates for State officers, the question who shall be the candidates is exciting considerable interest. It is wellwell understood that our present excellent Chief Magistrate, Gov. Andrew, will not again be a candidate, but that with the close of the present year he will retire from the position which he has filled with unsurpassed ability and devotion to the best interestsinterests of the State, and with honor alike to himself and to the Commonwealth. His record is one of which any man might well be proud, and as he retires from the Executive Chair, he will carry with him the highest respect and earnest gratitude of the vast majority of the people of Massachusetts, who will never forget how nobly he has maintained the honor of the State in all the emergencies through which we have passed during the war. When the history of this eventful struggle shall be written, there are but few men in the nation whose names will occupy a brighter page than that of 
JOHN A. ANDREW.
Gov. Andrew having declined to be a candidate for reelection, it will be for the Convention which meets on the 14th of September to designate his successor; and the current of public feeling, so far as it has been expressed, points unmistakably and with most remarkable unanimity in one direction, and that is in favor of the nomination of Hon. ALEXANDER H. BULLOCK, of Worcester-a gentleman (to use the language of another) " of superior ability, of large legislative and business experience, of extensive acquaintanceship with men and things, of integrity, fairness and impartiality, of scholarship and eloquence which will enable him (and that is a good deal) to hear up the old reputation of Massachusetts for dignity and etiquette, of sympathy with progressive ideas, and of patriotism now to be invoked as strongly as during the bloody days of the rebellion. Two years ago, when it was intimated that" Gov. Andrew might retire, the almost universal sentiment of the Republicans of the State centered upon Mr. Bullock as his successor, and that sentiment has grown stronger each year since. In nominating him, as it surely will, the Convention will but give expression to the wishes of the great majority of the voters in the State, who will most heartily and enthusiastically ratify its action at the polls in November. Should his life and health be spared, he will be the next Governor of Massachusetts, and his administration will be one which will add lustre to the fair fame of our noble old Commonwealth. This much at least it is safe to predict.
Boston Journal.
THE BLACKS IN BARBADOES.
A Massachusetts lawyer who spent the last winter at Barbados, writes thus of the blacks (thirty years free) to the Boston Daily Advertiser:
" Many have acquired by their industry sufficient property to rank them among the wealthiest planters and traders in the islands where they reside; and considering success in business a criterion of ability, they may be regarded as competent business men. lito The children of some of the wealthy negroes have been thoroughly educated in England or Scotland ; and some whom I met with were among the most cultivated persons I have ever known. As mechanics and artisans, they are altogether indispensable.
The whites were never accustomed to heavy manual labor, and the lighter and more delicate work was soon usurped by the colored men, when once al liberty to compete on even terms. Their position as freeholders gives all the privileges as electors in parish and colonial meetings, and the parochial and general councils and legislatures have their share of colored representatives. 
It is not necessary to say that they outshine their white neighbors in debate and legislation, in order to prove their ability, for such is very seldom the case; but it is certainly true that their interests are so well represented as to secure them from open or covert encroachments on the part of the whites.
In the liberal professions, also, they have already
<c05>
assumed and evinced their ability to maintain a respectable position
Colored clergymen, lawyers and physicians attend to the spiritual, legal and physical wants of the community, not, as might be supposed, dispensing alone to the people of their own color, but to people in general who need  their professional services. 
I was much struck, in attending the Court one day, Jwith the argument of a black lawyer of unmixed African descent. The case was under the penal clause of the English Bankrupt law, and was conducted by the Crown. officers for the prosecution. I heard the arguments to the jurisdiction of the Court, and am bound to acknowledge that, in point of cleverness and legal astuteness, the black counsel clearly led Mr. Attorney General; while for sophistry and cunning adroitness he was far in advance of his opponent.
On "inquiry, I ascertained that the black lawyer was a poor boy, had worked, his way to England before the mast to get an education, and had there, with the assistance of Lord John Russell and some other persons, succeeded in acquiring a sound academic and legal education.
Black magistrates preside-over  the inferior courts, black men are editors of newspapers, and to a greater or less degree have entered into every branch of industry, and every avenue of business, and have already been able to compete, with a good degree of success, with the whites."
THE SOUTHERN FREEDMAN
The idea that it would not be safe to entrust the Southern freed man with a ballot because he would have more influence exerted upon him by his old rebel master than by any one else, and thus be his tool at the ballot-box in the future, as he has been his slave in the past, is the veriest moonshine. Sambo has not been fooled into fighting for his old master-not much! He has never made the blunder of mistaking his true friends, as have hundreds of thousands in the ranks of the Northern Democracy. Besides, who opposes most vehemently the exercise of the freedman's right to vote, both North and South ? ? Who but the real anti-democrats, the baffled oligarchs in the South, who fear the freedman's ballot, and your ingrained Copper head of the North, who sneers at the negro because he has an intuitive conviction that little as he knows, he knows more than to vote for men who now seek to grasp the ballot to finish out what their short! swords failed to accomplish?
Further, the idea of the freedman's dependence on his old master for food and employment is predicated on a continuance o( the large plantation system. The abolition of slavery has given this system a staggering blow, and henceforth we hope to see those huge plantations cut up and divided into small farms, so that each man shall, if he chooses, be his own employer, and therefore be dependent on nobody for a boss, least of all upon one that thinks he owns the laborer's ballot. Small farms well tilled, and common-school houses well filled, go together. Both are essential to the regeneration of the South.-Fond du Lac Cornier.Courier.
GENERAL MEADE IN BOSTON.
We are glad to observe that the Bostonians have shown a disposition to honor prominent Philadelphians. At their recent Harvard College Commencement and Commemoration Exercises, the leading military guest was Major General George G. Meade, upon whom the degree of LL.D. was conferred. On his arrival in Boston, he was officially received at Faneuil Hall by Mayor Lincoln, and after a speech of welcome, to which an appro-priate response was made, our gifted townsman, George H. Boker, Esq., read what a Boston 
exchange characterizes as  a fine poem, of some ! twenty-five minutes in length, entitledOur Heroic Themes,' wherein was briefly but grandly sung the story of the war, and the dignity of a nation rising to undo its own wrong-doing."
After its conclusion, the following simple but affecting incident occurred. It does honor to the head and heart of the hero of Gettysburg:-
" The citizens passed in nearly a continuous stream until after two o'clock, when a wounded soldier came up to the General, and, after speaking with him a short time, Gen. Meade advanced and spoke as follows:-
My good friends, I thank you for your kindness in coming up here to greet me, but, as I have other engagements, I can remain no longer. I am no speech-maker, but there is a man here two or three, perhaps-who would put words into any man's mouth, who would make any man eloquent. I wish to show this one to you. Here is a poor fellow who has lost his leg, and is incapacitated for active labor for life. This man must be taken care of. All the noble men who have, under the Providence of God, so suffered, I want taken care of. Every one must devote his energies and abilities to relieving the wants of these men. If they are intelligent and capable, let them hold offices; but if they are not educated, see to it that they do not suffer. I, who have seen so many of these disabled men, shudder to tell you how many there are you will have to support. But I urge you to the extent of your ability to take care of the wounded, the orphans and the widows; and may God in his mercy bless you as you do so.'
"He then retired amid great cheering, and the assembly dispersed."
In the religious services which concluded the Commemoration, Rev. Phillips Brooks, of this city, was selected to read the prayer.
Pennsylvania has always shown a warm appreciation of the genius of Massachusetts, and we are glad to observe a reciprocal disposition in the Old Bay Slate.-Philadelphia Press.
MURDER NO CRIME.
The acquittal of Miss Harris, and the popular applause at the verdict, are sad proofs of the morbid state of the public mind. She committed a deliberate murder. The testimony was conclusive that it was planned and executed, not in hot blood, when smarting under an immediate sense of wrong, but calmly, with a stern purpose of revenge. 
There was no proof of insanity; the attempt to establish this line of defence was a complete failure. There was, indeed, a moral insanity, anger at the humiliation of being deserted, and a brooding over the wrong received or imagined till the soul was goaded to seek reparation in murder.
Nor was any wrong inflicted which could be magnified into justification of the crime. There was no loss of character or of honor; no beguilement into sin; no corruption of virtue by a promise of marriage. There were lover-like attentions, fond words spoken-solemn promises, perhaps, made; but the only crime- alleged-the attempt to inveigle into a house of ill-fame-was not proved, but contradicted by a witness whose veracity was unquestioned.
But this criminal, guilty of willful murder, in cool blood, without aggravated cause, has been acquitted -simply because she is a woman. The result is a declaration that a woman may commit murder with impunity, if she pleads wounded affections in defence. Such an outrage on justice is a caricature of American courtesy to the weaker sex. Christian Watchman.
A HUMAN MONSTER.
A Richmond correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer says:
There walks the streets of Richmond, to-day, a creature having the outward semblance of a man. He walks erect on two legs ; has the usual complement of human limbs and features, yet his humanity is doubtful. This brute was a negro trader, (thank God, I can say was,) and Mrs. Stowe's world-infamous Legree was an angel of justice and mercy compared to him. He kept a den on Franklin street, (thank God for the past tense again,) and some of his cruelties are coming to light. Brutally and unmercifully whipping the unfortunates in his power was the least of his enormities. He hastaken negroes from the whipping-post, and poured molten sealing-wax into the gaping wounds made by the lash. He has stripped men and 'women, and laid them on their backs in a room, and amused himself by walking upon them. He has tied naked men under the hydrant, and allowed the water to run upon them for hours-an exquisite torture, thought to have died with the Inquisition, He has forced women a thousand times to the commission of unmentionable crimes. He has taken children by the heels, and beat their heads upon the floor. There is no well-authenticated case of murder compared with these things. Under the old regime this man did these things. Jeff. Davis sat in state four blocks from the spot where these outrages were perpetrated, and he and his government and the civilization" underlying both need no further comment.
<c06>
DEATH OF ARTHUR TAPPAN.
The venerable, Christian philanthropists, whose name has been, at one time, a word of power to all who love Christ s cause, and, at another, the song of the negro-haters throughout the country, as the representative of justice and mercy to the oppressed, has been gathered to his fathers in peace and honor at the ripe age of four score. Mr. Tappan died at New Haven on Sunday, July 28, and was buried on Tuesday in the cemetery of that place. Reserving for another occasion the -fuller account which we hope to give of his life, and the services he rendered to his generation and to the cause of Christ in the world, we now only express the first emotions that arise at the event when we say that this world has parted with one of the truest Christians it ever knew. Sincerity as pure as crystal, and integrity as true as the beams of the morning, were the leading train of his character.What he said, he believed; and what he saw to be right, he did. Those who differed from him most widely, and those who were most displeased by his action, felt and confessed that he was conscientious in his opinions, and honest in his conduct, to a degree never surpassed.There is, probably, no man living whose induence upon the destinies of the country is equal to his. Our great system of benevolent institutions owes its expansion and power ,, in aa great degree, to his influence.induence. His example inspired the merchants of New York with the principle of enlarged benevolence, leading them to give their hundreds, and thousands, and tens of thousands where before they were accustomed to think it a great matter if they gave their, tens or fifties. His wise counsels, and energetic ,determination, and munificent donation of five or six thousand dollars in 1825, decided the formation and destiny of the American Tract Society, and give it the strong and steady career on which it has advanced for so many years. 
His thoughtful mind planned the great enterprise of the American Bible Society ,, of giving a Bible to every family in the United States, and his pledges of ten thousand dollars rendered it impossible but that the work should be undertaken-and done. Many others might be named of the great social movements of the last forty years, which owed their being or their powers to his comprehensiveness of vision,and sagacity of thoughtout, or largeness of liberality. Hardly and one can be named which did not become what it was through his agency and influence. It was a large heart, gifted with the most extensive foresight,guiding a singurly effective will.
In the slavery agitation, its beginning ,its extent, its power, its results, it may be said without a question, that Arthur Tappan was the pivotal center of the whole movement. He supported the Colonization Society for some years, because he believed it would aid in the overthrow of slavery, and only abandoned it when he became fully convinced that it was found and was maganed mainly in the interest of slavery, and for the purpose of strenghing the system by removing its chief dangers. His decision and generosity released Mr. Garrison from his imprisonment at Baltimore, and placed him in a 
position to commence the publication of the Liberator. The formation of the Anti-Slavery Society in New York, to be guided by those principles of religion and 
patriotism to which his own soul held glad allegiance ,hanged, upon him, both for its conception and execution. For years his contribution to its treasury were its main reliance amounting for successive years to at least one-fourth of its yearly income. His generous response at that very juncture saved the Liberator from pending and instant suppression. And, in addition, he gave money , and stirred up men to effort , right and left , to an extent which no early registry has recorded. In 
the darkest hours of mobs , and obloquy, and threatened assassination, he never quailed nor changed his course, nor doubted as to duties or results , but pressed right on, with steady step, toward the end which he was sure must come. For seven years he was the hings on which a great nation turned to its new destiny. And he never let go, nor relaxed his energy, until he had seen the country so thoroughly aroused and so far permeated in all its ranks with the anti-slavery spirit so as to make the final issue no longer doubtful, except as a question of time. He has been graciously permitted to remain among us 
until the great abomination has received its death-blow, and then departed in peace, to enter into the joy of his Lord. Well done, good and faithful servant! Thou has been faithful above many; be thou ruler over higher interestsin interests in a world more 
exalted!-N. Y. Independent.
Mr. ARTHUR TAPPAN died in New Haven on Sunday last, at the age of eighty. He was a native of Northampton, Mass., and, together with his brothers, John, Charles, Lewis and Benjamin, (formerly U. S. Senator from Ohio,) has been well 
known in this and other communities. The family to which he belonged was a large one; and all of them felt in their training the influence of the maternal head of it,-a lady of strong character, amiable disposition, winning manners, great tact, and consistent piety according to her cherished 
belief. Arthur Tappen was at one time among the most active, enterprising and successful merchants of New York. He met with reverse, and never recovered the fortune he lost. It is some years since he retired from business , and took up his residence in New Haven, Conn.
Mr. Tappan very early identified himself with the Garrisonian abolitionists-as they have been called. This fact brought upon him unpopularity in certain quarters, and some persection. 
He was the subject of obloquy and gross misrepresentation; abused by partisan malignity and misunderstood by polictical and 
social prejudice. It was assumed that he was a men of one idea," and in the entirement of that, a blind, reckless and passionate fanatic. Nothing could be further from the truth. He was cool and clear-headed, and governed by 
honest convictions and firm principles. He did his own thinking; and in some respects, this led him to independent action, outside the usages of the domination to which he belonged. It is within our knowledge ,, that when he was supposed to be entirely engrossed 
with anti-slavery projects, he used to employ his Sunday afternoons in visiting and relieving the poor of the city. Indeed , there was no benevolent work or religious purpose which commended itself to his judgement that he did not aid with his exective ability and his liberal hand. His private charater and personal habits were without reproach.
He remained here long enough to see the slanders cast upon him by unjust and reckless party spirit die out of themselves ; long enough to live down the malicious lies and  abuse 
heaped upon his name; and long enough to see the cause he was among the first to embrace and maintain with unwearied devotion fully triumpt It can easily be delievered, that 
when the summons came to the man of fourscore, it found him ready to depart.-Boston Traveler.
Mr. Tappan retired from business some years ago, but he was long known as one of our most active, and for many years, most successful merchants. He acquired at one time a large fortune, much of which he lost when too old to enter the arena again with younger men. But well-known as a he was his great as a merchant, he was far more
widely known for his great benevolence, and for the
generous zeal with which he always advocated and supported any movement for the benefit of the his fellow-men. He was one of the
early Abolitionists, and cheerfully took a large share 
of the obloquy and persection which were visited
upon that despised class in its darkest days. When Garrison was imprisoned in Baltimore for an article in his paper upon the Domestic Slave, Trade, Mr. Tappan paid the fine and released him from jail, and his name, from that time forward, was as notorious and almost as much hated at the south as Garrison's. Like most of the class to which he was known to be long , his whole 
life gave the lie to the assertion that the Abolitionists weremen of one ideas", for there was no charitable work or copious purpose to which he did not give the benefit of his great exective ability and the support of his hearty and untiring devotions. Nor did old age cool his ardor. To the end of his days , his interest in good works never flagged , and for him certainly awaits, the award-"well done,
good and faithful servant Mr. Tappan was in the eighteen year of his age.-N. Y. Tribune.
EASTERN AND WESTERN VISITORS TO NIAGARA FALLS. There is 
considerable of an influx of Eastern and Western pleasure -seekers at Niagara this summer. The removal of the passport obstruction has oped the way for western travellers via Canada, and the great Western road, which formely run only one train., with a very few passengers , now runs three 
daily, and every on crowled. From the East, the 
trains over the New York Central road are also crowded, and as a consequence, the hotels at the Falls 
are filled. One of the great attraction to the visitors at the catract has been the frequent performances of a tight
rope artist known as Harry Leslie. Bloodie
Blondin is nowhere in comparsion with his daring feats. he
has crossed the rapids on a rope in the midest of rain storms, gales and fogs, and has on several occasion crossed with his hands and legs bound by chain .charter. He has enacted drucken scences over the federal 
abyss, staggering , reeling , &c., without the least apparent regard for 
his life, and often runs out upon the guy-ropes without pole or balance, and throws himself at full length upon his back. He is without doubt Blondin's superior in recklessness, and that is what the astonished witeness of his wonderful fears most applaud. He has a portion of ground feacel of on <illegible> on either side of the river, within which enclosure spectors are admitted for twenty -five cents a head.
He is said to have made quite a fortune during the season.
A public-spirited gentleman of Boston had presented a statue of Alexander Hamilton to the city.It is to be located on Commonwealth Avenue. It is of white 
granite , nine and one-half feet high, with a total elevation of twenty feet.
