THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLERS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 17 BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1635.
Refuge of Oppression.
<C01>
DISUNIONISM ATTEMPTING DISGUISE,
We are aware that some persons are inclined to look leniently on the great crime of the radical abolitionists, which has done so much to plunge the nation into its present state of war, because some of the same abolitionists, although confessing their Disunionism in year past, profess to be Unionists now, and about loudly for the Union they have endeavored to destroy.  Does not the first moment of calm reflection show that their present professed Unionism is but a concealment of the still lurking enmity to the national Constitution?  If it dose not, if any abolitionists believes himself maligned by the accusation of present disunion sentiments, it is easy to settle the question of his sincerity at once by a test question. Are you for the Union, the old Union of 1787, or do you mean to say you are for a Union, such a Union as you would like to see made out of what you regard as the wreck of the old Union?
No candid, outspoken abolitionist will take the least offence at our distinct charge, that he and those who think with him are not for the Union which Washington and his companions founded. We have, lying before us, abundant evidence of this, in the avowals of the anti-slavery leaders. No one has forgotten how distinctly it was asserted by one of their principal organs, that to be bound to the South by the bonds of the old Union was an idea as loathsome as the fate of the Roman criminal bound to the corpse of his victim.  Others have boldly and frankly stated their views in the same way, and are frankly stated their views in the same way, and are willing to take the responsibility of them.
But there are different kinds of men among them. Some are fearless advocates of the logical necessities growing out of their fanatical doctrines, while others are wily, insidious, and deceitful, professing one form of doctrine, but believing and working secretly for another. The recent course of the abolition orator Wendell Phillips has brought a greater disgrace on himself than any of his former bold utterances against the government. He has lost the respect of his abolitionists allies, who see through the flimsy veil with which be covers up his real sentiments, and who say that be is afraid to utter the bold truths which they so freely indulge in. In point of fact, they regard his professions of Unionism as rank cowardice and a deunion of the old abolition disunion principles. Parker Pillsbury, the former companion of Philips or the platform, thus stated his views of the war, in the abolition Convention at Albany, February 7th and 8th:
"I do not wish to see this government prolonged another day in its present form. On the contrary, I have been for twenty years attempting to overthrow the present dynasty. If I do not misjudge the Constitution, whatever may been its real character, it was never so much an engine of cruelty and crime as it is the present hour. It seems to me the present Administration is, on the one hand, the weakest and on the other, the wickedest we ever had.
I cannot join in the congratulation I so often hear as to the hopefulness of the signs of the times. I do not want to see hopefulness. I am not rejoiced <illegible> of victory to the Northern arms. I would far rather see defeat (!) I rejoice in defeat and disaster rather than in victory, because I do not believe the North is in may attend its arms, I think the abolitionists fail sufficiently to recognize one great fact, and that is the persistent, determined, God-defying, Heaven-provoking impenitence of the North. Holding these opinions, I do not desire success to the Northern army. I say, let us have war; let us have all its disasters and defeats, if the condition of the save is not to be changed."
This is a very different sort of thing from the new professions of Phillips; of adhesion to the Union cause, and his sneers at McClellan for not fighting sooner.  Another of the old allies of Phillips, and a co-worker in the disunionism of the last nineteen year,(which that distinguished apostle of secession on now confesses, but recants,) Stephen S Foster, in a convention at Boston, not long since, said:-
"I would not support the government in its present position. I have endeavored to dissuade every young man I could from enlisting, telling them that they were going to fight for slavery."
In contrast with these and a host of similar utterances, place the late remarks of Wendell Phillips in which be confessed to long disunionism, but declared that he was now for Union, because he thought it would be a Union such as the could like, and we perceive the thin pretence of this newly evolved loyalty.  But thin as it is, it is dangerous, since it is used as the means of obtaining in loyal circles and loyal cities a hearing for the pestilential doctrines which have cursed the land. Sly and sharp political abolitionists say, "Oh, he is a Union man now, and no one can complain of him. He repents, he recants, he wishes to do his duty." Nonsense, or deceit, every word of it. He repents nothing, and recants nothing.
The only change is this, that there was a time when he was a bold, honest, avowed Union hater; when he was a curious, and at the same time an exciting thing, to listen to one of his fierce and polished speeches, directed at his favorite resolution which he was always offering, "that the only exodus of the slave is over the ruins of the American Constitution." But now he says that he loves the Constitution! Listen to his professions of affection, and estimate his honesty of purpose by the context:
"Now, I love the Constitution, though my friend (Mr. Pierpont,) who sits beside me has heard me curse it a hundred times, and I shall again if it does not mean justice. I have labored nineteen years to take nineteen States out of the. Union, and if I have spent any nineteen years to the satisfaction of my Puritan conscience, it was those nineteen years."
We have listened often to the rounded periods the graceful sentences with which he used to urge his hostile sentiments on his audiences. Probably most of our readers recollect when he was interrupted in the New York Tabernacle in such a speech, by men who thought the sentiments somewhat seditious, and how Captain Rynders stood by him, and promised him protection so long as he remained loyal. That was regarded by some of our neighbor as a great outrage on the right of free speech. Perhaps if they could be induced to refer to the subject at all, they would now profess a different view of it. Nevertheless, the times have changed with Mr. Phillips. He has ceased to be a frank, fearless enemy of the Union and has taken to the insidious line of the plotter professing love for the Union, for the sake of dealing it the most deadly blows. He reconciles the matter with his own conscience, doubtless, by saying to himself that he goes for a Union, such as he thinks it ought to be. But when we, or any other loyal men, speak of the Union, we speak of the American Union, known of all men, the Union that Washington founded, the Union that has blessed the world with the most beneficent government known to man,
<c02>
the Union that made North and South rich, prosperous and happy, until Northern and Southern madness united against Northern and Southern conservative, constitutional, Union-loving sentiments, and brought about this terrible result which we now experience. That Union, we presume, Mr. Phillips will not say be desires.
It is plain and open work, when we find consistent abolitionists like Foster and Pillsbury, to meet them and oppose them. But when the wily leaders who have hatred to the slaveholder at heart above all other motives, disguise themselves in the garb of Unionists, profess suddenly to be in favor of compensatory schemes for removing slavery, abjure their own life-long principles, yet teach their old doctrines in their new livery, and use the cloak of patriotism to further their aims against the Constitution and the Union, they cease to have any claim to respect as sincere, conscientious men, although they become more dangerous in the community than ever before. —New York Journal of Commerce.

selections.
EMANCIPATION IN WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON, April 13, 1862.
Let the friends of Justice and National Honor breathe freer now, for the act giving liberty to 3.000 slaves has received Congressional sanction. Yet, let them not be entirely joyful, for much of its saving power is gone, on account of the Executive seal being so long withheld. For this be the Senate responsible, in whose hands the bill still lingers.
To-day has been a holiday, vocal with praises and hallelujahs from the bond who look toward tomorrow with hope; yet has it been also a sad day, full of tears and aching hearts, and terrible partings forever, because the indolent Senate—may 1 not say the recreant Senate?—did not hold a session yesterday, and finish the good work they began, by sending the law to the President, and asking him to give it life on the anniversary of Sumter. And so the half-born blessing, which might have sprung defiantly to its feet, and carried balm to a thousand hearts and homes, is nothing but dead parchment on the Senatorial table. Its voice should have rung through this Capital like a trumpet-blast yesterday; but I suppose the clerk's dainty fingers tucked the charter under the pink-tape girth on Friday night, as composedly as if human hopes and human lives were not bound up in it.
For. it must be understood, during the three days and nights that elapse before it can be approved and proclaimed, the red-handed kidnappers are driving their business with energy. The number to whom the boon of freedom will finally come is diminishing every hour. The hirelings of slavery are seeking most assiduously for the wretched beings whom liberty is so near, in parlors and kitchens and garrets, in hotels and streets, in alleys and by-places where they flee for refuge, and are dragging them thence, and carrying them into Maryland. Much of the infernal work is done in the night; and so energetically is the trade prosecuted that nearly all the slaves who will bring more than the stipulation in the bill ($300) will be taken away before it becomes a law. The Slave Power, though weakened and hampered by the war, seems to have lost none of its financial sagacity; it will make, once more, the same "good bargain" that has always distinguished its transactions, and will cheat the Government as usual. The slaves who will remain to be freed on Tuesday, judging from their present unwilling exodus, would not bring an average of $200, if sold at the auction-block in Maryland. Yet is the bargain a good one, though the shambles' value is against us; for no gold can be an equivalent for freedom, and national self-respect is forever without price.
In anticipation of the liberty-day that seems so near to them, the slaves all over the city, and the free negroes, who are connected with them by the ties of kindred and sympathy, are dressed in their best to-day, (many of them in their seedy best, to be sure,) and are assembled to celebrate this Sabbath as a day of praise and thanksgiving. I have talked with several "candidates" this evening, from whom 1 gather that this "Thanksgiving Day" has been kept joyously in nearly all of their seventeen churches. There seems to have been preconcert among them, and the afternoon was devoted to love-feasts.
I attended the Bethel Church, near the Capitol, this morning. The black clergyman preached a very good sermon from the text, "If God be for us, who can be against us? "to an audience of 200 or 300 of his own people.
He spoke of the deliverance of Moses and the children of Israel from bondage; and by a natural transition, referred to the condition of the slaves in America, and especially in this District. He thanked the Lord most fervently that he had been permitted to live to see this day; 43 years ago he was tarred and feathered in Washington because he would preach the Lord Jesus as he understood it; "but now," shouted the sable speaker, "let Ethiopia lift up her hands to God, for a great good is coming out of this war!—a good for me, for us, and for our people whom every nation has set its heel upon!" His audience was boisterously joyous, from the beginning to the end of the discourse. Of course, the expressions and demonstrations were extravagant— true to the quick fancy and fervent hearts of the race. Some rubbed their hands in glee, some laughed  outright, some leaped up in   the air or twisted themselves into  grotesque attitudes, as  if their joy was too intense to be entertained at a staid perpendicular: many shouted "Glory to God!" "Hallelujah!" "Amen!" "The blessed day has come! "&c; while nearly all were in tears. When the speaker thanked the Lord that the slaves were to be free, the jubilee became utterly indescribable. What a Babel of triumphant voices! An old "aunt," off in the right-hand upper corner, shouted and wept persistently. Probably she had reason for it. I thought—perhaps two or three of them, helpless, and in the hands of the kidnappers. "Glory to God!" said the preacher, solemnly and slowly. "Glory to Lovejoy!" yelled a voice at the right, that belonged to a strongly-built mulatto. "No, "commanded the speaker instantly, "I tell you glory to God!" for he seemed determined from the first word that God should have the undivided praise, refusing to give a moiety to the President or Congress. A pair of hands clenched spasmodically the top of the seat in which 1 was sitting. I looked back, and the man was hopping up and down, as if he had just caught a glimpse of heaven, and presently interrupted the speaker by trying to sing, "l am bound for the land of Canaan." His face bore a deep scar across the nose, and tears were streaming from the long furrows of his cheeks. He bad seen 30 years, perhaps, and the light gray rags that be gathered about him told that he bad "come out of the house of bondage." Most of the hearers were partly white; many were mulattoes. quadroons, octoroons—and one or two women, I imagined, would attract
<c03>
attention, for their good looks, in Broadway. But what a day of sunshine it was to the stricken souls! They seemed to think little of the kidnapper; they were full of hope, and looked ahead. Such a chorus of exultation I never heard before; such joyful gestures I never beheld—it was a spectacle for men and angels. God grant that the hour of deliverance be near! W. A. C.
—Cor. N. Y. Tribune.

SLAVERY AND THE AMERCIAN CRISIS.
The very interesting character of the lecture lately delivered by Mr. George Thompson in St. Hilda's Hall, and the intimate connection of the subject, as bearing upon the present momentous struggle in America, will, we fully believe, be sufficient apology to our readers for its occupying so large a space in our columns. The only regret we feel is our inability to give, at greater length, the course pointed out by the lecturer as the one to be adopted by America in order to secure its settlement upon a firm basis.
Mr. THOMPSON commenced by observing, that some amongst his audience might be disposed to inquire by what motives he was prompted to the delivery of addresses to the English people upon the subject of the present crisis in America. As upon this point he could "wear his heart upon his sleeve," he would say that he was actuated simply, by a desire to remove from the minds of his countrymen some of the many erroneous impressions they had received, regarding the merits of the great struggle in which the States North and South were engaged. He was, also, specially anxious to correct the misconceptions of those with whom he had aforetime labored in the anti-slavery cause, regarding the position which American Abolitionists occupied, in relation to the present civil war. Both before and since the elevation of Mr. Lincoln, he had written much, and spoken much, in behalf of the Northern party; but throughout, he had acted in entire independence of the counsel or assistance of any party, either in England or America; in his own closet his judgment had been formed, and of his own free will he had pursued his humble labors in behalf of the cause which he believed to be right. (Cheers.) Freely he had received, freely he had dispensed, the information he had been able to acquire from travel, observation, and reflection. (Cheers.) Mr. Thompson said he had received on the morning of his leaving York, a long letter addressed to him by Mr. Garrison, the apostle, leader, and champion of the Abolition movement in America. (Cheers.) He would read some extracts from that letter to show how grossly ignorant, even the best friends of the slave in this country, were, of the true situation of affairs on the other side of the Atlantic. Having concluded the extracts from the very interesting letter of his friend Mr. Garrison, the lecturer recapitulated the topics embraced in his first lecture. He had, he said, glanced at the political history of the  United States, from the period of the Declaration of Independence, to the disruption of the Union by the  Slave Oligarchy of the South; he had shown the nature of the Federal Constitution, and defined the powers of the general government and those which belonged to the States, as such; he had described how a congeries of commonwealths had merged their individual sovereignty into a common nationality, and had thereby become one people; he had pointed out the compromises in the Constitution, and the effect they had had in giving vitality, security, and extension to slavery; he had traced the rapid growth of slavery, in the multiplication of slaves and slave States; the extension of slave territory, by means of purchase, annexation, and conquest; and the violation, in the first instance, and the repeal in the second, of the Missouri Compromise;  and he had developed the progress of the Slave Power, from its recognition in the compromises of the Constitution, to its absolute ascendancy and culmination in the election of Mr. Buchanan, in 1856. He had also fully, and he trusted argumentatively and conclusively, discussed and disposed of the pretended right of the Southern States to throw off their allegiance to the Constitution. He had been requested by a gentleman present at his (Mr. Thompson's) first lecture, to say why the people of the eleven seceded States had not as full a right to revolt from the Federal Government of the United States, as the people of the thirteen colonies had to declare their independence of the parent country. Mr. Thompson said he would admit the right, if the querist would shew that the circumstances were similar; but he contended, there was no point of resemblance between the case of the British Provinces, and the case of the Rebel States. (Cheers.) The lecturer, at considerable length, analysed the Declaration of Independence, dwelling upon the list of grievances which it contained, and alluding to the loyal and peaceful means the colonists had employed to obtain redress. He spoke of the cause of the colonists as absolutely just; their sentiments as sublime; their principles as incontrovertible; and their ideas as universal and imperishable. (Cheers.) Now, said  he lecturer, turn to the Rebel States of the South  and "look upon this picture and on this," and say, as impartial men, whether in any one particular the cases are analogous. Has the South rebelled against a government which had become destructive of their right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? (Cheers.) Have the slaveholders, since they rebelled, instituted a government for themselves, based upon principles recognising those rights? Have they not declared slavery to be at once the cornerstone and cope-stone of their Republic? (Cheers.) Have they not reversed the Declaration of Independence—read the charter of human rights backwards—divided the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, and impiously asserted that God has not created men equal, but, contrariwise, unequal, and has invested the stronger race with a divine right to enslave and make merchandise of the inferior and feebler race? And do they dare to compare their revolution with that which won the admiration and warm sympathy of the good and the great in every part of the world? (Loud applause.) Have they been able to plead in justification of their treason, a long train of abuses and usurpations—a history of repeated injuries, having for objects the establishment of an absolute tyranny? (Cheers.) Have they exhibited a list of grievances like that drawn up by Jefferson, and adopted by the illustrious fathers of the Revolution? (Cheers.) Have they appealed to mankind to bear witness, that at every stage they have petitioned for redress in the most humble terms, and have been answered only by additional injuries? (Cheers.) Have they appealed to the native justice and magnanimity of their brethren in the North, and conjured them by the ties of kindred, to disavow the oppressions under which they groaned? Finally, have they—(unless in mockery and blasphemy)—have they appealed to the Supreme Judge—to Him who, from the beginning, hath peeled through the universe the terrible edict, "Whoso stealeth a man and selleth him, or if be found in his hands, he shall surely be pat to death"; have they, I say, appealed to the ever living
<c04>
God and Father of all the families of the earth, for the rectitude of their intentions, and placed their reliance upon the Divine Providence that has hurled to the dust every throne based upon the enslavement of mankind? (Great cheering.) After a rapid sketch of the rebellion, from the secession of South Carolina to the second inauguration of Jefferson Davis, the lecturer said it was with sorrow and astonishment he had witnessed the hesitancy of the anti-slavery party in England to extend their sympathy to the loyal States of America, and had listened to the censures they had visited upon the Abolitionists of America, for giving their support to the government of Mr. Lincoln. If what he had stated was correct, he thought it must be apparent, that as between the Rebel Confederacy of the South, and the Constitutional party of the North, the true friends of human liberty were bound to give their earnest sympathy and entire moral support to the upholders of the Union and the Constitution, who were contending for the great and noble principles upon which the Republic of America had been founded. (Cheers.) The triumph of the South would lead to the establishment of an empire of slaveholders, on a continent which had been the theatre of some of the most sublime contests ever witnessed in behalf of the liberties of mankind—contests in which our own ancestors had resisted unto blood the usurpations of unjust rulers—a continent, which had seen the emancipation of an enslaved race by the proclamation of the great liberator, Bolivar—a continent which, when negro slavery was abolished, would commence an era unparalleled in the history of freedom and civilization. (Cheers.) The triumph of the North would forever limit the extension of slavery—would secure the boundless regions of the far West as an inheritance for the millions of freemen who would hereafter dwell between the Atlantic  and the Pacific—would lead to the emancipation of the literature, religion, and morals of the free States from the withering and demoralizing influences of the slave States, and would inevitably eventuate in the extirpation of slavery from the soil in which it had found root for seven generations. This was a consummation most devoutly to be wished. (Cheers.) Mr. Thompson observed that in his first lecture he had no time to refer to the origin, growth, progress, and ultimate prevalence of anti-slavery sentiments in the free. States. It was the anti-slavery sentiment of the North, which gave vitality and power to the resistance offered to the aggressive designs of the Slave Power. To the spread of anti-slavery principles was owing, the extinction of successive political parties at the North, and the creation, finally, of the great Republican party, which, all but successful in 1856, had, in 1860, been strong enough to hurl the Slave Oligarchy from the throne it had usurped <illegible> had been unable to accomplish in his first address, he was desirous, in part at least, to do in his second. The performance of this part of his duty would require that he should speak largely of the character and labors of a man whose name would stand conspicuous in the future annals of America, as the name of one who had originated a movement that had issued in the redemption of an oppressed race, and the regeneration of a guilty nation. Mr. Thompson, after sketching the career of Thomas Clarkson, and pronouncing a glowing eulogy upon his character, said that the man of whom he had to speak was the Clarkson of America. His name was William Lloyd Garrison. (Cheers.) Thirty-two years ago there was not to be found in the United States a single newspaper, or society, advocating the uncompromising doctrine of immediate and unconditional emancipation. The first preacher of that doctrine was Mr. Garrison, who published the first number of a weekly paper called the Liberator, on the 1st of January, 1831, and had continued it, without the intermission of a week, from that time to the present. He had fulfilled the declaration made in his introductory address—"I will not equivocate—I will not excuse—I will not retreat a single inch—and I will be heard." (Cheers.) He had been heard. To the trumpet tones of Mr. Garrison's labors and life it was owing, that America had, after the lapse of one entire generation, been awakened into being, and bad girded itself to the work of undoing the heavy burden, and proclaiming liberty to the captive. In the spring of 1833, Mr. Garrison visited England. During the period of his stay, he and the lecturer had been almost inseparable companions and fellow-laborers. Together they had addressed public meeting together they had visited Wilberforce a few weeks before that great man's death—together they had followed the mortal remains of the negro's friend to their resting place in Westminister Abbey. To Mr. Garrison it was owing, that he (the lecturer) had relinquished his intention to go to the bar, and had become a humble missionary to America, to preach there the hated doctrines of abolition, through some of the darkest and most perilous days the cause had known. (Cheers.) He remembered, as if it were but yesterday, giving his hand to Mr. Garrison, as they stood together beneath a gas lamp in Leaden-hall Street, London, and saying to him, "I will join you in America, and together we will antagonize in behalf of your countrymen in chains." (Cheers.) I do not regret the promise I then made. What I might have been, if I had remained at home and followed the profession I was urged to adopt, I cannot say. Possibly I might have earned reputation and wealth—nay, might even have won one of the high prizes connected with the practice of the law. That shake of the hand, however, and the pledge I gave with it, determined the course of my future life, and whatever else I may have been besides, I trust I may say I have been true to the cause of the slave; true to my anti-slavery principles; and, most true, when those principles were most unpopular; and most steadfast to the slave's friends, when those friends were the most calumniated—whether in my own country or in theirs. I am somewhat poorer and somewhat older than when I first crossed the Atlantic, yet I deem all my sacrifices and labors well repaid, by the uninterrupted friendship I have been permitted to enjoy of William Lloyd Garrison, and the inestimable privilege of having had the honor of being a co-worker with him and his associates, in the days that tried men's souls—the darkest days of the martyr age in America. (Loud cheers.)
Here we must break off—adding but a single sentence. What followed from the point we have now reached, would have amply sufficed for a lecture in itself. Mr. Thompson gave a vivid description of the scenes in which he moved in the years 1834-35, when mob law was triumphant in all the free States—be depicted the conduct of Mr. Garrison—calm, hopeful, resolute, and uncompromising in the midst of every fiery trial; he spoke of the political embodiment of anti-slavery principles in the platforms of Birney, Van Buren, Hale, and Fremont; dissected the composition of the Republican political programme, and explained why it led to the secession of the Slave Power, bent on ruling or ruining the country; he minutely laid bare the Constitutional restrictions by which Mr. Lincoln and his party were fettered in their action upon the question of slavery, and concluded by expressing his earnest hope, that when the grand Federal army had found its way to 
<c05>
the heart of the Southern States, it would, in the hour of its victory—
"Shout, Liberty! and swiftly bring 
Forth from the camp the accursed thing;
Consign it to remorseless fire—
And see its latest spark expire;
Then, strew its ashes on the wind,
Nor leave an atom wreck behind."
Mr. Thompson sat down amidst enthusiastic cheers, having spoken two hours and a half—Whitby (England) Gazette, March 29th.

FOUND OUT.
As long as the Southern leaders contrived by their own bragging audacity, aided by the pliability and weakness which yielded to their imperious arrogance, to assert a false character, they were comparatively secure. They could domineer and browbeat, swagger and bluster, indulge in pompous declamations and wordy threats, and thus make a show of being formidable if not dangerous antagonists whom it might be impolitic to offend. But in an evil hour for themselves, anticipating "aid and comfort" which has not been rendered, simply because it has not been found exactly safe to do so—they attempted to put their boasted superiority into practice.
In thus rashly venturing from treasonable words to treasonable deeds, their venial madness prevented them from counting the cost. They have got a fight they never meant to have, and unmasked themselves before the people, so that they are at last known, and their utter want of manly and honorable qualities—everything that is trustworthy in public men and characteristic of good citizens—completely laid bare.
This is one of the results of the conflict already. The Masons and Slidells, the Davises and Yanceys, the Wigfalls and Yulees, in Congress and in the social circles of Washington, attracted only passing attention from the masses of the North, busy about their own affairs. Marplots and mischief-makers in party politics as they were, the loyal country thought and cared little about them. They were allowed to set up and indulge absurd pretensions; and those who exposed their nefarious designs were regarded as fanatics and alarmists, doing their part in keeping up a useless and disturbing agitation.
The exhibitions of ferocity at the capital were looked upon only as outbreaks of half-justifiable passion; and much was conceded to the hot blood of the chivalry, and some credit given them for the generous traits they claimed. They were tolerated—if not respected; and to some extent, it must be confessed, they were toadied by a silly admiration, which encouraged their delusion that they held the power to rule or ruin. Many believed that they were not wholly degenerate descendants of a high-minded and warm-hearted ancestry.
This is all over now. The flash of rebel cannon had made revelations that long years of peace might not have brought about. The game of brag and lying is ended. No child can be deceived any longer by the falsifications of the slave power conspiracy. Hundreds of thousands of eyes are. "prospecting" down South, and almost as many pens are telling the true story of the condition of things there.
Quite a catalogue of the exploded falsehoods might easily be written down. The facts in the case are ascertained now. It is certain that Southern courage is not four times superior to Yankee pluck; that Southern gentlemen are not more courteous, hospitable, refined and magnanimous than New Englanders; that the extent of the ignorance and degradation of the poorer whites in Virginia and other slave States has not been half imagined; that the human chattels are not the contented and safe property, without desire for freedom, they have been described, with such descriptive Areadian rhetoric: in a word, that the dominion of King Cotton is not an earthly paradise, and that the inhabitants thereof are not the nobility of mankind, born with a divine right to command. 

LACK OP BRASS.
The Buccaneer government South at last acknowledge themselves short of "tin," and as the treasurers of the church have always had to respond, in silver and golden candlesticks and incense vessels, when marauding and tyrannous governments become desperate, so now the Jeff. Davis banditti appeal to the church for the loan of their bells. They are short of "tin," they say, though not of copper. So for the quantity of tin, in the Christian(?) bells of the South, they propose to melt them, in order to convert them into brazen-throated cannon.
Hear the loud-mouthed bells—
Brazen bells!
What a tale of horror now their turbulency tells!
In the startled ear of night,
How they scream out their affright!
Too much horrified to speak,
They can only shriek, shriek,
Out of tune!
The Baptist church, which in the North has been always foremost in the cause of human freedom, as if to show to the world how utterly and terribly the system of human slavery will reverse all the feelings, sentiments and principles which go to make civilization, has been the first in the South (Second Baptist Church, Richmond) to set the example which the Richmond Dispatch says "may challenge emulation, which for self-sacrificing patriotism cannot be excelled. They met, not long since, and by a unanimous vote gave their church bell to be cast into cannon to be used in the public defence. To show that this was not an empty promise, made for effect, they immediately had it taken down to be put to the use indicated. At the same meeting at which the resolution above stated was passed, it was determined to subscribe a stun sufficient to purchase enough metal, to add to that of the bell, to form into a battery, to be called the Second Baptist Church Battery. The churches in New Orleans (a large proportion of them being Catholic) have, with the consent of the Bishop, adopted the same course."
By all means, let the churches which have hitherto upheld and preached the divine origin of the hellish system of human bondage, divest themselves of this distinguishing feature of Christianity. Those bells, when transformed into instruments of death and devastation, can never, when belching forth material fire, exceed in their baleful influence the part they have already played in the devilish orgies which have been enacted at their call. Let the sweet air of the Sabbath morn be no longer jarred by the wailing bells, echoing the captive's groan. Let them no longer mock heaven with their call to prayer, to long as a captive remains in the land. Let those bells be sealed to the visible work of the  devil in vomiting fire and iron hail on our devoted brothers; but let them no longer contribute to the moral blight which has caused greater devastation than fire or sword. Let their priests do their master's work, and preach deadly hate and cruelty to
<c06>
the North, and darkness and desolation and despair to the dark children committed to their care. We hope to find, when our army has marched triumphantly through the length and breadth of the Southern States, no Christian bell swung by rebel hands to any more mock the heavens. This will be a mark to distinguish them. Let the gloom of silence brood over them.
Appeals are also made for type metal; old first, but type at any rate, old or new. Why not? Why should the wretches retain any of the traits of the age they do not belong to? Let them destroy their type by all means; the leaden balls they will make will be an improvement on the mission they have hitherto fulfilled. Let their type no longer be perverted in their use, but let them hurl material rather than moral death. The civilization of the nineteenth century does not belong to them. Let them destroy in their blind rage all. What have they in common with the enlightenment of the printing press or a pure Christianity?
They are hard up for material brass. Let their churches and their statesmen contribute by all means; but if cannon could be cast from the brazen fronts of their priests and leaders, there would be no necessity for the destruction of the bells.—Paterson (N. J.) Guardian.

SLAVERY IN MARYLAND.
The Baltimore American, the most influential newspaper in Maryland, advocates the abolition of slavery in that State in accordance with the plan of the President. In a recent editorial, it introduces the subject of emancipation by printing part of a private letter from a distinguished gentleman, who is supposed to be Reverdy Johnson. This letter speaks of slavery as follows:—
"There is not a thoughtful man in our country who now thinks that slavery will endure. Much has been said, and, perhaps, some will continue to dispute, respecting the class of people whose conduct in regard to the institution has caused the present calamities. Some blame the abolitionists; some the nullifiers; others both these parties. But the time for this disputation is past. Whether either or all these parties, and others, have done wrong, and undoubtedly they have, it is not now material to inquire. All practicable men are now sensible that slavery so affects the people, whether it ought to do so or not, as to make it a terrible institution to our race. They see that it imbrues a brother's hand in a brother's blood, and invites foreign despots to plant monarchies on our continent. With this result before us, the only inquiry should be how to get rid of an institution which produces such miseries. Some urge <illegible> and universal abolition as the effective and proper course; but the President adopts the recommendation of our great southern statesmen, made before slavery became a political hobby, viz: gradual emancipation, with compensation and the separation of the races. Many of our people, and especially the secessionists and those who—without having any property interest in it—have found their account in slavery as a political hobby, will oppose Mr. Lincoln's policy, and do their best to bring upon us the more violent alternative. But the people of the States will sustain him. They will now listen to the sages and patriots who founded the Government and warned us to eliminate slavery, and will close their ears to that selfish tribe of partisans who would risk its destruction merely to carry an election."
We commend all this to the attention of those infatuated men here at the North who are continually agitating to raise a party to support slavery and suppress abolitionists. A few of them may get their eyes open, and learn something. The editor of the American speaks quite as strongly as his correspondent. He says:—
“They (the rebels) have dared to make the issue—they eagerly threw down the gauntlet, and the loyal portion of the nation called upon to repel their aggressions has taken it up. And now, after the monstrous crimes of which the cotton States have been guilty, after shrouding the whole nation in mourning, and almost burying it under a load of debt, they dare to insult heaven and earth with their indignant cries because retribution threatens that institution which they avowed should dominate the continent under the lead of Toombs, Stephens, and the Rhetts. Had the evils thus provoked fallen on them alone, the case would not have been so bad, but it has fallen heavily on us: and as the letter we have given truly declares, the institution here has escaped only through that habitual 'respect for the laws,' characteristic of our people."
"That the loyal men of the nation will longer tolerate, slavery as a 'political hobby' is not possible. It has to go to the wall, 'peaceably if it will—forcibly if it must; and those who debate its merits in future, even here in Maryland, will have to confine themselves to its pecuniary aspects. The 'precipitators' have nearly precipitated it; have dragged it at least to the brow of a precipice, and it is idle to disguise the truth. So far as the constitution can be appealed to for its safety, it is for the present safe. But we hazard nothing in warning the people of Maryland to lose no time in considering the question presented by the President in his late message, and again presented from a high source in the letter we have given. Those most deeply interested in its defence,—the believers in the doctrines put forward by South Carolina, by Stephens and Yancey,—may, now, after the mischief is done here, fold their arms, throw themselves back on their dignity—on their 'reserved rights'—and ignore what is impending; but the nation is aroused by an unprovoked war, the civilized world is aroused—according to the late declarations of Mr. Yancey himself—and none here need attempt to ignore facts so full of meaning."

WENDELL PHILLIPS
The Delhi (N. Y.) Republican very pertinently says:—
"The slave hounds of the country are in full cry after Wendell Phillips. From the open partisans of Jeff. Davis down to the Democratic papers of this county, the cry is full and strong. It may not be generally known, but it is a fact, nevertheless, that the rowdies who mobbed Mr. Phillips in Cincinnati went at their work with shouts of Hurrah for Jeff. Davis!'
The pretence that the riot was occasioned by anything Mr. Phillips said is absurd. If the affair was not predetermined, how came the crowd thus prepared with stones and rotten eggs?  Mr. P. did not say anything objectionable, as far as his speech could be reported; indeed, since the present troubles, be has given in his adhesion to the Union and the Constitution. But the partisans of the rebellion like him none the better for that. He is extreme ultra—mistaken, we think, in many particulars; but that is no reason for mobbing him. Those who don't want to hear him can stay away."
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that states of things, so far from its being true that the States  where slavery exists have the exclusive management  of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, From a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed; to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
WENDELL PHILLIPS AND THE FREE PRESS.
To the Editors of the Detroit Advertiser:
For some time past, and especially since the reception of the false telegram from Cincinnati, the Free Press has been doing its best endeavor to create a public sentiment against allowing Wendell Phillips the use of a hall, or, failing in that, to "stir up lewd fellows of the baser sort," and instigate a mob like the one which disgraced the city of Cincinnati.
Had this miserable sheet been published at Jerusalem 1800 years ago, it would have maligned Paul, calling him a fanatic, a pestilent fellow, a disturber of the peace, a man who turned the world upside down, a traitor to his country; and when maltreated by men who "knew not what they did," would have headed a notice of the outrage with "How a 'traitor was served," declaring that it was not in favor of mobs, but, as for Paul, he richly deserved what he received.
This paper disgraces the word Free. It is the enemy of free soil, free labor, free speech, and free men. It is the friend of free rebellion, free "fire in the rear," free slander, and free mobs. The Free Press is a free nuisance,-it ought to be abated by an abatement of its subscription list; a withdrawal of the patronage of every respectable citizen.
Already there is a subscription on foot for the hire of rowdies to mob Mr. Phillips. Let those who engage in this movement beware. "This thing cannot be done in a corner. "The signs of the times are in favor of liberty. "When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, there cometh a shower." He who lifts a finger to crush free speech now, will repent, vainly, hereafter. He need look for neither office nor honor; he will be a marked man during his own life, and leave a sullied name to his children. Remember the Tories of the Revolution!
The Free Press charges Wendell Phillips with treason. Let us look at the accusation. The corner stone of our Republic is FREEDOM. Is this man, whose life has been one grand sacrifice upon its altar, a traitor? Many years ago, when Chaining and other honorable citizens of Boston called a meeting to denounce the proceedings of the pro-slavery mob which murdered Lovejoy in Alton, and an attempt was made to get up a riot and quell any expression of indignation,—a man high in office declaring that the mob were in the right, and acted in the spirit of the revolutionary fathers,-Wendell Phillips, then a young man, unknown to the public, in the midst of the confusion, sprang upon the platform, and with words of thrilling eloquence quieted that vast assembly, and shaming the ignoble speaker, pointed to the portraits of the heroes on the walls of Faneuil Hall, saying, "Methought those pictured lips would have broken into voice, to reprove the recreant American-the slanderer of the dead!" From that hour he has devoted his life to the object of freeing his country from the deadly curse of slavery. Is he a traitor for opening our eyes to the fact that this disgraceful institution is a blot on our escutcheon, a cancer in our body politic, a contradiction to the declaration that all men are endowed by nature with the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness?—that in catching the poor fugitive, fleeing away with his whole soul and body in the search of freedom and happiness which we declare he has a right to, we outrage our own profession, destroy the influence of our free institutions, and make ourselves "a hissing and a by-word among the nations"? Is the man who endeavors to persuade his country to justice, to make her all beautiful, the joy of the whole earth, a traitor? Not he who flatters us for his own selfish ends, but he who braves our wrath, and courageously tells us the truth, deserves the name of friend. "Faithful are the wounds of a friend: but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful."
Wendell Phillips, it is true, advocated the disunion of the North from the South, and that for many years. But this disunionism had no affinity with that which robbed us of our treasure, our forts, our navy yards, which threatened our capital, imprisoned and put to shame peaceable citizens, and robbed us on the high seas, and which has done all this that it may more securely keep its bondmen in chains, and that a few slaveholders, declared enemies to the very idea of democracy, may rule this fair land in the interests of slavery, and stamp upon it its own brand of infamy. No! such was not the disunionism of Wendell Phillips. Believing that while the power of the General Government was used to sustain slavery, the North was guilty with the South; he and his friends advocated the dissolution of the union<illegible> of free speech and a free press, and the doing of it only by peaceful measures. But the moment the war broke out, perceiving that the South herself had lighted the torch, which, whether Government will or not, must consume slavery, root and branch, and believing that the Union, free from oppression, is beneficent and glorious, they wheeled at once into its ranks, and sympathizing heartily with it in the issue with rebellion, threw their whole strength on its side. Wendell Phillips has declared again and again, in all his speeches since the war began, that now that the Union, to him, means justice, he is a Union man, and too much of a Yankee to part with a single State.
This man, the very flower of New England culture—acknowledged by friend and foe to he eloquent beyond any other American—had he, like the mass of men, sought honor and aggrandizement, what was beyond his grasp? But he chose instead to fling himself right in the teeth of popular opinion, and to sacrifice all the selfish considerations which men hold dear, that he might exalt his own people, and procure justice for a poor and despised race who could not even thank him for his devotion. Is such the stuff of which traitors are made? God bless Wendell Phillips, and give us more men "that seek not their own"!
"Then to side with truth is noble when we share her wretched crust,
Ere her cause brings fame and profit, and 'tis prosperous to be just:
Then it is the brave man chooses, while the coward stands aside,
Doubting in his abject spirit till his Lord is crucified, 
And the multitude make virtue of the faith they once denied.
"Count me o'er Earth's chosen heroes: they are souls that stood alone
While the man they agonized for hurled the contumelious stone-
Stood alone, and, down the future, saw the golden beam incline
To the side of perfect justice, mastered by their faith divine,
By one man's plain truth to manhood, and to God's supreme design."
Those who have only heard Mr. Phillips's literary lectures, beautiful as they are, know nothing of his power when on a soul-stirring theme. "As well think you know the power of Paganini's fiddle, when he is playing on the jews-harp." His enemies say that he so carries his hearers away, those who abhor his opinions applaud while he speaks. If such is the case where his audience is adverse of the War, all hearts are one with his own? He well exalt his hearers to the Mount Blanc of their manhood--he will electrify their very hats, so that, as in Washington, they will leap from their hands in glad hurrahs.
We have enough of artful, maneuvering politicians: let us welcome, for one night, a disinterested, honest man. If he spread infection, it will not prove fatal-the danger is, it will not take deep. C.

WENDELL PHILLIPS AT WASHINGTON.
Referring to the recent visit of Mr. Phillips to the Capital, the Washington correspondent of the Springfield Republican says:-
"We have had Wendell Phillips here since my last letter, and he has delivered three lectures at the Smithsonian Institute. He has not met with a single insult or his since he came to the Capital, and he has uttered his most ultra sentiments without the slightest interruption or censure. This is in itself almost a miracle, and will be set down an "event" when the history of these times comes to be written. At two of the lectures, I noticed large numbers of Congressmen some of them from Kentucky and Tennessee-the last mentioned took it with their eyes open with wonder. Yet it was the complete triumph of free speech on slave soil, for not a solitary individuals interposed a hiss upon cither occasion. Mr. Sumner did his full duty to Mr. Phillips, accompanying him to his lectures, and showing him about the Capitol. Phillips was a real lion while here. Speaker Grow gave him a dinner to which choice friends were invited, and he was sought after by nearly all our great people. It is a wonder that Mr. Seward did not hunt him up, and make him a dinner party also; for Mr. Seward is the greatest man in America for dining his friends and enemies." 
<c02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1862.
TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
AMERIOAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Eighth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 6, commencing at 10 o'clock, A.M. In the evening, another public meeting will be held in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half past 7 o'clock. The names of speakers for these meetings will be seasonably announced.
The Society will meet, for business purposes only, in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, at 3 1/2 P.M. on Tuesday, and 10 A.M. on Wednesday. 
The object of this Society is still-as at its formation-the immediate and total abolition of slavery wherever existing on the American soil, because of its inherent sinfulness, immorality, oppression and barbarity, and its utter repugnance to all the precepts of the Gospel, and all the principles of genuine Democracy; its measures are still the same-peaceful, moral, rational, legal, constitutional; its instrumentalities are still the same-the pen, the press, the lecturing field, tracts and other publications, etc., etc., disseminating light and knowledge in regard to the tyrannical power claimed, possessed and exercised by slaveholders, the actual condition of their miserable victims, and the guilty complicity of the people of North, religiously, politically, governmentally, with those who "trade in slaves and the souls of men;" its spirit is still the same-long -suffering, patient, hopeful, impartial, benevolent alike to the oppressor and the oppressed, zealously intent on "promoting the general welfare and securing the blessings of liberty" universally.
In regard to the struggle now going on between the Government and the Rebel States, this Society is unequivocally with the Government, because it has done no wrong to those States, nor furnished any justification for such a treasonable procedure on their past. Yet the Society sees in this awful conflict the fulfilment of the prophetic declaration-"Ye have not proclaimed liberty every man to his brother, and every man to his neighbor; therefore I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine"; and it trusts that, in the spirit of sincere repentance and deep humiliation, acknowledging the righteous retribution which has come upon them. THE PEOPLE will imperatively demand of the Government, (now that it has the constitutional right under the war power,) that it forthwith decree the immediate and entire abolition of slavery, so that peace may be restored on an enduring basis, and the unity of the nation preserved through universal justice.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS,
CHARLES C BURLEIGH,} Secretaries.

WASHINGTON AND THE WEST.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.,
AT THE 
Tremont Temple, Thursday Evening, April 17, 1862.
REPORTED BY J. M. W. TERRINTON.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., who has just returned from a lecturing tour at the West, spoke at the Tremont Temple, by invitation of the Fraternity, on Thursday evening, 17th instant. A very large audience was in attendance, the hall being nearly filled. The lecturer, on entering the hall, and again on rising to address the audience, was greeted with repeated and enthusiastic cheers. He was introduced by Charles W. Slack, Esq., and spoke as follows:-
I certainly owe great thanks, to you and the Fraternity, who have given me the opportunity to speak tonight, marked as the present <illegible> greatest events in the history of the progressive movement. For the first time in sixty years, the flag of the Republic floats over a Capital untrodden by a slave. For the first time, the constituted authorities of the nation make one step toward that great motto-" Freedom National,"-and give us a capital without a chain.(Cheers.) Neither you nor I could naturally have expected to live to see that result. Not the most sanguine of us could have hoped that any means he could call into exercise would so far prevail against the seeming interest and the well-anchored institutions of the country as to consecrate even the District to liberty in our day. We have lived to see so much. In a nation that moves so fast as we do, it gives us good hope that those are yet living, in middle life, within these walls, who shall see the whole continent, so far at least as it acknowledges the stars and stripes, clean and free from the fetter of a slave. (Applause.) We may indeed congratulate our tireless Senator, Mr. WILSON, on the imperishable honor this session gives him. Whenever history tells of the destruction of that infamous slave jail in the District, or of the abolition of slavery itself there, or of the first effort to preventory officers from turning soldiers into slavehounds, his name and fame will be indissolubly bound up with that welcome and honorable story.
Since I last had the honor of speaking from this platform, I have floated on the bosom of the Potomac, felt the breeze from the surface of the Mississippi, and looked upon four of the five great lakes- a long journey, finished in a few days. Thirty years ago, in Faneuil Hall, in an assemblage of merchants, called to consider the question of building railroads, AMASA WALKER, -a name never to be mentioned without honor in a New England lecture room, for he did much, labored most efficiently, to launch this system of lectures in Massachusetts, -I am old enough to remember when, thirty years ago, in Faneuil Hall, Amasa Walker prophesied that the boy was then living who would see such methods of travels as would carry a man from Boston to St. Louis in five days. The prophesy was received with shouts of derision and contempt. The boundless energy of New England and New York has stirred itself, within these thirty years, and to-day you may go to St. Louis and back again in five days. That same boundless energy, which has made New York and Boston as much the outlet of the Great Valley to the ocean as the natural channel of the Mississippi is, still lives; and if I were to prophesy to-night that the man sits in this audience, who, within fifteen or twenty years, will see that same boundless energy sweeping the system of bondage from this belt of the continent, you might think it as vain a prophesy; but I believe that to New England, met in Faneuil Hall for liberty or for business, nothing is impossible, and I believe the Prophesy will be accomplished. (Applause.) We annihilate distance; we can annihilate obstacles as well. What we have done with nature, we shall yet do with politics. New England and New York, the great financial and thinking brains of the continent, have taken this problem in hand. South Carolina herself, flinging down the gauntlet of battle, has wiped out fifty years from the life of slavery. She leads the way in the abolition of the system, and, as in so many other cases, the nation follows her lead. (Laughter.)
I come back to you to-night, as I went away six weeks ago, persuaded that slavery on this continent has begun the chapter which records its death. I have no doubt of it. You may see it in the dispositions of the people; you may see it in the policy of the nation; you may see it, I think, in the intentions of its statesmen. But whether you do or not, I care little for intentions to-day. No matter what you mean, or what Washington means, or what the people of the great West mean to-day. When I see a man half-way down Niagara, I don't ask his intentions- he will go down. (Applause.) Events-most encouraging events- thicken all around us, showing that by all the elements which go to make up 
<c03>
national life, the death of the slave system is decreed, and is sealed. I find great encouragement everywhere. I find it in the disposition of the President. I believe he means what he said to the Border State Senators and Representatives when, at the announcement of his message, he summoned them to his presence-" Gentlemen, don't talk to me about slavery; you love it; I hate it. You mean it shall live; I mean it shall die!" (Prolonged applause.) I think if he lacks anything, it is neither intention nor capacity- he has enough of both for his function-but will; power to bear up against external influences-temptations that make him timid, protests that make him dawdling, adverse circumstances that make him very cautious, spending four months on one message. But I believe he has all he lacks in his Cabinet, which consists, of one man, single and alone, fit to bear up, like Atlas, nation-STANTON. (Applause.) I don't believe in any other Cabinet; I did not hear of any other. (Laughter.) I don't think the nation recognizes any other. There was a man once Secretary of State, and he wrote to Mr. Dayton, in Paris, a year ago, that this convulsion would cease without changing the status of a single individual, either in the territories or the States. Fifteen hundred-slaves, freed by a two-thirds vote of Congress and the assent of the President, ask to-day where is the Secretary of State? The nation has drifted so far that he has become invisible. There was another man in the Cabinet- the Secretary of the Treasury- responsible, he and his State, for fastening that intolerable mortgage upon us, Gen. M'Clellan, inspite of the judgment of Lieut. General Scott. Two thirds of McClellan's military repute grew out of the supposition that Scott summoned him to Washington as the best soldier on the continent. As he never did summon him, that supposition vanishes, and with it all of McClellan's fame that was not gone before. That Secretary, too, has faded into nothingness-buried under the General whom he summoned to Washington. I recognize in the Cabinet no will but the Secretary of War. I think him the right yoke-fellow of the President-supplying all he lacks. The two make a working pair, competent for all the nation needs. "You will fight, you will tell why not, or you will go out"-that is the key-note of the Secretary of War. "Why can't I have a court martial to try Fremont?" says Col. Blair. "Because I am too busy to wash your dirty linen." (Applause.) That is the locomotive on the rail-nothing but one purpose, to move forward: and if cannon does not crush the rebellion, abolition will. I don't think the Secretary is an Abolitionist to-day, but he is on the anxious seat, (laughter;) and if, in the Providence of God, South Carolina and President Davis hold out until November, I have no doubt we shall have an Abolitionist for Secretary of War. (Applause.) My faith, therefore, in the man is sufficient. I don't think he has gone out, as the papers say. If he has, we have lost the corner-stone of success. A year of sacrifices would be nothing to the sacrifice of "the right man in the right place"-the only man on the continent who deserves the name of a Napoleon for the exigency. But whether he lives or not, as Secretary of War, I think the slave issue is certain- I have no doubt of that. Events move too fast for any individual to resist them. Mr. Lincoln may abolish slavery, he cannot save it. The nation may abolish slavery, they cannot save it. God appealed first to the pulpits-they were barred against his messenger; he appealed to ballots-they were too slow for his method; he appealed to bullets, and the slaves of the District are the first trophies of his victory. (Applause.) In the old days, he said to Pharaoh, "Let my people go"-a simple command; the monarch hardened his heart. He disturbed his realm, secondly, with all sorts of dissension and material adversity; still the monarch hardened his heart. He gave his first-born to the grave, and the Jew went free. (Sensation.) He leads us through the same valley. He tried us with moral appeals; he tried us with national dissension and debate; and now he seals Emancipation in the blood of our first-born. That ordeal slavery will never survive. The strength of slavery has been in the idea of the North that there was something sacred in the compromises of the Constitution, <illegible> in the slaveholder and his system. That delusion goes out at Manassas- the skulls of brave men used for drinking-vessels. It goes out at Fort Donelson and Pittsburg, when chivalry took to its heels before the men whom it had affected to despise. (Applause.) Never again will the North sit down blind worshippers of a civilization supposed to be better than their own.
This day, a year ago, the 6th Massachusetts regiment left the Commonwealth to save the capital. You know the doubt and dissension of the North, the confident boasts of the South. You know the boasts. of Democratic candidates, as near as Connecticut-the candidate for Governor himself the spokesman-that if Massachusetts sent a regiment across her soil, he would call out the militia to resist them, before they should reach the capital. You know the boast of Toombs, that he would call the roll of his slaves on Bunker Hill. I have lived to hear the roll-call of a Massachusetts regiment on the "sacred soil" of Virginia first. (Applause.) We were mobbed from the John Brown meetings a little more than a year ago. I have heard the "John Brown song" on the "Sacred soil" of Virginia, and the court-house in which he was doomed to death is the barracks of a Massachusetts regiment. Who dreamed, a year ago, when those gallant boys hurried to save the capital, that emancipation would be decreed in the District to-day, with Baltimore sullen under the port-holes of Northern cannon, and with Northern regiments holding Virginia under their feet? Yet so it is.
But still I do not think the act abolishing slavery in the District, broad and marked as it is, is so significant as the message of the President. After all, the President is ahead of the manifestations of the opinion of the people. He holds out his hands to the millions and says, "Support me!" We have not yet answered him officially, That message of his is the boldest voice yet heard over the continent. It means more than men accord to it. He claims that, and claims it rightly. May I tell you a story?-he always tells one. (Laughter.) Noticing some criticisms upon his message, he said, "There is more in it than people see. Did you ever hear of the Irishman who went down to the State of Maine, in Maine Liquor Law times, and asked for a glass of soda water, adding, 'Couldn't you put drap of the rather in it, unbeknown to meself?' So I have put a large drop of the rather in it, unbeknown to them." (Laughter and applause.) Indeed he has: for that message means substantially this: Gentlemen, I put down a mile-stone to-day. I show you how far twelve months have carried this question beyond the Secretary of State's letter to Mr. Dayton. Government sent that letter to Paris; Congress passed the celebrated resolution that they would never be led to interfere with slavery in the States. Eleven months float away, and I, the President of the United States, at the head-quarters and sources of information, competent to judge of the nation's position,-I tell you, gentlemen, now is your time to sell. If you don't seize it, and another twelvemonth sweeps what you call property from your grasp, without compensation, never say I did not give you fair notice. (Applause.) That is one half the message; the other half is an arrow's flight beyond even that, for it says this-"Gentlemen, if you will sell, I will buy." what means that? Where in the Constitution, in peace times, does he find the right to buy? Has he forgotten Clay, and Webster, and the Resolutions of '90, that the Congress of the United States cannot cross the boundary of a State to interfere with the system of slavery? His message says, "Gentleman, I will buy." In other words, "You have given me the right to buy; the rebellion confers upon me the right to buy." And he goes on to say, "The abolition of slavery would be an efficient means of ending this war; if I find cannon unsuccessful, I shall try other efficient means." In other words, "Gentlemen, I will buy if you will trade. If you won't trade, remember that I have the right to take." Pregnan
<c04>
words! Be happy that you live hear them from the head of the Government. For the first time in the history of the Government, it has done an anti-slavery act, it has spoken an anti-slavery word. (Applause.) Sufficient for one year! Enough to have gained in twelve months! I believe that any man who contemplates national event has ample reason to be satisfied with what we have already accomplished in this single year.
I think, however, that there are other proofs how soon freedom is coming. I do not look to the Government. I have no confidence in official leading. I think the people lead. McClellan banishes the Hutchinsons from his camp;—it is a slight sign. The soldiers hang on to John Brown's Song;—it is a great one. The masses are to settle this question, not the statesmen. They stood still last winter, and saw Floyd steal; they had no such confidence in the masses as would embolden them to tell the secret. They stand to-day doubting, disbelieving, incredulous of the purpose and intelligence of the masses. The President said to a leading Republican politician of New York—" Why don't you hold meetings,' (it was two days before that glorious Convention in New York which Carl Schurz made immortal by his great speech)—" Why don't you hold meetings, and let me feel the mind of the nation? "Sir," was the reply, " we are to hold them; we hold one to-morrow." "Hold them often; hold many of them; hold as many as possible. You cannot create more anti-slavery feeling than we shall need before we get through this war." (Applause.) In other words, the President holds out his hands to the people, and says—" Am I right? How far may I go?" Answer him. Tell him the ice is thick thus far, and will be thicker an arrow's flight ahead. Tell him that if his message to the Border States leads you to say Amen, a message to the Gulf States that says Liberty will have a tenfold Amen. (Loud applause.) In one sense, we demand too much of the Government—of the Senate and the Cabinet. They are the only portions of the Government that have definite ideas, but they are nothing; the masses are everything. Struggling up to light on all sides are indications of the popular sentiment. There should be official, grave indications. Leading men, legislative bodies, official corporations, should speak the will of the North, if it really exist, on this question, so that the Government may feel able to trust and lean on a well-assured public purpose. 
Fellow-citizens, we stand just here. The Gulf States have made up their minds, I believe. There is no Unionism in them, outside of the city of New Orleans. New Orleans is mercantile—she is for the North. She knows that if she has not the great valley of the Mississippi behind her, she is a desert,—New Orleans is for the Union. Whatever stars and stripes reach New Orleans will be welcome. Outside of that city, I do not believe in a shred of Union feeling further than the mountains of Alabama and the Carolinas. The Gulf States have made up their mind— they want slavery without the Union. The Border States have made up their minds, for the present—they want slavery and the Union. The North, I believe, in its masses, has made up its mind—it wants the Union without slavery. (Loud applause.) If that public sentiment can be ripened and made manifest, the Union is saved; if it cannot, or if it does not exist, the Union is gone. No juggle, no trick, no superficial arrangement, is possible. We have reached the level of reality. If the Union is not, really and absolutely, the preference, above everything, of the majority of the North, then it is gone. You cannot make it appear, if it is not. It may be smothered awhile; if it does not exist, if it is not made manifest, neither you nor I will ever see the Union again. I believe it does exist. I believe the masses, if you and I do our duty, will make it manifest to the leading authorities. That is our duty to-day. All I have to say to you to-night looks toward that result. Ripen, manifest, aggregate public sentiment as swiftly as possible. The enemy are at work. The most golden hours have gone. The President lost them last fall. When the Southern States issued their letters of privateering, and startled New York, if he had said—" You strike our property—we strike yours! "the seaboard would have said Amen to the utmost emancipation. If, when Fremont issued his proclamation, "Let liberty be on the river," the Cabinet had sat still, and let public opinion crystalize around that act, they would have found strength, confidence, support, enthusiasm enough, before this, to venture emancipation as the nation's policy. If, when Manassas sent its thrill of indignation over the North, the Cabinet had replied with liberty to the slaves, again I believe the North would have said Amen. These golden hours have gone. To-day, that chilled enthusiasm begins to see party lines drawn across it. To-day, Whig venom and Democratic venom speak out. From some, I take encouragement; from some, I take discouragement. The North American Review, in its last issue, says of Mr. Sumner and Mr. Conway, (of Kansas,) that their projects of emancipation are giving aid and comfort to the enemy; that they are traitors, and if they would adhere to the enemy, it would do less harm. I do not believe, that in the whole hundred volumes of the North American, you can find a criticism like that—anything like it—on a Senator of Massachusetts. It is the dying venom of Whig malice, spit out in its feebleness against two men —Sumner of Massachusetts and Conway of Kansas— whose ample, practical knowledge of public affairs, and whose wide, profound, statesmanlike ability, fit them preeminently for the places they fill. It is the last utterance of defeated Whig malice against a Senator whose broad culture, enlarged statesmanship, and single-eyed devotion to liberty, find no equal on the list of Senators that Massachusetts has sent to the capital. (Great applause.) I count that sentence evidence of success; for, on a careful examination of the North American, I find that, barking at the heels of onward men as it always has, this has been uniformly true—take any idea it attacks, wait twenty years, and that idea is a statute. I take it, therefore, that within the next twenty years, the policy which it denominates "treason" will be enthroned in the capital. I count that spiteful sentence an omen of success. Enough for success. We are hopeful enough. The Great West makes as hopeful enough. Her children, who have gone down to Pittsburg, by the way of Donelson and Fort Henry, to see about the mouth of the Mississippi, have left as noble men behind them. They know, they feel, they are wide-awake to the peril of this Republic; but the difficulty to-day is, that the Democratic party is drawing its lines. Municipal successes all over the land, from Wisconsin, by the way of Chicago, Cleveland, Rochester, Utica, all along the line, indicate that party instead of enthusiasm is again to take its place in national affairs. You have a new problem. What I would impress upon you to-night is, that the difficulty deepens with every hour—not of destroying slavery, but of saving the State. The negro is not the question. He is the pebble in the cog wheel. You must get him out, or the machine won't go. I am not here to speak for him. I have no message from Washington or the great West about him. He may safely despise us. He holds the key of our position. Neither party can succeed without him. He is not in question. The greater question remains behind —Is the Union, or, in much better phrase, are free institutions, to survive? Is slavery, when it goes down into its grave, to drag Republicanism with it into common ruin? I wish I could impress upon you to-night the terrible peril which free institutions labor under to-day. It is not the negro. It is no matter what the Democratic press says of compensation, colonization, or anything else,—I shall have a word to say about that in a moment, but that is not the question. The question to-day is behind that. A conquered territory, a vast army, an endless debt, a Government of necessity endowed with despotism for a dozen years. Every man at Washington who thinks allows that for ten or fifteen years, we must have a great army, half as large, at least, as at present, a constantly increasing debt, a vast military spirit, Government holding despotic powers. Out of that peril is the Union to be saved? are free institutions to survive? Seven thousand officers, with the popularity of the army behind them,
<c05>
are to enter into politics-civil places filled, professional posts occupied. When Hamilton and Burr came out of the Revolution able, ambitious, popular men, they busied themselves in the courts. Suppose courts had been close against them, suppose the restless ambition, latent talent and boundless popularity of the Revolution had found no field in the professions and mercantile life, how long would the newly-launched Constitution have survived the uneasy agitation of such a class? That peril we are to face in a dozen years or less.
Fellow-citizens, I can have no message for yon from the capital or the West that precedes in importance this solemnity of the crisis. The last words of your President to me were-"It is a big job; the country little knows how big." All the great element of political life are broken up. All the future rests on the intelligence and virtue of the people. The Government are our servants. Up to this moment, the people have done their share. Men, money, submission. All we want today is a purpose, a policy. This gold-give us something for it! This blood-give us an equivalent! And yet I come back to you, and hear you talk of a union of parties. There should be no union of parties, without an express understanding of ideas. This Commonwealth united parties, struck down party lines. What is the consequence? Judge Thomas in the House of Representatives! An empty chair would be worth his weight in diamonds! (Applause.) A union of parties which forgets ideas, which conquers only to fight over again on the field of victory which idea shall precede the other, is worse than a defeat. Let there be no union of parties that does not have for its basis-This Union can be saved only by getting rid of slavery. We will settle the method when we come to the conquest, but that is the idea.
Oh, if I could only plant it deep in your hearts, that all the politics of the next ten years, certainly of the next five, should have no union without the most exigeant idea that the men uniting agree the Union can be saved only by getting rid, in some method, of bondage down to the Gulf, I should think free institutions had got their guaranty. Without it, the never will. Do you suppose that conquest will convert the South to the Union? Cannon, even if hunger makes them successful, will not bring Carolina into the Union, Chaining South Carolina and Massachusetts together, like mad dogs, does not make a Union. The message that I bring to you, if I bring any, from the men who look to you for support, is- "Give us the support of ideas, nor the hollow support of words. Give us an intelligent and avowed determination and purpose that this war shall not end until slavery is swept from the surface of the continent."
I tell you, throughout the West, the Democratic party rears its head. It gave me the benefit of an incessant advertisement. I owe audiences of thousands and tens of thousands to the face that a fortnight before I approached a city, the Democratic press loaded its columns with advertisements for me. Cincinnati heralded me with the most excellent advertisement, and sent me sealed as her apostle to the banks of the Mississippi. (Laughter.) It was a Democratic endorsement, and Cincinnati gave me. (Applause.) It opened my way to the hearts of the prairies so quickly, that I was almost afraid men would suspect me to collusion; but when I got there, I found the same cordial enthusiasm, the same relentless ideas in the masses and I find here, but the same lack of organized effort-the same resting on the logic of events-the same certainty that God would work out his own purpose in his own time. In the meanwhile, Democrats were stirring the intrigues of politics, to make the next Congress weaker than the present, to clog the wheels of the Government; they were using a press, poisoned with Southern intrigue, to build up a seeming public opinion that should bring back, perhaps, a temporary triumph, a lull even a compromise not impossible. What are we fighting for to-day? The South is fighting for the Dred Scott decision, for slavery in the Territories, and slavery in the District. Do your duty for six months, we will thrust it out of the Territories; another six months, and we will thrust it out of the States. (Applause.) But leave it a year, and we may see Cincinnati mobs in every seaboard city; the public mind may be swayed to and fro with intrigue. There is very little proper argument of the question. What in contend is, that you Republicans, you Abolitionists, are not standing to your guns. The enemy are sowing their tares-you do not answer them. Why, the message of the President, announcing his assent to the bill abolishing slavery in the District, is full of “compensation” of “colonization.”. Excellent doctrines, both of them, if properly applied. Colonization! Whom shall we colonize,-the men that work, or the men that don’t work? Colonize the black-you get rid of hands. Colonize the slaveholder, you get rid o mouths. Let us talk this matter over rankly. Colonization-why? Why, the Courier and Post tell you that if you don’t colonize, 4,00,000 South Carolina blacks are coming here. Why don’t the editor of the Courier go to Lapland? Because he likes this Climate; because there is no pro-slavery paper published in Lapland. (Great merriment.) He would not like Lapland-he would find nothing to do. That keeps him here-more sorrow for us! (Applause.) Now, are not natural laws equal? Why does the black stay in Carolina? Because he likes it. As I heard a white man from Georgia say-“I would rather be hung in Georgia than live in Massachusetts.” Then again, the black knows how to plant cotton and rice. He would not come to Massachusetts to makes shoes or edit the Courier. He does not know how; thanks to God, he has not learned. (Applause.). Look at the absurdity of this pretence. A population of four millions invading the North! Why don’t Massachusetts move to Greenland? Nothing to do there; so we stay in Massachusetts. Louisiana raises, under its burning sun, sugar. She loves the sun and the toil. She will stay there. She does not want Massachusetts granite and Massachusetts ice. These self-conceited Bostonians, who think they are the "hub of the universe," suppose the whole slave population will rush to the peninsular. How absurd! And yet this is the talk the President has listened to, and apparently believed. While the negro dreads the South as the land of bondage, he will fly anywhere to escape it. While slavery exists in Carolina, every prudent Port Royal negro will come North as soon as her can. Make Carolina, his sunny native land, free and safe for him, and cart ropes will never drag him to this cold, granite Massachusetts. If any man really dreads an avalanche of blacks on Massachusetts, let him fasten them South by emancipation.
Compensation, again! Compensation to whom? If we are to have these questions thrust upon us, begin to discuss them. Compensation to whom? Will you compensate the slave? For two hundred years, you have crushed him to the earth, until his very brain is partially imbruted. The soil you cultivate, the roads you build, the mansions you dwell in, the stock you have secured, the civilization you have garnered up, is his blood-the whole of it. You turn him out naked, helpless, with empty hands; and that you call justice. Such an amount of justice that the nation trembles at giving him so much! Giving him what? Our fathers, in six generations, have made Massachusetts what it is, Boston what it is-its streets, its houses, its institutions, its libraries, its culture, its fame. Suppose we were turned out with nothing, and men said-"That is your all; that is justice"! With just that, you turn out the slave. And who are the masters, whom the courier and Post talk of compensating? Thieves, beggars, parading their aristocracy; barbarians-witness Manassas; naked as their fellow savages of New Zealand, if the negro had not provided them with clothing, and the north made it up. These are the men, with their dirt-eating, dough-face sycophants, the Democratic newspapers of the North, who ask us for compensation. We will grant it--why? For the same reason that the father gives his weak, underwitted son the most money- because he cannot take care of himself. We compensate the master, because he cannot take care of himself; we set the slave free with nothing, because
<c06>
he can. (Loud applause.) The idea of compensation is this: we pity, we shelter the white man from the consequences of his sin, we recognize that the slave can take care of himself, and justice, the merest shred of it, is enough for him. I come back to Boston, and hear the Democratic presses talking of an avalanche of blacks, unable to take care of themselves, when, on a Washington register, exists the mortgage of his house, by Stephen A. Douglas, for $12,000, to a negro of the District-a man who had not only gathered up $12,000, but knew so well how to take care of it, that he would not lend it to a Democratic candidate for the Presidency without a mortgage. (Loud and prolonged applause.) While that fact remains recorded at Washington, I think every Democrat in the Northern States is stopped from saying that negroes cannot take care of themselves. (Applause.) No, let us define this doctrine accurately. The Abolitionist claims nothing of privilege for the negro. I blink no issue-don't you. There is no weak point in this question any where. The black of South Carolina asks nothing of this Government but-"Take your yoke off my neck! I will take care of myself, and the white man also." And let me tell you, these are facts which you must think of, and talk about, and make a policy from, within the next six or eight months, because within that time there is this path and that to be chosen our of this difficulty, and this means peace, and that means the long desert of forty years of discord, disgrace, half bankruptcy, national ruin. The white man of the Carolinas-mark me!-the white man of the Carolinas is not half as ready, to-day, to be the master of free labor as the slave is to be a free laborer. Disabuse yourselves of all idea of a black skin making any difference in the settlement of this question. There is no remedy at the North, nor the West, nor at Washington. They are chopping straw at the capital; they are making logical distinctions; they are waiting for you. The House of Representatives is nothing; it has not the means, to-day, of passing a bill. The Senate is in advance of it; the Cabinet in advance of them; the people of the North west, looking to the East for a purpose, in advance of the Cabinet; the army in advance of all, if what is said at Washington may be trusted. But one thing is certain. Our fathers’ history reads us a lesson. Fairfax and Essex and Manchester, the men who led the armies of the Parliament the first years of the Revolution of 1640, who were anxious to hurt nothing and nobody, gave way to Cromwell and Ireton, the men who struck at the root of the difficulty. McClellan, and Halleck, and Grant, and Buel, the men who dodge the article of war, the men who no longer surrender slaves from their camps, only put them outside the lines when the master is known to be there-these men now lead our armies. I met, within a day or two, a Massachusetts officer-he may be in this house-his arms taken from him, and himself put under arrest, at the bidding of a Boston Lieutenant-Colonel, because he would not put a negro out of the camp, where his master was known to be. He stands to-day without a commission, and that Lieutenant-Colonel is in the field. The Manchesters, the Fairfaxes, the Essexes the men who want to harm nobody, are at the head of the army. We never shall conquer until they go by the board, and the Fremonts, the Sigels, and the Hunters-the Cromwells and Iretons of our day-take their places. (Applause and a few hisses, followed by renewed and vociferous cheering,) I expect to be hissed for that sentiment for twelve months, and then I expect to be applauded. There is no use in sacrificing hundreds of thousands of lives with men who don't mean to win the battle. I do not think M'Clellan a traitor. The President says he is not; I will trust the President so far; but I think he stands exactly where Fairfax and Essex stood is 1640-anxious to hurt nobody, and nobody has been hurt. I think we shall conquer in this struggle when Cromwell comes. His advent was marked by this question: "Will you shoot the King?" "Yes, sooner than I will shoot any thing else." We want a General, like Sigel or Fremont, to say, when he is asked, "Will you kill slavery?" "Yes, sooner than I will touch anything else." (Loud applause.) The dead timber of the Cabinet, that sits calculating its chances for the next Presidency, and the worse timber of the Major General, bred in the regular army, liking the South better than the North, hating a Northern volunteer General far more than he does Beauregard, is all to the sloughed off before the <illegible> and blood of Massachusetts and the West is to clear this continent as the basis of free institutions. When that comes, if it comes soon, we shall save the Government. If it does not come soon, we shall not. Another year, and Davis in the field, he will be recognized. The moment fourteen States, or ten, get recognized, their first effort will be to put a wedge between the Northeast and the Northwest, to divide us into three or four confederacies. Any man who stands in the capital to-day, and notices the debates, can see, even now, the line of that division, which it need but a very little enmity to stir into active life. What you are carrying your banner to the Rappahannock to-day to settle is not, whether we shall have two nations, but four; and four nations mean despotism, mean military republics, mean large armies, mean the last of these free institutions, Fellow-citizens, it is the work of a whole generation. Only a year ago, you seemed to be making money, you seemed to be garnering up nothing but prosperity. The car was going ahead sixty miles an hour. You said, "It is all pure gain!" God said-"The axles are red-hot-stop!" The garnered wealth of this generation is to be used up in doing justice to this victim race, in lifting that white race of the South out of the ignorance that deludes it into thinking itself our enemy. The atonement that Heaven demands at your hands is this generation, and all it has, offered on that altar and on that. The sin of your fathers-you cannot atone for it by any superficial process, by any slight virtue, by any single life. Baker, and Lyon, and Ellsworth, and Winthrop, are but the first martyrs in the great atonement. The South is not to be converted in a moment. She is to be subjugated, and then held. Two or three hundred thousand men are to hold the territory, while free labor works out its result. I want your pledge for the war. The great West is on the alert; fully aware of the magnitude of the struggle; its young sons have volunteered for ten years, <illegible> twenty. The East, immersed in its business, poisoned somewhat by its wealth, is not half as enthusiastic is the prairies and the great cities of the lakes. These feeble responses-I assure you they are nothing to the out-door gatherings, to the intense feeling of responsibility at the West. All along the way-side you meet men who have given their whole families to the army. One father says-"I have given four soon, army. One father says-"I have given four soon, my only sons; one is at No. 10, one is with Grant at Pittsburg, one in the Gulf, and one with McClellan. The country is welcome to the lives of all, though I am just entering my own grave, only I must see Liberty rise out of their blood, or I shall feel that the Union has murdered them." (Sensation.) Another father says to me-" I have one boy; he stands marshalled to-day with Grant. God grant him life; but if it is to be taken, give me liberty instead." Another, standing at our side, said- "My only boy fell at Winchester. I can even thank God for his death, though I stand alone in the world, if I find Liberty is to grow from his grave."
This is the spirit of the West. You meet no man with brother or son, in that army, who does not deem his death murder, if it does not come consecrated by Liberty. Lincoln is ahead of anything you have said. The State of Massachusetts is offering him to-day millions. What he wants is an endorsement and an encouragement. What the Senate want is a policy pronounced by the people. I have come to you to-night with no welcome message. The sky is bright for the negro, it is dark for the white man, for the simple reason that we have no avowed policy. We have hardly a paper in Boston, certainly not more than one, that is willing to print the speeches of your own Senator, we have hardly types within our borders that dare to print what Charles Sumner dares to say from this platform. How much is to be expected of such a
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
country! Yes, your own Senator uttered words of the utmost moment from this very platform, like these-"You cannot save slavery and the Union." How few Boston journals troubled themselves to give us his warnings! And since, you would hardly know his Senatorial existence from any Boston journal. The presses against whose mobbing I had the honor to protest last spring, and I thank God for it, for I am opposed to mobs, even when pointed at the courier and the Post-the sycophants of South Carolina in rebellion-are the only papers that have any courage. It is to such a city, to such presses you welcome me to-night.
I was mobbed in Cincinnati. The Democratic press of that city lied about me for a fortnight; but the Republican press did me ample justice. All over the West, if Democratic intrigue had a voice, the Republican press was equally bold. Detroit threatened to mob me; Ann Arbor, Chicago, Milwaukee. To what did I owe justice and defence? To the Republican press of those cities, brave enough to shelter one, who had been called a Disunionist, under their folds, in behalf of free speech-the claim of every honest man to be heard, when the country was in danger. I should not have found that defence, I should not have found that support here. I have yet, the Abolitionists have yet to receive the first word of justice form the Boston press. And if I should see it, it is nothing. We are but the dead timber to fall into the trenches, and make a triumphant way for liberty to advance to her success. But when I speak of your own Senator, of the foremost man of New England, of the most practical man of your delegation, of the man who does more business at home, and holds up the banner of the Republic with greater ability abroad, than any other man that Massachusetts honors herself by putting into office-when I say of him, that there is hardly an inch of space in a Republican journal in the city of Boston for a notice even of one of his speeches,-while ample space can always be found, even in professed Republican journals, for open and covert attacks upon him,-what home is there, if you do not rise and let, through some other channel, the real voice of Boston be heard!
In every path of my recent journey, I took no single step without meeting a Post or Courier, full of lies. They abound every where. They are as thick as the frogs in the palaces of Egypt. They are the sycophants of a dying aristocracy. They will live exactly as long as that idea lives in the North. I shall find it here, in many a man of you who still believes in his heart that he who sells his neighbor is a gentleman, and he who makes his living by the sweat of his brow is not. It that man sits here, though he sit where his grandfather did before him, he belongs to South Carolina. Now, as long as these men live, the courier will live, and its readers, when Lieutenant Colonels, will dodge the new article of war, and somehow, spite of Government, get slaves lack to their masters. But what I claim of you is- the voice of Boston. They said to me in the West, "What do they think?" I could not quote a line from your journals; I had to go to Washington, and claim that your Senators and your Representatives represent Massachusetts, and that the pavements of the Commonwealth had no voice. I is not so?
In this war growing out of slavery, with so many duties resulting therefrom, and in Commonwealth bitterly divided on that issue, a Governor, representing at least two thirds of the people, gives three-quarters of our military offices to men who hate the principles which put him into office.
Now, what I claim of you, I claim in behalf of your own leaders. The President says to his New York friends, "Support me!" Where is the support form Boston! Your merchants ask the removal of Mr. secretary Wells, an all Washington says he is not in fault, it is McClellan. Your merchants can find fault-why don't they express approval of the President's message? If the Tariff or Bank were at issue, we should have public meetings, and delegations of leading men sent to Washington. Even now you meet there influential men striving to mould the Tax Bill. Why does no voice go up form Boston, form Faneuil Hall, from the State House, for LIBERTY as the wish of Massachusetts? How long is the North to wait without a leader? My message to you to-night is-SPEAK! The President holds out his hand. Take it. Assure him that he has in Massachusetts more than military support. The men who led the mobs of the last winter are fighting the nation's battle bravely at Roanoke and Poolesville-God bless them! (Loud applause.) The man who cried "Shame" on this platform, nearly fifteen months ago, are fighting for Liberty, whether they know it or not, in the swamps of the Carolinas. God hold them up, and bring them safe home to enjoy their victory! (Tremendous applause.) But the men who stay at home have also a duty. It is a "big job." It goes down to the very nation's life. It is not money merely that she needs. Mr. Seward may put me in jail to night for making this speech, and your for listening to it. He has the right, and ought to have it, as long as the rebellion lasts. Every hour that he has it, it is a poison. Despotism, and debts, and armies are the medicine of the State. not its diet. Let us leave drugs as soon as possible, and get back to bread. In order to do it, let no timid press speak for us. If the North American denounces Sumner as a traitor, let Faneuil Hall endorse him as a statesman. (Loud cheers.) If the fosil remains of dead parties block his path, let the young men of twenty and thirty hold him up in their arms, and let the nation see that Massachusetts, whether she likes his method or not, endorses his result, which is Liberty. (Prolonged applause.) Fellow-citizens, it does not matter what the method may be: Emancipation-destruction of States-annihilation of Territories-removal of McClellan-appointment of Fremont-nobody cares: the result is all. That is, one nation, and the goal is Liberty. (Applause.)
Wherever I went throughout the West, I had one support-let me mention it here. When I stood on this platform, a year or two ago, there were twenty men who never left me alone. They were Germans. Half of them fell bravely in deadly battle at Ball's Bluff. When they threatened me with mobs in a dozen Western cities, there was one thing I was certain of receiving-an offer from the Germans of their halls and their bodies. (Prolonged and enthusiastic cheering.) "Come to Cincinnati," was my last message. "and two hundred men will die before you shall." That is the German voice of the West, and I come home with one idea-No Yankee, no Buckeye, no Sucker, no native, no foreigner, no black, no white, no German, no Saxon, in that beautiful future which we behold; only American citizens, with one law impartial over all (applause); an empire stretching from the lakes to the Gulf, form the Atlantic to the Pacific, every race, every man, free; and a Union, indissoluble in its interests and its patriotism as the granite that underlies the continent. That flag shall be our future, but in order to it, support your own representatives. Send them up a message officially. I speak to the merchants of Boston, who bound the Mississippi to our harbor;-bind now the Gulf of Mexico to Boston. I speak to the politicians of Massachusetts, you who have sent these Republican Senators and Representatives to Washington, stand by them! Remember that you have no support in your press,-it is vassal. The press of the Connecticut Valley is as base as that of the seaboard. If Massachusetts saves herself, it is to be in spite of her editors. I want a voice form the Legislature; I want a voice form the Exchange; I want a voice form Faneuil Hall. If you do not give it, you are deserting the place of Massachusetts in this struggle, which is to lead. The West looks to you; the South looks to you. The Massachusetts regiments are the worst treated, Massachusetts soldiers the worst hated, because they are recognized as the most fixed in their purpose. Show it to be the same in polities as on the field. Encourage the President to enlarge his Border State message; encourage Mr. Stanton, his whole Cabinet, to say, within six months-"Death to every institution that makes war upon the Republic, and liberty to every man under its flag!" (Prolonged applause.)
<c02>
CONVERSION OF AN ORTHODOX MINISTER TO ANTI-SLAVERY.
Re. A.H. Quint, pastor of the Orthodox church at Jamaica Plain, Mass.,-and chaplain of the 2d Mass. Regiment, connected with Gen. Bank's division on the Potomac, writes his new experience in the Congregationalist,(March, 1862,)as follows:-
"I am no fanatic. I never even voted a Republican ticket. I would treat tenderly those thus perverted. But this eight months' campaign on slave soil, in localities where slavery assumes its mild type, has made me feel-and I do assure my conservative ministerial brethren-that the whole system it infamous. 'The sins of slavery'? There are none; it is slave-holding itself that is the sin. Its effect on the masters is one of its greatest evils. It perverts the conscience, warps the intellect, brutalizes the heart."
While Mr. Quint's just and accurate language respecting slavery assures us that he is now no fanatic, the terms in which he speaks corroborate his assertion that he has heretofore held himself aloof from the class commonly so called. With a curious confusion of epithets,(reminding us of the negro at Port Royal, who prayed that the Lord would "bress de damned Yankees,") in the very paragraph in which he declares the whole system of slavery infamous, he speaks of those as "perverted" who have been accustomed to vote against its extension. He still sees men as trees walking. But the testimony extorted from him by his eight months' actual contact with slavery (testimony exactly accordant with that which the Abolitionists have for thirty years been spreading before the community) is so directly in contrast with his position as a member and supporter of the Boston Tract Society, as to be worth making note of. 
The separation of the Boston Society from its auxiliary relation to the American Tract Society at New York (a separation voted in 1859) was founded on the adoption, by the former, of the very position that Mr. Quint now declares untenable. The Boston Society ceased to be a branch, and assumed the position of an independent body, because it was determined to adopt the following Resolution, which the National Society had repeatedly refused to adopt:-
"Resolved, That the political aspects of slavery lie entirely without the proper sphere of this Society, and cannot be discussed in its publications; but that those moral duties which grow out of the existence of slavery, as well as those moral evils which it is known to no promote, and which are condemned in Scripture, and so much deplored by evangelical Christians, do undoubtedly fall within the province of this Society, and can and ought to be discussed in a fraternal and Christian sprit"
Agreeing with the pro-slavery American Tract Society, that neither the system of slavery, nor the support rendered it by law, by government, and by the various political parties, should be condemned in their Tracts, the Boston Society made one short step forward and decided that they might, could and would discuss "those moral duties which grow. out of the existence of slavery, as well as those moral evils which it is known to promote." They have accordingly been discussing them, in several books and tracts, for two or three years past. But now arises one of themselves, even a prophet of their own, and tells to them, from his prolonged experience, that there are no sins of slavery; that slaveholding itself is the sin; and that the whole system is infamous.
Will they heed this voice at their approaching Annual Meeting? Will they venture no further than to discuss that which is essentially infamous? Will they still disclaim all right to touch the political aspects of slavery? We shall see.-C.K.W.

THE COLORED MAN IN ILLINOIS.
The papers inform us that in June next, the people of Illinois are to vote upon the adoption of a new Constitution for their State. Among other provisions it contains the following:-
"Sec.1. No negro or mulatto shall migrate or settle in this State after the adoption of this Constitution.
"Sec.2. No negro or mulatto shall have the right of suffrage, or hold any office in this State."
The man or men who could originate, adopt and recommend, as a part of their State Constitution, provisions cruelly wicked as the above, must surely be lost to all proper sense of respect, and destitute of every sentiment of a true humanity.
We would fain hope that the State of Illinois will repudiate the barbarity thus sought to be forced upon her, and refuse to allow the hungry and the naked and the stranger of God's children to be thrust out of her door. Is not the State rich, and broad, and fertile in resources? with room enough for men of all colors whom God has pleased to make? Let not Illinois show herself hard-hearted and pitiless! Let her not presume to attempt to degrade those whom God and the growing spirit of the age are calling to rise and be men! What a truly noble and glorious deed it would be, should the men of Illinois, with a true self-respect and the courage of men, reject this inhuman Constitution, and save themselves from the disgrace which its adoption must fasten upon their State!
To THE MEN OF ILLINOIS. Send to No. 221 Washington street, Boston, and get a little tract called "Loyalty and Devotion of Colored Americans in the Revolution and War of 1812." Read its truthful account of what the colored people have sacrificed and suffered in behalf of the rights and liberties of the United States, and say if you can make such a return for those sacrifices and services as the pro-slavery men of your State and elsewhere would have you make. The tracts shall be freely given to all who ask; but if the needful stamps for postage(one cent each) should also accompany the order, it will just so much increase our ability to distribute them. Orders may be addressed to R. F. Wallcut, or S. May, Jr., as above.

MISS DICKINSON AT PROVIDENCE.
FREEDOM AT THE FEDERAL CAPITAL.
Providence, April 20, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON: 
Last Sunday, we had the pleasure of hearing two lectures from the youthful ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia. She spoke in the morning on the National Crisis, and in the evening on the Position of Woman. A rich treat it was, truly, to all who heard her, with perhaps a few exceptions, composed of those who are unable to appreciate the truth of what is lovely and beautiful. Her voice is clear and her articulation very distinct, so much so, that every word she uttered was distinctly heard in every part of Pratt's large hall, and people were amazed that one so young as nineteen years only should show such a matured and disciplined mind, so well acquainted with facts of recent and remote history, and was enabled to speak with such fluency. The number present in the morning was respectable, and in the evening the audience was much larger. Had it not been that the Rev. Mr. Channing, of the Unitarian church at Washington, spoke in Dr. Hall's church in the evening, the hall would nave been crowded, the admission fee notwithstanding. Many are anxious to hear her again, and more will avail themselves of the opportunity when she visits us again, which we hope will be soon. Thankful should we all be for such an advocate of human rights. Her lectures at Fall River and Newport were a complete success, also.
Well, thanks to the Most High, the Federal capital is now free from the curse of slavery. "The Lord reigneth, let the earth rejoice!" I first signed a petition to Congress to abolish slavery in the District of The Columbia in 1834, and have signed and carried petitions inviting others to sign many times in the years that followed; and what scoffs and jeers, contempt and ridicule were thrown in the faces of all who labored to make free the ten miles square! But who regrets the labor now? Abundant cause have all to rejoice that they were called thus to labor for the poor bond-man, and now more especially as the fruits are beginning to be obvious. Gratifying is the fact that all the Representatives and Senators from New England
<c03>
voted for the bill, and shame that twenty-two members from the Free States should be so wanting in humane principles as to record their names in opposition to that glorious measure! On Thursday morning, we read the message of President Lincoln approving the bill, and at 6 o'clock, P. M., 100 guns were fired on the bridge in the Railroad Park, in the honor of the refreshing and joyful event. I must tell you that this movement was made by our excellent and active friends, Dunbar Harris and Dr. W. H. Helme. It is something entirely new for Abolitionists of the Garrison school to feel like rejoicing at the sound of cannon. It is quite common to ring bells and fire gun for the liberty of white men, but for black men, who ever heard of an instance before? Verily, "the world moves." But, as I often heard you say, in public and in private, "Slavery will go down in blood," even so it is. Immense blood and treasure are now the result of this long-continued wickedness; but we hope the beginning of the end has come. Heaven grant that the end may not long be delayed!
Truly, yours, for the freedom of our beloved country, A. FAIRBANKS.

NINETEENTH OF APRIL AT WEYMOUTH.
SLAVE EMANCIPATION AT THE NATIONAL CAPITAL.
At Weymouth, on Saturday, a salute of one hundred guns was tired at one o'clock in honor of the day, and of the triumph of the Emancipation policy at the National Capital.
At 3 o'clock, a large congregation gathered at the First Universalist Church, where the following list of officers was chosen:—Elias Richards, President; Hon. J. W. Loud, Adoram Clapp, Esq., Hon. A. N. Hunt, N. Blanchard, Hon. James Humphrey, Samuel Cook, Vice Presidents; D. F. Goddard, Dr. A. G. Nye, Secretaries.
The meeting was opened with prayer by Rev. L. A. Abbot, and eloquent remarks were made by Revs. Calvin Terry, Dickerman, Abbot, Hon. J. W. Loud, and by Messrs. Richards, Pierce and Goddard. The choir and congregation united in singing "America," and Miss Martineau's appropriate lines, "All men are equal in their birth." It was a rare time for old Weymouth, and there were but few hearts that did not respond to the threefold appeal of the occasion, "Lexington" of 1775, Baltimore of 1861, and the late Emancipation act, by which our Capital is rid of slavery, and the glad "beginning of the end" is inaugurated.
The following resolutions were passed unanimously:
Resolved, That in the Act for the abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia, lately passed by Congress and signed by the President, we recognize and gladly hail the presence of the same spirit of universal liberty which animated the men of Lexington and the fathers of the Revolution; the spirit which, though sleeping, never dead, has been underlying all our national existence since; which produced and sustained, first in the resolve of the few, and then in the determination of the many, the great Northern resistance to the aggressions of Slavery, and now, finally, to the sin itself; that same spirit, too, which, arousing as the hour of crisis came, and fruitful in the other free States, cropped out again in Massachusetts readiness and regiments on the 19th of April, 1861; and which is now, we trust and pray, both in the Cabinet and the field, grappling its last grapple with our sole remaining foe upon the Continent.
Resolved, That we do heartily accept, and will sustain with our best ability, the President, Cabinet and Congress, in that legislation by which involuntary servitude is already abolished in the District of Columbia; and that, since by rebellion and secession, the slave States have deprived themselves of the political rights hitherto guaranteed them under the Constitution, we look forward with hope for the time, when, in perfect legality, as an honor .and justice ever, the institution of slavery itself shall be destroyed from the whole land, and Emancipation be proclaimed to all the inhabitants thereof.

THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, FOR MAY, contains the following attractive articles:— Under the Snow; a Poem. By the late General Frederick W. Lander. Speech of Hon. Preserved Doe in Secret Caucus; reported by Hosea Biglow. A new Biglow Paper. By James Russell Lowell. The Fifth of the Series. Slavery; Its Principles, Development and Expedients. By a distinguished writer. The Titmouse; A characteristic new Poem. By Ralph Waldo Emerson. The South Breaker; A New Story. By Miss Harriet E. Prescott, author of "Midsummer and May," "In a Cellar," &c. Saltpetre as a Source of Power. By Prof. A. A. Hayes. Weather in War; an interesting Historical and Anecdotical Paper, showing the influence which weather has exerted upon the Campaigns of the great Generals of History. Methods of Study in Natural History. By Prof. Louis, Agassiz. Fifth Paper of the Series. Upon "Coral Reefs." Spirits. By Mrs. Lydia Maria Child. Containing new facts and speculations bearing upon this important topic. My Garden. The Telegrams; A Lyric of the Street. By Mrs. Julia Ward Howe. The Statesmanship of Richelieu. By Prof. A. A. White. Man Under Sealed Orders. By Rev. J. T. Walden. The Volunteer. By Elbridge Jefferson Cutler. Hindrance. By David A. Wasson. Lines; Written Under a Portrait of Theodore Winthrop. Reviews and Literary Notices.

DEATH OF MARTIN STOWELL. A recent letter from a member of one of the Nebraska Regiments announces the death of Martin Stowell, a prominent Anti-Slavery man formerly of Worcester. The letter states that Mr. Stowell was slain by the rebels near Paris, Tenn., having been drawn into an ambuscade while marching with a company of Nebraska men under orders to protect the loyal citizens of that town from the attacks of roving parties of rebels who were carrying on a guerilla warfare against their Union neighbors.
Mr. Stowell was a man of great courage, and possessed of unusual physical strength. He was a conspicuous actor in the rescue of the slave "Jerry," at Syracuse several years ago, from the hands of the slave hunters, and suffered an imprisonment of several months in the jail of Suffolk county, for alleged participation in the unsuccessful attempt to rescue the slave Anthony Burns from the Boston Court House, while in custody of the United States Marshal of the District
Subsequently, Mr. Stowell removed with his family to Kansas, intending to settle as a farmer in that territory, but the incursions of the Missouri border ruffians compelled him to take up arms for the common defence, and through all that long and bitter struggle with the minions of the slave power, Mr. Stowell did "yeoman's service" with his rifle in the cause of liberty, justice and humanity. After the restoration of peace to Kansas, Mr. Stowell purchased a ferry privilege in Nebraska, and was a resident of that State at the outbreak of the present rebellion.
An abolitionist of the John Brown stamp, he early enlisted in the ranks of the country's defenders, and on he has now met death like a hero, fighting in that cause for which he had always been ready to lay down his life.
08 Mr. Stowell leaves a wife and two young children who at present reside in Warren, Worcester county. 
T. D.

The lecture on "The National Crisis," delivered at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon last, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, by Miss Dickinson of Philadelphia, attracted a large audience, and was listened to with unbroken interest and warm approbation. She treated her great topic in a manner and with an ability commensurate with its importance, going to the root of the rebellion, and calling upon the people to demand of the Government the immediate and total abolition of slavery, under the war power, as the only radical method of cure. We congratulate her Philadelphia relatives and friend upon her successful debut in Boston, and doubt not that she will give high satisfaction wherever she may lecture.
<c04>
FRATERNITY ANNIVERSARY. A very pleasant entertainment was offered by the Fraternity of the 28th Congregational Society to their friends, at Lyceum Hall, on Tuesday evening last, in celebration of their fourth Anniversary. A large company was present, who manifestly enjoyed, very highly, the exercises of the evening. While the audience were assembling, Gates's Quadrille Band played several favorite airs, and shortly after eight o'clock, CHARLES W. SLACK, the President of the Association, opened the exercises by a brief speech, reviewing the history of the Fraternity, in its connection with the 28th Society, and expressing the hope and belief that its existence and usefulness would long be perpetuated. He claimed for the Fraternity no special merit, save that it had inaugurated and maintained a free platform, on which, irrespective of creed, color or sex, all who had honest thoughts, and the ability to utter them, found a cordial welcome; and that, in so far as lay in their power, they had dispensed "the charities that heal, and soothe, and bless," to the poor, the suffering, and the oppressed. Merit enough! Happy the Society or the man that can present such a record!
Brief addresses were then made by Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Rev. J. M. Manning, E. H. Heywood, and T. M. Hathaway, which were listened to with great interest and pleasure by the audience, who testified their gratification by frequent applause.
In the course of the evening, an appropriate and well-written original ode, by JOHN MCDUFFIE, was sung, and the following vigorous and stirring lines, written by RUUFS LEIGHTON, (formerly of this city, now of Washington,) were read by C.H. BRAINARD:
ON THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Another laurel wreathes, to-day,
Our country's honored fame;
The seal is set which wipes away
A long-recorded shame. 
Thank God! the rulers of the land
For freedom have decreed;
And Justice lifts her sacred hand
To bless the righteous deed.
But yesterday, where now we tread
Was Slavery's cursed soil;
Unchecked she reared her shameless head,
And clutched her guilty spoil.
To-day we walk on Freedom's ground;
No slave can breathe this air!
And joy and thankfulness resound
Where late was heard despair.
Too long, the spot which bears the name
Of him who leads the line 
Of all the patriots dear to fame,
Whose names immortal shine,
Hath borne the deep disgrace that brands
The tyrant's hated deeds;-
And plain the damning record stands
To mock the nation's creeds.
The golden hour has struck at last,
Which marks a joyful morn;
The night of tyranny is past,
The day of justice born!
The record writ in coming years
The past may yet retrieve,
The promise which to-day appears,
The future yet achieve.
And she who crowns the smiling hill
Where fair Potomac glides,
And whose decree, for good or ill,
A nation's fate decides,-
A noble city yet shall be,
And worthy to have borne 
That honored patriot name which she,
Dishonored, long hath worn.
No more within her marble halls
Oppression rules the hour,
No longer on the nation calls
To crouch beneath his power. 
Within her courts shall Freedom bear,
Henceforth, her blessed sway;-
And all the future seems to wear
The glory of to-day.
How grand and fair the vision spread
Before our longing eyes,
As all the mists of doubt and dread
From off the picture rise! 
From lakes to gulf, from sea to sea,
Behold the land so good!
Her toiling millions strong and free,-
One mighty brotherhood.
Her battles fought, her victories won,
No field of bloody strife
Sends forth its cloud to blot the sun,
Or drinks the nation's life.
But Peace and all her shining band
Their tuneful voices raise,
And sing throughout the happy land
Their songs of joy and praise.
From sea to sea, from gulf to lakes,
And o'er the watery world,
The winds of heaven our banner takes,
Against the sky unfurled;
The dear old flag,-its stars all there,-
And where it proudly streams,
No guilt of treason taints the air,
No slave of freedom dreams.
O nation, fairest born of time!
O people, blessed of fate!
Tis yours to make the world sublime,
By being nobly great!
To rise from out this trial hour,
If true to man and God,
To heights of fame, and fields of power,
And glory all untrod!
"A Sociable" was the last item on the programme, (which, for the benefit of the uninitiated, we explain to be simply-a dance,) in which a large part of the company joined, and it was quite late (or rather early, as you please) before they separated.

WHO IS THE TRAITOR? The army correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, who accompanies the advance on Yorktown, writes:-
A circular issued by the rebels was found by one of Gen. Hamilton's aids. The purport of it was a full description of the present onward movement, with all the details; also, Gen. Magruder's plan of defeating the Union programme. The enemy must have received this information from a high source, several weeks ago, or they could not have got the circular out so soon.
PARKER PILLSBURY IN CONCORD. The address of Parker Pillsbury, on the War, at the Universalist Church, on Sunday evening, 6th inst., was listened to by a large and attentive assemblage of our best citizens. He is always heard here, in the city of his residence, with pleasure and satisfaction; and even those who cannot subscribe to all his views, admire the boldness and ability with which he declares what he believes. His address on the occasion above mentioned was one of his most masterly efforts.-Concord (N. H.) Independent Democrat.
The Tribune's Washington correspondent states the precise words of the President to the Committee of the Freedman's Association, at the interview last Saturday, were these:-
"I am entirely satisfied that no slave who becomes for the time free within the American lines will ever be re-enslaved. Rather than have it so, I would give up and abdicate."
The President on Wednesday, 16th inst., nominated to the Senate James G. Berret, ex-Mayor of Washington, Hon. Samuel F. Vinton, of Ohio, and Daniel R. Goodloe, formerly of North Carolina, Commissioners under the act for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, whose duty it is to investigate and determine the validity and value of the claims presented.
John Brown, Jr., writes to some friend in Canada, from Humboldt, Kansas, March 4th, "We have thus far, as a regiment, succeeded in freeing 1,700 slaves belonging to rebels in Missouri."
The number of graves in the vicinity of Manassas is said to exceed three thousand. The rebels, from estimates made, lost by disease at this famous encampment over five thousand men.
MORE REBEL BARBARITY An officer of the 77th New York Regiment reports that four of Gen. Banks's men have been found tied to a tree, with their heads shot off!
<C05>
EMANCIPATION IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
AN ACT for the release of certain persons held to service or labor in the District of Colombia.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That all persons held to service or labor within the District of Columbia by reason of African descent are hereby discharged and freed of and from all claim to such service or labor; and from and after the passage of this act, neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except for crime, whereof the party shall be duly convicted, shall hereafter exist in said District.
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That all persons loyal to the United States, holding claims to service or labor against persons discharged therefrom by this act, may, within ninety days from the passage thereof, but not thereafter, present to the Commissioners hereinafter mentioned their respective statements or petitions in writing, verified by oath or affirmation, setting forth the names, ages, and personal description of such persons, the manner in which said petitioners acquired such claim, and any facts touching the value thereof, and declaring his allegiance to the Government of the United States, and that he has not borne arms against the United States during the present rebellion, nor in any tray given aid or comfort thereto: Provided, That the oath of the party to the petition shall not be evidence of the facts therein stated.
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted. That the President of the United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint three Commissioners, residents of the District of Columbia, any two of whom shall have power to act, who shall receive the petitions above mentioned, and who shall investigate and determine the validity and value of the claims therein presented, as aforesaid, and appraise and apportion, under the proviso hereto annexed, the value in money of the several claims by them found to be valid: Provided, however. That the entire sum so appraised and apportioned shall not exceed in the aggregate an amount equal to three hundred dollars for each person shown to have been so held by lawful claim: And provided, further. That no claim shall be allowed for any slave or slaves brought into said District after the passage of this act, nor for any slave claimed by any person who has borne arms against the Government of the United States in the present Rebellion, or in any way given aid or comfort thereto, or which originates in or by virtue of any transfer heretofore made, or which shall hereafter be made by any person who has in any manner aided or sustained the Rebellion against the Government of the United States.
SEC. 4. And be it farther enacted, That said Commissioners shall, within nine months from the passage of this act, make a full and final report of their proceedings, findings and appraisement, and shall deliver the same to the Secretary of the Treasury, which report shall be deemed and taken to be conclusive in all respects, except as hereinafter provided; and the Secretary of the Treasury shall, with like exception, cause the amounts so apportioned to said claims to be paid from the Treasury of the United States to the parties found by said report to be entitled thereto as aforesaid, and the same shall be received in full and complete compensation: Provided, That in cases where petitions may be filed presenting conflicting claims or setting up liens, said Commissioners shall so specify in said report, and payment shall not be made according to the award of said Commissioners until a period of sixty days shall have elapsed, during which time any petitioner claiming an interest in the particular amount may file a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, making all other claimants defendants thereto, getting forth the proceedings in such case before said Commissioners, and their action therein, and praying that the party to whom payment has been awarded may be enjoined from receiving the same; and if said court shall grant such provisional order, a copy thereof may, on motion of said complainant, be served upon the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall thereupon cause the said amount of money to be paid into said court, subject to its orders and final decree, which payment shall be in full and complete compensation, as in other cases.
SEC. 5. And be it further enacted. That said Commissioners shall hold their sessions in the City of Washington, at such place and times as the President of the United States may direct, of which they shall give due and public notice. They shall have power to subpena and compel the attention of witnesses, and to receive testimony and enforce its production, as in civil cases before courts of justice, without the exclusion of any witness on account of color; and they may summon before them the persons making claim to service or labor, and examine them under oath; and they may also for purposes of identification and appraisement, call before them the persons so claimed. Said Commissioners shall appoint a clerk, who shall keep files and complete record of all proceedings before them, who shall have power to administer oaths and affirmations in said proceedings, and who shall issue all lawful process by them ordered. The Marshal of the District of Columbia shall personally, or by deputy, attend upon the sessions of said Commissioners, and shall execute the process issued by said clerk.
SEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That said Commissioners shall receive in compensation for their services the sum of $2,000 each, to be paid upon the filing of their report; that said Clerk shall receive for his services the sum of $200 per month; that said Marshal shall receive such fees as are allowed by law for similar services performed by him in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia; that the Secretary of the Treasury shall cause all other reasonable expenses of said Commission to be audited and allowed, and that said compensation, fees, and expenses shall be paid from the Treasury of the United States.
SEC. 7. And be it further enacted, That for the purpose of carrying this act into effect, there is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, a sum not exceeding $1,000,000. 
SEC. 8. And be it further enacted, That any person or persons who shall kidnap or in any manner transport or procure to be taken out of said District, any person or persons discharged and freed by the provisions of this act, or any free person or persons, with intent ot re-enslave or sell such person or persons into slavery, or shall re-enslave any of said freed persons, the person or persons so offending shall be deemed guilty of a felony, and on conviction thereof in any court of competent jurisdiction in said District shall be imprisoned in the Penitentiary not less than five nor more than twenty years.
SEC. 9. And be it further enacted, That within twenty days, or within such further time as the Commissioners herein provided for shall limit after the passage of this act, a statement in writing or schedule shall be filed with the Clerk of the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia by the several owners or claimants to the services of the persons made free or manumitted by this act, setting forth the names, ages, sex, and particular description of such persons, severally; and the said Clerk shall receive and record, in a book by him to be provided and kept for that purpose, the said statements or schedules on receiving fifty cents each therefor, and no claim shall be allowed to any claimant or owner who shall neglect this requirement.
SEC. 10. And be it further enacted, That the said Clerk and his successors in office shall from time to time, on demand, and on receiving twenty-five cents therefor, prepare, sign, and deliver to each person made free or manumitted by this act, a certificate under the seal of said Court, getting out the name, age, and description of such person, and stating that such person was duly manumitted and set free by this act.
SEC. 11. And be it further enacted, That the sum of $100,000, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, is hereby appropriated, to be expended under the direction of the President of the United States, to aid in the colonization and settlement of such free persons of African descent now residing in said District, including those to be liberated by this act, as may desire to emigrate to the Republic of Hayti, or Liberia, or such other country beyond the limits of the United States as the President may determine; Provided, The expenditure for this purpose shall not exceed $100 for each emigrant.
SEC. 12. And be it further enacted, That all acts of Congress and all laws of the State of Maryland in force in said District, and all ordinances of the Cities of Washington and Georgetown, inconsistent with the provisions of this act, arc hereby repealed. (Approved April 16, 1862.)
THE PRESIDENT'S APPROVAL OF THE BILL TO ABOLISH SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.-The following message was sent to Congress on Wednesday, 16th inst., by the President:-
Fellow Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:-The act entitled an act for the release of certain persons held to service or labor in the District of Columbia has this day been approved and signed. I have never doubted the constitutional authority of Congress to abolish slavery in this District, and I have ever desired to see the national Capital freed from this institution in some satisfactory way. Hence there has never been in my mind any question upon the subject, except the one of expediency arising in view of the circumstances. If there be matters within and about this act which might have taken a course or shape more satisfactory to my judgment, I do not attempt to specify them. I am gratified that the two principles of compensation and colonization are both recognized and practically applied in the act. In the matter of compensation, it is provided that claims may be presented within ninety days from the passage of the act, but not thereafter, and there is no saving for minors, femmes covert, insane or absent persons. I presume this is an omission by mere oversight, and I recommend that it be supplied by an amendatory or supplemental act.
(Signed).ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

The Washington Republican avers that not one-fourth of the sum appropriated by the Emancipation bill for the compensation of slave-owners will be required, so many of the slaves having already been run off.
<c06>
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Collections by Parker Pillsbury.
In Fitchburg, Mass., $9; Westboro', 5; Plymouth, 5; North Abington, 2.50; Hyannis, 4; Harwich, 3.64; East Dennis, 4.27; Capt. P. S. Crowell, 25; North Dennis, 7.20; Centreville, 2.60; North Bridgewater, 2.31; Malden, 3.75, $74,27
By S. May, Jr., on account of 28th Subscription- Anniversary
Alfred Bicknell, Greenwood, 2.00
WM. I. BOWDITCH,
Treasurer American A. S. Society.
April 23, 1862.
THE REJECTED STONE.-The new edition of this book, by Mr. CONWAY, of which we recently spoke, may be expected the middle of next week.
We repeat our last week's announcement respecting the "Rejected Stone," viz., that an arrangement has been made by which copies may be obtained for gratuitous distribution as low as twenty cents a copy, in cloth, provided ten or more copies are taken at once. Those who wish the book, far this purpose, should apply, in person or by letter, to HENRY G. DENNY, Esq., 42 Court Street, Boston.
The attention of our friends everywhere is earnestly called to this great opportunity of promoting the abolition of United States slavery.

NOTICE.-All communications relating to the business of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and with regard to the Publications and Lecturing Agencies of the Americas Anti-Slavery Society, should be addressed for the present to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington St, Boston.
Many of the best and most recent publications of the American Anti-Slavery Society are for gratuitous distribution. Application for them to be made as above, which should be accompanied with directions how to send hem.
NOTICE.-Members of the American, Pennsylvania, Western, or Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, contributing annually to the funds of either of these Societies, can receive a copy of the last very valuable Report of the American Society, entitled The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year, by sending a request to that effect to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston, and enclosing stamps sufficient to pay the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
REMOVAL-DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.-MARGARET B. BROWN, M. D., and WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., have removed to No. 23, Chauney Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A. M., to 4 o'clock, P. M.
March 28. 3m
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
AARON M. POWELL, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Nassau, (Rens. Co.) N. Y , Saturday, April 26.
Nassau, (Rens. Co.) N. Y., Sunday, April 27.
Spencertown, N. Y., Wednesday, April 30.
Spencertown, N. Y., Thursday, May 1.
West Ghent, N. Y., Saturday, May 3.
West Ghent N. Y., Sunday, May, 4.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Milford, Sunday, April 27.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, will lecture on Slavery and the War, in the Unitarian Church, (Rev. Mr. Potter's,) in NEW BEDFORD, on Sunday evening next, April 27.
MISS DICKINSON will repeat her Lecture on The National Crisis in PROVIDENCE, next week, by special request, on some evening to be announced.
She will also give a lecture at PAWTUCKET, on Woman's Rights, one evening next week.

DIED—At Quaker Springs, Saratoga Co., N. Y., April 4, ISAAC T. GRIFFEN, son of Isaac and Anna Griffen, in the 18th year of his age.
The deceased was a young man of rare promise, a dutiful son, an affectionate brother, and greatly beloved by a large circle of friends. He had excellent mental powers, was assiduously pursuing his studies, possessed remarkably discriminating judgment, based upon correct principles, and had before him the prospect of an extended career of usefulness. The Liberator has been a weekly visitor from its earliest days in their family, and he grew up with it as a counsellor. He felt a deep and lively interest in the great conflict between freedom and slavery.
We part with him with a sense of deep grief and keen regret, but conscious that the new sphere of life upon which he has thus early entered will be full of interest and joy to him. P.
Editor of the Liberator-Permit me to chronicle in your paper, for the information of many friends, the death of ANNA M, the adopted daughter of NATHAN and HARRIET RICHARDSON, of Warren. Miss Richardson passed away after a lingering, and, for the last few weeks, painful sickness, on the 10th day of April, at the age of 21 years. Greatly will she be missed in that little home-circle of which she was so bright an ornament and so devoted a member, by him to whom she was affianced, and whose happiness was so bound up in hers, and by that large circle of friends who held her in such esteem. But, while they miss her, and grieve at the loss of her companionship, they will be consoled by the memory of what she was, not only when health smiled, and she was so active and mindful of their happiness, but also when sickness prostrated her, and she was made the recipient of all those kind attentions which parental sympathy and the affectionate regard of friends could suggest. They will remember how patiently she endured the long and painful weeks; how grateful she was for the numberless little attentions to her welfare; and how considerate of the comfort of those who administered so untiringly to her wants. They will remember her intelligent and cheerful faith in the future; how freely and calmly she convened with them of the approaching change; and how, as the death-angel drew near, she was inspired with no fear, but a blissful resignation was manifest in every word and look. And so, though gone, her memory shall be a blessed inheritance forever. Warren, April 17, 1862. J.H.M

SELECT SCHOOL
THE subscriber will be pleased to receive a few Young Ladies into her charge for purposes of Instruction in English Branches, Music and French. A Term of Ten Weeks will commence Wednesday, May 7, 1862.
For particulars, address ABBIE B. HEYWOOD. Hopedale, Milford, Mass., April 15, 1862.

THE PROGRESSIVE AGE.
Devoted to all Reforms.
THIS is a monthly Journal, of eight pages, edited by Bryan J. Butts and Harriet N. Greene, his wife, Hopedale, Mass. It commences its fourth volume in May, 1862; and the friends of an unqualifiedly free paper are invited duly to consider its claims on their patronage. Specimen copies sent to any address.
TERMS.-Single copies, 50 cents a year; clubs of twenty names, $5.00.
Address B. J. BUTTS & H. N. GREENE.
Hopedale, April 16. 2w

INDUCEMENTS TO SUBSCRIBE.
To New Subscribers the present year, the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER & ATLANTIC MONTHLY will be furnished for $5.00 a year; the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER AND NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW will be furnished for $7.00 a year; the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, and ATLANTIC MONTHLY, will be furnished for $9.00 a year.
Payment in advance to accompany the order in all cases.
A few subscriptions can be received on the above terms, beginning with THE EXAMINER for January, 1862, the first number of the current volume.
March 1, 1862.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ., ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW 
No. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON
April 3.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
For the Liberator.
THE VEILED PROPHET OF AMERICA.
BY E. R. PLACE
[Few readers of the Liberator, it may be presumed, need to be informed that the story of the story of the "Veiled Prophet of Khorassan" may be found in Moore's well-known poem of "Lala Rookh." Several interesting parallels will probably occur to the reader, not attempted in the following poem; indeed, we at first intended a fuller treatment, but circumstances forbade the carrying out of the design.]
To prove man's race a unit all,
What countless volumes stand!
What searching round earth's rugged ball!
What notions-weak, or grand!
One day, this thought its impress left,
As Truth's daguerreotype-
(I know not but you'll think, bereft
Of all her beauty ripe:)
Not all the cranium's chambered story-
Not physiologic life-
Nor all the anatomic glory
Of scalpel, saw and knife,
Such evidence affords that man,
Through all his piebald race
Is, in his nature's tone and plan,
The same sad wreck of grace,
AS the broad fact that, everywhere,
Through all the zones you strike,
However strange the type that's there,
His sins are-strangely like!
America's "Veiled Prophet," then,
Commands our earnest heed;-
No monster, of all monster men, 
Excels this native breed.
Thus of Mokanna the poet sings;-
A hideous fiend though he,
O'er his marred face a veil he flings,
That Zelica, the faire, did vow
To be Mokanna's bride,
When frenzy smote her fevered brow,
Because her Azim died.
But when, upon her startled ear,
Incautious words there fell,
That stript the "Prophet's" spirit clear,
And jarred the deadly spell,
How smote her heart-how shrieked her soul-
Appalled before her crime!
Thus caught at last, in vain all guise,
Mokanna lifts the veil-
The maiden falls! her piercing cries
The monsters ears regale.
Still, Zelica would heed her vow!
Mokanna's bride she'd sing:
Though through her brain are sounding now
These words of frightful ring-
"Behold, if all hell's power to damn
Can breed a worse than this I am!"
And still the "Prophet," now confessed
A fiend, whose love doth kill,
Demands her troth to his behest,
And chains her struggling will.
Lo, thou, Mokanna of our land,
False prophet, Slavery!
Khorassan's monster thou dost stand,-
Like him, all knavery!
A silvery veil a while didst wear,
Of "wise expediency,"
Till State and Church did loud declare,
"We're nothing but with thee."
But, in an hour of reckless rage,
The flimsy veil was rent,
When Freedom saw her sons engage 
Thy hordes on ruin bent.
Then strode thou forth, from secret prowl,
In hate's extremest dye;-
A hell-hound, of death-booming howl,
On Freedom's track to fly.
At last we know thee, imp of Sin!
Thou ownest, now, thy ends;-
Half veiled, if thou didst respite win,
Unmasked, thy doom descends!
Alas! alas! though Freedom shriek
Her fears in every breath,
Where is the voice of power to speak,
Death to the foeman-death!
He dares to talk of Freedom's vow
To be his bride, of yore!
And Zelicas all round us now
Submit, and yet deplore!
Thus is the Poet's thrilling page
Of horror, scarce received,
Repeated in our land and age;
By us made truth believed!
Chelsea, (Mass.) April 15, 1862.
For the Liberator.
MY NATIVE LAND.
I.
My native land! whose early sun
Threw wide its light o'er earth and sea,
With mercies has thy cup o'errun,-
Strange so ungrateful thou should'st be!
II.
My native land! no land so blest:
Thy sons have boasted "all were free"-
While North and South, and East and West,
We've nurtured basest tyranny.
III.
My native land! I weep for thee,
And pray that God in love may spare;
That He'll regard thee graciously,
And lot thee still his mercies share.
Iv.
My native land! no land beside
Sends through my being such a thrill;
While for thy sins the Lord doth chide,-
May we, submissive, learn His will.
V.
My native land! wipe out the stain
Which dims the lustre of thy stars!
Strike from thy vassals every chain-
Wipe out the wrong the glory mars!
VI.
My native land! then shall thy light
Break forth as the clear morning's sun,-
Its rays shall dissipate thy night,
And thou shalt see thy heaven begun.
Boston, April 15, 1862. JUSTITIA.
THE COMING DAY.
We wait to hear the trumpet blast
Of Freedom from the battle-tower
Of justice, triumphing at last,
And blasting Wrong with righteous power.
We wait to see the lightnings flash
With God's own purpose strong and just,
And scorching, burning, scathing, dash
Oppression's idols in the dust.
The night is dark, but through the cloud
We catch, afar, a glimmering ray;
Our trembling hope beneath the shroud
Points steadfast to the coming day
Points steadfast to the coming day.
The coming day, when, roused at last,
Nobly to act to nation dares;
Burning with hatred of the past,
It compromises not, nor spares.
But, surging, heaving through the land,
A noble anthem for the free,
"Break every yoke, break every band,"
Rings the last dirge of slavery.
God speed the hour! God speed the day!
God gird the people to the task
With brave, strong hearts to meet the fray-
Their fathers' freedom win at last.
We wait hear the trumpet blast
Of freedom from the battle-tower
Of justice, triumphing at last,
And blasting Wrong with righteous power.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE STATE OP THE COUNTRY.
FRIEND GARRIS0N:
I fully sympathize with your remark, that you shudder at the thought that there should be a reconstruction under the old pro-slavery compromises. I do not think it impossible; neither do I think it so unlikely as many imagine. My view of the case is rather more sombre than rose water. It may be folly in me, while there are so many abler voices and pens than mine, to say anything on the subject; but I feel moved to give some of the reasons why I think it may be accomplished, and also some of the results that may probably follow such an event.
There seems to be no inclination on the part of the Administration to disturb slavery, if it can possibly be avoided; and its most cherished desire seems to be to effect a reconstruction. There is a large portion of the people-Mr. Greeley says one-third, but I think more than that-who desire the same thing. Then taking into consideration the numbers and resources of the North, and the recent victories, I see no reason why the South should not be conquered. But why is it, when it is patent to everybody that slavery is the prime cause of the rebellion, that the Government and people do not decree emancipation at once? In a conversation with an Old School Presbyterian clergyman, sometime since, by way of apology, he said, that slavery was not an excrescence to be cut off, but an organic disease; it was interwoven into the very texture; the life-blood was contaminated with it. All this is true; and it is so connected with all which we have been taught to regard as sacred, that nobody can strike it an effectual blow without striking something else held dear-the party, the constitution, the church, or denomination. Perhaps, at present, the Constitution and Union are more in the way than anything else.
Another reason, and nearly related to the other, is the want of faith in the right. Men being moral beings, they will almost universally acknowledge, speculatively, that right doing will lead to prosperity, and wrong doing to adversity; but come to face the obstacles in the way of right, they have not faith as a grain of mustard seed. The great difference between the radicals and conservatives is, that the former believe it to be safe and expedient to carry their abstract speculative principles into practice, and the latter do not. We will now take some examples to illustrate this-not down in the filth of politics, but in the religious world. The Tract Society of Boston seceded from that of New York on account of its pro-slavery character, and yet this same Boston Society published a tract on the occasion of the President's Fast to show the people what sins they should fast over, confess and forsake, in order to appease God and secure his favor and success to our arms; and yet there was nothing said about slavery! Probably every one of the Managers of that Society would admit that slavery was the whole cause of the rebellion, and that we never can have permanent peace until slavery is brought to an end. They are all anti-slavery men; they do not mean to be wicked men, but they mean to be prudent, and conservative, and look well to results, and not injure the Union cause. They intended to be very reverent and pious, but I think they were irreverent and impious, which I will illustrate by an anecdote. One of my neighbors, a few years since, planted his potatoes, and did not hoe them; he consequently had a Urge crop of weeds, but few potatoes. Late in the season, he borrowed my cultivator, got it into the field, and left it there some two months. Now, when he found that he was likely to fail of a crop, if he had gone to fasting and praying, and confessing his sins in general, and not returning the cultivator in particular, and entreated the Lord to avert his judgments, and give him a good crop of potatoes without using the means, he would have shown as much common sense, reverence, piety and faith in God as the Tract Society did in that tract
The General Association of Massachusetts, last summer, resolved to sustain the Government in putting down the rebellion, and hoped the Lord in his own time and way would put an end to slavery, which was the cause of it Now, it seems to me that there would have been more true piety, as well as philosophy and common sense, to have resolved to sustain the Government in removing the cause, (slavery,) and then trusted in God that the effect (the rebellion) would cease.
The General Associations of Maine and New Hampshire passed resolutions to sustain the Government against the rebellion, but no call to remove its cause, or to the people to repent of the sin of sustaining it.
These men do not love slavery for itself. They know, and will admit, in private, that it is the root of the trouble; that the war is a judgment from God on us for our sin in being connected with it; and yet, for fear of hurting the Union cause with Northern hunkers and the Border States, or running against the Constitution, or for some other cause, they think it prudent to say nothing about slavery, but leave it all to the Lord.
Now, I believe in a God, an overruling providence, and a divine revelation; that the war is the legitimate and necessary result of slavery; that we are reaping what we have sown; that what is needed is repentance and reformation. As the prophet expresses it- "To thoroughly amend our ways and our doings." Nothing could be more impious than for President and people, pretending to believe in a divine revelation, to pretend to hold a fast, and hang down their heads like bulrushes, and entirely disregard God's mode of fasting. I do not believe in afflicting the body for the sins of the soul; but if the President would issue a proclamation for a fast, setting forth that we bad grievously sinned as a nation in sustaining slavery, and expressing his determination, in order to reverence God and His law, and to do justice to the slaves, to go to the extent of his power to emancipate every slave; recommending to the people to assemble, and to the ministers to be faithful in showing the people how they had been guilty of sustaining slavery, and warning them to repent; and all together should resolve to use their best endeavors to sustain the Government, and in every other way aid in the good cause; resolve that every black law should be removed from the statute-book, and that all caste should cease, that the slaves should be educated, and in every right way aided and elevated where they should choose to reside; and if the Tract Society were to employ Dr. Cheever to write a tract for the occasion, instead of Dr. Wayland, and the great body of the people should enter into such a movement with as much zeal as they have into the war, I then should have hope. It seems to me that this and nothing lest is demanded, and that whoever, on account of any expediency, demands or tolerates as sufficient anything less than this," daubs with untempered mortar, ""heals the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly," and sins against God and the welfare of the nation, South as well as North, and against the salves. 
There was probably never an opportunity offered Government and people to perform so beneficent an act, on so magnificent a scale-beneficent to all concerned; to the Government and nation, affording the shortest mode of suppressing the rebellion, and the only way of keeping it down; beneficent to the slave holders themselves, as much as taking a dangerous tool from a child, or suppressing a grog-shop, as well as beneficent to the slave.
There are some favorable indications, but nothing which seems to me to meet the demand. The President's message, which causes to much rejoicing in some quarters, is in tendency, if not intention, calculated to postpone or evade the main question. If that be the right method, then no other should be proposed until that has had its trial. If the rebellion should be suppressed, and there be a temporary peace, quite a portion of anti slavery would fade out; many who cried Hosannah to you and Mr. Phillips at the Cooper and Smithsonian would change the cry to "Crucify him!" Whoever indulges in a vague idea that sla-
<c03>
very has received its death-blow, and will gradually die out, is laboring under a terrible delusion, as much so as were the framers of the Constitution. If a man had a patch of which-grass in his garden, and his hens were to scratch the surface a little, he might as well say, let it alone, it will die out gradually. Nothing short of immediate, utter extermination, root and branch, will answer in either case. I thing that at the dark period of Fremont's proclamation, the President might have extended it to all the slaves in the country, and been sustained, but every Union victory will make emancipation more difficult as a mere worldly-wise policy. The government may yet be driven to emancipation as a last extremity, but it does not look like it now. The government must take one of two courses. It must protect the slaves in their rights, and, of course, say that the masters, as such, have no rights which they are bound to respect; and that puts an end to slavery;-or it must protect the rights of slaveholders, as such, and then the slaves have no rights. The latter has always been, and is now the policy. The president, from the time of his nomination to to-day, has asserted, and has done everything in his power to show the slaveholders, that slavery is safe in his hands. He has such deference for their rights, that the he apologizes for proposing to buy the slaves. When any state is conquered, and submits to the united states government, then martial law ceases, and state law is in operation again. Then every slaveholder who finds his slave in his own state, seizes him. without any legal process whatever. The government has not emancipated them, and will then have neither power nor inclination to do it. If confiscation acts are pleaded, I believe there is no effective one yet. But if there were, Virginia courts would not recognize it, and they have the whole control of the subject in the state. Is it to be supposed that the Missouri slaveholders, when they become loyal, will lose all those four thousand slaves who have escaped into Kansas when they have Constitution and administration in their favor? The presumption will be, as it always has been, against the slave; and how is he to prove that his master was a rebel, should a confiscation law pass? But the president, in due time, will issue a proclamation of amnesty and freedom to all who will return to their allegiance. This will remove the attainder, and will operate as a bar to confiscation before any pro-slavery commissioner, the slaveholding rebel being legally innocent them. Should such a case occur in Boston, the president would be bound, and would do as pierce did in the burns case, and the whole police force would be engaged in keeping the peace. If an anti-slavery meeting were to be held at the time, you would not have to inquire for J. Murray Howe; he would be on hand. I wise the reader to bear in mind, that the Union restored, the South must be conciliated; they must see that the war was not against slavery; the compromises of the Constitution will be more secure than ever. Is it to be presumed that after these slaves have been in Kansas or elsewhere, and have been cared for, and educated, and have enjoyed for a time the sweets of liberty, and the people have become interested in them, they would permit them to be reinslaved without resistance? I think not. Then there is civil war again. Every one of these contrabands who shall have been educated is prepared to be a Veasey or a Nat Turner, and the missionaries and teachers to be John Browns in spirit, if not in act. Then this subject must still be the basis of every political party, in some form. All negro-haters will glorify the Constitution and Union, and you will have to place your old motto at the head of your paper. I think at present the question does not rest with the confederates. It is now providentially presented to our people and government. "Will you let my people go now, or await future judgments, and finally a red sea of blood"? It can now be done constitutionally and legally. Say shall it be done? If not, I shudder at the result. "Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not go unpunished"?
Auburn, N. H. BENJAMIN CHASE.
REBEL ATROCITIES.
Never before did we realize so strongly the poverty of vocabularies. Somebody who has delved deeper into languages may supply fitting words to express the sickening thoughts which the following letter suggests. It as addressed to a friend, by a citizen of Cambridge, who recently went to Bull Run to recover the remains of his brother-a young man well known in this city, who fell in the battle of last July. Death commonly stifles resentments, and the remains of the departed, even those of an enemy, have generally been regarded with decent respect, even among savages, and we are nor aware that history furnishes many instances in which hatred to enemies has extended beyond the grave; but here is evidence that the bodies of our soldiers who have recently fallen in battle have been dragged from their graves, and mutilated in a manner and for purpose which are almost too shocking to be related.-East Boston Ledger.
WASHINGTON, D. C., March 30, 1862.
MY DEAR FRIEND-You are doubtless aware of my absence from home, and of the peculiar duty that calls me hither. I had fondly hoped t be able to rescue the remains of my beloved brother from the traitorous soil where they had lain too long. that they might repose at last in the congenial bosom of good old Massachusetts.
Having secured the assistance of our mutual friend, Corporal Hildreth, as a guide, we took the cars at Alexandria, and were carried to Union Mills. By referring to Leslie's War Maps, page 7, you can readily trace our course. From thence we proceeded across the country, passing through several encampments and fortifications recently occupied by the rebels, until we came upon the road about half way between Centreville and New Market. That was the position occupied by Col. Cowdin's regiment during the preliminary fights of Thursday, in which you remember William fell. A family reside on the premises, and upon them I called.
And now, my friend, it becomes my painful task to relate facts that will put your credulity to the test, and perhaps jeopardize my veracity and moderation-facts that foully taint the civilization of the nineteenth century, and will cause the blush of shame to crimson the cheek of manhood, to think that its kind is capable of such atrocities as the sequel will show. I found the lady of the aforesaid family at home. She seemed to be lady eandor and honesty. Her neighbors spoke highly of her, and strangers with whom I conversed concerning her were convinced, as I was, that her statements were free from exaggeration, and were reliable.
I informed her of my mission. She replies that it was wholly useless to attempt to recover the remains of any who fell there, as the rebels had exhumed the bodies, and taken the bones as keepsakes and trophies. In some instances the skulls has even been boiled, to remove the flesh more easily, Skulls carried about on the tops of peoples were not an unfrequent sight. One soldier induces the lady's little girl to go into his tent, saying that he had something pretty for her to play with. The father shortly afterwards discovered that the pretty plaything was a human skull, and quickly called his child away. Another boasted of possessing a relic of those d-d Massachusetts First, that he would not part with. It was a skull which he intended to have silver-mounted, and declared that at the festivities of his marriage night his guests should have the pleasure of sipping excellent punch there from. Several of the Wagoner had whip-handles mounted with the bones they had taken from the graves. One had the joints of a spine strung together, and hung up in his tent.
Notwithstanding the lady's apparent honesty, I could not believe a story so utterly abhorrent to every feeling of civilization and humanity. We proceeded to the wood (now cut down) where Company G were ordered in. There we found several graves, or rather-God forbid it!-places which had been graves. Fragments of torn clothing, which Hildreth readily recognized as belonging to his regiment, lay scattered about. In one place was a torn shirt with the indications of decayed flesh still adhering to the indications of another was a shirt with the arm torn lengthwise, indicating to my mind that it had been done to facilitate the removal of the arm bones. Fragments of pantaloons and jackets, and bunches of hair were found; among the hair we found some which was recognized by Hildreth 
<c04>
as that of a member of his Company-Mr. Fields*-all showing marks of barbarous violence.
Closer inspection of the graves revealed no less horrible details. In one was a shirt torn to rages, and some hair: in another a solitary rib; in another a shirt and a number of a small bones and hair; in another still, several joints of a spine, some minor bones, hair, and a bullet which had probably laid the brave victim low.
Was not the conclusion irresistible, that the lady had told the truth? Turning from the scene with feelings of horror and bewilderment, I passed over to the ground occupied by the Chelsea Company. There the scene was, if possible, more revolting than that which I had left. There were marks of former graves, but on the surfaces were fragments of clothing, yet containing putrid and unsightly masses of flesh. I could see no bones, which was a further confirmation of the lady's statements, and convinced me that those sacred relics of our brave boys have been contributed to the cabinets, and to adorn the whip-handles and canes, and are made into silver mounted punch bowls for those fiends for whom the deepest recesses of hell are too shallow. Leaving those scenes from which I have learned new lessons of human depravity, and with the fondly cherished hopes of nine tedious months cruelly, shockingly crushed, I returned to Washington.
As ever yours, very truly.
G. A. S.
*Mrs. Fields subsequently recognized this hair as that of her husband.-Ed. Cambridge Chronicle.
THE BARBARISM OF SLAVERY.
It was a fine and subtle insight of the recondite principles and facts involved which led Senator Sumner-some years ago-to brand the ugly brow of the slave-system with that telling and truthful word-BARBARISM. Great was the commotion that followed at the time, and swift was the speed with which the dirt-eaters of the North hastened to swallow an extra meal, in the hope of conciliating the offended demon. Scorn sat astride on high-bred noses in Beacon Street, and scoffs growled themselves from solid throats in State Street, and Mr. Sumner was voted a horrid and brutal slanderer; and the South-well, the South was a very highly cultivated, thoroughly educated, genteelly endowed, aristocratically beatified, and in every way superlatively splendid fine gentleman, indeed it was. Really, it was hoped that this "vulgar abuse" wouldn't offend the chivalry. "Nobody could regret, and despise, and deny, and denounce it. more than his own constituents who were so unfortunate as to be mis-represented temporarily on the floor of the Senate by this low blackguard person, of the name of Sumner".
Yes!
Now then, after these few swift-gliding months, how stands the judgment? Our Federal troops dying bayonetted and scalped in their last agony; when dead, left to rot on the soil, or buried face downward for disgrace, or dismembered that "Yankee" heads may be peddled over Old Virginia-mother of all the aristocracies, and mistress by birth right of all the well-descended amenities-at $10 each-and smaller mementoes in proportion; skulls boiled that the cranial cavity might be used for soap dishes; this-and all manner of mean and infamous rascality in the treatment of prisoners, and of low cheatings in their exchange; these and a thousand blood-curdling, soul-sickening, disgraceful, almost unbelievable, yet thoroughly authenticated and pronounced undeniable enormities against civilization itself; these verify that former charge; they stamp that brand of BARBARISM upon the forehead of the slaveholder, where all the waters of the multitudinous sea, and all the washings of the Pharisees can never rub it out from before the world's loathing and abhorrent gaze.-Boston Congregationalist.
Chaplain A. H. Quint writes the Congregationalist from Winchester, Va.:-
"you see accounts of Southern brutality, occasionally. I have never believed much of that-knowing some noble Southerners. But I am satisfied. A clergyman of this county -I will not give his name-a man who only from compulsion became silent as to the guilt of secession, assures me on his honor, that 'Yankee skulls' were hawked about his town, after the Bull Run battle, at ten dollars apiece. Spurs, also, were made of jaw bones, to his personal knowledge. A member of his own church, who was at Bull Run, told him that hundreds of bodies were left headless for such purpose. But I am not at all surprised. I have ceased to feel any wonder at the brutalities of a slaveholding people."
THE AMERICAN BLOCKADE.
The following amusing account of the way in which a member used up Mr. Gregory's recent speech in the House of Commons in favor of breaking the London Illustrated Times:-
Mr. W. E. FORSTER rose before the members had returned from the dinner-table, which was a pity, for a more crushing reply than that which the member for Bradford made was never delivered in the House. Solomon pithily says, 'He that is first in his own cause seemeth just, but his neighbor cometh and searcheth him out. And this was wonderfully exemplified on this occasion. The strong point of Mr. Gregory's speech was its facts: his oratorical appeals, of course, went for nothing; but if his facts were correct, a case had certainly been made out. And for a time, so long as Mr. Gregory's long array of facts remained untouched, there did seem a strong prima facie reason for believing that the blockade was not sufficiently effective; and under this impression, probably many of the members went to dinner. Indeed, as they passed out this was the tone of the conversation of many: 'Well, Gregory has made out a case, I think-a very strong case.' But to our mind there hung a cloud of suspicion from the first over Mr. Gregory's facts, for it was observable that none of then were based upon unquestionable authority; they were statements from private letters, mere hearsay facts-in short, what Brown had told Robinson, and Robinson had sent to Jones; and we felt it to be quite possible that when they came to be 'searched,' they would be found to e myths, not facts-mere exaggerations-' eleven buckram men grown out of two' And so it turned out. Mr. Forster is a new man in the House of Commons. He came in last year, when Mr. Salt resigned his seat. But Mr. Forster was not unknown to fame before be arrived. He is not an orator; no man expected to find him one; but he is a man of extensive knowledge-one of those rare men who know how to observe, and can tell a fact when they see it at a glance-a steady, patient investigator. Mr. Forster has spoken many times since he has been in the House, but it was not till that Friday night in the House, but it was not till that Friday night that he had an opportunity of showing his power. The clever manner in which he took up Gregory's bag of facts, and examined them one by one-ringing them, as we should say, to ascertain their value, as a money-changer rings questionable coins-until at length he had emptied the bag, was something new and surprising in the House; and when, to continue our figure, he quietly shook the bag to show that it was empty, the House was disposed to laugh rather than cheer. When the members went to dinner, six hundred ships had broken the blockade; when they returned, the six hundred were reduced to sixteen. Such was the result of Mr. Forster's able, clever, searching analysis of Mr. Gregory's facts. It was amusing to note the Treasury-bench whilst Mr. Forster was going through his analytical work. Palmerston lifted his head from his breast, where during the dinner hours it usually rests, and fixed his eyes full upon Mr. Forster. Gladstone's expressive face was countenance of Sir Roundell Palmer, over which there never by chance passes a smile, showed that he was listening with intense interest. Our opinion is, that the Government themselves were not aware of the strength of their case until Mr. Forster spoke".
FRANCIS DATCHER.
Nothing indicates innate dignity and self-respect more than a regard for the verdict of those who come after us. Many things may make an ignoble man desire the approbation of his contemporaries, and take pains to conserve it. The very selfishness that demeans him, makes it his interest to stand well with those upon whom his gains or indulgences depend. But when, in the faithful discharge of duties too humble to attract public praise, a man carefully lays up cause for grateful or respectful remembrance when be is gone, there is argument of nobility in his course. such an instance has comes to light in the case of Francis Datcher, a negro, for many years a messenger in the War Department. Who died last month in Washington. A couple of 
<c05>
months ago, he entrusted. to a gentleman connected with the New York press a parchment, which was his chiefest treasure, with the injunction that upon his death, it should be made public. This sheet is covered with certificates from the various secretaries to his faithfulness. The first is from John C. Calhoun, dated March 3, 1825, and is followed by those of James Barbour, P. B. porter, J. R. poinsett. Lewis Cass, John H. Eaton, J. Spencer, J. M. Porter, W. I. Marcy, Geo W. Crawford, C. M. Conrad, Jefferson Davis, John B. Floyd, and Simon Cameron; all these testimonials evince a personal respect and regard which many of their writers never could have merited or enjoyed themselves. Mr. Marcy says:-
"My predecessors seem to have exhausted the language of praise in their testimonials of the merits of F. Datcher, assistant messenger in the War Department; bat after four years' acquaintance with him, I can truly say that they have done only bare justice to his character and accomplishments. As a man he has my sincere respect; as an officer my high commendation."
"Mr. Davis-" In Francis Datcher I have found what Mr. Pitt is said to have declared he had, through his long public life, sought for in vain-a man exactly suited to the place he held."
Mr. Floyd-"With a perfect knowledge of all the duties of his place, he discharges them with a fidelity, sagacity, and perfectly well-bred courtesy worthy of all praise. He is, and deserves to be, the object of respect with all strangers visiting the Department, and of sincere regard to its inmates."
Mr. Cameron-"More than forty years ago I came to Washington, a boy, on business connected with the war department, and was kindly and courteously received by Francis Datcher, a colored man, having the manners and deportment of a gentleman, who ushered me into the presence of Mr. Calhoun then Secretary of War. Almost every year since, in passing through the various grades of life open to every American, I have had occasion to visit the War Department, and I have always found Datcher at his post, as courteous and civil as when I first saw him. When I entered upon my duties as the head of this Department, I was glad to have the opportunity to say: 'Francis, while I am here, you will do me a great favor if you will remain, and extend to me the treatment which I have received at your hands during the long years of our acquaintance.'"
The last is certainly an extraordinary commendation. The Secretary could not ask from his lowest subordinate more respectful treatment than, when he was a lad with no claim on his attention, he had received from him. We give what currency we can to the last wish of this faithful and noble man, who deserved so well in his bumble station, and give it with the more pleasure, because he belonged to a despised and oppressed race-Examiner.
A CURIOSITY FROM DIXIE.
A friend has sent us a copy of "The Family Friend," printed at Monticello, Florida, which is a curiosity of no ordinary character in the newspaper line, and is an admirable illustration of the prosperity enjoyed by the Dixians, and of the flourishing condition of the mechanic arts, and the delightful state of society which exists among the chivalrous sons of the South.
It is a sheet of ordinary brown wrapping paper, about one-half the size of our semi-weekly; and is undoubtedly of Yankee manufacture, as is also the type upon which it was printed. Rebel dignity hardly stoops to the vulgarity of type and paper making, so long as rebel ingenuity is unequal to their production.
The matter with which the paper is filled is in fit correspondence with the paper. The principal advertisement is a violent attack by one S. Manning upon J.M. and W.P. Marvin, and D. Williams, because "they have in prosperous times allowed him a yearly credit," and have now shut down upon him with the cash system, "notwithstanding he is a volunteer in the ranks."
He concludes by informing them if they except to his style, he is ready to respond to any demand. Joseph O. Taylor informs the people of Monticello that he continues to carry on the brick laying and plastering business; and John M. Palmer, in a two line advertisement, says he is dealer in provisions and groceries; and the publisher advertises job-work" executed with neatness and despatch at the office of the Family Friend." Besides these, Thomas Simmons advertises Burial Cases, and a few Probate and professional advertisements, make up the entire business of the place. Not another thing is advertised to be sold or done in the shire town of Jackson County. One class of advertisements we had almost overlooked. The publisher and several other individuals and firms advertise "a rigid adherence to the cash system, owing to the exigencies of the times."
The reading columns are no less characteristic. The "leader" is headed, "Federal successes no cause for despondency." That is precisely the way we, at the North, look at the matter. How long the rebels can continue to take the same view remains to be seen.
The motto of the sheet is, "Fiat justitia ruat coelum"-"Let justice be done, though the heavens should fall!" and the first succeeding paragraph is as follows: "Any person who has a negro man-a good field hand-to hire for the present year, can dispose of the same by making application at this office." Such is the slaveholder's sense of justice.-Bath Sentinel.
THOSE WOODEN GUNS.
An officer belonging to the grand army of the Potomac, writing to a friend, says:-
CENTREVILLE, March 22, 1862.
I observe that the Philadelphia Inquirer denies that there were any wooden guns in any of the rebels works about Manassas, on the authority of Colonels E. H. Wright and J.J. Astor. There were none on the farther side of Bull Run, but to my personal knowledge there were at least twenty "dummy" cannon in the works around Centreville, and every officer in this regiment can testify to the same, for we all examined them, handled them, laughed at them, and swore at those who permitted this huge army to be kept half a year at bay by these shams. The army feels mortified and disgraced-I can speak positively for Gen. Sumner's division. Strategy and masterly inactivity are good in their places, but we have had too much of them on the banks of the Potomac.
A number of officers obtained permission to visit Bull Run battle-field, and inspect the wonderful natural and artificial strength of the position, so long held by the rebels. Well, I never was so much astonished and disappointed in my life. From the Stone Bridge to Manassas is four or five miles, and in that whole distance there is not a ditch, embankment or military work that I could not ride my horse over without trouble. Why, sir, I have been in Missouri, Kentucky and Western Virginia since the war broke out, and have not seen a piece of country better calculated for a fair, open, stand up fight than this same Manassas, where our troops, last July, were so ingloriously defeated. Instead of the terrible rifle pits, forts, bastions, redoubts, redans, ditches, traps, dead-falls, hidden recesses, masked batteries, and earth filled with powder to be exploded and blow thousands into eternity, told of by the cowards who fled from the battle-field like a flock of frightened sheep, we found an undulating open country, with some clumps of trees, and a fringe of woods along Bull Run and Cub Run.
The strongest protection the rebels ever had was the banks of Bull Run-a little stream almost dry in summer, which could be crossed at any point by infantry in two minutes. If McClellan had led us against the rebels last November or December, or this spring, we would have flanked them on either wing; there were no natural or artificial obstructions that could have prevented it; or we could have broken their centre with ease, and chased them like antelopes over the plain of Manassas.
It is a slander on this grand army of a quarter of a million of soldiers, to say that fifty or seventy thousand butternut secesh could have whipped us-could have stood one charge properly made. Place no confidence in what lying reporters tell about the "impregnability of Manassas." Such falsehoods are the price they pay for permission to ride around with the body guard and near the General's staff. It is the firm conviction of the officers and soldiers-for the latter have their eyes about them as the former-that Manassas could have been taken any time during the last six months, had the leaders been as capable and willing to lead as the regiments were to follow.
Manassas is the biggest humbug on the face of the globe. Future travellers will point it out as the place which 277 regiments of union troops dare no
<c06>
assault for seven months, though defended by less than one one-third of their number. Will historians ascribe the torpor of the grand army for this long dreary period to treachery or imbecility of leaders, or to some other cause? Oh! that we had a Grant to order us to "move on the enemy's works."
THE KINGHTS OF THE GOLDEN CIRCLE. A Washington telegraphic correspondent of the Baltimore sun says, it appears from official correspondence, that towards the close of the last year a letter, written by a Doctor Hopkins, came into possession of the State Department. It was therein stated that an organization has been formed by which the members of the Golden Circle were to rush into the Army and service of the Federal Government, and thus gain influence and position for carrying out their treasonable schemes, and further, that ex-President Pierce was among the prominent members. When this letter was received, a note was sent to ex-President Pierce, enclosing an extract from it, saying: "Your name is connected with a secret league, the object of which is to overthrow the Government. Any information on the subject will be acceptable."
Mr. Pierce, in reply, expressed his surprise that even seeming credence should have been give to the charge, and appealed to his general course as a complete refutation of the slander, and remarked that he never belonged to any secret league, society, or association, and further, that he objected to the form of the note, Secretary Seward, in reply, explained that this was written by William Hunter, chief clerk of the Department; explained the circumstances under which he signed it, regretted that it gave offence, and offered an apology.
VALUE OF SLAVES IN MARYLAND. At a sale of servants, slaves for life, belonging to the estate of Miss Clarissa H. Luckett, deceased. on the 27th ult., an illustration was afforded of the depressing influence of the rebellion on the value of slave property in this State. A likely, sound and healthy negro woman, aged thirty years, her two children, a boy of four and a girls of two years, both well conditioned, were sold in a lot for $200; also a likely boy, aged ten years, for $105; and a very likely mulatto girl, aged fifteen, was offered and withdrawn at $05. Less than two years ago, servants of this description would readily have commanded $2500-now they fetch $400. The reader will remember that the Examiner admonished the sympathizers with rebellion in advance that this would be the consequence of the crime and folly of secession, but they would not heed. We tell them now that their acts have sealed the fate of the institution in Maryland.-Frederick Examiner.
The number of free colored people in the District of Columbia is 11,000. It is an extraordinary circumstance, that they so far know how to take care of themselves that they have accumulated much property, and that some of them have loaned money to Democratic Senators and Secretaries, which, it is insinuated, the said Senators and Secretaries have never repaid. Was it a case of spoiling the Egyptians? Hardly, for the Egyptians were the spoilers. That they should have loaned their money to such persons as Wigfall, Breckinridge, and Floyd, might, at first sight, have the appearance of detracting from their character for sanity; but then, did not the American people make Breckinridge vice President, and didn't they approve of the appointment of Floyd as a Cabinet Minister? If, therefore, the colored Columbians are to be reputed incapables for having allowed Floyd and Breckinridge to get hold of their money, what shall be said of the white Americans who trusted the same gentleman to a much greater extent? Is it proof of African stupidity that negroes placed their money in the hands of the same men in whose hands Americans placed their government? The colored creditors of the illustrious secessionists will probably never see a dollar of what is due them, and we should like to know on what day the American people expect to see restored the gold and the guns that Floyd "borrowed" from their treasury and arsenals!-Boston Traveller.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its tension easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal facility. The stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at th3e Tennessee State Fair, for its Superiority.-Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines-first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have heretofore been made in Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and also the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machine now in market.
South Reading Gazette, Nov. 24, 1860.
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead is the market. For beauty and finish of its workmanship, it cannot be excelled. It is well and strongly made-strength and utility combined-and is emphatically the cheapest and best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it, and when consulted, invariably give Parker's machine the preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE E. LEONARD, 188Washington street, Boston, has a large number of orders for these machines, and sells them as fast as they can be manufactured, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufacturers have almost wholly suspended operations. This fact, of itself, speaks more strongly in its favor than any thing we can mention; for were it not ofr its superior merits, it would have suffered from the general depression, instead of flourishing among the wrecks of its rivals. What we tell you is no fletion; but go and buy one of them, and you will say that "half of its good qualities had never been told you." Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of these machines to assist he4r in lessening life's toilsome task.-Marlboro' Gazette, July 13, 1861.
