THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET,ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS,EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Country are all mankind.
VOL XXXV. NO.44. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1813.
<c01>
Selections.
MONUMENTAL H0N0RS.
To the Editors of the Nation:
The genius of Byron has popularized the story of Marino Faliero, the Venetian chief magistrate who, in a fit of resentment for a private wrong, plotted the ruin of his country. The crime of Faliero was punished by a shameful death, and the republic stigmatized it with an ignominious commemoration by substituting for his portrait, in the series of ducal effigies, a tablet with this inscription: THIS IS THE PLACE OF MARINO FALIERO, BEHEADED FOR TREASON."
The case of Faliero is by no means the only one where the public justice of Italy has pursued the name of a rank oflender with a vengeance extending beyond the scafold. Travellers, who knew Genoa before the progress of modern improvement had shorn even that emphatically ”slow" city of many tokens of her quaint medieval grandeur, will remember seeing, in public places, inscribed tablets erected by the government to the perpetual infamy of flagrant criminals. Several of these curious memorials are still preserved in the court of the University and copies of others are to be found in the old municipal records. 
Thus, in 1550, when the traitor Stephen Raggio, a prototype of our own Ruffin, had anticipated his execution by suicide, the memory of his crimes was perpetuated by a public inscription, which was not removed Until 1816.
Another lapidary record of the same year transmits to posterity the infamy of John Paul Balbi, a transmits  and ”vectigalium famosus expilator," which latter phrase may be Genoese Latin for ”shoddy".
Another, of 1672, performs the like good service for the name of Raphael de la Torre, a rebel and pirate, the Raphael Semmes of his day.
Many other instances of this monumental reprobation might be cited from Italian history, and even our own country is not wholly wanting in analogous examples. Not many years ago, the town authorities of a justly celebrated country village in New England cut down, in spite of urgent remonstrances, an ancient and majestic elm standing on the private grounds of a resident of the town, because, in the course of its slow growth, its trunk had gradually encroached on the sidewalk to the width, perhaps, of a ”selectman's" hat-brim. The owner of the tree put up a tablet to commemorate this act of petty tyranny But he either superabounded in direction or was deficient in courage, and he did not venture to record the names of the officials who, in the pride of municipal despotism, had sacrificed the venerated tree. Hence the satire was pointless. It was anonymous, impersonal, and, stigmatizing the act rather than the actors, it punished nobody. Besides, being only an expression of private indignation, it wanted the solemnity of a public and authoritative sanction.
Modern indulgence usually exempts humble political offenders from the extreme penalties with which their transgressions were visited by earlier criminal jurisprudence, while greater and more conspicuous conspirators against the liberties of their native land are seldom so much as cited before any other tribunal than those of conscience and of public opinion. Semmes is still at liberty, and in the full enjoyment of the fruits of his piratical cruises. The malignant and mischievous incendiaries, Toombs and Wise, are free, if not pardoned, and the philosophic and now persecuted Greeley's ”universal amnesty" would embrace not only these worthies and his correspondents Sauders and Tucker, but Wirz, Champ Ferguson, Quantrell, and Blackburn. Even the overthrow of the statutes and triumphal arches which deposed usurpers had erected in honor of their own exploits, the erasure of their names and inscriptions from public monuments, and the removal of their portraits from national galleries, have been generally considered as expressions of partisan animosity, and as a mode, if not of violating, at least of suppressing historical fact, while the exclusion of the busts of Luther and of Cromwell from the Bavarian Valhalla and the British Parliament House has been almost universally condemned, even by those who dissent from their theological and political opinions, and disapprove their public acts, as indicative of a spirit which savors rather of religious intolerance and aristocratic prejudice than of a love of liberty or of truth.
We have had, and still have, magistrates, heroes, and sages who have carried with them to the grave the love and respect of a mourning nation, or who are now enjoying the best earthly reward of virtue and of patriotism, the approbation of a grateful country—our traitors who, like Floyd, have died despised even by their accomplices in crime, our Marino Falieros who, having been spared by our regular criminal tribunals, and by the red-handed vengeance of popular justice, still live” infamous and contented."
Our patriots, dead and living, have received few of those monumental honors which older nations so profusely bestow on departed and on contemporary greatness; our political barracides  none of those solemn testimonials of national execration, of which I have cited some examples. The history of even a great and good man may sometimes be epitomized in a single phrase, and in that of the bad there is frequently some salient fact, some damning lie, some crowning trait of meanness or of wrong, the bare name of which may serve as a perpetual brand.Men often unconsciously write their own true epitaphs, and the publicity of the lives of our prominent citizens, the multiplicity of their official action, and the necessity they are under of frequently expressing their opinions and purposes, are constantly making their language a part of the resgestoe, as the lawers say, constantly bringing out from them utterances of word or deed which aptly characterize and represent the man who gives them voice and substance. The use of such typical expressions, the specification of such distinguishing acts, in monumental inscriptions, is at once the fittest and the fairest method of transmitting to after ages the memory of men eminent for good or evil. It avoids the necessity of pronouncing a public judgement on their career, the danger of tarnishing by a solemn and lasting stigma, or of elevating by hyperbolical praise, characters whose real guilt or real worth is disputable. Friends and enemies alike must acquiesce in the truth of the record derived from the tongue or the known official acts of him whose life it commemorates. Each will interpret the words, each explain the act, in accordance with his views of the character of the man. The patriot will find in the self written epitaph of a patriot, he who sympathizes with treason in that of a traitor, aphorisms, opinions, or facts which commend themselves to his moral sense, and each will be free to judge the statesman of opposite principle on evidence the truth of which none can gainsay.
To exemplity: Instead of refusing room to the bust of the late Cheif Justice Taney in the halls of the Supreme Court of the United States, let us
<c02>
place by the side of the noble and expansive traits of Marshall the pinched and Mephistophelean features of his successor, with this inscription:
HE DECLARED THAT, IN THE OPINION 0F THE CHRISTIAN WORLD OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY, AND ESPECIALLY IN THAT OF THE FRAMERS OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STAES, ”THE NEGRO HAD NO RIGHTS WHICH THE WHITE MAN WAS BOUND TO RESPECT."
The doughface, the Copperhead, the theologian who finds Scripture authority for the existence and specific character of Southern negro slavery, will approve these words as the expression of a political, a social, an economical, a divinely revealed religious truth; the advocate of universal liberty will condemn them as a flagitious libel on modern civilization, an atrocious calumny against the noble founders of our commonwealth, a stupendous lie invented and pronounced for the most nefarious purposes-and yet all will agree in the truth and appropriateness of that inscription.
In like manner, neither friend nor foe could object to this legend on the pedestal of Millard Fill-mote’s bust:
An ACT TO AMEND AND SUPPLEMENTARY TO AN ACT ENTITLED AN ACT RESPECTING FUGITIVES FROM JUSTICE, AND PERSONS ESCAPING FROM THE SERVICE OF THEIR MASTERS. APPROVED SEPTEMBER 18, 1850. MILLARD FILLMORE.
And as this is rather a short inscription for the image of so conspicuous a personage, we might add a paragraph from his Albany and Buffalo speech of 1858, in which he threatened the Union with the vengeance of the South, and prophesied, if he did not invoke, a pro-slavery rebellion, in case the people should dare to elect to the Presidency his Republican rival instead of himself.
Both those who admire and those who view with loathing and with scorn the official career of Franklin Pierce—for even he had his admirers—(Did not Hawthorne write his biography? Even he had his detractors. Did not the Herald habitually style him” poor Pierce”?)-will read with equal satisfaction this record beneath his portrait:
"I HAVE NEVER BELIEVED THAT THE ACTUAL DISRUPTION OF THE UNION CAN OCCUR WITHOUT THE SHEDDING OF BLOOD; BUT IF, THROUGH THE MADNESS OF NORTHERN ABOLITIONISM, THE DIRE CALAMITY MUST COME, THE FIGHTING WILL NOT BE ALL SOUTH OF MASON AND DIXON’S LINE MERRLY—IT WILL BE WITHIN OUR OWN BORDERS—IN OUR OWN STREETS—BETWEEN THE TWO CLASSES OF CITIZENS TO WHOM I HAVE REFERRED. THOSE WHO DEFY THE LAW AND SCOUT CONSTITUTIONAL OBLIGATIONS WILL, IF WE EVER REACH THE ARBITRAMENT OF ARMS, FIND OCCUPATION ENOUGH AT HOME."—Letter to Jefferson Davis, July 6, 1860.
So when a marble likenees of James Buchanan shall recall to the spectator the late John M. Clayton's judgment on the physiognomy, he will acquiesce, whatever may be his political opinions, in the fitness of writing under it, in letters of blood, the word
LEC0MPTI0N.
In like manner, the words and deeds of Wood and Valkandigham and Voorbees and Booth, of the late Martin Van Buren and James K. Polk, and of a certain always too late American general, who being now forgotten shall be nameless, as well as of hundreds of other statesmen and soldiers who in their time have been the glory or the shame of their country, would furnish abundance of appropriate and pithy illustration of their monumental effigies.
Cannot some one of your contributors who has leisure and means of reference furnish you an article on the eminent men of America as characterized by themselves?
VIATOR.
Rome, Italy, Sept. 25, 1865.
SUFFRAGE A PARTY ISSUE.
The N. Y. Tribune undertakes to belittle the Republican victories recently won in every State except Connecticut, by falsely representing that they were victories of the Administration over its opponents, and that the Copperheads have in vain attempted to make impartial suffrage an issue with the Republican party. The Republican party is neither poor enough to need, nor mean enough to desire votes, on any such false pretences. The Republicans have, it is true, been defeated in Connecticut, and they may thank the New York Times in part for it. But they will neither evade nor deny their defeat. In compensation for this, they have their largely increased majorities in Vermont, Maine, Pennsylvania, New Jersey thus far, Ohio, Indiana, Iowa, and the certainty of the same in Wisconsin, Massachusetts and Minnesota, and probably in New York. The cause of our defeat in Connecticut was the poltroonery and weak falsehood of the New York Times, Evening Post, and Springfield Republican, which have from prudential motives been wiser than their party, and have hence declined to advocate the policies plainly adopted in convention. As the New York Times still denies that impartial suffrage is a doctrine of the Union party, we desire to propound certain questions to the Times and demand an explicit answer.
1. What does the Republican platform of Maine mean, if it does not mean negro suffrage, by resolving that ”in reorganising the rebellious States, it is the right and duty of the government to demand the removal of all disabilities on account of color, and to secure to all perfect equality”? And again, that” the enlistment of over 100,000 colored troops, the good faith of the colored race amidst treason, and their being paid like whites and placed in the most dangerous places, have pledged the national honor that these people shall have, in fact as well as in name, conferred upon them all the political rights of freemen, and that the people of the United States will redeem this pledge”? Since the Copperhead party in Maine adopted a resolution opposing negro suffrage, was not that question at issue, and was not the decision in favor of” negro suffrage" by a larger majority than the State gave for Lincoln and Johnson?
2. What does the Republican platform of Massachusetts mean, if it does not mean” negro suffrage," by resolving as it does that ”the people lately in rebellion cannot be safely entrusted with the political rights which they forfeited by their treason, until they have incorporated into their constitution provisions securing to all men within their borders the inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; and we call upon Congress to see to it that the loyal people, white and black, shall have the most perfect guarantees for their safety before, any final steps are taken toward restoring the revolted people of the South to their forfeited rights”? And further, ”that no test can be made or encouraged which will admit to the elective franchise rebel soldiers and traitorous politicians, and at the same time exclude the loyal men who have borne arms and shed their blood in the nation's defence, and whose votes may be indispensable hereafter, as President Lincoln said in his letter to Governor Hahn, "to keep the jewel liberty in the family of Freedom.’”
An Andrew Johnson has imposed such a test provisionally in such a way that the imposition will maintain itself to the future constitution of every Southern State, unless overborne by Congress, it
<c03>
follows that the above platform is a censure of the President's policy. Massachusetts Republicans are ready to vote for it with unanimity. On the other hand, the Copperhead party in Massachusetts has adopted a resolution heartily endorsing the President's policy, especially in excluding negroes from the suffrage. Does not the Times err wholly, then, when it says that ”negro suffrage is not at issue in this campaign” in Massachusetts, and that a vote for the Republican party is a vote endorsing Andrew Johnson in his policy on the suffrage question? 
3. What does Vermont mean, if not ”negro suffrage," by resolving in substance that upon the subject of universal suffrage without regard to color, Vermont has always had but one doctrine, and had never occasion to doubt its justice or its” expediency? Does the Times tell the truth when it says ”the Copperhead party have attempted to make the issue of negro suffrage” in Vermont,” and have failed"?
4. What does the Republican platform in New York mean, if not negro suffrage, when it resolves that the” States in the Union” now have jurisdiction” over their local and domestic affairs," but that ”the States lately in rebellion” should have such jurisdiction restored to them only” in the faith and on the basis that it will be exercised in a spirit of equal and exact justice, and with a view to the elevation to and preparation for the full rights of citizenship of all their people;” and what, if not negro suffrage, is meant in another resolution, by declaring that they approve of the President's restoring to the people of the Southern States” full and complete control over their local affairs, just as soon as may be found compatible with the fulfilment of the constitutional obligations of the national authority to guarantee to every State a republican form of government”? 
The Times knows that the only charge of want of Republicanism brought against any Southern State constitution, or proposed constitution, is the exclusion from voting of so large a proportion of their citizens as the black population there everywhere constitute. In the light of this fact, the plain meaning of the clause is that the Southern States are not to be readmitted into the Union until their constitutions prescribe such terms of voting as will admit negroes to vote. As the Copperheads in New York have adopted a resolution condemning negro suffrage, how can the Times pretend to the least honesty in the cowardly statement that ”the Copperheads have signally failed to make negro suffrage a party issue in this campaign”?
5. In New Jersey the Republican party is very weak; but even there, where there might be some excuse for ignoring the broad sympathies and Democratic principles of Republicanism, they have 
Resolved, That the trials and sacrifices of four years' war have awakened us to a new sense of the value of fundamental principles of freedom and equality in shaping political action, and have led us to assert with a new emphasis that the words of Jefferson, as immortalized in the Declaration of Independence,” that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that to secure these rights governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed," are no longer” glittering generalities," but are vindicated as immutable truths.
We ask the Times to what issue of our time the above resolution refers, if not to negro suffrage? And since the Copperheads in New Jersey have denounced negro suffrage in plain terms, is it not a wilful and sneaking attempt at deception, too palpable and silly to deceive anybody, for the Times to state that the Copperheads have attempted but have failed to make negro suffrage an issue in New Jersey?
6. What does the Republican platform of Pennsylvania mean, if not negro suffrage, by the resolution that the people lately in rebellion “Cannot safely be entrusted with the political rights which they forfeited by their treason until they have proven their acceptance of the results of the war, by co-operation in constitutional provisions, and giving to all men within their borders their inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
This does not mean the rights acquired by the abolition of slavery; for those rights having been already given them, it could not be alleged that the withholding of something not withheld forms a ground for refusing to entrust the people of the rebellious States with the political rights which they forfeited by their treason. It must refer to rights still withheld. It does refer, therefore, principally to the right to vote. Pennsylvania has, therefore, voted by a larger majority than she gave for Lincoln and Johnson” that no rebel should have political rights until negroes have the same." This is a censure, not an endorsement of the President's policy on the negro suffrage question, and no” errors of fact” of the N. Y. Times can make it otherwise.
7. Ohio voted down a plain, open negro suffrage resolution in Convention by a small majority. Yet her leading Republicans talked negro suffrage. Gen. Cox favored setting apart certain States in which negroes ”exclusively” should vote and hold office; and even the platform covertly endorses negro suffrage in these clauses:
"We demand that such reconstruction shall be at such time and upon such terms as will give unquestionable assurance of the peace and security, not only of the loyal people of the rebel States, but also of the peace and prosperity of the Federal Union.
Resolved, That the experience of the last four years shows the absolute necessity, in all our political action, of keeping steadily in view the great principles of our government, as set forth in the Declaration of Independence."
8. What but” negro suffrage” did the Minnesota Republican Convention mean by the following resolution?
Resolved, That the spirit of our institutions requires that the measure of a man's political rights shall be neither his religion, his birth-place, his racen, his color, nor any merely physical characteristics; and that it would be subversive of both the form and spirit of our institutions to permit any portion of our e population to remain in a degraded and abject caste, taxed to support, and compelled to obey, a Government in which they have no voice, and whose whole machinery may be directed to their destruction.
Must not the Times except Minnesota also, in declaring that Copperheads have sought to force the negro suffrage issue on the Union party, and have failed? Were not the authors of the above resolution much farther from Copperheadism than the N. Y. Times, which endorses the Copperhead doctrine of a white suffrage only?
9. In Wisconsin the first convention endorsed negro suffrage covertly in the following resolution:
Resolved, That in the opinion of this Convention, it is due to equal justice and to the altered condition of things, that the Constitution of the United States should be so amended as to make the representation of each State in the House of Representatives proportionate to the number of legally qualified male electors in such States.
<c04>
The plain object of this resolution is to cut down the number of Southern representatives, by depriving them of twenty-two members in Congress, until they grant negro suffrage, when they would gain thirty-three. But the majority of the Republicans of Wisconsin were so dissatisfied that the platform did not more plainly endorse negro suffrage, that they held a new Convention on purpose to endorse it. Is there any doubt that the question of negro suffrage is at issue in Wisconsin?
10. Finally, has not Iowa, by 25,000 majority, voted for the following resolution:
Resolved, That, with proper safeguards to the purity of the ballot-box, the elective franchise should be based upon loyalty to the Constitution and Union, recognizing and affirming the equality of all men before the law; therefore we are in favor of amending the Constitution of our State by striking out the word ”white," in the article on suffrage.
We insist that, in the face of such an array of testimony, the soi-disant Republican journal that dares to deny that free suffrage is at issue in this campaign is endowed with an impudence that is unprecented and a mendacity that is utterly silly. The Times can deceive no one by its weakness, while its treachery to the principles of freedom, which would be harmless in a Copperhead journal, are demoralizing and disgraceful to the party it pretends to support. President Johnson is sustained by the Republican victories in the Northern States, only in so far as he moulds his policy in accordance with their platforms. However the two may agree on other questions, they do thus far on the suffrage question, and every Republican victory is a vote of instructions to the President and Congress to extend the suffrage, if not to all, at least to some of the disfranchised class—Chicago Tribune. 
GEN. ASHLEY ON RECONSTRUCTION.
HIS CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT
Hon. James M. Ashley, M. C. from the Toledo district, Ohio, who is now in California, addressed the people of San Francisco on the evening of the 19th ult., on the political questions of the day.
After discussing at some length the effect of secession and rebellion on the status of the Southern States, and the rightfulness of conferring the suffrage on the loyal blacks, he spoke as follows:
CAMP FOLLOWERS DESCRIBED.
If President Johnson should to-morrow issue instructions to his recently appointed Provisional Governors in the rebel States, requiring them to invite and see that all loyal black men were not only permitted, but protected, in voting for delegates, and for or against accepting any State Constitution which might be framed by such Conventions, nineteen-twentieths of all the professed Union men in the North now opposing negro suffrage would give in their adhesion to the plan, while all the hangers- on of the party would at once become vociferous in its favor. (Applause.)
Every party, as every army, has its camp-followers. The Republican and Union party, since it came into power, has bad its full share of them. We have thousands of men in the Union party, who, on the negro suffrage question, are. skirmishing along near enough to the main column of our advancing army to rush in and claim the benefit of a victory if we obtain one, and yet close enough to the rear to beat a hasty retreat if we should be defeated, to enable them to join the enemy without any perceptible change of base. This is political strategy. (Laughter and applause.)
I once asked a man in Washington how it came that he was retained in office for so many years, under so many different administrations.” By heavens!" he exclaimed with an air of triumph, and much apparent satisfaction," I would like to see the people elect a President oftener than I can change!” Do you suppose any man ever will be elected President who can issue proclamations faster than the flunkies and camp-followers of his party will approve them? If you do, I do not. (Laughter)
If Mr. Johnson should, to-day, issue such a proclamation as the loyal suffrage men of the nation have asked him to issue, and such a proclamation as I hope he will issue—for I hold that he is not committed against it—I do not believe ten men occupying respectable positions in the Union party, either as editors, or Senators and Representatives in Congress, could be found to oppose him in such a movement.
Mr. Lincoln once said to me that he had more to fear from that class of men who crawled in at the back door, approving whatever they supposed to be his policy, while denouncing and slandering the anti-slavery men, whom he knew and admitted to be the most steadfast Union men, as well as his most reliable friends. This same class of camp-followers were the first to rush in person to the Presidential mansion, and favoringly approve the new policy, the moment the Emancipation Proclamation was issued. They flooded the mails with their letters of commendation, and filled five columns of their papers in laudation of the new policy for every one used by anti-slavery papers. So it would be now, if President Johnson would issue a proclamation tomorrow in favor of loyal suffrage, without regard to the race or color of the voter, The opposition in the Union party would not have force or courage to make a ripple on the face of the smoothest water. (Applause.)
HIS TALK WITH THE PRESIDENT.
And here I may be pardoned if I digress a few moments, and refer to some unfriendly criticisms which have been made by Eastern papers upon extracts which purport to have been copied from a speech made by me on the evening before I left Ohio.
I have never seen the paper from home, containing the speech referred to, and only since I reached your city have I read what purported to be extracts from it, and the criticisms made upon them. Perhaps I ought also to say that I did not expect the few remarks I made that night at a private business meeting to appear in any publication as a speech.
Part of what I have seen quoted is substantially correct. I did say that ”the President assured me that he was anxious to secure to all men their rights, without regard to color." I also said, and on this point I hope I may never have cause to change my impressions,” that from all the conversations I had with the President, I was satisfied that be desired so to administer the Government as to reflect the wishes and sentiments of the Union men of the nation."
What I said when speaking of the future action of the anti-slavery men and danger of division, and the eventual defeat of the Union party if the loyal suffrage policy was not adopted, I believed to be true, and so repeat it now.
I said, substantially," that the anti-slavery men of the United States had destroyed the old Whig and Democratic parties; that all along the political coast the wrecks of Northern statesmen were lying
<c05>
thicker than the blockade runners from England; that, true to the principles of freedom and philanthropy thoroughly implanted in their characters, they would remember the terrible ordeal through which they had passed for more than thirty years, and be ever faithful to their convictions; that as they had, during many long, weary years of discouragements and apparent defeats, labored with a diligence that never tired, and a perseverance which never faltered, to impress their anti-slavery ideas upon the mind and heart of the nation, so for the next third of a century, or longer if necessary, they would consecrate themselves to the great work of securing the complete enfranchisement of the men whom their labors had liberated from the thraldom of slavery (applause); that if statesmen and parties stood in the way of success, such statesmen would be destroyed and such parties perish, and go into common graves, as the pro-slavery statesmen of the North and the old Whig and Democratic parties had gone before them, because false to freedom. (Applause.)
I did not say this in a violent and threatening manner, as I am reported to have done, but with sadness and apprehension, rather. 
It would not be necessary, if the persistent repetition of a falsehood did not sometimes cause it to be accepted as true, unless contradicted, for me to refer to a remark reported to have been made by the President in reply to what I said, when urging him to adopt in his reconstruction policy” universal loyal suffrage." It is said that he bade me, or those with me, ”good morning," with an intimation that he did not desire to have anything more from us on the question of negro suffrage. I do not know how the story obtained currency, nor do I care, for that matter. Certainly neither to me, nor to any gentleman with me, did the President, either by word or act, ever express displeasure at anything said during any of my interviews with him on the negro suffrage question. My relations with the President are of the most friendly character, and I expect them to remain of that character, while he continues to represent the loyal men of the nation. I know! him and his Cabinet well. His cabinet is made up of able, tried and true men. (Applause.) A majority of them have held responsible public positions during the past four years, and all have rendered important services in aiding to carry the nation safely through the terrible war just closed. They are entitled to the nation's confidence and the nation's gratitude. (Applause.) Their experience ought to render their services invaluable. If the loyal men of the nation cannot trust the President, with such a cabinet cooperating with him, I do not know whom they can trust. At all events, until Mr. Johnson proves false to the party which elected him, I shall support his Administration. It does not seem to me possible, in view of the fact that the slave power always hated and feared him—in view of the splendid record he has made since the war, and the pledges he has made in public and private—that he can now hesitate to. follow the logic of events. When I remember all that he has said, and the pledge which he voluntarily made to the black men at Nashville, when he promised them to be their Moses, to lead them out of the house of bondage, I cannot believe that he will now turn back to the worship of the Golden Calf, or that he will ever again fall down before the Moloch of slavery.
All I demand in the reorganization of State Governments in the late rebel States is justice—justice alike to loyal white and loyal black—justice to the late rebels also—justice tempered with mercy, if you will, but, nevertheless, justice—that justice which secures the personal rights of all, by placing in their hands the ballot—the only sure weapon, in a Republic, of protection and defence to the poor man, whether white or black. To me the ballot is the political” stone cut out of the mountain without hands, which shall fill the whole earth," and" break every yoke and let the oppressed go free."“ Whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken, but on whomsoever it shall fall, it shall grind him to powder." (Laughter.)
THE KENTUCKY EMBROGLIO. 
General Palmer's Reply to G. C. Smith. 
WASHINGTON, D. C., Oct. 2, 1865.
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War;—
SIR: I hope it will not be objected that in my reply to the application of Gov. Bramlette and of Hon. G. Clay Smith, for my removal from the command of the Department of Kentucky, I adopt the style of my late rather than of my present profession. I cheerfully accept Gen. Smith's disclaimer of personal feelings against me; and the letter of Gov. Bramlettee refutes any such suspicion, even if I could entertain it. I am happy in the knowledge of the fact that the effort on their part to have me removed has its origin only in what is a radical difference of opinion on grave public subjects. If they are right, they ought to succeed, and I am perfectly willing to accept a removal as a penalty for the” grave mistakes" committed by me. Indeed, I will go further, and say, that if, after an examination of the complaints against me, it shall appear that there is a mere quarrel tor place—I desire that it shall be decided against me. I wish to leave all such disputes to those whose tastes and inclinations lead them that way. Mine do not. I will also concede that Gen. Smith is right in saying that we (meaning himself and those that think with him,) cannot recover from those mistakes under my command. If slavery is to be recognized, protected and defended in Kentucky, Gen. Smith and other friends of the system do right in asking my removal. Slavery” cannot recover” under my administration. It drove me from the State in my boyhood. It may do it again; but it will receive no protection, acknowledgment, support or countenance from me.
Gen. Smith says,” Slavery, under the laws of Kentucky and the United States, still exists in that State." I know nothing of the laws of the United States to which he alludes, and I imagine that they have so far avoided the observation of the National Legislature, and have for that reason escaped repeal. But I grant that there is upon the statute books of Kentucky, as upon those of the other late slave States, an elaborate and cruel slave code; but if the presence of this slave code proves the existence of slavery in Kentucky, the existence of a similar code upon the statute books of Virginia proves the existence of slavery there. No one pretends that the slave laws are repealed, but only that all the persons lately subject to them are, by various executive and legislative acts and political events, withdrawn or removed from their operation and influence. Gen. Smith will not deny that 28,000 slaves were freed without the operation of the slave laws of Kentucky, by entering the military service of the United States; that 72,000 persons, the wives and children of colored soldiers, were also relieved from their operation by the joint resolution of the third of March, A. D., 1865. Nor that the persons that belonged to rebels were also, by the joint operation of law and the acts of their owners, relieved 
<c06>
from the influence of the slave code of the State. If these clases, numbering from reliable data 165,000 persons, may be adjudged free without supposing the repeat of the slave code, why may not the remaining 65,000, the mode of whose emancipation has not been pointed out? They once had laws in some of the States against witchcraft; but I do not believe they had necessarily witches. They have laws in Kentucky in reference ot slavery, but in my judment no slaves. The mere existence of the laws as well proves the one as the other. Slavery did not originate in law, but in force. The laws of Kentucky only profess to regulate, not create salvery, and their present existence proves nothing. Slavery did originate in force, and when that vital element of force ceases, it necessarily perishes. Laws only provide for the safe and judicious application of that requistite force. I will not consume time in arguing the question at length, but content myself with asserting that the whole slavery system of Kentucky is subverted and overthrown, and that it in point of law and fact controls no one. In support of this view, I will venture to quote the imputed opinions of both Gen. Smith and Governor Bramlette. They were both reported, during the late political canvass, to have said in their public addresses and private conversations,” that slavery is dead in Kentucky." if dead, it is somewhat difficult to understand how it can now exist.
But the ”pass system" of which they complain did not assume or proceed upon the idea of the absolute non-existence of salvery in Kentucky, but merely upon the theory that there were other interests to be protected which were of paramount importance. It had its origin in the fact that the joint resolution of March 3d, 1865, emancipated a large number of persons, chiefly women and children. In many cases they voluntarily abandoned, and in many others were expelled from their homes. Thousands came to the city of Louisville in search of shelter, food and employment.
Their freedom was disputed by those who clung to salvery with nearly as much confidence as General Smith denies to others the right of liberty. The same prejudices against the race, and dislike for the means; by which they were made free, coupled with threats of prosecution under State laws, embarrassed the wives and children of soldiers. The city was so filled with them as, in the judgment of the authorities, to endanger the public health. The mayor and a committee of the General Council of that city called upon me to aid them in devising some measures of relief, and proposed the enforcement of the vagrant and other oppressive laws against the race. Upon an examination of the laws of the State, I found an enactment which prohibited, under a heavy penalty, carriers of passengers from transporting slaves. Though this did not in terms apply to free colored persons, it did in effect. By the rules of law in force in the State, all persons of the mixed and black races were presumed to be slaves, and their testimony was, and still is, refused in all the courts and in all places. The rights of free persons were so imperfectly understood or considered, that carriers violated their right to travel with the most perfect impunity. The Ohio, River, which could only be crossed by ferries, was, under this circumstance, as completely blocked against the passage of the free as of the slaves, while beyond it were freedom, employment, and remuneration. To relieve the city from apprehended pestilence, and to enable those refugees to earn a support. I ordered the Provost Marshal of the Post of Louisville to issue passes to all colored persons who reported themselves out of employment, and ordered the owners of all steamboats, ferry-boats, railroads and other carriers of passengers, upon the presentation of such passes, and the payment of the usual fare, to transport the persons named therein to the point of destination designated in the pass. It may be objected that under that many slaves escaped from the State. It may be true. I had no authority or disposition to order an investigation of the question of freedom. Nor do I believe that I had any officer to whom I could have safely trusted the conservation of slavery. 
The free had a right to demand from me that protection which slavery and slave laws denied them If, in separating the free from the slaves, the discriminations were not always accurate, it was the fault of those who made the separation necessary; and as the source of danger was supposed to be in the excess of the black population, I was resolved to do nothing to prevent its rapid reduction. This order was made in May, 1865. On the 4th of July, the colored people gathered in large numbers at different points in the State, and as Gen. Smith justly says,” congregated in towns, cities and camps, without work or any prospect of a livelihood, and they became a great burden upon the people." Their pretended owners advertised them in the newspapers, and warned all persons from hiring, harboring, or having anything to do with them. Hence, as Gen. Smith himself says, they became vagrants upon the State. Labor was wanted, but people refused to hire, for fear of prosecution under the State laws for ”hiring, harboring," &c. The military, so far from having taken no steps to relieve them or the white people, as he asserts, did declare to them and to the white people that the colored people had the undoubted right to seek employment wherever it could be found, and did extend the ”pass system," of which he complains, over the State, under which more than 10,000 colored natives of the State have crossed the Ohio, and have found that protection and employment which were denied them at home; and a steady stream of emigration is going on of the same class of persons, and will go on until some change is made by which slavery can recover the advantages lost by many” grave mistakes," or the people of Kentucky abandon it.
Gen. Smith says: ”This irregularity must be overcome, and it must be done by a decided and energetic move on the part of the military in conjunction with the Executive of the State." If, by this, Gen Smith means that steps must be taken to give back to slavery what it has lost, he acts very wisely in asking; my removal. I will do in the future as I have done in the past—throw the whole of my personal and official influence against the institution and practices of slavery, with the hope of its utter extirpation. I will, as far as possible, protect all the people of the State in life and property. I will do my utmost to harmonise the races. Not by clinging to an imaginary scintilla of slavery, which only exists to demoralize the public mind, keeps alive old prejudices, and thus prevents the settlement of the question, but by presenting and standing by the simple issue, that all are free, and that all are to be protected as free.
Gen. Smith assigns his second reason of complaint against me, that I have failed to protect persons who were prosecuted in the State Courts for obeying my election order. I did not, as he says, instruct clerks, sheriffs, and judges of elections, but did give directions to my military subordinates, which may, and did, perhaps, affect the class of officers referred to by him. What letters have been sent to Gen. Smith, I do not profess to know. I will protect my officers, and all others to whom my orders were addressed, for all acts done in obedience to them. But
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power… It is a war power. I say it is a power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
in the absence of instructions from my military superiors, I must choose my one mode of doing so. I prefer, as a general rule, that the needed protection shall be afforded them through the action of the court, that the military authorities shall only interfere in cases of clear necessity. As the General is a lawyer of eminent reputation, it seems to me he might render valuable professional assistance to those true friends of his who voluntarily subjected themselves to legal prosecution for advancing his interests at the late election. Gov. Bramlette and Gen. Smith unite in saying that the day of my usefulness in Kentucky is passed; that I cannot recover what I have lost. Though, for obvious reasons, I cannot debate that question with them, I will not deny myself the satisfaction of saying that I have the confidence of all the Union men of the State, who are opposed to all concession to, or compromise with slavery; that I have the full confidence of the colored people of the State; but with all this, whether I am relieved or not, considered by itself, is a matter of the smallest moment; but if, by my removal, the opinions of these gentlemen in regard to slavery are endorsed, and it is to be understood that the Government decides that slavery is to be recognized protected, defended, or even respected by its officers in Kentucky, that my steady and persistent opposition to slavery is there by condemned and reversed, that my successor is to withhold protection from the colored people until they rebut the presumption of slavery, which in Kentucky, results from color, and furnish proof of freedom, then it will produce consternation among them, and the Union people of the State, without distinction of color, will regard it as a new lease given to slavery.
perhaps I ought to say that, if such is the purpose of the Government, it is eminently proper that I should be removed.
Very respectfully, your obd't serv’t,
JOHN M PALMER, Maj. Gen
GENERAL PALMER SUSTAINED.
The following is the correspondence with the Government:
LOUISVILLE, KY., Oct. 15, 1865.
Hon E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War, Washington
D.C.
Since the abrogation of Martial Law, no colored persons are allowed to cross on the ferry boats on the Ohio river, unless known to the ferryman to be free. Not more than one in a hundred can cross What shall I do?
JOHN M. PALMER, Major General.
Official-E. B. HARLAN,
Captain and A. A. General.
LOUISVILLE, Oct. 16, 1865.
E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
On yesterday ferry boats across the Ohio river refused to carry colored persons on passes issued under Department Orders No 32
I have ordered the post commandant here to compel them to do so. The alarm among the negroes, upon the report of the withdrawal of martial law of which I have no official information, renders this course necessary. Am I rights Immediate.
[Signed] JOHN M. PALMER 
Major General Commanding.
Official E. B. HARLAN, Capt. and A. A. G.
WASHINGTON, Oct.20, 1865.
Major General Palmer:
Your dispatches in respect to ferry passes have been very maturely considered, and it is not considered, and it is not perceived that this department can properly interfere.
[Signed]E.M.STANTON,
Secretary of War.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20, 1865.
Major General Palmer:
Major General Thomas having reported in favor of your retaining the command in Kentucky, and approving your administration of the department, the President has approved his report and overruled the application made for your removal.
[Signed] E.D. TOWNSEND
A.A. General 
KENTUCKY A FREE STATE! The suspense is over. Truth, right, liberty, loyalty and humanity, prevail. The controversy between Gen. Palmer and the dying slave power of Kentucky, as our readers are aware, was referred to Maj. Gen. Thomas for final decision and adjustment. That able just and accomplished officer telegraphed General Palmer yesterday from Washington, that all his acts, his policy, and his decision respecting the virtual overthrow of slavery in the Site, are to be sustained! The General is ordered to go on in the path he has chosen, to treat the negroes of Kentucky as freedmen, without discrimination. Nothing could be more welcome to the Union men of the State than this glorious news. Let rebels and pro-slavery Unionists, and political brokers manipulating Senatorial and Gubernatorial stocks, let all such how!1 Let patriots rejoice! And the persecuted negro sing hosannas to the Lord!-Louisville Union Press
THE GOOD FIGHT.
We reiterate our battle-cry of EQUAL RIGHTS! Many kindly voices and favoring presses are swelling the appeal. Every Sabbath adds to the cause some new pulpit; every week-day, some new editorial pen. As yet, the popular voice only half expresses the popular conscience. Like a smouldering fire, there is a suppressed conviction on the great subject, which when it breaks into full utterance, will sweep the country. Among a free people a just cause grows apace; every day adds fibre to its trunk and greenness to its leaf, till it stands at last a Cedar of Lebanon. Already the belief possesses a majority of Christian minds that this nation was shaken with war in order ”that the things which cannot be shaken might remain. ”These are the great principles of Human Rights, on which this Government is waiting to lay its only sure foundation. These principles which in one form or another, have always kept the American people under the salutary necessity of free discussion, are now coining themselves into a national question, and its image and superscription is Equal Suffrage. To men who used to be mobbed for demanding the abolition of slavery, it is now refreshing to see the whole nation advancing like an army toward the next great controtroversy-Political Equality. Some over-wearied friends are saying, ”Let us now fold our hands awhile, and enjoy the present victory." Not so! Stopping to enjoy Cannse Hannibal lost Rome. Stopping to-day contented with Emancipation, we shall to-morrow lose Equal Suffrage. Therefore, O friends, gird your loins! Welcome the remaining toils! The noblest discussion which ever engaged a free people is now opening. Of the result, we have no fear. Never was our faith firmer, our hope fairer, our zeal for labor in the Good Old Cause more ardent than in these crisp October days!
Our task to-day is to point out, by the help of two or three recent examples, how we feel called upon to differ from some other gentlemen with whom we would prefer to agree.
Mr. Seward has been to Auburn. Not” the loveliest village of the plain," but the town whose” townsmen however young are thoughtful, and however old a cheerful!” Speaking in so inspiring an atmosphere, the Premier painted with poetic words the autumnal glories of the maples; touched affectionately upon his forty years of friendships in that enchanting region; congratulated the greatest of nations on its triumph over all its enemies; summoned every Cabinet minister, both in and out of office, to come forward and bend a willing head to a garland of praise; poured out a genial discourse on every topic of public interest except the solitary one on which his voice was most needed; and not in all his speech did he mention the negro's name, or services or perils, or rights, or hopes! Was it not a strange omission? As the Secretary distributed a largess of good words; to everybody else, would it not have been graceful also to have tossed a pennyworth of recognition to the negro? Wounded in his own person by the dagger of an assassin, was it believed that he could so signally slight those lowlier men who have received wounds, and death, and honor in the service of the same cause and country? Well, we mention the matter not for the sake of controversy, but only to point this suggestive moral: that when such a man as Mr. Seward finds it a public convenience to forget the negro's cause the rest of us must make it a public duty to remember it.
Our friend Mr. Beecher preached last Sunday evening a discourse which the Times of Monday gilded and ornamented with the following figurehead: ”Great Political Sermon. Rev. Henry Ward Beecher on Reconstruction. His Unqualified 
<c02>
dorsement of President Johnson. Forbearance and Kindness for the South. They must regulate Negro Suffrage themselves. Northern Interference Discountenanced. We must have Confidence in their Loyal Professions. Their Self-respect must not be Offended. Kind Words for General Robert E. Lee." This eloquent” stud-head," as the printers say, was set in still finer relief by the following explanatory statement: ”It had been intimated to Mr. Beecher that articles condemnatory of President Johnson and the policy of the Administration, which were attributed to him throughout the country, were doing damage to the cause he had at heart; and, inasmuch as he did not write the articles, it was deemed proper that be should place himself right upon the record." Thus The Times kindly informs as that Mr. Beecher does not write our editorials, and what better can we do, in reciprocation of the courtesy, than to inform The Times that we do not write Mr. Beecher s sermons Now, with so hearty, noble, and grand a friend as the pastor of Plymouth Church, it is no pleasure for us to differ. Nevertheless, this is not the first time we have had good ground for a public difference. Contrary to The Times, we think our friend has now placed himself not” right on the record," but wrong. We do not refer to his somewhat unusual appetite for the pardon of criminals, though we maintain the punishment of crime to be a Christian duty; nor to his holding up Gen. Lee to the admiration of young men as a public instructor, though we think a whipper of slaves and starver of prisoners should rank something lower than a gentleman; nor to his new doctrine that” intermarriage between blacks and whites should not be permitted," though in our view this is a question only for the parties themselves, and may safely be let alone by a man who has so many other marriages to attend to as Mr. Beecher; nor to his declaration that President Johnson's every act has been” apt, fitting, and most wise”-though Mr. Beecher's language at this stage sounds more like the Democratic resolutions of New Jersey than the good old ring of Plymouth Church bell. But, passing all these points in regretful silence, we refer particularly to the strangest statement of all, and which struck The Times as so admirable that that journal embalmed it as a laconic excerpt, a watchword for the hour, a happy maxim for reconstruction, and wrote over it the compliment, Genuine Conservatism." We quote as follows:” The laws and intents of the Government and ourselves will prove of no avail if they are hostile and unpleasant to the WHITE people of the South." 
How little we expected such a statement from Mr. Beecher! Certainly the only things which, as yet, have been of any” avail” with the South have been things” hostile and unpleasant”-for instance muskets, proclamations of emancipation, confiscation acts, enforced oaths of allegiance, and the like So much for the past. Now, as for the future, our Christian duty compels us to alter Mr. Beecher's statement into the following: ”The laws and in tents of the Government will prove of no avail if they are hostile and unpleasant to the BLACK people of the South." This is our way of looking at the case. Are we not right? Solemnly before God we hold up these two statements, and confidently appeal to know which is the more in consonance with His divine will! It is to this tribunal and to this alone, that we are to carry the controversy. Meanwhile, we regret that the finest flavor of praise which Mr. Beecher's sermon has elicited is from the New York Daily News the leading Copperhead journal of the United States! That paper speaks thus of the noblest man now living: ”Escaped from associations that have hitherto eclipsed his truly admirable genius, we predict for Mr. Beecher, henceforth, a much less equivocal reputation than he has heretofore enjoyed." And as we are fond of a good jest, we quote another remark from the same copper-colored columns:” We congratulate Mr. Beecher that he has emerged from the atmosphere of The Independent office. In view of all which, we can think of no better solace than to dwell in fancy upon the picturesque grimace which our minister's face will have to wear in the purer air in the office of the Daily News, forever fragrant with Ben Wood's cigar!
Our friend, Maj. Geo L. Stearns of Boston-who by long service in the anti-slavery cause, deserves a brevet-has published an account of a recent interview which he held with President Johnson; an account which the President revised in manuscript and authenticated for publication. If the saying be true that the” face is the mirror of the mind," it is interesting to know of the President that his countenance is healthy; ”beyond which, the statement of Maj. Stearns presents only one point that is new The President's singular declaration that” Universal Suffrage in the South would breed a war of races, so forcibly reminds us of the old story that Emancipation also would create” a war of races? “that we will dismiss his apprehension as too familiar a ghost to be feared. The letter of Abraham Lincoln found upon the dead body of General Wadsworth declares that he meant to grant” universal amnesty," and to exact” universal suffrage." Did Abraham Lincoln apprehend” a war of races? “ Not at all! On the contrary, he foresaw that Amnesty would carry joy to the rebels, and Suffrage joy to the negroes, and that, as a consequence, in stead of a” war of races," all the bells would ring Glory Hallelujah! o that the mantle of Elijah may yet fall upon Elisha
Meanwhile we plant ourselves upon the rock of EQUAL SUFFRAGE. Believing this position to be right, to be manly, to be Christian, God forbid our feet to be moved there from a single inch-nay, a single hair! Through evil and through good report, we trust to be able to maintain an un wavering testimony to the truth. We solemnly believe that the word for the hour is Equal Rights! This is the dictate of Justice this is the claim of Humanity Parties must heed it Administrations must conform to it! Its march shall be irresistible as Time! It shall sweep with majesty into the National Capitol, and shall seat itself in sovereignty as the Supreme Law of the Land! To-day, in advance, therefore we salute the coming victory, and cry joyfully ALL

HAIL N.Y. Independent.
SEURETARY STANTON.
The Secretary of War is no popularity hunter and has an invincible repugnance to being lionized. He means that his visit to New York shall be of the most quiet character; and all the world has learned that what he means be executes. It is absolutely refreshing to see an American of his force and fame moving with so little note and show-content with the friendly courtesies of private life. 
Undoubtedly there is some natural lack in the Secretary of the elements which easily kindle popular enthusiasm. His cast of character is too severe for that. He is too self-contained, unbending, unimpressible. Again, He has been, through the war in the most invidious of positions. He has not only to take the brunt of the spite of the designing thousands who were disappointed in getting contracts from his Department, or who were held to the strictest fulfillment of them, but had to stand the rage of all whose sedition invoked the strong arm of the Government. Probably no public man in this country was ever the object of such intensity of hate as Secretary Stanton drew upon himself from the copper heads of the rebellion for his holding their faction in check by exemplary arrests in extreme cases. It mattered not that the representatives of the people in Congress had marked out this line of action by the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, or that President Lincoln declared in public letters and speeches that he took all the responsibility of Mr. Stanton's official action, the wrath was concentrated upon the Secretary. Every malignant passion of the human soul contributed to it, until it became an absolute torrent of venom. He was not moved Though it continued for months and years, he wavered not in the discharge of his full duty. Bur this keeping of the rebel sympathizers of the North within bounds was but an incidental part of his work. The administration of the War Department comprehending all that related to the raising, equipping, and subsisting of the most colossal army of modern times, devolved upon him. With all the aids that could be gained by a systematic subdivision of responsibility and labor, his own task was still herculean. That he accomplished it at all is surprising; that he accomplished it so well is marvellous. We believe that the records of all modern Governments would be searched in vain for an instance of such vast and complex administrative duties discharged with greater efficiency of rectitude. It has cost an ability and a toil of which the public has as yet but a faint conception. When the history of this war comes to be completely written, then, and not until then, will the service of the head of the War Department be adequately understood and a preciated
The vituperation that has been poured out against
<c03>
Secretary Stanton has been powerless against the unqualified tributes of admiration freely rendered by Abraham Lincoln, Lieutenant-General Scott, Lieutenant-General Grant, and other men most cognizant of his public service, and best qualified to judge it. All memory of this abuse will soon pass away; and the very names of those who vented it will rot and perish. Among the many towering reputations made by the war, few, if any, are composed of more enduring elements than the reputation of Edwin M. Stanton. The iron staunchness, the tireless industry, the Spartan integrity, the gigantic grasp of the Secretary of War in the time of be Great Rebellion will be remembered to the last day of the Republic.-N. Y. Times.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1865.
EDITORIAL AUSENCE. The Editor of the Liberator is absent on his Western tour, and does not expect to be at his post till about the 10th of December.
THE LAST QUARTER.
The Liberator is now on its last quarter, prior to the final close of its publication. It is not only desirable, but necessary, therefore, that those who are indebted to it should promptly remit what is due; as the expenses of the paper have been greatly increased, and its receipts lessened, during the present year; and as every farthing will be needed-:more to enab’s us to complete the volume.
POWERS AND DUTIES OF ANDREW JOHNSON.
Rumor says that President Johnson is determined upon pressing the claims of our nation upon the British Government for compensation for the piratical destruction of our vessels by cruisers built and equipped in its ports, manned by its seamen, and assisted by its policy, in violation of the treaty of peace existing between the two nations. Assuredly these claims ought to be pressed. Not by bluster or threats, definite of indefinite; still less by war, the disgrace of civilization, (or more accurately speaking, the disgrace of the peoples who call themselves civilized and Christian.) These claims should be pressed by a demand made on the ground of right and justice, so presented as to prove itself as justice to the conscience of-every candid man, and repeated in every communication between our Government and theirs until it shall be granted. It is sincerely to be hoped that this negotiation may be left in the hands of Mr. Adams, who has so well begun it, and that neither this nor any other business may be given by our Government into the hands of such a man as Caleb Cushing.
But there is another claim which it is still more important for Andrew Johnson to settle, a matter far more within his power than the one above named, and a matter in which his honor and the honor of the nation are far more deeply concerned. I mean the claim for justice made by the obvious condition of the negro race in this country, and especially by the condition of those of them who have (until lately been held in slavery through the shameful complicity of the American Government and people.
I say that the United States-and therefore Andrew Johnson as the recognized head of the nation, and the man most powerful to influence its opinion and direct its action-owe to the race of dark-skinned Americans the open recognition and effective vindication of their rights as human beings. This debt from the nation has been due ever since slavery began; but its claim is peculiarly urgent just now, when circumstances favor its payment, and the” constitutional" objections which formerly opposed it have been nullified by the rebellion of the slaveholders. We can now do this act of justice. The only question is whether we will do it. The nation seems neither just nor wise enough to do it spontaneously, and thus prevent the fearful results that will assuredly arise from leaving this matter unsettled; it depends therefore chiefly upon the will and action of the President whether, after our reconstruction shall have been effected, the colored people are to hold the rank of men and citizens, or some rank intermediate between citizens and slaves His power can decide this; his action will decide it; the fearful responsibility of leaving this work of justice unaccomplished remains with him. 
As far as we can judge by present indications, he seems determined to insure the worst, the most un just and the most cruel settlement of this matter, by leaving its decision in the hands of slaveholders; in the hands of men who have always claimed the right to buy, own, flog, work and sell human beings; in the hands of men who regret the loss of this power and who avow their intention of resuming as large a proportion of it as possible when they are again in a position to bar the interposition of the United States Government and people by the plea of” State Sovereignty.” 
The thoroughness and the enormity of this claim do not rest upon conjecture. We see them both fully displayed in the late inaugural address of General Humphreys, the newly elected Governor of Mississippi. He maintains our government to he “a white man's government." He affirms all the freedmen of Mississippi to be” unfitted for political equality with the white man." He announces that” the purity and progress of both races require that caste must be main trained." Assuming that, because the cultivation of the great staples of the South requires continuous labor the year through, the planter cannot venture upon it unless he is armed with the irresistible power of compulsion for the whole period, he jumps to the conclusion that the freedmen's work must be fixed for them within certain limits by the law, and that they must be compelled to keep uninterruptedly at it” from January to January." He is graciously pleased to add in behalf of the working class, (which would seem, thus far, to have nothing but labor provided or intended for it,) that” by such a system of labor the welfare and happiness of the African may be se cured."
From the character and condition of the planters of Mississippi, and from the statements in regard to their intelligence and capacity made by Governor Humphreys, we may fairly, I think, draw a conclusion very different from that drawn by him. Knowing, by abundant testimony, that they were a vicious and degraded class of people, we did not know (until it was told us by the man whom they chose to be their leader in the rebellion and their Governor under the hoped-for reconstruction) that they were a class so inferior in capacity as to be unable to adapt themselves to improved conditions. They cannot cultivate cotton and sugar without slavery, or something substantially equivalent to it! Well, if they are incompetent to that extent, (and the Governor probably knows,) let us give the freedmen a trial. They can do it. Let them undertake the plantations, and let those poor inefficient white people have the opportunity of earning their living as laborers, or, if they prefer it, of emigrating to some country whose Constitution permits slavery. Under ordinary circumstances, this change could not so easily be effected; but. since these people have forfeited their lands by rebellion and since the black men of the State, who are competent to take these lands in charge and cultivate them to good advantage without slavery, are the very persons who have established a claim upon the United States Government by acting on it inside during the white men's rebellion let the Government assign these lands to them; let the incapables be sent to look for some work that they can do; and this arrangement will give the best chance, alike for the prosperity of Mississippi as a State, and for its respectability and rectitude as a member of the United States-C.K.W.
Lord Palmerston the British Premier, died on the 18th ult. aged 81. It is thought that Earl Russell will succeed him.
<c04>
PARKER FBATERITCTY,
The third of the present course of Fraternity Lectures was delivered at the Music Hall last Tuesday evening by Rev. David A. Wasson.
Mr. Wasson proposed to answer the question-How shall Republicanism pursue itss upward course! How shall it live and grow! Our body politic, he said, requires a suitable soul; a fit and sufficient soul. The European governments proved long since that the soul had gone out of them. They punished treason, but were themselves the highest treason to the rights of man. Puritanism was the first attempt to establish a better polity. It was noble, though narrow. The French Revolution was very largely a failure. But for Thomas Jefferson, our own revolution might have gone on without the expression of a single universal principle.
The form of our polity is the highest hitherto established; but we must be ever mindful to keep a soul living and working in it.
The people must be the prey of demagogues until they follow the dictates of simple right, and make this the rule of government as well as of private life.
Politics, Mr. Wasson said, should be an application of moral truth to national life. Here, as well as in individual conduct, our aim should be to act justly instead of directing our efforts to the making of a profitable bargain.
The lecturer thought less unfavorably than his two predecessors on that platform of President Johnson's character and policy. Deploring his partial blindness, and admitting that he still needed pressure in the right direction, there was still reason to believe that his heart was with the black man. 
The pressure of other matter forbids a fuller report. The lecture next Tuesday evening will be given by Rev. J. M. Manning-C.K.W.
ME. GAEEISON IN MAINE.
PORTLAND, Oct 27th.
Mr. Garrison and J. Miller Mc kim have been in this State for the last few days, working for the Freed men, and they have worked to some purpose. They came in their official capacity, and in behalf of the American Freedmen's Aid Commission; Mr. Garrison as First Vice President, and Mr. Mc Kim as Corresponding Secretary of the Eastern Department Though the notice was short, large meetings were held in this city and in Bangor, which have awakened a lively interest and given general satisfaction. 
All decent people here are now anti-slavery, and, regarding this movement as the complement and logical result of the anti-slavery movement, they are quite willing to do something in it to atone for their hostility or indifference to it in its early stages. 
The time was when men like Garrison and Mc Kim would not have been tolerated, or at least not candidly listened to by any but a very small, and that an unin fluential class of citizens; now they were warmly and cordially received by all our leading citizens, including the most conservative. Of this you may judge when I tell you that Phineas Barnes presided at the meeting held to-day to organize a Portland Freedmen's Aid Commission, and that John Neal, Mr. Garrison' a old opponent, was one of the most cordial in supporting the movement.
Mr. Garrison and I used to have some hot contests," said Mr. Neal as the meeting was assembling to-day.
Who was wrong and who was right?" said Governor Washburne. was wrong," said Mr Neal, frankly, ”and Mr. Garrison was right."
But I am anticipating.
At the public meeting held in our City Hall on Tuesday evening, speeches were made by Mr. Mc Kim and Mr. Garrison, stating the nature, scope, and modus operandi of the movement, and giving such cogeut reasons for it that Governor Washburne, when they were done, rose and offered a resolution affirming that the American Freedmen's Aid Commission was entitled to the confidence and should receive the hearty support of all loyal citizens.
After the meeting, cards were sent out by Gov. Washburne, and Mr. McLellan, Mayor of the city inviting leading gentlemen to meet in the Council Chamber to confer with Messrs. Garrison and Mc Kim on their return from Bangor, and to take some practical steps toward forwarding the movement. This meeting was held yesterday. A free inter change of sentiment took place, and, as the result, a meeting is called for next Tuesday evening, to form Portland Freedmen's Aid Association, auxiliary through the State Association, to the National Commission. 
The same thing was done at Bangor. That is, a public meeting was held in the City Hall, which was attended by a large concourse of people, who listened with the liveliest expressions of appreciation and approval. At the end of it, Professor Harris rose and offered resolutions similar in tenor to that of Govern or Washburne in the meeting here. 
An informal meeting was also held in the Mayor's room, at which it was resolved to meet to-morrow evening to form a Bangor Freedmen's Aid Association. 
From the character of the men who have take hold of the work, and the spirit they evince in the out start, I have no doubt that the movement will be pushed forward with great energy.
Mr. Garrison and Mr. Mc Kim have placed it before the people in a strong light, claiming for it the graves consideration. They assert it to be the question of the hour, admitting of no postponement, and affecting the very vitals of the nation. It was not an eleemosynary movement, they said, appealing to sensibility and asking for charity; it was a reorganizing movement based on the principles of equity, appealing to Justice, and to the self-respect of all classes of our citizens, and eminently calculated to promote the interest, prosperity and enduring peace of the country.
This is a new way of presenting this movement and a much more impressive one than the mode in which it has been commonly brought to our notice. Of course, Mr. Garrison and Mr. Mc Kim having been long in the movement in its previous as well as its present phases-have a thorough understanding of its relations and bearings, and are therefore better qualified to advocate its claims than others who are but recent converts.
It is evident that this movement is to exert an important influence in completing our great revolution. Freedom without what belongs to that condition is but a name. As these gentlemen say, if the freed people of the South be left where they are, ”their last condition will be worse than the first." So they demand that the people shall take the matter in hand and see to it that the blacks have education, elevation, a proprietary interest in the soil, suffrage and all the rights and immunities of unqualified freedom. And the people say amen! and they are going to organize for this work. They don't mean to be, and they will not be cheated out of the fruits of our victory over the rebels. With or without President Johnson; with or without the leave of the Perrys and the Johnson the Wellses and the Humphreys and other Provisional in present power, this revolution must be made to reach its logical results and find its end in its legitimate consequences.
If you find anything in this letter fit for publication, let it go into the Liberator; if not, let it go into your waste basket; and oblige 
Yours truly, S. E. D.
The Post thinks that the re-union of loyalists with ex-rebels in the late Episcopal Convention was a specimen of” truly Christian conduct”-of” unqualified obedience to the spirit of the Gospel." It is pleasant to have the opinion of a person intimately and practically acquainted with the subject of which he speaks. 
It is credibly stated that a mutiny of the colored people has taken place in Jamaica.
<c05>
LETTER FROM HENRY C.WRIGHT
The National Government-Who shall say who shall be its Electors and its Basis of Representation?-The Right of Self-protection.
HARWICH, Oct. 25, 1865. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
Mr FRIEND The action of Congress, the coming winter, will go far to fix the character and destiny of the American Republic for generations to come. The late rebel States recognize this fact, that slavery is dead. They are embodying in their Constitutions its prohibition.” No more slavery not involuntary servitude" in Missouri, Maryland, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Mississippi, at Louisiana. The negro is no longer regarded as a” chattel” before the Federal or State laws. The four millions, late chattels, are now, by organic and statute law, human beings. This is the first great step in the progress of their complete enfranchisement. They may be and are outraged in a thousand ways, but they can never again be reduced to the condition of” chattels personal to all intents, constructions and purposes whatsoever." For this I thank God and the Garrisosias Abolitionists. Forever hallowed will your name be as it stands associated with this event, the greatest and most sublime work of the nineteenth century. That man can be legally held and used as property is forever denied and forbidden. 
You proclaimed a war of ideas against this most colossal of all crimes. In that war of thirty-five years, the slavemongers, North and South, were worsted. They appealed from ideas to bullets to sustain and perpetuate their assumed right to turn men, women and children into beasts and things. In their satanic effort, led on by Davis, Lee & Co., they murdered and mutilated half a million of our sons and brothers, and assassinated our President. But, in this war of bullets, they are also crushed. Still, their deadly hatred to the republic, and the principles of liberty, equality and fraternity on which it rests remains. They are determined to make good their declaration that” the negro was never created equal to them in natural right”-that,” if free, he will not work," and” cannot take care of himself”-that” he cannot be educated”-that” slavery is his natural condition," &c.
To throw every obstacle in the way of the education and elevation of the freedman, they not only exclude him from the use of the ballot, but Georgia, Alabama and South Carolina exclude him from being counted in the basis of representation. Why do they do this! Solely because the negro, through all the four years struggle, has prayed and worked for the republic; his sympathies were all with the North he fought and bled for the republic, and saved it; and he gloried over the death of slavery, the rebellion and the Confederacy. Because he is the friend of freedom, free labor and free institutions, and because he was the means of the slaveholders’ defeat in their efforts to destroy the republic and found a slave empire on its ruins, they are determined to punish him; and since they can no longer hold him as a chattel, they are determined to ignore his existence as to rights and privileges in the government, and yet compel him to obey it, and to support it by his taxes. The negro is to be taxed to support a government that will not allow him to be counted in its basis of representation; to enjoy none of its privileges and blessings.
With such a Constitution, Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina are to knock at the door of Congress for admission in December. Will they be admitted? Will Congress ignore the existence of its four millions of earnest, loyal friends in the South, who stand ready to suffer and die to save the republic, and commit its destiny to those who have murdered half a million of our loved ones, in their efforts to destroy it? If so, the nation will find what it deserves; i.e. DEATH.
Has the Republic a Constitutional right to sere itself! By its action the past four years, it answers, ”YES”-at least to save itself from the bullets of assassins. Congress, in its coming session, must determine whether it has a right to protect itself against the assassins' ballots. Had the bullet been withheld from the negro, the republic had gone down before the assassins' bullet. Deny the ballot to the negro, and it must die by the ballots of the same assassins. So, to shut him out from the ballot, Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina exclude him from the basis of rep recantation!
Has the Republic a Constitutional right to decide who shall be its electors, and who shall be counted in its basis of representation? Have the States a right to decide these questions for the republic? If so, the Union has no power to protect itself, but its existence is at the mercy of the States. Has Congress the right to say, (1,) who shall be electors, and, (2,) who shall be counted in the basis of representation? Congress is to answer in its coming session. Who constitute the Federal Government? The rebel States, (for in spirit they are rebels now as ever,) said the State had a right to decide this, and say who should constitute its voters, and who should constitute its basis. Will Congress do this, and thus give up hat South Carolina was right in her assertion of the supremacy of State over Federal sovereignty?
This is not a government of Congress, of the Supreme Court, nor of the President, for the benefit of a party or a class. It is a government of the people, for the people. ”All its powers are derived from the governed," not from the governing. But the people of the States do not govern the Republic through their State governments, but through the Federal government. As towns are subject to counties, and counties to States, so are the States subject to the national government. Georgia can form such a Constitution for that State as she pleases; but unless in the judgment of Congress, it be” a republican form of government," it cannot become one of the United States. To show their hostility to the republic, and to the equality of natural rights, and to give vent to their chagrin and wrath over their utter defeat, they may disfranchise in their State government all white and black, who sympathize with freedom, free labor and free institutions, and glory in the death of slavery and the rebellion; but it is not for the people of Georgia, alone, to decide who shall be electors, and constitute the basis of representation in the Federal government. It is ”We the People of the United States” who are to settle that; not” We the people of Georgia.
CONGRESS, or “We the People of the United States," are to say who, within the territorial limits of Georgia, may vote for Congressmen and President Otherwise, the Federal Government is a rope of sand. It is at the mercy of the State Governments. Who shall vote, and what shall be the basis of representation in the Federal Government? Shall Congress or the State Legislature decide? Shall the people, acting as a nation, or as States, determine? The people, acting as a nation, not as States, must settle this question. Otherwise, Congress can have no civil power to protect its friends against the wrongs and outrages of the States. The conquered rebel States are full of traitors to the Union. They are also full of friends to the Union. Will the next Congress place the U. S. Government at the mercy of its deadly enemies in those States, or of its devoted friends, who, by hundreds of thousands, have given their lives and their all for its salvation? This is the one question now before the people. Congress will answer it next winter. How!
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
Mr. Orr is chosen Governor of South Carolina by about 500 majority, over the worse rebel, Wade Hampton. Gov. Perry will probably be the South Carolina. Senator for the long term.
Rev. William H. Fish has accepted a call to settle over the Unitarian Congregational parish at South Scitoate.
Dr. Orestes A. Brownaon has received from his friends a thousand dollars annuity.
<c06>
NEW ENGLAND FREEDMEN'S AID SOCIETY.
The New England Freedman's Aid Society has the pleasure of announcing to its friends that it has this day become an integral part of the American Freedmen's Aid Commission, a national organization consolidated of all the Freedmen’s Societies in the United States.
This union, it is hoped, will simplify amplify, and energize the great work of elevating the Freedman; harmonize all the instrumentalities employed for that end; purify each and all from even the suspicion of sectarianism or partisanship; appeal more strongly to the respect and support of benevolent people both at home and abroad; command greater influence with the Government, and meet with less opposition at the South, than any one of the Societies composing it.
Only so much of our independence as was necessary for these ends is surrendered to the National Commission; all our present officers rules, methods of work, plans of organization, and relations of Branch Societies, remaining as before the change
The new Commission, like the Sanitary, has an Eastern and a Western Department; the former of which is organized under the auspices of the late American Freedmen's Aid Union, of all the Societies East, and the latter by the Western and Northwestern Commissions of all West, of all Alleghenies This Society until others are formed in New England tributary to the Commission, will therefore constitute the NEW ENGLAND SECTION,EASTERN DEPARTMENT, AMERICAN FREEDMEN'S AID COMMISSION.
As a part of a National Society doing a great national work, it now urgently commends itself to the liberal support of the patriotie, loyal and Christian people of New England, pledging its whole power and influence, in the future as in the past, to hose kinds of beneficence upon which, as purely catholic and humane, all good men agree.
To make our plans for the winter at all commensurate with the vast importance and extent of the work, we ought to be assured of a revenue from New England, this year, of at least a million and a haif dollars. That part of the country which has suffered least and gained most by the war can surely afford this sum to ensure and pcrpetnate the triumph of those principles of Justice and Liberty in defence of which the war was waged.
We call upon the auxiliary branches of the Sanitary and Christian Commissions not to cease their noble work before the end is come. The battle for a perfect Union and impartial Freedom was not finished by the surrender of the rebel armies, but only assumed a new phase. To baffle the cunning and neutralize the hatred of defeated parricides, we must raise up at the south a class of citizens who will cleave to the Union as their fortress of safety, and love the Northern people with intelligent and ceaseless gratitude.
We must utterly cast out the devil slavery which has rent us, and erect barriers against its return, not only in the laws but in the hearts of the people; and we must heal the wounds it has made, not only in society, but also in its wretched victims.
This is, therefore, your work as well as ours. We entreat you not to neglect it. Organizs and re-organize,-collect, contribute, work, as God as shall give you strength and opportunity, and his blessing will crown your labors.
JOHN A. ANDREW,
President of the Society,
No 8, Studio Building, Trement Street,
Boston, Mass., Oct. 20,1865.
APPEAL IN BEHALF OF THE FREEDMEN OF WASHINGTON, D.C.
The Executive Committee of the National Freedmen's Relief Association of the District of Columbia earnestly call the attention of all friends of humanity to the subjoined appeal by Mrs. JOSEPHINE S.GRIFFING, who has been for a considerable period the indefatigable agent of the Association.
Having spent many months personally visiting the people in whose behalf she speaks, and learning their actual needs in their shanties, her testimony can be accepted as authentic. Many cases of extreme destitution are known to the Committee, and their suffering cannot fail to be increased as the rigor of winter comes on.
TO THE FRIENDS OF HUMANITY:
I beg leave to make the following statement and appeal to the Northern States in behalf of the destitute Freed People in and around the National Capital.
The population of Washington, at the last census, was, Whites 60,000, Free Colored 14,000, and from a recent partial census by the War Department it appears that not less than 25,000 have been added. A large proportion of these are women and children, a few of whose husbands and fathers are still in Government service; but most of them are either disabled dead, or left with the rebels.
A host of miserable women, with large families of children, besides old, crippled, blind and sick persons, have been driven out of Maryland and sought refuge here. Most of these people have exhibited industry and thrift beyond the expectations of their friends, paying, generally, by day's labor-often difficult to obtain-for shanties, garrets, cellars and stables-unfit for human beings to live in-average rent of from $5 to $6 per month.
At the commencement of the winter of 1864, upon personal examination, I found nine hundred families with an average number of five children without wood or the means to obtain it; half that number without beds or blankets, and as many without beds or the means of subsistence. Upon this report being presented to the Secretary of War, 1050 cords of wood, 3300 blankets, and commissary stores to feed, during the extreme cold weather, 2600 per day, were delivered and paid for from the Freedom’s Fund, held in trust by the War Department.
At the same time it was found that thousands of women and children of the latest arrivals were without a change of clothing, and large numbers had no under clothing at all.
A number of infants, of only a few days old, were found without a garment, and in this condition many perished from cold.
Hundreds of old persons and children were without shoes and stockings, and being badly frost bitten, several had their limbs amputated in consequence, and are crippled for life.
Very few among the twenty thousand have comfortable beds or household utensils. I find, from burying their dead, that the sanitary condition of most of the poorest class conduces much to the fearful mortality among them, as they are compelled to breathe a very impure air within, and a stench without the room, and are often covered with vermin, even after death.
There has been no material change in the condition and wants of these poor people since last winter, except that labor is not so easily found since the close of the war as before. Persons of the above description are almost daily coming in from Virginia and Meryland, clothed, of course, in rags.
I have lately learned from the Quartermaster's Department, where coffles are issued for those Freedmen too poor to buy, that since the commencement of the extreme hot weather, about 80 coffins per week have been called for, most of which were for children. 
This mortality is far greater than has before been reported since they came to the city.
“In slavery," the mothers say, “our children never dies, it ‘pears like they all die here." It is the opinion of physician, practicing among them, and of other close observers, that three-fourths of these children die from neglect and want.
In one family of a soldier who lost his life in battle, five out of ten of his children have died since March, 1866, from the above causes. In another, three out of seven children, of a soldier drafted in December last have starved to death within the last three weeks. The mothers, in both cases, were prostrated with sickness, and all their supplies were suddenly and entirely cut off. In the same square,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
mothers and sons and wives and children, of soldiers still in Government service as Regular U. S. Troops, are suffering for the necessaries of life. “Knowing nothing more of these men," they say, than that "when the war broke up they didn't come home."
Near these lives another soldier's wife, having four skeleton children, who, as she says, were starved out in Frederick, Md. They have neither bed, table, nor chairs, nor any household utensils, save a frying pan, out of which they all eat with their fingers. When I found her she had obtained two days’ work, and with her scanty wages had tried to keep the children alive; but, said she, God knows how often we are hungry. "These cases might be multiplied to scores and hundreds in and around the National Capital.
The Character and advancement of the schools for Freedman in the District of Columbia is encouraging, nearly 3000 children being in attendance, but 4000 would be in both day and Sabbath schools but for the vast of proper clothing.
The bureau of Freedmen has no appropriation from Congress to meet the wants of these wretched men, women and children. Maj. Gen. Howard, in his circular  No.2, distinctly states this, and also invites the benevolent public, and associations already organized for Freedmen's aid, to cooperate in giving the needed relief to these sufferers until compensating labor can be found for them.
We trust this statement of facts will reach the Boards of the Christian and Sanitary Commissions, and of the various Christian associations for the amelioration and elevation of suffering humanity, and that benevolent societies throughout the North may recognize the claims of these people, and respond to this call.
We want lumber, nails and glass, to put up temporary buildings for houses for the old and crippled—a “rest" for the Freedmen daily coming to their "city of refuge"; buildings for schools, intellectual and industrial, together with an intelligence and business office and store-room. Two large industrial schools are now in successful operation, where classes, numbering over two hundred women without husbands, are in terms of about a month to each class, learning to make and mend garments.
We need large quantities of cloth for these schools, and also yarn for knitting. Bedding of every description is absolutely needed before the coming winter Household utensils, and a little cheap furniture, should be supplied to those who have none.
Sleeping on the shanty and stable floors last winter induced colds and pulmonary disease, that terminated the lives of hundreds, who, with beds and bedsteads to sleep on, might now be living.
Provisions of all kinds are needed for these families, whose rent absorbs much of their scanty earnings. Money, and all other contributions, should be sent to the address of GEO. E. BAKER, Esq., Treasurer National Freedmen's Relief Association, Washington,
D.C. MRS. JOSFPHINE S. GRIFFING.
PENNSYLVANIA ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
[Special correspondence of the Philadelphia Press.]
WEST CHESTER, Oct. 27.
The 29th Annual Meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society was held yesterday, commencing at 10 o'clock A.M., in Agricultural Hall, West, Chester. The attendance was very large, and among the audience and upon the platform we noticed many who have for years been identified with the anti-slavery cause here and elsewhere.
The society was called to order by Mr. Jas. Mott, President, who briefly referred to the condition of the country, and the circumstances under which those present had assembled. The spirit of slavery was still violent in many parts of our country, and even in our own State much remained to be done to secure the freedom of the black man, and it would be a question for the members of the society to determine what course of action would be most advisable. Whether the Pennsylvania society would continue to labor on as a society, or in some other manner, was one which, more than any other, appeared to engage the attention of the members.
On motion of Edward M. Davis, of Philadelphia, Mr. Albert Love was appointed Assistant Secretary.
On motion, the following resolutions, approved by the Executive Committee of the society, were submitted to the body for consideration by Miss Mary Grew, of Philadelphia:
Whereas, During the last year, the rebellion of the Southern States against the United States Government in the defence of slavery has been overcome, and our four years' war closed in the defeat of the rebels on the battle-field; and 
Whereas, The nation is now in the perilous crisis of a reconstruction of a Union of the States, the conditions whereof may secure freedom to the negroes of the South, or may secure helpless victims of the tyranny from which the war has partially delivered them; therefore,
Resolved, That a solemn responsibility rests upon anti-slavery societies and upon all abolitionists for the faithful performance of duty to those in whose behalf we have labored for more than thirty years, and to whom we have given our pledges that we would labor untiringly, until the last fetter of the last slave should be broken.
Resolved, That the duty which the present hour requires of us is, that we demand uncompromisingly and unceasingly that the freedom bestowed upon the slave shall be real and substantial, and shall be permanently secured by such safeguards as shall forever protect him from a condition of serfdom, wherein, without the name, he will suffer much of the misery of a slave.
Resolved, That in the present temper and tone of the Southern people, as manifested in their conventions and Legislatures, in their appeals to the Federal Government, and in their newspapers and public speeches, we see abundant proof that the freedom and welfare of the colored population cannot safely be trusted in their hands; because,
1st. Though vanquished on the battle-field, and acknowledging themselves conquered, they are not converted to love of justice or hatred of oppression.
2d. Their contempt for the slave, while he was their slave and victim, naturally changed to intense rage and hatred when they met him as an armed foe on the battle-field, and felt that with his help they were conquered.
Resolved, That we demand, in the name of justice and humanity, that equal suffrage for the black and white population shall be a condition of the return of the revolted States into the Union, because such equal suffrage will be the only security for the freedom of the slave, after the re-establishment of the State Governments, and the consequent withdrawal of the United States military authorities from the South.
Resolved, That we greatly deplore the policy of the President of the United States, and the position of the Republican party, and the tone of the Republican press, relative to negro suffrage; all of which demonstrate the fact that our nation has failed to learn from the stern lessons of our terrible war that compromises with wrong always end in disaster, and that impartial justice is the true prosperity and glory of a People.
Resolved, That the conduct of the Protestant Episcopal Convention of the United States, recently assembled in Philadelphia, in refusing to give thanks to God for the abolition of American slavery, was practical infidelity to their profession of Christianity; and that, to the members of that body who publicly protested against this impiety, and to those editors who faithfully rebuked it, the hearty thanks of the friends of freedom are due.
Resolved, That we honor the noble course of those members of Congress who have ably and eloquently defended the doctrine that the only safe basis of national reconstruction is the citizenship of the freedmen; that we rejoice in the efforts of the freedmen's associations to feed, clothe and instruct the emancipat.

<c02>
ed slaves of the South, and to inspire them with a full appreciation, and fit them for the exercise of the responsibilities and duties of citizenship; and that we hail the growing popularity of there associations as one token of the mighty moral revolution through which our nation is passing.
Resolved, That, in view of the glorious triumphs won for freedom during the last four years, and the marvellous success of our great enterprise, we are overwhelmed with joy and gratitude, and strive in vain to utter our thanksgiving to Him whose right arm hath gotten us this victory.
Resolved, That the work which remains for us to do is to enlighten and purify public sentiment by the means which we have hitherto used for that purpose, to strive to obtain for the emancipated slave that only security for his freedom possible under our Government and without which all philanthropic efforts, for his moral and intellectual elevation must exist to terminate at the will of his former masters, and that to this completion of our work we will earnestly address ourselves, hoping to win this last great victory of our cause; or if defeated by a proud and infatuated nation, assured that the blood of the slave will not be required at our hands.
Miss Sarah Pugh offered to amend by adding the following:
Whereas, Slavery, so long the dominant power in this country, and for the abolition of which this Society was organized in 1834, has, by the events of the last four years, received its death blow; and whereas, the avowed and increasing anti-slavery sentiment of the country insures its total destruction: therefore,
Resolved, That with devout and joyful thanksgiv-giving for the work accomplished, and with the assured faith that the labor yet to be done will ere long be completed by the agency of the people, we close the operations and existence of this society with the present annual meeting.
Resolved, That the late Executive Committee be appointed to wind up the affairs of the society.
Mr. Alfred H. Love offered the following as an amendment 
Recognizing the general and growing feeling of opposition to chattel slavery, and the hopeful prospect that the constitutional amendment abolishing such slavery will be adopted by the requisite number of States; and yet satisfied that slavery in its widest and vilest sense is not now, and would not then be eradicated; we resolve to enlarge our title and our sphere of usefulness, and to labor on with redoubled energy Until freedom for all  shall be established, as the Pennsylvania Equal Rights' Society.
The reading of the above resolutions having been concluded, a discussion ensued as to the propriety of referring then: to a business committee, as had here tofore been the custom. It was finally determined to treat them as being legitimately before the body for discussion and determination.
Mr. Robert Purvis then addressed the Society, more particularly in opposition to the resolution looking to disbandment. He considered the question to be one of vital importance, and one about which very distinctly opposite views were entertained; but it was necessary for the society to know first, before adopting a proposition to disband, whether slavery was really dead.
In this connection, the speaker read from the New York Tribune an article giving an instance of the many outrages at present committed upon freedmen of the South by the white race. He alluded to it as but a sample of every-day occurrences, in regard to the demon of slavery, which was more potent than ever in our country; and to put down and destroy which more decided effort than ever was necessary.
[The article referred to gave the particulars of the most brutal treatment of a young colored woman, who, for absenting herself from her master's side, where she was stationed to brush the flies off while he slept, was hung up in a shocking manner, and a scalding liquid allowed to drop upon her neck, shoulders and body, so that she suffered excruciating pain.]
Wendell Phillips, of Boston, asked, who could say that slavery was abolished, or the time of its abolition, or what was the legal act that abolished it. President Lincoln's Emancipation proclamation did not attempt to abolish slavery on a single square-acre. All he said was that he emancipated slaves in certain districts, which by no means included the slave States. In the State of Mississippi, for instance, any one would have a perfect right to import a hundred thousand slaves into that State from Kentucky. The object was to turn the black race on our side; and in order to that a certain boon, liberty, was granted them. Slavery could now be introduced into any of the slave States; for nothing prohibitory of that had been ever attempted to be uttered by President Lincoln.
The amendment to the Constitution was a prospective measure. We may have it, and we may not. If, next December, the representatives from Southern States, are admitted to the House of Representatives in Washington, on the plea that their State legislatures, when they meet in January, will accept the proposed amendment of the United States Constitution prohibiting slavery; that is, if they are admitted in December, on the promise that they will do a particular act in January, they never will do that act. No sensible man supposed that those States would do it, unless held to it before the privilege was granted. The speaker's evidence of this fact was in their own conventions, the talk of their public men, etc., for in these could be seen the whole spirit of the white race in the South.
General Pryor had said in New York, during the present week, to the editor of the Independent: “If the United States, in June last, had insisted on anything, we should have accepted their terms gladly. We felt that we had a right to nothing, not even our lives; if then the United States had dictated any terms--suffrage, confiscation--no matter what, we should have accepted them gladly. Now we feel we are on a different basis.”
The speaker discussed the question of the present condition of slavery at length, and was followed by Parker Pillsbury, who also entered upon the general theme. In regard to the contemplated disbandment of the society, he remarked, that while himself was opposed to the proposition, there might be grounds upon which it could be placed. They were not, however, those which had been urged. The subject was further discussed, and will probably occupy the whole session.
Without taking a vote, the Society adjourned till two o'clock P. M.
Upon re-assembling, the Society was addressed at length by Miss Mary Grew, of Philadelphia, who forcibly stated the argument of the friends of continued existence of the organization.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for November is published. The contents are as follows:
Why the Putkammer Castle was destroyed; The Rhyme of the Master's Mate; The Visible and Invisible in Libraries; Letter to a Young Housekeeper; The Peace Autumn; Doctor Johns, X; Rodolphe Topffer; The Chimney Corner, X; Jeremy Bentham; A Farewell to Agassiz; The Forge; The Progress of the Electric Telegraph; The Field of Gettysburg; Alexander Hamilton; Reviews and Literary Notices.
Ticknor and Fields, Publishers, 124 Tremont St., Boston.
HARPER'S MONTHLY for November is received. We append the table of contents.
Ascent of Popocatepetl; The Monks of Basle: The Walker River Country; How to Redeem Woman's Profession from Dishonor; Franklin's  Tan; Anna Maria Rose; The Chimneys; The Great Westminster Canvass; The Silent; The Wife's Thank offering; Pozzuoli and Vesuvius; Our Consecrations; Recollections of General Rousseau; Armadale--By Wilkie Collins; Going and Coming; Our Mutual Friend; Monthly Record of Current Events; Editor's Easy Chair; Editor's Drawer.

<c03>
OIROULAR.
HILTON HEAD, S. C., Oct. 1, 1865.
Editor of the Liberator:
SIR:--Your attention is respectfully invited to the following Circular:
The Subscribers agree to form a Joint Stock Association for the purpose of securing homesteads and employment for Freedmen, and a profitable investment of capital. 
To this end, Lands will be purchased in the State of for the Homesteads, for Lumbering and for Agriculture. An extensive Saw Mill will be erected to furnish material for Building and for Commerce. A Store and School will be established, and every branch of industry encouraged that the interests of the Colony and the Association demand. The Financial, Commercial and Industrial operations will be conducted by a Board of Directors, elected annually by the Association. The Shares will be One Hundred Dollars each; every Share entitling the holder to a vote in all meetings of the Association.
A Capital of One Hundred Thousand Dollars is desirable; but, in order to commence operations as soon as possible, the Stockholders will meet for organization as soon as Twenty Thousand Dollars are subscribed.
One-half of the amount subscribed will be paid in on the day of organization, the other half as called for by the Board. No pledge will be considered binding after the 1st of December next, unless $20,000 be subscribed by that time.
All persons willing to co-operate in this enterprise are invited to send their address and the amount of Stock desired to Surgeon J. M. HAWKS, 21st U. S. C. T.,Port Royal, S. C. who will give due notice of the time and place of the meeting for organization.
The following subscriptions have been received: 
Surgeon J. M. Hawks, Chaplain J. H. Fowler, N. C. Dennett, G. A. Purdie, Capt. John L. Kelley, H. G. Judd, Capt. Wm James, James H. Tonking, G Williams Dewhurst, each $1,000. Capt M. E Davis, Capt. Edgar Abeel, Capt. R. Alton, Adj't C. A. Dow, Asst. Surgeon N. S. Roberts, Lieut. Miner Hawks, each $500. Total, $12,000.
Respectfully,
J. M. HAWKS, Surg. 2lst U. S. C.T.
TO OUR FRIENDS IN GREAT BRITAIN.
Mr. WILLIAM LINDSEY, a young colored man, is soon to go to England, for the purpose of completing his education which, as we learn, he has been recently pursuing at Oberlin, Ohio.
W. L. was formerly a slave in North Carolina, but made his escape thence in the winter of 1859-60. He has excellent testimonials of character, industry, and purposes from gentlemen at Oberlin. Considerations of health, economy, and future usefulness among the freed people of the South, prevail to take him to England, where, among anti-slavery friends, he hopes to find such counsel and sympathy in the direction of his studies as will enable him to fulfil his intentions. Having conversed very fully with him as to his hopes and purposes, we have come to take an interest in his case, and would ask a favorable hearing for him from any of our friends to whose notice this may come.
S. M. JR.
REPUBLICAN MEETING AT NEW YORK-Daniel S. Dickinson on Negro Suffrage.-The Republican ratification meeting at Cooper Institute, New York, on Friday, was addressed by General Kilpatrick, Daniel S. Dickinson, Horace Greeley, and others. In the course of his remarks Mr. Dickinson said events had made the negro a member of the political society. His freedom is one of the fruits of a war, in which he has fought and bled for our common country, and it is not only one of the first duties and proudest privileges, but for the best and highest interest of the governing race, more especially in the recent slave States where colored men are numerous, to advance him as far as possible in the scale of rational beings. He should be taught not only to read and write, self-reliance, self-respect, self-sustenance, and self-protection, but he should enjoy equal rights, and rest under equal privileges in the eye of the law in courts of justice as a party or witness, and while I regard negro suffrage in the abstract as but one step in his progress, were I a resident of a Southern State I should advocate giving to the colored man when sufficiently informed and self-reliant, the ballot, as one round in the ladder of his political and social education; but it is a matter for the States themselves, and we have no more right to dictate to the Southern States in this matter than they have to New York, where to our few blacks we extend a qualified suffrage; nor has the Federal Government a right to interfere with either.
PLAIN TALK. Handel Cossham, one of our recent English visitors, sailed in the last steamer from Boston, after an extensive tour through the country and an interview with the President and Mr. Seward at Washington. While in New York he made at the Cooper Institute a speech, from which we copy these strong words:
"All men are equal, and you bear it gloriously on your flag. If you are prepared to put the suffrage in the hands of those who pulled down the flag, and yet keep it away from those who fought for it, why, then, God help you."
Then, again, after warning us that "the South will want either to repudiate our debt or tack hers at the end of it," he says with the same plainness:
"If you don't weed out the cause of your late war, you'll have another one. Don't leave the string behind. You must make these men tree. You must give them the suffrage-an educational one, if you prefer, but, if that, make it applicable to a white as well as a black man. I don't propose to interfere in your affairs, and I dare say you think that an Englishman has no business to speak of these things at all. But, my friends, I, who rejoice in your greatness and glory, sorrow, and grieve over your mistakes and follies. I love you and your nation, great and good and powerful as she is, and I trust in God her future will be as wondrous in its progress as are its possibilities.”
Hon. Charles Miner died near Wilkesbarre, at the residence of his son. W. P. Miner, on Thursday evening last, at nine o'clock, in the eighty-seventh year of his age. Few lives have been crowded with more general interest and individual adventure. Not only to a Pennsylvanian, but to citizens of other States, the experience of Charles Miner was an object of pleasing and profitable study. He was born at Norwich, Conn., and when nineteen years old emigrated to Wyoming valley. Joined afterwards by his older brother, a practical printer, he started the Luzerne Federalist. This was superseded by the Gleaner, with Miner as the principal editor. Through its columns he gave for several months the celebrated essays of morals and wit, of fact and fancy and delicate humor, entitled " From the Desk of Poor Robert, the Scribe" These gave him such popularity that he was invited to become assistant editor of the Political and Commercial Register, in Philadelphia. He accepted, but soon went to West Chester, where, with his brother, he established the Village Record. Poor Robert here wrote over the signature of "John Harwood," and made the paper very popular. While there he was elected twice to Congress as a colleague of Mr. Buchanan. He was a useful and able member; took grest interest on the subject of slavery, to which he was opposed. He awakened the country to the silkgrowing business, and drew and introduced the first resolutions on the subject, and wrote the able report which was introduced by General Stephen Van Rensselaer, as chairman of the committee on agriculture. About 1832 he relinqnished business in West Chester and returned to the Wyoming Valley. Charles Miner was a model journalist and statesman; the father of a school of sound thinkers, and the most practical philanthropist of his time. We shall do full justice to his memory hereafter.
We have also to record the death of the eminent Joseph E. Worcester, L.L. D., at Cambridge, Massachusetts, aged eighty-one. As the author of the great dictionary that bears his name, and as a laborious bibliographer, he accupies a conspicuous place in the history of modern literature.-Philadelphia Press.
MISS EDMONIA LEWIS AT FLORENCE. Our readers will be pleased to learn that, through the kind offices of Mr. M. Perry Kennard, of this city, (who attended to her finances, secured her a, stateroom, gave her written directions for travelling on the Continent &c.,) this young lady reached Florence after a very agreeable passage across the Atlantic and through Paris. At Florence, Mr. Marsh, our minister, and his lady, showed her many attentions; our townsman, Mr. Thomas Ball, the sculptor, furnished her with several tools; Mr. Powers a moulding-block; and other friends were equally kind. In contrast with this generosity should be mentioned the conduct of a Boston lady there residing, who, when Edmonia sent in a letter of introduction given by her own sister in this city, returned it to her, and declined to receive her,-because she was "colored”! Boston Commonwealth.
<c04>
A TIN WEDDING.
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Tilton celebrated their Tin Wedding anniversary Monday evening, at their residence in Brooklyn. About four hundred guests were present; among them Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, Rev. Drs. Farley, Putnam, Cuyler, Storrs, Leavitt, Prime and Brown, Phoebe Cary, Robert Dale Owen, ex-Mayor Hall, Moses F. Odell, Allen J. Spooner, Charles F. Briggs, Oliver Johnson, and Joseph Hoxie. Tin ware in sufficient quantity to stock a store, and rich in quaint devices, was presented; the rooms were adorned with elegant baskets and bouquets of flowers, the gift of Mr. S. B. Chittenden; letters were received from Dr. Cheever, Edna Dean Proctor, Rev. Samuel J. May, P. T. Barnum and others; happy hits were made by jovial members of the company; and the following little poem by Phoebe Cary was read by Mr. Johnson:-
TO MR. AND MRS. THEODORE TILTON.
Dear friends, the thought must surely come
To-night to every thinker,
That he who joined your fates at first
Was something of a tinker;
For, through the ups and downs of life,
Through fair and stormy weather,
His soldering for tin long years
Has held you fast together.
And, since your love has worn so well,
Another truth we settle;
You are not made of tinsel stuff,
But true and tempered metal.
And therefore may the gods on you,
Their choicest gifts bestowing,
Fill up the tin cup of your lives
With bliss to overflowing.
May love and friendship smooth the path
Of life your feet are treading:
Till happier than this night of tin
Shall be your golden wedding.
And may you hear with hearts as young
Our last congratulations,
As when your marriage-bells first rung
Their tin tinnabulations!
New York, Oct. 2, 1865. <illegible> CARY.
SILVER WEDDING OF HON. HENRY WILSON. The twenty-fifth anniversary of the marriage of Hon. Henry Wilson of Natick was observed by unusual " silver wedding " ceremonies at his residence in Natick last evening. The occasion was one of great splendor and of rare social interest, and was heartily participated in by several hundred of the Senator's friends, many of them warm personal friends and associates, and all enthusiastic admirers of his public character and high attainments, exemplified so prominently and beneficially during the last quarter of a century. Among the more distinguished personages present to congratulate the Senator upon this silvery event of his life were Hon. Charles Sumner, his colleague in the National Senate, Collector Hamlin, Hon. Linus Child, Hon. Anson Burlingame, Hon. Charles Theodore Russell, Generals Hamlin, Underwood and Tilton, Ginery Twitchell, Esq., Hon. J. M. S. Williams, and several past members of the Legislature, besides a large number of prominent citizens of Natick and surrounding towns. The residence of Mr. Aaron Davis, immediately adjoining General Wilson's mansion, was kindly loaned for the occasion, and the two were thrown open to the invited party. During the latter part of the afternoon and the early portion of the evening, (until 9 o'clock) the General's friends were arriving and departing by hundreds, the larger portion of course remaining until the close of the proceediugs. All were hospitably entertained by the General and his lady, and very many left substantial tokens of their wishes for their pleasant future. After several hours had been occupied in happy social intercourse and congratnlations, Mr. George L. Sawin announced that there had been several letters received from parties invited to be present, but they were prevented in consequence of prior engagements and pressing duties. Those which he read were from Rev. Samuel Hunt of New York, who united Mr. Wilson in marriage, in Natick, twenty-five years since; Prof. Calvin E. Stowe of Hartford, Ct., and his wife Harriet Beecher Stowe; Secretary Stanton and lady, and John G. Whittier. All of them expressed their regret at not being able to be present, and were full of congratulations of the Senator and his lady upon the happy event. Mr. Sawin also read a poem written for the occasion by Frank B. Sanborn of Concord, one by Mr. Elizur Wright, and one to which the name of the author was not attached. These compositions severally gave expression to the warmest wishes of the writers that the tie which had bound for twenty-five years two hearts as one might long remain unbroken, and that honor and happiness might associate themselves together in their lives and experience until the shadows of many long years should roll up and an immortality of surpassing light and joy succeed. The anonymous poem aimed to express Mr. Wilson's feelings on the occasion and was a very happy effort of the muse.
Following the recital of the poems, Rev. C. M. Tyler, pastor of the Congregational Church in Natick, made a few remarks congratulating Mr. and Mrs. Wilson upon this event in their life, which had afforded their friends such a happy opportunity to testily their regard for them. Substantial tokens of esteem were then presented them in abundance from every quarter. All kinds of silver ware comprised the gifts, and besides these there was a purse of $4000 presented. The aggregate value of the silver ware which was left at the General's house was probably not less than five thousand dollars. The citizens of the town severally united in furnishing a complete silver service of great beauty and value, and the gifts from his individual friends were almost without number. Among some of the latter who contributed were Major Generals Banks and Butler, General Underwood, General Tilton, Mr. and Mrs. Grassie of Washington, Hon. Anson Burlingame, and a great number of others. The gifts were displayed during the evening, and were objects of much interest. Those present from Boston and intermediate points were conveyed home in a special train furnished for the occasion by President Twitchell, of the Worcester railroad.
ACCUMULATIONS DURING THE WAR. It is a curious fact, quite unusual in war, that so many of our ordinary people have been laying up money during the late terrible conflict. Governor Andrew of Massachusetts, in his last annual message, after reporting the State debt in 1861 as $8,103,0o9,and $14,874,935 as added during the war, says that the increase of the deposits in the saving banks alone for 1864 over those of 1860 would pay the entire debt of the State, and still leave a surplus of more than $8,000,000. Such a result is a marvel for which it is difficult to account. Advocate of Peace.
A SAD RECORD OF WAR. Among the many sad family afflictions growing out of the late war there are few more touching than the record given of the family given of Mr. John Webster 3d, of Kingston, N. H. Four sons enlisted in the army, each of them serving his full term of service and then re-enlisting again. John A. Webster, of the 6th N, H., was starved to death at Andersonville, Aug. 1860, aged 37 years. Daniel A. Webster, 33 years, of the 11th N. H., was shot in the battle of Fredericksburg, March, 1865. Charles H. Webster, of the 2nd Mass. Heavy Artillery, died at Andersonville, Aug. 1864, aged 21 years. Warren A. Webster, aged 35. of the 14th Maine, died in Salisbury, Mass., a few days after his return, from disease contracted in the army.
And to complete the record the father and mother have died within a year, making six deaths in the family since Aug. 1864.-Amesbury Villager.
A most rascally attempt is making to take from the freedmen who were settled on the Sea Islands by Gen. Sherman, the lands which were given to them. This villanous effort to rob loyal men for the benefit of ruffianly rebels whose hands are red with the blood of Northern soldiers, can succeed only through a breach of faith on the part of our government such as would be without parallel in history, all the circumstances considered. Under General Sherman's order, issued on the 16th of last January, Gen. Saxton proceeded to settle forty thousand freedmen on lands abandoned by their rebel owners, which lands were forfeit through these owners' treason; and the freedmen have labored faithfully on them. Should these freedmen be driven away, we presume the fact would be democratically adduced in support of the doctrine that colored men will only work under coercion, and that they are incapable of taking care of themselves. -Boston Traveller.
Virginia is fast recovering from the terrible effects left upon her by the war. But few traces are now seen upon the renowned battlefield of Bull Run. At Manassas Junction the fortifications have nearly disappeared, a scarcely distinguishable line alone marks their existence. At Bristow the graves of the fallen rebels are leveled with the ground, and the ties of the long line of stockades from Burk’s station to the Rapidan, have been made into railroad ties. From Alexandria to Culpepper, however, the country is still barren, almost a desert, but at Orange Court House new houses and fences now fill the places of those destroyed. The Orange and Alexandria Railroad is being put in repair.
ILLNESS OF GOVERNOR MORTON OF INDIANA. Cincinnati, Oct. 24. The Enquirer's Indianapolis despatch says Governor Morton has had a relapse and is lying very ill with rheumatism, and threatened with paralysis.
The Bituminous coal field around Pittsburg is 15,000 square miles in extent, equal to 8,600,000 acres. The upper seam of coal is estimated to contain 53,513,430,900 tons.

<C05>
THE ALMIGHTY NIGGER AMONG THE CHURCHES.
The slavery agitation, before the late rebellion, had divided most of the Protestant churches into the Church North and the Church South, and the rebellion completed the division on the subject of the almighty nigger. Slavery having gone down, except in Kentucky and Delaware, with the rebellion, and peace being proclaimed, these divided Protestant churches are trying to come together again. But it is an uphill business. The General Protestant Episcopal Convention finds it difficult, according to the gospel of its Southern doctors, to rejoice over the downfall of slavery; the ultra Southern Methodists and Baptists still shrink from a love-feast with "abolition Yankees," while the regular old blue-backed hardshell Presbyterians of Kentucky stick to slavery as the only way of salvation. The almighty nigger, it thus appears, is still doing the work of Beelzebub among the Protestant Churches, North and South. This comes from the mixing up of politics and religion, and while the mixture continues the fermentation will go on, to the disgrace and disruption of all the churches concerned.-New York Herald.
THE DEFAMERS OF THE NEGRO. The Chicago Republican closes an editorial article with the following caustic rebuke of a class of politicians too well known in every community:
“There is a class of men among as who seem to live for no other purpose than to traduce and wrong the negro; who have exalted him into a kind of bugbear, and are never happy unless they can lug him into some arena, either of politics or society, that they may insult and debase him. We know well enough who these men are that thus pursue, with falsehood and with malice, a patient, uncomplaining and inoffensive people. We know, and all the world knows, that they are traitors to every democratic idea. When the South plotted rebellion, they were ready with encouragement. When our soldiers were fighting in the field, they were plotting to destroy them. When the deadly hand of the assassin slew Mr. Lincoln, they exulted in the deed. And, now that all their schemes have come to naught, and their wickedness has profited them nothing, they gratify their malignity on the weakest, most helpless, and most friendless race in the world. In all the annals of human baseness, there is no page blacker or more shameful than that in which their acts and their spirit are recorded!”
The simple truth is that, in so far as President Johnson's policy tends to purge our country of what remains herein of slavery, and to elevate the black race to a position of independence and security among us, the Unionists do, while the Democrats do not, heartily support that policy; while, on the other hand, whatever features of that policy tend to degrade the negro, practically deny his manhood, and cast him helpless under the feet of whitewashed rebels, the Democrats do and the Unionists do not, really approve.-N. Y. Tribune.
The N. Y. News praises most extravagantly Mr. Beecher's last sermon, and is particularly pleased with the Rev. gent's praises of Lee. " He sin," says the News, " Mr. Beecher distinguishes his own worth, for no mean or malignant spirit is capable of appreciating virtues so exalted as are displayed by the leader of the Southern armies." That will do. We have seen many wonderful things in our time, and we are not easily surprised; but it does surprise us to see Henry Ward Beecher preachfng the gospel according to St. Copperhead.-Traveller.
LOUISVILLE, Ky., Oct. 20. The guerilla, Henry C. Magruder, was hung this afternoon.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., Oct. 20. The notorious guerrilta, Champ Ferguson, was hung to-day.

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The eighth annual course of these favorite and eminently popular lectures will be continued in MUSIC HALL on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS, at 7 1-2 o'clock, by the following distinguished orators:-
Nov. 7-JACOB M. MANNING, of Boston.
14—ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia.
Dec. 12-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, of New York.
26-(To be announced.)
Jan. 2-GEORGE H. HEPWORTH, of Boston.
9-THEODORE TILTON, of New York.
16-(To be announced.)
Concert on the Great Organ each evening at 7 o'clock.
Mrs. FROHOCK, Organist.
Tickets admitting "The Bearer and Lady" to the course, $3. Tickets admitting "One Person" to the course, $2. For sale at OLIVER DITSON & CO.’S, 277 Washington street; JOHN C. HAYNES & CO.'S, 33 Court street; JOHN S. ROGERS', 1077 Washington street; Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, and by the Lecture Committee.
Cheeks for seats reserved until 7 1-2 o'clock, at one dollar each for the course, for sale only at DITSON & CO’S, and at J. S. ROGERS'.
N. B. Only a portion of the seats in the body of the house (those to the right of the speaker) will be reserved, leaving a large number on the lower floor and both. balconies to the other ticket-holders.
E. H HEYWOOD will speak on " Peace," in North Brookfield, Monday evening, Nov. 6; and at Cummington, Sunday, Nov. 12.
AUSTIN KENT TO HIS FRIENDS.-I have 600 copies of my small work on Conjugal Love. I know many to have highly prized it. Inflammatory rheumatism has crippled me. I have not stepped upon my feet for eight years, nor fed myself for over three. I may live some years, but shall never do either again. I cannot attend to the advertising and sale of the book. I am poor. If any person or persons will prepay and get them in small or large numbers, for sale or gratuitous circulation, I will sell them for half what it will now cost to print them, and for less, if I must. Whoever writes will send stamp for return postage. AUSTIN KENT.
East Stockholm, St. Lawrence Co., N.Y.,Oct 24.
MARRIED-At Carson City, Nevada, Sept. 14, GEO. C. CABOT. Esq., of Boston, to Miss S. AUGUSTA SAWYER, of Waterville, Maine.
In New York, Oct. 24, by the Rev. Samuel J. May, of Syracuse, Rev. JOSEPH MAY of Yonkers, and Miss HARRIET C., daughter of the late Philip C. Johnson, Esq., of Washington, D. C. No cards.
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all disease, of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases, out of ten, as she has for many years mads the hair her stady, and is sure then are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and kerbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning gray.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afroid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also parked for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
No.31 Winter Street, Boston.
NEW ENGLAND
FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
THE Eighteenth Annual Term of seventeen weeks will commence Nov. 1, 1865. PROFESSORS-Stephen Tracy, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Anatomy, also of Physiology and Hygiene; Edward Aiken, M. D., Materia Medica Therapeutics and chemistry; Minerva C. Meriam, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Albert B. Robinson, M. D., Principles and Practice of Surgery and Medical Jurisprudence; Mercie H. Dyer, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. Tuition fees, to the six Professors and Demonstrators, $<illegible>5-free to students needing aid.
SAMUEL GREGORY, Secretary,
30, Canton Street, Boston, Mass.
Sept 8. 3w
GREAT CHANCE FOR AGENTS.
WHAT THE PEOPLE WANT.
COMPLETE History of the War, in one large volume, splendidly illustrated, with over 125 fine portraits of Generals and Battle scenes. The most candid, lucid, complete, authentie and reliable history published. It contains reading matter equal to three large octavo volumes. Send for circulars, and see our terms. Address
"JONES, BROS & CO., Philadelphia., Pa."
Sept. 29.

<c06>
The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age!
MORRILL'S
PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of America Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No. 36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.
Baking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are "done to a turn."
Broiling:-Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his ow language,
"CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler," which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blase coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interior of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in irons heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economy, and with far less labor, than with coal on wood. To those confined to reoms requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night,--mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes' time after lighting the fire,--housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,- country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the
MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS.
[From Messrs. E. D. and G. Draper, Manufacturers, Hopedale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent "Erovapor Stove" in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our sequaintance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E. D. & G. DRAPER.
Hopedale, Mass., May 6, 1865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass.]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the ErovaporCooking-Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment, Nos. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remal yours, truly,
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Church, South Reading, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, Mass., May 29, 1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your " single burners," and find that for the common purposes of a family it eacels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the "double burner," but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio. T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of <illegible> Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, June 2, 1865.
O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction.
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J. P. CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, 1865.
MESSRS. MORRILL & CO.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my "Petroleum Stove." I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves, &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies.
Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES,
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point, (32 degrees,) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill’s Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, &c., S. A. BATTISON,
Telegraph Operator, Summ.it of Mt. Washington, N. H.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Jr.,
WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT
No. 6 Channing Street, Boston.
WITH every facility for selling Wool to the best advantage,-a good store, situated in the centre of the Boston trade, and an extensive acquaintance with manufacturers,—I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grewer than this. It is the headquarters for New-England manufacturers; here are their agencies, and here it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCES ARE NOT REQUIRED.
One per cent. per pound, and one per cent. (and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent.) on sales.
WHEN ADVANCES ARE REQUIRED,
Five per cent. (and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received in store, for three months,-labor, storage, insurance and selling. If required to carry it over three months, additional expenses will be charged. Interest on advances and other disbursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall aim to keep my consignors thoroughly informed and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to suit the market. Letters, asking information, will be promptly answered. Address P. O. Box 1861.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865.
THE RADICAL.
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
POETRY
POEM BY REV. JOHN PIERPONT.
WRITTEN ON HIS EIGHTIETH BIRTH-DAY
The thickening mists of fourscore years 
In the air all round me swim;
Soft voices reach no more my ears,
And my vision grows more dim.
But the eyes of my mind are, as ever, clear, 
And I see, upon Southern plains, 
The slave room where he wills; and I hear 
The clank of his broken chains. 
In my young manhood once I saw 
A black-looking slave-ship moored 
In Charleston port, under shield of law, 
With a cargo of slaves on board- 
Of black and naked man 
Under the scorching sky, 
With some red baize aprons, now and then, 
Hung up in the shrouds to dry. 
Thy name, 0 God! be praised, 
That thine ear, that seemed as slow 
To hear the voice that, in prayer, I raised 
More than forty years ago, 
That the gloomy cloud that hung, 
With thunder in its breast, 
O'er the sultry South, might not be flung 
O'er the broad and breezy West; 
The prayer that the sable hands 
That lifted the heavier hoe, 
In heavier chains, on the lands 
Where the rice and the cotton grow, 
Might all be raised, ere long, 
In hearty thanks to Thee, 
And the feat then gyved might keep time to the song
And the tambourine of the free;
That prayer which upward went, 
Alone and in weakness then, 
Hath spread and swelled till the firmament 
Is filled with a loud " Amen! " 
For voices more full and strong, 
And the souls of holier men, 
Have framed the speech and poured the song 
From a more melodious pen. 
I need not write their names, 
Nor envy them will I; 
In their country's keeping, and in Fame's, 
They will not, cannot die. 
By the song, and the speech, and the prayer. 
By the spirit of God inspired, 
Has the lion Freedom been roused from his lair, And the hearts of philanthropists fired. 
And the iciest statesman warmed, 
And the soldier mounted his guns, 
Till Slavery's battlements all are stormed 
And shaken by Liberty's son's. 
To my prayer that that gloomy cloud 
Might darken no more our day, 
Hath thine ear, O God! at last been bowed, 
And in thunder it rolls away. 
For the bristling bayonet 
Is now is the hand of the thrall, 
And the musket-breech to his shoulder is set, 
And his prison-houses fall. 
And now, on the very ground 
Where I saw that slaver's hell, 
The negro walks, as a guard, his round 
By night, and cries: " All's well! " 
On shore he steps out, a man, 
From his shed, at his pleasure's beck; 
And if his old master mutters a ban, 
He can tread on the traitor's neck. 
This, thy salvation's day, 
For which thou'st suffered me 
For forty years, O God! to pray, 
Thou'st spared my life to see. 
Now let thy angel's sword 
Be sheathed, and carnage cease 
And let thy aged servant. Lord, 
When called, depart in peace. 
April 6, 1665. 
OCTOBER. 
The year grows splendid. On the mountain steep 
Now lingers long the warm and gorgeous light, 
Dying, by slow degrees, into the deep, 
Delicious night. 
The final triumph of the perfect year, 
Rises the woods' magnificent array: 
Beyond, the purple mountain heights appear, 
And slope away. 
The elm, with musical, slow motion, laves 
His long, lithe branches in the tender air; 
While from his top to the gay Sordello waves 
Her scarlet hair. 
Where Spring first hid her violets 'neath the fern; 
Where Summer' fingers oped, fold after fold, 
The odorous, wild, red rose's heart, now burn 
The leaves of gold. 
The loftiest hill, the lowliest flowering herb, 
The fairest fruit of season and of clime; 
All wear alike the mood of the superb 
Autumnal time. 
Now Nature pours her last and noblest wine: 
Like some Bacchante beside the singing streams, 
Reclines the enchanted Day, rapt in divine, 
Impassioned dreams. 
But where the painted leaves are falling fast, 
Among the vales, beyond the farthest hill, 
There sits a shadow, dim and sad and vast, 
And lingers still. 
And still we hear a voice among the hills, 
A voice that mourns among the haunted woods; 
And the dense mystery of its sorrow fills 
The solitudes. 
Far while gay Autumn gilds the fruit and leaf, 
And doth her fairest festal garment wear, 
Lo! Time, all noiseless, in his mighty sheaf, 
Binds up the year,- 
The mighty sheaf which never is unbound; 
The reaper whom our souls beseech in vain; 
The loved last years that never may be found 
Or loved again. 
AUTUMN
From her leafy home in the forest dell,
With a coronal on her brow,
Doth the dark-eyed Autumn, the peerless bells
Of the seasons, come tripping now;
And her voice is heard on the hazy air,
like the music of laughing rills,
As they steal from some secret money lair
Embowered in their native hills.
The gladsome earth with a lingering smile
Has welcomed her back again,
And her colors are worn by each fairy isle 
That is pictured in the main; 
The purple and gold of the woodlands old 
Which gleam in the sun's last ray, 
Are the borrowed tints from her mantle fold 
At she sped on her joyous way. 
To the fields of the ripening grain she hies 
Where the fruit is bending low, 
And she paints their spheres with the myriad dyes 
That her cunning hands well know; 
Wails the farmer around throws glances of pride. 
On his future garnered store,
The pledge of a goddess e'en there to hide
When winter is at the door.
Awhile she tarries near yon lone brook, 
A thread of silvery light, 
Far she loves, the quiet, sequestered nook 
To gaze on features bright; 
But short her stay on its carpet green- 
She hears afar off the chime 
Of her sister's steeds, the Northern Queen, 
As she sweeps from her frozen clime. 
<c02>
The Liberator.
SUNDAY IN SCOTLAND.
About the end of August last, the Directors of the North British Railway recommenced running morning and evening trains each as formerly passed between Edinburgh and Glasgow on Sundays. The passengers in these trains were several hundreds in number, and highly respectable (the Scotsman tells us) in appearance and behavior. The same paper says, in regard to the first Sunday of the new arrangement-
" The only appearance of any thing like Sabbath desecration and the only symptoms of anything like disorder arose out of the loud denunciations of three street preachers, who about six o'clock gathered a large crowd of people around them, opposite the entrance to the station, to hear them holding forth against Sunday trains with more noise and gesture than sense or effect. Pointing to the train that starts about six o'clock, one of the preachers, an old man, with two boards hanging on his shoulders, walking advertisement fashion, on which were printed ' Testimony against the Edinburgh and Glasgow apostate Railway Company,' and several Scriptural texts, cried out, ' There they go to hell at a penny a mile.' Cries of ' Shame,' 'Over the bridge with him,' loud cheers, groans, and laughter followed this remark. After denouncing the railway company and the people who travelled by the Sunday trains in the most extravagant terms, the preacher got the length of abusing the Scotsman. It was characterized as ' that ungodly paper the Scotsman,' that' graceless newspaper, &c, and woe unutterable was graciously prophesied its doom. We are sorry to say that the crowd, excited by these observations, gave us a cheer."
The opposition movement was continued on the Wednesday evening following by a meeting held in the City Hall of Glasgow, under the auspices of the Working Men's Sabbath Protection Association. The Glasgow Daily Herald, referring to this meeting, quotes the following tirade from the speech of a certain Mr. Robert Mackintosh, who presided there:-
" But lose the Sabbath, society would become like the volcanic cone-herbage gleaming with precarious verdure on the edge of the crater, and beneath, the lava, restless, molten, incandescent, threatening the fiery eruption, before which the long glories of our boasted civilization would perish in the madness of an hour."
Most of the speakers, the Herald says, dealt in this peculiar style of rhetoric. Of the more moderate, though equally groundless objections raised by the Lord Provost, the same paper tells us that they were but a repetition of those formerly raised against the running of Sunday trains from Edinburgh to Peebles, a movement in regard to which Mr. William Chambers declared, after a twelvemonth's experience, that not one of the direful results had followed which had been so confidently predicted. The Sabbath quiet of Peebles was even less disturbed after the railway opened than before, because the train had completely destroyed the more noisy traffic in vehicles. The advantage of this movement in regard to Sunday quietness is shown by the fact that the travel between Glasgow and Paisley in omnibusses alone has of late amounted to nearly 700 every Sunday, besides the great numbers who found other means of conveyance. The public will now be better accommodated, and the ears of the Sabbatarians, at the same time, be less disturbed. This might content the latter class if reason and justice would content them; but a dog-in-the-manger disposition, or a determination to compel the public to conformity with their theological ideas, will be quite unmoved by this consideration.
At the next meeting of the Glasgow Free Presbytery, Dr. Lorimer called attention to the running of Sunday trains between Edinburgh and Glasgow. It was their duty, under the circumstances, he thought, to lift up a solemn protest. The great Head of the Church, the Lord of the Sabbath, had in a marvellous way interposed in behalf of His own day on former occasions when things looked dark, and He might do so again. At all events, they must free themselves from responsibility in a matter so solemn. They were all familiar (he said) with the religious grounds of the Sabbath. They were all familiar with the moral obligations of that holy day, and therefore its permanence under all dispensations of the Church. They knew that the Fourth Commandment was part of the moral law, as unchangeable and as obligatory as all the commandments; and they were just as much entitled to disallow and trample down the others as to disallow and trample down this.
It is worth while to stop at this point in Dr. Lorimer's speech to call attention to the fact that he himself never obeyed the Fourth Commandment in his life, and that he has not now the slightest intention to obey it. The Fourth Commandment requires nothing whatever but abstinence from bodily labor on Saturday, the Seventh day of the week; and it requires even this of nobody but Jews. It is then an impudent falsehood in Dr. Lorimer to represent that this Hebrew statute has anything to do with Sunday, or anything to do with Christians. If he finds any Sabbatical command in the book of Christian laws, the New Testament, let him cite chapter and verse to show that command, what day it specifies as sacred, and what manner of observance of that day it requires. If he can produce no such injunction, (as he cannot,) let him cease to claim God's authority for the enforcement of his superstitious ideas upon others,
In the course of Dr. Lorimer's speech, there occurred a piece of impudent reversal of the truth not greater than the above, (that would be impossible,) but more amusing. It is as follows:-
"In addition to such considerations there was, he thought, an aggravation in this case. He could not help regarding it as an act of intolerance-he would say with all submission, English intolerance. Scotland was taunted with being bigoted and intolerant; but the fact was, that both politically and ecclesiastically, they were far more liberal than their friends in the South. In the present case they had the intolerance of England, for it was understood that the great mass of the property of the North British Railway was in English hands, and the chairman, the expounder of the views of his shareholders, was an Englishman. Why, what were those gentlemen doing? They were forcing their views of the Sabbath down the throats of a reluctant nation. (Hear, hear.) Was that liberty? was that consistent with toleration? was that worthy of any true Englishman? Even supposing that their views of the Sabbath were little better than Scotch prejudices, surely their prejudices even should be respected."
Considering that nobody has even proposed to prevent these reverend gentlemen and those who think with them from going to church, or resting, or doing anything else on Sunday, but that they are trying forcibly to interfere with the ideas, and the business, and the rights of the railway-passengers, the above is decidedly cool-as cool as a cucumber in an ice-chest. It is the clergy, and the "Sabbath Protection Association," who are trying to force their "views of the Sabbath" upon other people. It is time that these gentry should be made to understand that, in the matter of being entitled to respect, rights have precedence of prejudices, and other men's rights even of their prejudices.
Several other gentlemen followed in the same strain, one declaring that their duty was "to take the high Bible ground," and all of them making the false assumption that the Bible requires some special observance of Sunday. It was finally agreed that a Committee be appointed to draw up an address to be submitted to the Presbytery at its next meeting, and to consider what other steps ought to be taken.
On the following evening a meeting-said to be " of the working classes," but of course consisting only of such portion of those classes as had been led by the Sabbatarians to believe their false statement of a command of God separating Sunday from other days, with perhaps some of the railway workmen-was held in Brighton St. Chapel, Edinburgh, " for the purpose of opposing the running of the Sunday trains." Three resolutions were proposed and seconded, (the report does not say that they were voted,) to the following effect:-1st, That this meeting, regarding the Divine institution of the weekly Sabbath as a blessing of inestimable value, consider the resumption of Sunday passenger trains as a wanton and alarming attack
<c03>
on the maintenance of the Sabbath in Scotland. 2d, That this resumption of Sabbath passenger traffic threatens the interests of all working men, is a serious invasion of the rights of the servants of the company, and is fraught with danger to the community. 3d, That a deputation of five (all Esquires) be appointed to confer with the Directors of the North British Railway, present the resolutions, and ask for a discontinuance of the Sunday trains.
There is one sound and just point in these resolutions, namely, that the working man is entitled to a weekly day of rest. If, therefore, special circumstances call for work on Sunday, the laborer should have another day or extra wages given him. In arranging the compensation, six days' work should be considered a week's work. This is all that can properly be demanded. Nobody pretends that Sunday should arrest the business of watchmen, policemen and gaslighters in the streets of a great city. All that is necessary is to pay for the extra time required, or to have workmen enough to allow each his day of rest. If this were the working men's plea, nobody would dispute it. But they prejudice their own cause by the false representation that the special observance of Sunday is a "Divine" institution.
Equally false is the representation that the running of Sunday passenger trains is an injury, on the whole, to the working classes. For every individual kept at work, (compensated work, mind you,) at this unusual time, fifty of the same class have an opportunity of healthful and much needed recreation, else unattainable. The Sunday trains are more needed by the working classes than by any other classes. These furnish the only opportunity they enjoy for change of air and scene, and for interviews with distant relatives and friends. The intelligent laborer would favor instead of opposing them.
It appears that a conference upon this subject was had, subsequently, with the railway authorities; and the following impertinent remark was publicly made, in a meeting afterwards held, by a Mr. Richard Weaver, who it seems had been forward in pushing the Sabbatical movements. This person said that-" As to the deputations which had waited upon the Chairman of the North British railway, they had been to no purpose. There was no use arguing with him. Nothing could rectify carnal minds but the power of God." This piece of calumnious cant stirred up the indignation of Mr. James Moir, who wrote to the Herald in reply, describing himself as "a professing Christian,' and maintaining his right, with Paul, to "esteem every day alike." Finding Protestant Popery every whit as objectionable as Romish Popery, he felt bound to resist the attempt of the Sabbatarians to make their opinions binding upon him. Quoting from Exodus the injunction in regard to the Fourth Commandment Sabbath, he pointed out the inconsistency of those people who, claiming that commandment as God's injunction to Christians at the present day, took the liberty of choosing which of its provisions they would obey, and which they would disregard. As a Christian man, he claimed the right to " be fully persuaded in his own mind " in regard to the best way of spending his Sundays, as a part of " the liberty wherewith Christ hath made his people free; " and he saw no reason to regard the running of railroad trains on the first day of the week as a violation of the moral law of God.
It appears, thus far, that the trains continue, the public are satisfactorily accommodated, and the Sabbatists, though enjoying full liberty to spend Sunday in their own way, do not succeed in forcing their notions respecting that day down the throats of their more intelligent fellow-citizens.-C. K. W.
THE EMANCIPATED SLAVES OF AMERICA.
MEETING IN THE QUEEN'S ROOMS.
A meeting was held last night in the Queen's Rooms, for the purpose of hearing the Rev. Dr. Storrs and the Rev. Sella Martin plead the cause of the emancipated slaves in America. There was a large attendance. James Craig, Esq., of Middleton, presided. On the platform were the Rev. Dr. Joseph Brown, the Rev. Dr. Storrs, the Rev. Dr. Wallace, the Rev. Messrs. Sella Martin, Symington, A. G. Forbes, H. Batchelor, and Messrs. N. Stevenson, R. Paterson, P. Adams, J. Sinclair, P. M'Leod, W. Smeal, A. Paton, W. Gray, Thomas, Smith, and Rankin. The meeting having been opened with prayer by the Rev. Mr. Forbes, a letter from Mr. C. Robertson, who was to have presided, was read. It stated that he could not attend because of illness, and expressed his warm sympathy with the object of the meeting. A letter was also read from the Rev. W. C. Smith, apologizing for his absence; and it was stated that had the Rev. Dr. N. Macleod not had to fulfill an engagement, he would have been present.
The CHAIRMAN expressed his regret that Mr. Robertson had been unable to take the chair; and said that they could conceive that there would be a vast amount of misery during the winter among the emancipated slaves in America, if prompt measures were not taken to alleviate and prevent that misery. He then called upon
The Rev. Dr. Storrs, who, after having described the success which had attended the mission of himself and Mr. Martin in the different towns in Scotland and England, said-I am willing to believe with regard to the enlightened community which has been favored with some of the noblest intellects that the world has ever had, shining from its pulpit and its press, that it will not be slow to appreciate the grandest moral problem that this or any age in the history of the world has been permitted to solve. (Applause.) If, indeed, there has been any want of sympathy or slowness to take action in his important matter, it is from want of understanding the conditions of this problem both as to the facts of the case and the elements of solving the problem, so as to commend the whole matter to your practical sympathy and aid. (Applause.) You have heard of these four millions of lately enslaved people, now ushered into the condition of freedom. It is not our purpose to claim-for it is not true-that all these four millions are objects of charity. There are many among them who are earning honorable and comfortable subsistence. There are many among them who from the first have utterly repudiated all assistance, however proposed to them, and have gone on to achieve by honest labor for themselves whatever the future might have in store. It is not our purpose, therefore, to claim that, in all parts of the South where this mass of liberated people lives, there is an equal degree of destitution, whether of food or of clothing. It is not our purpose, therefore, to declare that universally throughout all that vast region there is or there has been unmitigated wretchedness or woe. So far from that, we are happy to say that in some of the districts of that region, covering a space of more than ten times that of the whole British Island, there are communities where want is practically unknown, and where a comfortable degree of food and clothing is enjoyed. There are communities in the midst of that mass of population where the change of relations between the master and the slave has resulted in no deep or exhaustive disturbance of the interests of labor. We wish it to be understood that there are some among that large class of owners who have kindly received the new condition of things, and who have been willing to accommodate themselves to its demands upon them, in reference to their former slaves. We wish it further to be understood, that of all these four millions who were lately slaves, the great body are still on the soil to which they were attached before the war had broken out, or had been attached during the progress of the war, and that so far from leaving their habitations, miserable as they are, they still remain in them. Having made these exceptions, I wish to present this as still a fact, that there is here a large class, almost, we might say, an uncounted number of suffering human beings, suffering for food, suffering for clothing, and suffering under persecution, under abuse, and ill-treatment of every form, for whom it becomes us, and the great Christian public of the
<c04>
world, to make proper provision. Among this mass of population, some 800,000 are under twelve years of age; and out of these again, nearly 200,000 are orphans, with no father or mother, or any human relations. Now, that this mass of orphanage must be thrown upon charity somewhere must instantly be apparent without argument; and then to those who are familiar with these fearful exactions, it is equally clear, and to those who have traversed the fields it must become manifest by constant observation, that there is a large class of prematurely aged, and infirm, and decrepit ones, from whom slavery, in its days of power, sold away every son and every daughter on whom age and decrepitude might otherwise have leaned in this hour of trial. So these aged and infirm ones are now thrown upon the charity of somebody. And, besides these, there is between the aged and childhood to which we have referred, a large mass, more than ordinary by far, of those who have been wrecked in health and constitution under the fearful exactions of this system that spared neither manhood nor womanhood in its fearful demands to make the most in the speediest time out of the human sinews, muscles and brains which were owned. These multitudes as they are, are thrown upon the charity of some one. That would have been true had there been no war, or had abolition come simply in the wake of peace. This same mass of orphanage, of age and decrepitude, of crushed broken ones, might still live in misery. But following in the wake of war, there came other causes to heighten the fearfulness of the picture which we have to draw. There have been exasperation of feeling, embittering of prejudice and passion against this class, which has been regarded as having wrought all this woe in the land. There is a prejudice at the North; there is a greater prejudice still at the South; and between the upper and the nether millstone of such prejudice, exasperation and embittered passions, but for the interposition of Christian charity-but for the uprising of Christian sentiment in behalf of these poor oppressed ones, they are in danger of being ground to the dust. In the wake of war there has been ruin to the master, there has been the destruction of the crops, and in the best regions an entire cessation of the ordinary processes of the industry on which communities depend for their constant subsistence.
The reverend gentleman here read a graphic picture of the miserable condition of the negroes, from the report by General L. C. Baker; and then said-The amount of want in this direction of a physical sort, perhaps no one of us has sufficient data to state with accuracy. Reports come to us from commissioned bodies sent by Government, or by benevolent associations, to examine into the facts and report thereon. Now, the question is raised whether this want is really such as I present in the evidence I have read. Let me cite another series of evidence. The Americans are not a people easily imposed upon in the direction of charity. It is supposed a Yankee understands the worth of a dollar. I think that is an impression that even the canny Scot has. Now, what are the facts in this matter? We have throughout the nation eight distinct large organizations effectually working this matter, and whose combined contributions, according to current rates, for the relief of this mass of misery, is now something like more than two millions per annum. (Applause.) Men of the highest personal character and commercial integrity and business honesty are sending forth appeals broadcast throughout the country, pledging their word to the truth of the statement that there is an amount of destitution and suffering at the South which is almost unparalleled, and calls for immediate help on the part of the great Christian public. That shows the conviction of the Yankee people on the subject. Throughout all the Northern part of the nation, there is a willingness to do what they ought to do under this emergency, not for the blacks alone, but for the poor whites as well; for another association, known as the American Union Association, whose object is to provide food and clothing for the poor whites of the South, is gathering an almost equal amount to that which I have cited as being collected for the poor blacks. (Applause.) This shows there is a vast destitution as a matter of fact, notwithstanding the suggestions which partisans may write in various papers in this country and in ours. Upon whom rests the duty of extending aid in this crisis? It is said that many of the negroes are getting as much as a dollar or a dollar and a half per day as wages, and that if able-bodied negro labor is commanding six shillings per day, there cannot be want long felt. But the able-bodied negro may justly inquire why he should be expected to pay more than the white man to support all those suffering ones. He may say, " It is true, I am of his color, but you are of his race equally with myself; for God has made of one blood all nations to dwell upon the face of the earth. (Applause.) Why should I (he may say) with hardly rags enough to cover my nakedness, and trying to found a family and build up a fortune, such as any of you-why should I divert everything into that channel? " I say it is not the duty of these able-bodied negroes, who have to raise families and to work to keep those families comfortable-it is not their duty to keep these stript down to the bare necessaries of life, and devote all the rest for the many suffering around them. I say, let them give their share; but to ask them to do this work themselves is altogether wrong. If not upon the negro, then upon whom does the task of extending aid rest? Will you say upon the former owner, the man who has to provide the land? He has been already much impoverished in this war, and he is doubly embittered against the race whom he imagines has caused all this misery. If you lean on this trust, you will be leaning on a reed which easily yields under the hand which presses upon it. You have no reason to expect it. It would be asking more than we are asking from any mortal community. They are themselves just emerging out of a fearful strife. They look upon the future with only half an assured eye, not certain what is in store for them-not knowing whether this negro race, educated as it has been, will furnish in the future laborers to till the land. They have heard the din of the Jamaica story continually ringing in their ears. There are also multitudes of these former owners who are determined to make freedom a failure, and make true their assertion of slavery being the best condition of the negro. When the negro say they will not work unless upon shares or wages, the master bids them, especially if the crop is gathered in, go, saying-" I have no further use for you. After all I have done for you-after I have taken care of you since you were born-you thus treat me. I cannot endure you; go." The poor negroes are driven from the plantations without any garments, except the rags upon their shoulders. The matter then comes back upon Christian charity. It is the philanthropic world that has this thing in charge. If we decline to accept it, of course we can do so. If the people of Glasgow decline to have share and part in this great work, they can do so; but, never, the less, as it seems to me, and I am sure as it will seem to your own dispassionate judgment, this is a work that comes upon the Christian and philanthropic public of the world. No national element shall bound it-no rolling sea shall prevent the flowing across of this ready aid. Nothing shall hinder two great nations from joining in this great work;-not a great ocean shall prevent them sharing in an enterprise so grand and so noble, and so promising of blessed fruits. (Applause.)
The Rev. SELLA MARTIN next addressed the meeting. He said that before they had any hope of an early and complete solution of the question of slavery there was scarcely any difference of opinion about the desirableness of an early and complete solution of it. Even those who were in favor of the South, as was a section of the country, were compelled to make this general concession to the strongly anti-slavery people of Great Britain, viz.-that they hated slavery as badly as anybody else hated it. (Hear.) Whenever they were going to swallow the great whale of the South, they had to grease him with this kind of thing. (Laughter.) But now that they had got that early and complete solution in the fact of the abolition of
<c05>
slavery, very many people stood off and said, "Well, after all, wasn't it done too quickly?" (Hear and a laugh.) " Did you do it in the right way, after all? " " Haven't you involved the negro in more suffering by putting him in the difficulties consequent upon being cast into the midst of a harassing transition state than he used to go through in slavery? " Very many were asking these questions now. Well, what would they have? Supposing, even, that the negro suffered a great deal more in his body than when in slavery. What then? Did they mean to say he ought to have staid in slavery and suffered! Did they mean that some other plan might have been taken for his emancipation? Well, that another plan was not taken was not the fault of those who were in favor of abolition, and still less was it the fault of the negro him' self. If there were those who were delving in the midst of the slime of past difficulties, and who everlastingly beat their heads against the fossiled remains of things that were gone, all that he could say was that they might be in the occupation of burying the dead. This, however, was a riving question with them, and was one that pressed itself with such consistency and force for solution that those whose sympathies were right had not time to remember the faults of the method of reaching the result, but were only anxious to grapple with the difficulties that had arisen with or grown out of that result. (Hear, hear.) Now, they would find much to aid them if they wished to be captious, and to object and find fault. But if they just stopped for a moment, and asked what was the condition out of which these negroes came, and really analysed the evils of that condition, they would not harbor these objections long. Whatever might be the temporary sufferings of the negro in his transition state-whatever unfavorable features he might present for lack of self-reliance, for lack of the resources by which to make for himself a place in the community, and earn for himself and his family a livelihood -whatever suffering he might go through in the achievement of the end which was the earnest wish of all his friends, that he should be in the possession of independence-there could be nothing like a comparison in it with the sufferings born under slavery. The former, at least, had the advantage, that he was bearing a difficult only that he might go into a free and open arena of comfort and of peace. In slavery he was subjected to equal if not to greater difficulties -hope and who everlastingly crushed out of him, and all aspirations made impossible in the direction of manhood. But then they must take things as they found them in the history of the world; and he did not expect that slavery-which struck its roots so deep in the soil-could be plucked up, unless a great hole was left, showing where the accursed thing stood. He did not expect that men who had become licentious and tyrannical would yield up their grasp upon the neck of their victims without a great struggle. He did not expect that the negro, in getting tree of the devil, would be left without rending before the devil went out. What bad been the case in the past? When God purposed to accomplish emancipation, in the history of the whole Church, one race had to go down that another should come up. The sacrifice of Jewish blood prepared the way for Hebrew freedom, and when the Hebrews themselves had become so terribly sinful that they could no longer occupy their place, they themselves had to go down that Gentile liberty and Christianity might prevail; and Jerusalem fell just when the glad tidings were preached to all the Gentiles. He did not expect, therefore, that the negroes in America would achieve their freedom without a sacrifice. They had already had a sacrifice of blood on the part of the white men, and the negroes involved in the evil must make their sacrifice in starvation and suffering before they could entirely reach the end; and as a negro, knowing their thoughts and their feelings, he said that they were prepared to brave all this. (Cheers.) Let starvation come, if it must come, while they were on the pathway of freedmen. Let them, too, stand out in the inclemency of the weather, and bear all its rigorous and pelting visitations, if people professing Christianity would, while able to relieve, stand and see this, and see the negro crushed by un favorable conditions and temporary circumstances; since, in the bearing of all that, they were making a possible liberty and happier future for their own race, and helping to lift them to where they ought to be. (Applause.) They were ready to accept the conditions if the people here, having the power to avert them, said they must come, and that they must be borne. The situation would be still more striking if they could ever come to a realization of each man's personal history; if they could feel as he himself had often felt, and have to say, " I am a slave. Another man owns me. I am the son of a slave. Another man owns my mother. I am a slave, and a slave forever! "Could; they realize that somebody should everlastingly dictate what one should do, and lash him if he did not do it, and under the exercise of an irresponsible power, force one's wife to dishonor and degradation; or having the children beloved of one's heart, and as lovely in the eyes of its parents as the children of any in this country, torn away and sold on the auction-block? It was galling that not only should a man himself remain a slave during his life, but that his children and his children's children should likewise be bound in continual slavery. Though they could not, perhaps, realize the state of the case, he could realize it keenly, and he felt not only a holy indignation but often an inexpressible, contempt for people that stood and pondered, and raised trivial objections in such a momentous matter as that before them-when poor men had to be raised from the lowest depths of helplessness, and despair, and suffering. (Hear and applause.)
Mr. Martin then proceeded to argue that gradual emancipation would have been incomparably worse than immediate emancipation. In fact, it would have been like gradually amputating a man's leg, or gradually pulling a tooth. It would just have been prolonging the pain and misery. It would have been taking away from the master all interest in the negro, and putting still under his control that negro in whom he had no interest. If he did wrong-and it was wonderful if he did not do wrong, for his master had been teaching him how to do it all his life-the magistrate whipped him, and the master brought him all the more readily and frequently to be thus flogged, because he did not own him, and because, no matter when he died, he did not lose anything.
He then pointed out how the whole negro race had to suffer because part of that race was in bondage They were everywhere from their color identified with degradation and servitude, and out of this one many more fictitious prejudices had arisen. The speaker here pictured graphically the difficulties they had to contend with in these very prejudices, and often the negro himself was well nigh led to believe that he was naturally inferior, and only fit for bondage. The negroes distrusted their own powers, because they had never been called on to exercise them as independent men. With all these difficulties around them, in addition to those of a natural character growing out of the war and the disorganization of labor, they could all see how necessary it was that something should be done for them at this crisis.
It was by taking a practical interest in his condition now, that the people of this country could make the negro believe that all their avowed interest and oft-repeated protests against the evils of slavery, and oppression were earnest and real, and that they were quite willing not only to translate him into the privileges of that freedom they themselves enjoyed but that they would do what in them lay to make him the means of bringing up future generations of his own race, so that they could enjoy aright the pleasures of the glorious right of liberty. He hoped all of them would be willing to recognize that their best interests grew out of this, and some of their highest duties were achieved in the doing of it. (Applause.)
The Rev. Dr. Brown, after heartily commending the cause which they had heard advocated so warmly, and wisely, and worthily by their brethren from the other side of the Atlantic, went on to more the follow
<c06>
ing resolution, viz.: " That this meeting, heartily concurring in the establishment of Fredmen's Aid Societies, resolve, by pecuniary contribution otherwise, to assist our American brethren in their laudable efforts to improve the physical condition and promote the moral and religious elevations of the colored people during their transition from slavery to the blessings of freedom."
Mr. N. STEVENSON seconded the resolution, and it was cordially passed.
The Rev. Dr. WALLACE, in the course of a lengthened and animated speech, proposed the second resolution as follow:- "That this meeting tenders its cordial thanks to the Rer. Dr. Storra and the Rev. Sella Martin, for the information they have communicated, and earnestly recommends their cause to the Christian sympathy and support of the citizens of Glasgow." (Cheers.)
The Rev. H. BATCHELOR briefly seconded the resolution, and it was unanimously agreed to.
A SLAVE POET IN CUBA. The Final, newspaper, published at Puerto Principe, Cuba, has published a poem entitled "Who am I?" which it says was written by a negro slave, named Manuel Roblejo. It also says, that measures for his emancipation are in progress. not only by the free people of his own class, but by others who are interested in such a work of mercy in favor of the young man. As to the poem itself, it is said that, although it has some deficiencies in poetic construction, yet it has many stanzas worthy of commendation for the simplicity and fluency with which he utters the sentiments o a poet, without art and without study.
Virginia has proved to be one of the meanest States of the so called Confederacy. New proofs of this appear from time to time. The Postmaster-General now finds that the former postmasters of the Old Dominion repudiated their debts to Uncle Sam to a greater extent than those of any other of the rebel states.
That time-honored temperance hotel, the "Marlboro," of Boston, has abandoned its distinctive character, and now supports a bar for the sale of intoxicating liquors.
The sale of postage stamps and stamped envelopes at the post-office in New York city for the year ending Sept. 30, amounts to one million four hundred and sixty-five thousand and thirty-two dollars, an increase of two hundred and sixty thousand eight hundred dollars over the previous year. The whole number of stamps made forth government, last year amounted to three hundred and seventy-six millions of dollars.
The real estate of New York city is assessed at $417,404.334; the personal property at $181, 423, 471-total, $608,827,855. The State, country and municipal taxes amount to $18,325,936.15-almost $30 on each $1000 assessed.
POPULATION OF THE WORLD. The population of the world is estimate by M. Dietaries, the statistical authority of Europe, at 1,300,000,000, of whom twenty-five percent, are Christians-half of these, 162,300,000, being Roman Catholics. Notwithstanding this, the number of communicants, in 1864, has been ascertained, by counting the wafers consumed on Easter day, to be but 30,000,000.
Hon. Wm. J. Duane, who died at Philadelphia, recently, was born in Ireland, though his father was a native of this country. He was a printer by trade, but after he had reached the age of thirty years. he commenced the study of the law, and became eminent in his profession, and noted for his probity of character. His wife was a grand-daughter of Benjamin Franklin. The deceased was legal adviser for Stephen Girard, and drew the will of that gentleman, which secured so large a gift to the orphans of Philadelphia.
SPAIN. It is calculated that, in the time of Julius Caesar, Spain contained a population of 78,000,000 In 1688, the number had dwindled down to 8,000,000 Since then, the population has steadily increased, and now numbers about 16,000,000.
George Brackett died in Concord, N. H.. on the l5th ult., after a severe illness of a few weeks' duration. Mr. Brackett, says the Concord Monitor, was identified with a proscribed race, in color, but was a most valuable citizen in the practical duties of life, and put to shame, by his quiet, unobtrusive habits, many a pale face who has yet to do his first act for the good of his fellow-men.
An enormous pressure will be brought to bear upon the next Congress by loyal people in the South for the payment of claims for property taken by the Union armies during the war. In some cases, certificates of seizure were given, and in others no vouchers at all can be presented. Unionists and secessionists are mingling together in the category of the despoiled, and to distinguish between them promise to be a work of rare delicacy.
There were more arrivals at Philadelphia last Tuesday, than on any single day before, within the sat forty years.
GREATEST ADDITION TO PHILOLOGY IN HALF A CENTURY. The most important contribution to Philology, during the year 1864, was the publication of the illustrated edition of Webster's Quarto Unabridged Dictionary. This work, which had long been in preparation, and on the revision of which years of labor had been bestowed by several eminent scholars, was, in many respects, the greatest addition to the philology of the present age which has appeared within half a century.-Appleton's Cyclopedia for 1864.
A NEW NEW YORK HOTEL. Hiram Cranston, of the New York Hotel, has purchased the ground for a new hotel, opposite the Fifth Avenue entrance to the Central Park. The building will probably, it is said, excel any hotel building in this country or in Europe in magnificence and in extent of its dimensions. It is proposed to expend about two million dollars, including the price paid for the land.
CANCER. According to Galignani's Messenger, a Dr. Brandini of Florence has used citric acid with success in alleviating the pain which accompanies cancer. He applies it in the form of a gargle, composed of four grains of crystallized citric acid and three hundred and fifty grains of common water. Its application once in six or seven hours gives instant relief.
Ayer's Pills.
ARE you sick, feeble and complaining? Are you out of order. with your system deranged and your feelings uncomfortable? These symptoms are often the prelude to serious illness. Some fit of sickness is creeping upon you, and should be averted by a timely use of the right remedy. Take Ayer's Pills, and cleanse out the disordered humors-purity the blood, and let the fluids move on unobstructed in health again. The, stimulate the function, of the body into vigorous activity, and purify the system from the obstructions which make disease. A cold settle somewhere in the body, and deranges its natural functions. These, if not relieved, react upon themselves and the surrounding organs, producing general aggravation, suffering and derangement. While in this condition, take Ayer's Pills, and see how directly they restore the natural action of the system, and with it the buoyant feeling of health again. What is true and so apparent in this trivial and common complaint is also true in many of the deep-seated and dangerous distempers. The same purgative effect expels them. Caused by similar obstructions and derangements of the natural functions of the body, they are rapidly, and many of them surely cured by the same means, None who know the virtue of these Pills will neglect to employ them when suffering from the disorders they cure, such as Headache, Foul Stomach. Dysentery. Bilious Complaints, Indigestion, Derangement of the Liver, Costiveness, Constipation, Heartburn, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Worms and Suppression, when taken in large doses.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them easily, and they are surely the best purgative medicine yet discovered.
AYER'S AGUE CURE,
For the speedy and certain Cure of Intermittent Fever, or Chills and Fever, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, Periodical Headache, or Billons Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed, for the whole class of diseases originating in biliary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
This remedy has rarely failed to cure the severest cases of Chills and Fever, and it has this great advantage over other Ague medicines, that it subdues the complaint without injury to the patient. It contains no quinine or other deleterious substance, nor does it produce quinism or any injurious effect whatever. Shaking brothers of the army and the West, try it, and you will endorse these assertions.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
oct. 13 2m.
DR. DIO LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINGTON, Mass.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eagleswood School, New Jersey, and I. N.CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's academy, Andover.
Send for Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS. August 11.
