THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM N. 6. ,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent,
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per an mill in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed. ,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square <illegible> three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan 
Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM, LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL.XX. NO. 32. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, WHOLE NUMBER, 5.
<c01>
SELECTIONS.
From the National Anti-Slavery Standard. 
FRUITS OF EMANCIPATION.
LETTER FROM REV. HENRY BLEBY. 
BARBADOS, 8th July, 1860.
OLIVER JOHNSON, ESQ.: Dear Sir,-I read with great interest your report in the Standard of speeches delivered at the late anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and was very glad to see that Dr. Cheever had come up now to the right platform. H. W. Beecher ought to be there also. His time-serving policy detracts much from his reputation in the estimation of right-minded his reputation in the estimation of right-minded men. With profound regret I saw in the English newspapers the announcement of Theodore Parker's death. His removal will be a loss to the Anti-Slavery cause, but however the workmen may fall, God, whose cause it is, will carry on the work to its consummation. It must triumph.
I enclose two slips from newspapers for the Standard, if you think fit to insert them. The Mr. Jordan referred to in one of them as a colored gentleman, and President of the Privy Council of Jamaica. I am personally acquainted with. He is a self-made man, whose education was chiefly obtained in our Mission schools; and I remember the time when his ‘anti-slavery proclivities,' as some of your Southern editors would call them, brought him within the shadow of the gibbet. He started the first anti-slavery newspaper in the West Indies, sustained by the counsels and aid of the Missionaries; and led the conflict which terminated in the removal of the civil and political disabilities under which the colored people groaned in Jamaica, and in placing them on an equality with their white fellow-subjects. After this, he nobly fought the anti-slavery battle, until emancipation was conceded. But it nearly cost him his life in 1832, when the struggle was at its height. In the newspaper under his care he said, in closing one of his editorial articles: ‘We shall be glad, with Mr. B. and other friends of humanity, to give a long pull, a strong pull, and a pull altogether, to bring down the system by the run, knock off the fetters and let the oppressed go free.' On these simple words was based a charge of constructive treason, and Mr. Jordan was indicated for a capital felony-the result, as it afterwards transpired, of a conspiracy to get rid of the hated opponent of slavery, to which the then Governor, a miserably weak tool of the planters, was a party; he having agreed to sign a warrant for Mr. Jordan's execution, in the event of a conviction being obtained. But the conspirators were baffled. Although Mr. Jordan was suddenly arraigned, and placed on his trial without any notice or warning-the whole proceeding being conducted with profound secrecy until the Grand Jary had found a true bill-he was ably and successfully defended by the first colored barrister who practised in the Jamaica courts, Mr. Watkis, a man of eminent talent; and through the stubborn fidelity of Mr. Osborn, a colored partner of Mr. Jordan, who refused, though more than once committed for contempt, to answer the questions put to him by the prosecutor, the attempt to prove publication failed, and the case broke down. This wicked effort to injure and destroy an innocent man led to his present elevation. Since that time Mr. Jordan became more popular with the free colored people than he had ever been; and they, indignant at the villany which had been attempted, and being sufficiently numerous to control the elections, on the occurrence of the next vacancy, chose Mr. J. as their representative in the Legislature, where he pursued an honorable career, commanding respect, and increasing in influence, for many years. He was afterwards elevated to the Council, the superior branch of the Legislature; and has been for several years the Prime Minister of the island, in which office he has earned the honorable distinction which the Queen has recently conferred upon him. It is a remarkable fact, that Mr. J. has been associated in the highest offices of the government with the man who, as Acting Advocate-General, took a leading part in the prosecution which was intended to cut short his career by an ignominious death. It is a favorite notion with your South-side gentry that colored men have no administrative or governing talent-taking good care, however, never to suffer the experiment to be tried where they have influence to prevent it; but here we see a colored man selected from the midst of a large body of whites, many of whom are men of unquestionable ability, to initiate and carry on a new form of responsible government, analogous to that of the British Ministry, which has been eminently successful. It is an acknowledged fact, that the financial condition of the colony has never been so prosperous as since this colored man has filled the office of Premier. 
Recently, in Antigua, a colored gentleman has been appointed to a seat in the Legislative Council; and in this island, where more of the old-time prejudice against color remains than I have found in any other British Colony, Mr. Prescott, a colored man, is one of the leading spirits in the Colonial Parliament, having recently received appointments to more than one lucrative public office. Such a reaction in public sentiment has occured in these islands within my own recollection, resulting from the abolition of slavery and the removal of colored disabilities, that I think it quite within the bonds of possibility that it quite within the bounds of possibility that we may yet see such men as our friends Garrison and Wendell Phillips chosen to fill high offices in the United States, and reaping honors to which their well-tried fidelity to the cause of humanity richly entitles them. Twenty-eight years ago the gibbet appeared far more likely to be the destiny of Edward Jordan in Jamaica than the Premiership which he now so worthily and ably fills. 
I am, my dear sir, very truly yours,
HENRY BLEBY.
The extracts alluded to are as follows,-Ed. Stand. 
The Queen has been graciously pleased to appoint Philip Edmund Wodehouse, Esq., Governor and Commander-in Chief in and over the Colony of British Guiana, to be an Ordinary Member of the Civil Division of the Third Class, or Companion of the Most Honorable Order of the Bath. James Walker, Esq,., the acting Governor of Trinidad, has also been appointed a C. ,.B., and the Hon. Edward Jordan, President of the Privy Council, Jamaica. Mr. Jordan is a gentleman of color, and though born in Jamaica, is the son of a Barbadian.-Barbados Globe.
RESULTS of EMANCIPATION IN JAMAICA-At a public meeting held in the city of Kingston on the 3d ult., the Rev., J. Edmonson, Wesleyan Minister, in the chair, E. B. Underhill, Esq., Secretary of the London Baptist Missionary Society, stated as follows L:He had ridden for many miles through the settlements of the people, had seen lands extensively cleared for provisions, and great numbers of houses erected on every side. Let it be assumed that 50,000 families have so settled; that each family possesses three acres of land;, that each family has furniture and clothes to the value of £10. to say nothing of horses, carts, pigs, and other property. Let it be a supposed that each acre has cost on the average £3 and each home £5, and then will have been realized, since freedom, property to the amount of nearly a
<c02>
million and a quarter pounds sterling. If, further, there be allowed to be 100,000 acres under cultivation, and the value of the produce be reckoned at £ 12 the acre, we have an annual production in provisions alone of £1,200,000. The number of acres under cultivation by the black people has been stated at 300,000, and the average value of an acre at from £15 to £20. Thus 200,000 acres are allowed for other productions. But the negroes of Jamaica are the real growers of sugar, coffee, pimento, ginger, &c. The property of much of this product may be in the hands of the white man, but the labor by which they are sent to market is that of the black man. The annual value of these articles of export cannot be less than £600,000, which, added to the value of provisions, gives a total of £1,800.,000. Probably not less than two millions are thus raised by the people; so that, since freedom, something short of forty millions of pounds must have been the value of the labor expended on the soil of Jamaica by its enfranchised peasantry.—Jamaica Tribune.

From the Minneapolis (Min.) State Atlas. 
IS MINNESOTA A FREE STATE?
Strange as it may at first appear, the people of Minnesota are, at this early period in their history, and within three years from the adoption of their, State Constitution, seriously asking of each other,’ Is Minnesota a free State? ' Not but that the constitution which they adopted, and under which they live, in the most clear and positive language, forbids the existence of slavery within our borders, but because the provisions of that constitution are openly and boldly set at defiance, not only by citizens of other States, but, as it appears, by those of Minnesota herself-men who, pretending to act as officers under the laws of this State, engage in the disgraceful and detestable business of kidnapping free men for the purpose of forcing them into slavery.
Now, here is the article and section of our constitution relating to this subject:—
Art. 1, Sec.. 2.—'THERE SHALL BE NEITHER SLAVERY NOR INVOLUNTARY SERVITUDE IN THE STATE OTHERWISE THAN IN THE PUNISHMENT OF CRIME WHEREOF THE PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN DULY CONVICTED.'
With a full knowledge of this provision of our constitution, and well understanding the sentiment of our people upon the question of slavery, citizens of slave States have chosen to visit Minnesota, bringing with them their human chattels, thus openly disregarding the constitutional law of our State, and bidding defiance to, and insulting the sentiments and feelings of our people. But it is not of the course of Southern sojourners among us that we most complain. It is of those infamous beings who live in our own State, and who, in order to secure a few dollars of Southern money are willing to see the constitution of Minnesota trampled under foot, and the feelings of our people outraged by the introduction of negro slaves in our very midst.
For ourselves, we have no concealments to make of our views and position upon this question. MINNESOTA IS A FREE STATE, thank God, and, as one of her citizens, we shall insist upon her remaining so. And we wish Southern ladies and gentlemen to distinctly understand, that when they bring their slaves within the borders of this State they make them, before our constitution and our laws, their equals, so far as civil rights are concerned. And while we do not feel it our duty, and shall not make it our business to go about informing people of their rights, or advising them to assert them, we do and shall insist that when they voluntarily assert them, they shall be protected to the full extent of the law of our State. 
Gentlemen of the South, you know the feelings of our people upon this question; and you may as well understand, that when you voluntarily bring your human chattels into Minnesota they will exercise their own discretion as to remaining with and going back with you.

PUNCH ON CHARLES SUMNER. 
The London Punch has the following, under the head ‘Punch's Essence of Congress’:—
'1860. June 4th, Monday. In the Senate, the Bill for the Admission of Kansas as a Free State came on for discussion. The Honorable Charles Sumner, who about four years ago was brutally assaulted by a ruffianly slaveholder named Brooks (since dead), addressed the House for the first time since that outrage. He applied himself to a long and elaborate argument to show the barbarism of slavery, and proposed to knock out the "black marble block" which the South declares to be the keystone of the arch of the American Constitution. He showed successively and successfully that the “domestic institution" makes brutes of the slaves, and worse brutes of the masters-that it checks education, industry, prosperity, and population—that it generates violence, foul vice, cruelty, duelling, and ruffianism generally—that its advocates in and out of Congress are the worst citizens, and the worst men in America—that it has been condemned by Washington, Jefferson and Franklin, and by all statesmen and moralists of eminence-and that its poisonous influence is actively working toward the destruction of the noble Republic. Mr. Sumner's speech was chiefly characterized by its closeness of argument and lucidity of diction; but he occasionally introduced a passage of highly-wrought eloquence, or an image of singular vividness; and in England, however the orator's sentiments might have been objected to by a political antagonist, Mr. Sumner would have received the compliments of gentlemen on both sides, upon so remarkable an exhibition of sustained power and intellectual skill. Mr. Chestnut, of South Carolina, (slave-owner) rose, and after abusing Mr. Sumner for ”ranging over Europe, crawling through the back doors to whine at the feet of British aristocracy, craving pity and reaping contempt," called him the ”incarnation of malice, mendacity, and cowardice," and declined on the part of the slave-ownerism to make any reply, because he was not inclined ”to send forth the recipient of punishment howling through the world, yelping fresh cries of slander and malice." The punishment in question alludes to the brutal assault with a bludgeon, committed by the now defunct Brooks upon an unarmed and unsuspecting gentleman. The “slave-masters in the Senate then rounded Mr. Chesnut, and approved his speech." The question was postponed. Mr. Punch begs to offer his respectful congratulations to Mr. Sumner upon his magnificent speech, and, even more earnestly, upon the ample and perfect testimony that was instantly given by the besotted slave-owners to the truth of his assertion of the barbarism of Slavery. It is not often that an orator's enemies are in such a desperate hurry to prove his case for him. But here be he was scarcely down, when the Slave party rushed together to proclaim themselves the ruffians he had painted them; and in the published copy of the oration, Mr. Sumner has given at once the calmest and the deadliest blow to the system he denounces, for he prints Mr. Chestnut's speech. All the bludgeons in the hands of all the ”chivalry of the South" cannot beat that demonstration of Mr. Sumner's case out of the heads of the public, in and out of the States. The speech should be re-printed in England, and circulated in thousands. What is the Anti-Slavery Society about?’ 
<c03>
The Liberator.’
CELEBRATION OF THE FIRST OF AUGUST AT ABINGTON.
Until we can celebrate the abolition of our own system of oppression, we must annually repeat the praises of that which was wrought in 1834 by our British brethren. Every celebration of their festival brings ours one step nearer.
One of the cheering indications that Massachusetts men and women are getting more and more to realize that slavery is a sin and a shame, and that its extirpation is needed, alike for the credit and welfare of our country, is the increased numbers that meet from year to year at Abington to celebrate the West Indian Emancipation, and provide for the establishment of a similar festival in America, for American freed-men. 
A very large assembly improved, for these purposes, the perfect summer day which was given us on the first of August. Long trains brought passengers from Boston and Plymouth, and the intermediate towns, and an immense number of carriages around the Grove showed the interest felt by the people of Abington and its neighborhood in the celebration. A dense circle of hearers stood around the crowded seats, and the perfect stillness of the day allowed the voices of the speakers to be distinctly heard. 
At 11 o'clock, the assembly was called to order by E.H. Heywood, who read the following list of officers for the organization of the meeting:—
President, 
JOHN B. SWASEY, Esq., of Boston.
Vice Presidents-EDMUND QUINCY, of Dedham; FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston; Hon. N. H. WHITING, of Marshfield; BOURNE SPOONER and Hon. CHARLES G. DAVIS, of Plymouth; RICHARD CLAP, of Dorchester; ELMER HEWITT, of Weymouth; WM. ASHBY, of Newburyport; Col. THOS. J. HUNT, of Abington; Rev. M. D. CONWAY, of Cincinnati; Dr. T. P. KNOX, of Boston.
Secretaries-J. M. W. YERRINTON, of Boston; Miss ANNA GARDNER, of Nantucket.
Finance Committee-E. H. HEYWOOD, Mrs. CAROLINE R. PUTNAM, ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, Mrs. J. A. SPOONER, MARY R. WALLCUT, N. B. SPOONER, D. B. MOREY. 
The President elect, on taking the chair, made a few remarks, expressive of his pleasure in occupying the position assigned him, since it identified him more closely with the anti-slavery cause, and embodying a statement of the object for which the meeting had assembled. He concluded by announcing Mr. Heywood as the first speaker of the day.
Mr. HEYWOOD remarked that it had been said that the water of inland wells rises and falls in sympathetic beat with the world-wide ocean without; and so of every philanthropic heart, it beats in unison with the joys and sorrows, the fears and hopes of humanity the world over. The Committee of Arrangements had addressed letters to various gentlemen whose hearts thus pulsated with the great heart of humanity, and had received in answer a few responses, which he would read.
LETTER FROM HON, CHARLES SUMNER. 
BOSTON, July 30, 1860. 
MY DEAR SIR:
If I forego the opportunity which you offer me of uniting with the earnest Abolitionists of Massachusetts in celebrating the anniversary of British Emancipation, I pray you not to believe me insensible to the magnanimous teachings of that day-destined, I doubt not, as men advance in virtue, to take its place still more and more among the great days of History. 
Nothing shows the desperate mendacity of the partisans of slavery more than the unfounded persistence with which they call this act ‘a failure.' If it be a failure, then is virtue a failure; then is justice a failure; then is humanity a failure; then is God himself a failure; for virtue, justice, humanity, and God himself are all represented in this act. 
Well-proved facts vindicate completely the policy of emancipation, even if it were not commanded by the simplest rules of morality. All testimony, whether from official documents or from travellers, shows, beyond question, that in all these islands the condition of the negro has been improved by emancipation; but this testimony is especially instructive when we learn that this improvement is most strongly manifest in those who have been born in Freedom. Ask any person familiar with these islands-as I have often done-or consult any unprejudiced authority, and this will be the answer. This alone is enough to vindicate this Act. Surely, it is enough if men are raised in the scale of being, even though sugar perishes from the earth. 
But careful statistics attest that the material interests of these possssions have shared the improvement of the population. In some of the islands, as in Barbadoes and Antigua, the advance is positive, while in Jamaica itself, which is the instance most constantly cited of ‘failure,' the evidence is unanswerable, that the derangement of affairs cannot be charged upon Emancipation, but is a natural incident to the anomalous condition of that island throughout its history, aggravated by the insane pretensions of the slave-masters. Two different Governors of this island have assured me that, with all their experience there, they looked upon Emancipation as a ’blessing.' Thus is it shown that the true policy of this world is found in justice. Nothing is truer than that injustice, besides its essential wickedness, is folly also. The unjust man is a fool. 
Only recently important testimony on this subject has found a place, where it would be hardly expected, in the columns of the New York Times, and similar testimony occurs in other quarters, both in England and America. And yet, with the Truth flashing in their faces our slave-masters misrepresent this sublime and beautiful act as’ a failure'! This, however, is of a piece with their whole conduct. 
Let me thank you for the invitation with which you have honored me, and for the good wishes with which you cheer me; and believe me, my dear sir, 
Very faithfully yours, 
CHARLES SUMNER. 
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
<c04>
LETTER FROM HON, CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS. 
QUINCY, July 21, 1860. 
W. L. GARRISON, Boston: 
DEAR SIR-I am much obliged to the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society for their kind invitation to be present at their celebration, at Abington, of the anniversary of the First of August. I regret that my present occupations are such as to keep me at home. 
West India Emancipation is gravely pronounced a failure. I have heard it so described on the floor of the House of Representatives. The only reason given is, that the British islands do not produce so many pounds of sugar and coffee as they did when they could force them out of the bones and muscles of slaves. 
It was Sismondi, I think, who first protested against the fallacy of all British writers on political economy who measure the happiness of a people by the gross amount of their material products. A far greater question must always be, Who is overworked? Who suffers wrongfully? Who is deprived of his hard earnings for the benefit of his neighbor? Who looks up to the flag of his country and sees in it no shelter for himself, or his wife, or his little ones? These questions will be boldly answered now in the British West Indies. If any cases could be pointed out, in tolerable numbers, we should have been very sure to hear of them. But all that we do hear is about the absence of coffee and sugar. Now, mankind may, by possibility, be tolerably well off, and yet do entirely without coffee and sugar. But how can they be happy without good security for their right to seek happiness in their own way? 
Open any book written forty years ago about the West Indies, and you will see depicted, in glowing terms, the awful horrors which must follow any attempt at emancipation. The never-failing sketch of the excesses which were committed in St. Domingo is retouched at every turn with a plentiful admixture of the most glaring colors. Nobody seems to have conceived the idea, that when you take away the motive to commit violence, you are in the most likely way to have peace. I greatly doubt whether, since the day of emancipation, there have been one half of the outrages committed among the population of the British West Indies that have taken place within any equally populated region in our slaveholding States. I never heard of an instance of a man burnt alive in Jamaica for the commission of murder. The courts could make no such penalty, I am sure, and the people there are not afraid to trust the cause of justice with the courts. But, in the United States, I have certainly read in our own newspapers of several cases in which the mob have burned men for killing their masters, within the past year. 
Yet they tell us, that because coffee and sugar fail, there is no good in emancipation. If, by reason of this failure, it could be shown that there was misery and famine in the land, that starvation was in a fair way to turn the garden into a wilderness, I should be ready to concede something to the argument. But I hear of no such thing as that. I only hear that the people decline to work more than enough to gain them an easy subsistence. Content with little under a genial climate, they prefer indolence to labor. And, in this respect, wherein do they differ from their former masters, the planters? Did you ever hear of any of these who liked to work? To be sure, they were never content to live on little, but they always preferred that what they did live on should be got from the labor of some other persons than themselves. The present complaint is, briefly, that this process cannot be carried on beyond the will of the laborer. Perhaps those may sympathize with it who deplore the loss of sugar and coffee. For my part, I sympathize more with the gain of idleness to the laborer, if it be his pleasure to be idle, and no suffering follow from it to himself or his family. Nobody admires industry more than I do, but it must be of that sort which is not wrung from the unwilling by force and without compensation. 
But, when I sat down, I did not intend to get engaged in any long discussion. My object only was to expose the nature of the standard which has been set up, to test the value of emancipation. When will men cease to confound liberty with money? 
With many thanks for the kind estimate you make in your postscript of any public service I may have lately rendered, I remain, 
Very truly, your friend and servant, 
C. F. ADAMS.
LETTER FROM JOHN A. ANDREW, ESQ. 
BOSTON, July 31st, 1860.
MY DEAR SIR-I shall not be able to regulate my engagements so as to attend the celebration at Abington of ’The Anniversary of British West Indian Emancipation,' to which you have invited me. 
I should be glad if it were in my power to add emphasis to my declaration of faith in the wisdom as well as the benevolence which compelled the Christian people of Great Britain to demand that great measure of justice from their Government. It is, in my judgment, beyond reasonable doubt, that sound political economy, as well as national security and tranquillity, requires that the people who inhabit every country should be free to enjoy their natural rights. The argument which would enslave the negroes and mulattoes of the West Indies is equally good in kind, if not equally forcible in degree, to justify the maintenance of servitude in Russia, and the degradation of many white populations in Europe; and indeed I am well satisfied that nothing but the existence of universal suffrage in the United States (for white men) prevents the frank advocacy of the principle of the ownership of labor by capital in reference to the free white laborers in our own country. Had not the ballot-box, open to every citizen, and the school-house, open to every citizen's child, and the public press, free to declare itself concerning every subject, established their authority so firmly among us, I have no doubt that slavery would be argued by some men in New York and New England to be the proper condition for our laboring classes. Had the theories of many distinguished men, now prevalent, been the doctrines of those who shaped our institutions during the last quarter of the last century, 
<c05>
there would, I verily believe, have been a ‘Dred Scott decision’ for whites as well as for blacks. 
I do not regard the question of ’negro emancipation' precisely as you do. It is not, in any sense, a sectional question. So far as the controversy concerning it is now in a sectional form, it is only accidentally and temporarily so. It needs nothing now but a just and honest administration of the National Government to develope throughout the whole South a sentiment of opposition to the perpetuation of slavery. At present, few Southern men dare, and fewer still are able, to withstand the combination of their State and Federal Governments in the interest of a single class of capitalists. The controversy will not only soon cease to have a sectional form, but it will cease even to be called sectional. It will be recognized in its real proportions as a universal question, not sectional, nor even national, but universal, touching the rights not of a class only, nor of a race, but of the whole human family. 
Into whose souls, even now, does the iron of slavery in America enter with the bitterest pain and the deepest wound? Not into those of black men who never knew liberty scarcely so much as even by name, either in their own persons or in those of their fathers; but into those of the free, white, native-born Americans to whom it is not permitted, under pain of insult, fine, imprisonment, and even of death, to read the speeches and books of men born and educated at the South like themselves, appealing to the patriotism and the interest of the South against the doctrines of the propagators of slavery. 
Powerful men, in large numbers, hold black men and oppress white ones in the fifteen slaveholding States. Powerful men, in large numbers, in the eighteen free States, are equally insensible to the rights and wrongs of these white and black men. They affect to treat with indifference the rights of labor everywhere, and the wrongs which it suffers now at the hands of the nation, and with the aggravation of which it is threatened for the future. If Slavery, emboldened by the ‘Dred Scott decision,' shall, by means of the ‘Lemmon case,' be decreed a foothold as a sojourning institution in all the free States; and,-by means of the Breckenridge audacity, the Douglas indifference, and the Bell and Everett ignore-ance policies,—gain a new lease of National power-the necessarily consequent restoration of the foreign trade in negro slaves, and the cheapening of human cattle, will at last teach the dumbest tongue to cry out, the coldest heart to feel, and the blindest incarnation of respectable nonchalance to see, that the only remaining inquiry for the American people is, Whether all poor men shall be slaves, or all slaves shall be made free! 
With more particular regard to your invitation to me to be present on Wednesday at Abington, perhaps it is due to a perfectly frank understanding that I should say, (what I believe you already know,) that though I am with you and your friends in sympathy when you rejoice that the British slave is now a free man, yet I have been so often pained at the unremitting and I think frequently unjust assaults by persons upon your platform on men whom I greatly respect, and whose services in the cause of rational and impartial liberty I highly prize, that I could not fail to esteem myself an intruder in your midst-unless I should suppress something I might feel urged to say. My fidelity to the existing institution of Government, its charters, its organization and the duties of its citizenship, ship, is, ever has been, and, I doubt not, will always be, unshaken; but, working in the sphere of citizenship, and through the instrumentalities it affords, I hope that I ever may remember the lesson of British Emancipation, and apply it wherever I have the right and the power. 
Yours, respectfully and faithfully, 
JOHN A. ANDREW. 
To MR. GARRISON.
The first two letters were responded to with hearty applause by the audience. A significant silence followed the last. 
Mr. Heywood then said that another letter had been received, from one whose presence was always the joy and the inspiration of occasions like this, and who, as Tacitus said of the absence of the images of Brutus and Cassius from the funeral of Junia, is all the more present because he is not here to-day. I need not name him; but his radiant apostolic countenance shines so brightly, that you can see it as far as the White Mountains. He sends us greeting 
NORTHUMBERLAND, N. H., July 30, 1860. 
MY DEAR HEYWOOD:
Absent from home, seeking invigoration of body and mind among the mountains in New Hampshire, I shall be deprived of the pleasure of participating in the First of August Celebration at Abington; but the day and the occasion will not be forgotten by me. In spirit I shall be with you all, rejoicing in the beneficent results of the abolition of British colonial slavery, and lamenting the continuance of the same dreadful system of bondage in our own most guilty country. 
The act of West India Emancipation has been commonly, but absurdly, styled ‘an experiment.' An experiment is something uncertain in itself, which may or may not prove successful, and which is problematical until it is tested. But there was nothing doubtful about the act aforesaid: its consequences were as sure as the law of gravitation, and as glorious as they were sure. None but the most unthinking, or the most perverse, could believe otherwise. Those consequences were truthfully predicted ages ago, in their natural order:—the substitution of light for darkness, of health for disease, of righteousness for iniquity, of the glory of the Lord for the reign of Satan, of abundance and prosperity for dearth and suffering, of general restoration for universal ruin. [See 58th chapter of Isaiah.] I know that, throughout our slavery-cursed land, every effort has been made, by a venal press, by unscrupulous demagogues, by the enemies of the Anti-Slavery cause universally, to represent the emancipation of the West India bondman as an utter failure-as disastrous to the general prosperity, and tending to the lowest barbarism. Even the London Times has repeatedly made the same damaging declarations, which have been eagerly copied into the pro-slavery journals of this country 
<c06>
as oracular and conclusive. But I know that all such representations are false, malicious, mercenary, satanic.. They are proved to be such by the testimony of West India governors, magistrates, missionaries, resident planters, and intelligent and truth-seeking tourists; by the strictest Parliamentary investigations; by the constantly improving condition of the emancipated laborers, physically, intellectually, morally; BY HUMAN NATURE ITSELF. The London Times is no more veracious in this matter than the Charleston Mercury or the New York Herald. It is manifestly the purchased tool of the cottonocracy at home and in the United States; and it grossly and wickedly misrepresents the views and feelings of the British people, who justly glory in their act of negro emancipation. 
To say that emancipation in the West Indies has proved a failure, is to declare that a state of unlimited concubinage and beastly amalgamation is more conducive to virtue and parity than sacred marriage, recognized and defended by law; that turning, men, women and children into marketable commodities is a better investment than to allow them to develop their faculties and powers as rational and accountable beings; that to substitute the blood-reeking lash for a just compensation, and to drive the laborer to unrequited toil like a beast, is peculiarly more profitable than the system of mutual contract and the stimulus of the hope of reward; that enforced, unlettered ignorance is better for society than general education; that for an immense mass of human beings to be given over to irresponsible and absolute power, lodged in the hands of mercenary owners and ruthless over-seers-to be deprived of all testimony in cases of personal wrong and outrage, which are of daily occurrence-to be stripped of all rights and immunities as completely as though they were on a level with sheep and swine-is better for them, and for the entire community, than though they were protected by law, allowed to testify against those seeking their detriment, and clothed with all the rights of human nature! All such declarations originate either in idiocy or diabolism: they are the subversion of all the rules of morality, all the principles of justice, all the claims of humanity, and indicate either the extinguishment of reason, or a very close approximation to total depravity, on the part of those giving them circulation. 
Rejoice, then, abolitionists, in the downfall of British colonial slavery, and mingle your voices of thanks-giving and praise with those of a million freedmen in the isles of the sea! Labor unceasingly to effect, by the help' of God and the power of his truth, a still more extended emancipation, and even a more glorious jubilee, in your own country! Be deterred by no obstacle, deceived by no artifice, allured by no compromise, lulled into security by no partial success, satisfied with no half-way measures; but, ‘remembering those who are in bonds as bound with them,' and therefore demanding immediate and unconditional emancipation in their behalf, as the imperative duty of those who are exercising unjust dominion over them, press onward in the glorious cause you have espoused, assured of final victory-a victory which shall heal every wound, unite every breach, reconcile every difference, and bless every portion of the land!
Yours, to break every yoke, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 

SPEECH OF E. H HEYWOOD. 
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: 
I think these letters will answer for my speech. Certainly, they discuss the various issues involved in the question that convenes us, with a beauty, force and eloquence which is the admiration and despair of all us youngsters. Indeed, my hands are so full of the business affairs of this meeting, that I hardly feel like talking to you at all. 
In these very just and admirable criticisms upon the American view of British Emancipation, Mr. Adams and Mr. Sumner strike the key-note to the politics and religion of this country-the key-note to American life, as you read off its harmonious discords and its discordant harmonies in the sects and parties about you. As Carlyle said of Englishmen, Poverty is the only hell in which Americans believe. A Yankee would object to the theological hell for the cost of brimstone. (Laughter.) Americans do not believe in man, but in money; in liberty, but in license. They have no faith in truth, justice, freedom, God; but in railroads, stocks, traditions, parchments, majorities. Any rascality is right, if it will pay. The idea which underlies the American Church and State is, that it is right to enslave men in behalf of liberty, to lie for the sake of truth, to kill men to make them live. Truth and justice are valued as guano to raise corn and cotton. The Deity is thought a respectable person if he wears broadcloth, patent-leather boots, and can drive a sharp bargain-otherwise not of much account. 
In contrast with this heathenish, golden-calf treachery to the law of God and the rights of man, the royal beauty of England's example makes us ugly. British Emancipation was a concession to justice and liberty, as personified in a proscribed race-one fact, at least, contravening Bentham'a maxim, that ‘the ruling class never give up a usurped privilege, until they are bullied out of it’ British Emancipation was Parliament, the Court and the Crows in royal livery, descending to the highways and hedges of English life, to rescue its pariahs and outcasts. It was the coronation of color, the admission of the Negro to society, to civilization, to equality in the eye of the law as in the sight of God. In a word, the whole object of the anti-slavery struggle in Great Britain, from 1783, when, in that little room in London, the Bethlehem of the black race, there assembled a half dozen quakers ‘to consider what step they should take for the relief and liberation of the negro slaves of the West Indies, and far the discouragement of the slave-trade on the coast of Africa,' to the moment when the last shackle fell amidst the hosannas of the redeemed, and the repentant and redeeming nation-a period illustrious with examples of eloquence, wisdom and self-sacrifice, scarcely paralleled in the annals of legislation or religion; a period when, like the Homeric deities, descending from Mount Ida to rescue, in the agony of fate, some stricken hero in the carnage of Troy, British 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death and an agreement with hell'.
The free States are the guardian and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution.... There is sane excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, hey espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States is binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, our FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.... No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; not ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
'statesmen, orators, philosophers, poets and philanthropists became the imperial guard of a despised humanity-through a half-century of prayers, tears, wrestlings, agonies, exultations and immortal triumphs, the aim of the anti-slavery enterprise was simply to show fair play to black men.
This is the lesson which a free Monarchy, from its throne of justice and mercy, reads to a slaveholding, haughty, strutting Republic to-day. Let us heed it, let us apply it; for these hours are too sacred to spend in mere eulogy of those who, having 'fought the good fight,' are now beyond and above the reach of human praise. We are not here to walk in the green pastures and beside the still waters of past achievement, not here to be entranced with the elysian music of Iliads won and sung, not here to recite history, but to make it. This event says, ' identify yourselves with the oppressed race; be negroes.' Some artist remarks, that no one can paint a tree without in some sense becoming a tree. So no one can be an abolitionist without putting his soul in the slave's soul's stead. When Macaulay was in conversation with Mrs. Stowe, rallying her upon her admiration of the greatest of English dramatists the greatest of the world's writers -he asked which of shakspeare's characters she liked best. ' Desdemona,' she replied. Of course,' said he, 'she was the only one who ran after a black man.' (Laughter.) He knew, that to paint ' Uncle Tom' and ' Eliza Harris' she must have forgotten that she herself was white. Mr. Garrison says, the highest compliment ever paid him was when Fowell Buxton, the great English Quaker, receiving him at his own door, exclaimed, with wide-eyed astonishment. ' What, Mr. Garrison!' ' Yes sir.' 'Why, bless me, I thought you was a black man.' (Applause.) Long as he had fought with British giants for human rights, he had not conceived the heroism in human form sufficient, when not of the enslaved race, to lift up the standard of moral rebellion against seventeen million oppressors. No man, in a country like ours, is entitled to be called an abolitionist a patriot, or a Christian, until he is honored with the reputation of wanting to marry into a black family. (Laughter.) I hope we all shall learn the lesson of today so well as to go home negroes. 
But, to return to the train of thought upon which Mr. Adams's and Mr. Sumner's letters furnish me a passage: as a nation, we have no regard for human rights, for human nature, as such. We hardly believe that man belongs to the human race. If one speaks of love to man, you don't know whether he means a Doctor of Divinity or a Republican Senator selling him upon the auction-block, or a Feejee cannibal roasting him for his dinner. Like the Yankee who in Italy, stopped a religious procession to light his cigar at one of the holy candles, (laughter,) an American instinctively seeks to desecrate every scheme of philanthropy, every measure of hazardous benevolence, to selfish purposes; to divert it into a political or ecclesiastical channel to turn a sectarian or partisan mill. Our civilization is a conspiracy, against justice, speaking from black lips. We have piled the church, the college and the government upon the negro; and when the insurgent Titan turns under Etna we shout, 'Blood,' civil war,' ' anarchy.' The Tribune says, the more opposition a party has from the disunion Abolitionists, the more likely it is to succeed. Certainly. Governor Hutchinson was in much better favor with George III. because James Otis thundered against writs of assistance. Laud, undoubtedly, got the primacy from Charles I. for being denounced by Milton and Hampden. Judas, unquestionably,'  walked into the graces of Pilate by his graceless betrayal of Jesus; and if he had not been virtuous enough to hang himself, would have been appointed postmaster of Jerusalem, (laughter,) as Mr. Greeley hopes to be of New York, if Lincoln gets in. Just so of the Church. The centripetal force overcomes the centrifugal. Its honors can be secured only by infidelity to the black man. I know of no other theory to account for Ward Beecher's appalling retrogression. with such a magnanimous heart, -with impulses so generous and out-gushing that wherever he goes the masses leap to his side like dust of iron to the magnet, that he, after years of brave testimony against slavery, from his pulpit, should sink under the fire of his brave young disciple, and turn up a dead carcass in the wake of South Side Adams! Perhaps he is aspiring to be a Doctor of Divinity. Pro-slavery is the test of admission to that order. The centralizing force of the Church has demoralized him. In Dr. Cheever's case, it is not, after all, the New York ministers, or that servile, mendacious sheet misnamed Independent, out of whose mouths he is preaching their bread and butter, that are trying to spike his guns. No. They would be with him if they could afford to be honest. It is the black hand of baptized despotism reaching up from Washington to throttle the Puritan pulpit of Union Square. Ah, yes, Mr. Greeley, it is a sad fact that slavery does and must rule every thing in this Slaveholding Republic. No sect or party can ascend to official distinction except by the path of oppression. Slavery, like buried iron, underlying all parties, inevitably diverts every political magnet from the pole-star of justice. As Curran said of Lord Clare, every aspirant to office, like the chimney-sweep, climbs to its honors by dark and sooty ways, only to display his dirty elevation. (Laughter.) The man who takes for his motto ' success is a duty,' the motto of Governor Banks and the motto of the Border Ruffians, the motto of the Tribune and the motto of the 'Plug Uglies,' within the deathful circle of the Federal Union, is the sworn foe of impartial liberty. 
Hence the necessary character of the Republican party. Sworn upon the altar of Slavery, it affects to fight the battles of freedom. Anti-Slavery in sentiment, it is pro-slavery in principle. So far from endangering the system, as Senator Hale said, Slavery will be safer under its rule than under the Democratic party. Mason of Virginia, or Jefferson Davis of Mississippi, stand with greater security under the flag of Lincoln than under that of Breckinridge. I know it has its radical members. God bless them! Men who intend to reach the system and throttle it-men who, as the old Federalist poet wrote about the Jeffersonians,- 
'Would blow the villains all sky high,
But do it with economy.' (Laughter.) 
Its abolition voters are represented here to-day, by one who, stepping from the shoemaker's bench to the State Senate, to put liberty above all compromises and all constitutions, will yet make the memory of Marshfield respectable in the annals of Massachusetts. (Loud applause.) It has its Sumner, its Adams, its Giddings and its Andrew. But no one of these brave and noble men has made an issue with Slavery, or even proposed a solution of this vexing problem. Mr. Sumner's recent earthquake speech in the Senate, full of excellent, classic vituperation, the most antislavery speech ever delivered in Congress, almost as good and strong as you have heard from this platform for twenty years, looks up to Lysander Spooner's position. But its climax is the endorsement of the Chicago platform; which is a descent from Zenith to Nadir, from Paradise to Perdition. And in his late New York speech, he takes pains to deny the antislavery construction of the Constitution, by admitting the constitutionality of the slave oligarchy, by declaring that we have ' no more political responsibility for Slavery in Charleston than in Constantinople! 'and that we cannot oppose it, except ' within the landmarks of the Law and the Constitution! 'Such sentiments made your abolition blood boil, when, years ago, you read them in Webster, Wayland and Stuart. What will you say to them now, wound from the silver trumpet of one who rides forward to the van of politics ï¿½to inspire with purpose the masses lagging behind' And the Massachusetts Legislature indorsed that Washington speech by a large majority-the very Legislature that gave fourteen thousand petitioners, praying that slaveholding might cease on the blood-consecrated soil of Bunker Hill and Lexington, leave
<c02>
to withdraw! The same Legislature that is now on its servile knees before the statue of a slave-hunter. Why, if Massachusetts believes that speech, she will, as the tea of old, hurl that bronze, august slave-hunter into Boston harbor, and leap like a bloodhound at the throat of the Union. (Applause.) Oh, no. The Republican party does not mean to meddle with Slavery. As Mr. Greeley says, ' it nominates to win." Hosea Biglow's lines:- 
'It is ready to vote for whoever is eligible,
Ef on all pints at issoo he'll stay unintelligible.' (Laughter.) 
Its ' candidate must be very uncandid,' to run well. His brain and conscience must be in his heels. Thus Lincoln represents nothing higher than the Douglas idea. He is only the 'little giant' 'extended'- pieced out with the ostrich at one end and the ourang outang at the other. (Laughter) A conundrum just now very current in Republican nurseries runs thus: 'Why is James Buchanan like a harp struck with lightning?' Because he is a blasted lyre.' ( Great merriment.) You Republicans laugh at the apt and witty conceit; but what will save you from the ridicule and contempt of abolition children, when, having carried out the infamous compromises you are pledged to uphold, your party stands before the country and the world smitten by the thunderblast of divine wrath? 
Our noble friend, Mr. Andrew, thinks the Abolitionists severe, harshly unjust. But the most they ever asked is that Americans should be consistent with their professed principles-though I allow that such a request is a mortal insult to an American! I remember the first speech I ever heard from Mr. Pillsbury made me mad, clear into my boots. (Laughter.) He went through our little village like Socrates in Athens, smiting the idols of the sects and the parties and of course we would have given him hemlock, if we could have caught him. But a little reflection taught me that he was only old Jeremiah turned up among the modern Jews. A little more than a year ago he made a speech in New York that frightened even the old Abolitionists, the ' very elect.' But two thirds of it is history already. His prophecy that the theatres would preach Anti-Slavery before the churches shocked even Mr. Phillips. But an analysis of the world's life shows that the redeemers of the race always come from the bulrushes and the mangers-that the 'voice in the wilderness' summons Jerusalem to repentance, and that ' Uncle Tom ' will always speak from the street and the market-place, from the boards of the theatre, before he can be heard from metropolitan pulpits. Channing says-' As for human favor, I feel more and more that it must be given up. If I know Christianity, it is so at war with the present condition of society, that it cannot be spoken, or acted out, without giving great offence.' Again-'Christian benevolence can speak in piercing and awful tones, and the deeply-moved soul will speak so as to shake nations.' Milton says-'When God commands to take the trump and blow a dolorous and jarring blast, it rests not in man's will what he shall declare or what he shall withhold.' If the future thanks the Abolitionists for anything, it will be that God gave them strength to look in the angry countenance of a compromising, huckstering age, and speak the truth. The backbone of human nature is too weak for reformers often to err on the side of severity. But who are these who wince under the arrows of the abolition quiver; your Bankses, your Wilsons, and your Sewards? The very men who have ridden into the sunbeams of political favor on their denunciation of Webster, and who now have the impudence, to say nothing of its base wickedness, to offer a statue to the unfortunate statesman whom, to exalt themselves, they exhausted the English language to malign. And when they, with better pretensions, proceed to observe and enforce the same. immoral and wicked compromises with tyrants that consigned their great prototype to infamy, what is left for the Abolitionist-the Abolitionist, the co-worker with God and the laws of nature-the Abolitionist, the same yesterday, to-day, and forever, who knows no variableness or shadow of turning-the Abolitionist, who can no more connive with slavery than good with evil, than light with darkness, than Christ with Belial-what can he do but strip off this garb of hypocrisy, and say to the world, 'Behold Despotism in the garb of Freedom!' (Loud applause.) 
His crime is in judging men by their better selves, in 'appealing from Philip drunk to Philip sober.' I love to think of Mr. Seward standing on Plymouth Rock-when, from the mount of historic vision, in the clear blue of absolute truth, he exclaimed, 'All compromises are far more dangerous to liberty than open usurpations'; of Seward the historian, the statesman, the philosopher; not of Seward the Presidential aspirant, pledging himself to abide by all the horrible compromises of this slaveholding government. Why, the footsteps of Edward Everett have been dogged, for thirty years, by the derisive scorn and pitying contempt of the North,-and his name has become a by-word and hissing in every free heart, because he agreed to shoulder his musket and buckle on his knapsack to put down insurgent slaves. And when we point to Seward in the Senate, swearing by the Republican party to ' crush out,' with the whole power of the government, the same godlike uprising of the human soul against despotism that has immortalized Washington and Lafayatte in history, we are aceused here to-day of ' severity.' Nevertheless, our disapprobation of the huckstering politician will be the measure of our admiration of the statesmanlike and philosophic historian. I do not like to be personal;-you remember with gratitude Mr. Andrew's brave and able advocacy of this cause in the Courts and the Legislature; the eminent service he rendered in chopping off the judicial head of Judge Loring, (applause,) when he entered the arena of debate against Caleb Cushing, and taught that great sinner that there is a God in Israel, and that Wm. Lloyd Garrison is his prophet-(great cheering)-but this letter reminds me of a little contrast, which perhaps I should state here. At the first John Brown meeting in Tremont Temple, last year, the gentleman whom every free heart in Boston was glad to see in the chair on that memorable and historic occasion, said, ' Whether the enterprise of John Brown and his associates in Virginia is wise or foolish, right or wrong, I pause not here to inquire; but one thing I know, that John Brown himself is right'-and you who were present remember how grandly that Apollo in spectacles' looked when he said it. (Applause.) Well, the newspapers say, that this same gentleman at Chicago, and in Faneuil Hall, has bestowed unmeasured commendation and eulogy upon a political platform that denounces John Brown as the ' gravest of criminals,' and upon the presidential candidate standing thereon, who begot a Fugitive Slave Bill, whose unprovoked and unconstitutional atrocity even Senator Mason was not heartless enough to copy, and who, if not the open defender, is at least the persistent apologist of slavery in the District of Columbia, of the interstate slave trade, and of kidnapping by law in the Free States! Now, whatever accusations of ' severity ' may be filed against me, I cannot help loving the man who, without stint of money or time strives to secure an impartial trial to the Warren of the second American Revolution, and, within sight of his scaffold, receives his widowed and orphaned family to his manly heart, and turning with sadness and dismay from the one who supports a great political party, pledged to consign to the halter all who in future shall imitate his sublime virtue and unexampled heroism. (Loud applause.) 
I have already floated too far into this meeting, but I wish to call attention to one or two other points in this remarkable letter, without, however, enlarging upon them. It says the proscribed whites of the South have a keener sense of their wrongs than the blacks. If so, in an almost infinite majority, with the laws on
<c03>
their side, why don't they rally to the standard of a Helper, a Hedrick, or an Underwood, and squelch that vile brood of tyrants ? The blacks less sensitive to the atrocities of Slavery! What induced those forty thousand fugitives in Canada to run a gauntlet of bloodhounds, bowie-knives and revolvers, braving every peril by flood and field and forest, to be free? Or those countless numbers who have perished in this perilous ' middle passage,' or are returning to the house of bondage to rescue their relatives and friends, while the heartless stultified whites. North and South, have no eyes to behold a heroism that will forever be a spectacle to angels and to men? Why, there is more free blood in the little finger of a Margaret Garner or a Harriet Tubman, than could be wrung from the watery veins of all the oppressed or oppressing whites in the land. (Applause.) 
The author of this letter also adds, that his ' fidelity to the institution of government has been, is, and always will remain, unshaken';-the government of which John Quincy Adams said, ' The preservation, propagation and perpetuation of slavery is the vital and animating spirit'; and as a corollary, added, ' Justice and liberty, no matter what becomes of the Constitution and the Union'-a sentiment upon which the 'Old Man Eloquent' will float further into the future than upon any other he ever uttered. But this refusal to break with organized despotism is only the old doctrine of putting new wine into old bottles; of the Irishman's chimney, one brick held up and another put under it (laughter); of the Greek in his tub, swearing by Jupiter he'll lift himself by the ears. (Laughter.) I do not believe in it. Some little boys in Boston, the other day, playing near a church, one said to his fellows, 'I can jump higher than that Church.'  Let us see you.' It had a very high steeple-almost as tall as some trees out West, which it takes two men and a boy to see the top of. (Laughter.) Let us see you.' So the little fellow vaulted some six inches from the ground, exclaiming, 'I did.' 'Did, eh?' 'Yes; for the church did not jump at all.' (Great laughter.)So of the government-it is anchored; from its very nature it can't jump at all. Mr. Andrew must go higher, if he ever reaches the shackles of the slave. And let us make an issue here at home. They say the people will make Mr. Andrew Governor, by-and-by. I hope so; it would seem good to have a decent Governor once. (Applause.) And when he is inaugurated-God speed the moment-we have a right to ask that he will immortalize his administration by the utter and eternal prohibition of slave-hunting on our soil. (Loud applause.) But whether he is or not, we must address ourselves to that petition with redoubled energy again this year. Copies will be sent over the State in season for circulation. Let this curse be wiped out of the Bay State. It is not fit that the sons of Plymouth Rock and Bunker Hill should bear the shame longer. In Whittier's nervous, fiery verse,-the poetry of chain-lightning,-
'Must we of Massachusetts from truth and duty turn? We hunt their bondmen flying from slavery's baleful hell? 
Our voices at their bidding take up the bloodhound's yell? 
We gather, at their summons, above our fathers' graves, 
From Freedom's holy altar horns to tear their wretched slaves? 
No slave-hunt in our borders, no pirate on our strand; No fetters in the Bay State, no slave upon our land!' 
And we must go further. This day lifts us above States and nations, and links us with universal humanity. 
We must make freedom national and world wide. No man has a right to wear upon his brow the sacred word ' Liberty,' who does not ground the right and duty of revolting against oppression upon a higher plane of action than existing blood-stained compacts; who does not declare to the world that, under God, there is no master, no slave, no sex, no tribe, no nation; but, in Mazzini's noble maxim, ' One humanity, one law, one love, from all and for all.' It is said, a note sounded among the Alps echoes from peak to peak, and still re-echoes on forever. So one heart-beat like that we have felt from the free hills of New Hampshire, this morning, throbs through the universe. Mathematicians will tell you that a pebble, dropped in yonder lakelet, pulses the waters on the coast of Japan; so- 
'When a deed is done for Freedom, through the broad earth's aching breast 
Runs a thrill of joy prophetic, trembling on from east to west; 
And the slave, where ere he cowers, feels the soul within him climb 
To the awful verge of manhood, as the energy sublime,
Of a century, bursts full-blossomed, on the thorny stem of time.' (Loud applause.) 
THE PRESIDENT. It is a singular fact, that from the period when the mind of man threw off the shackles of superstition, the Roman intellect has found such vast sources of interest and of power in opening up all the material resources of nature, in ploughing its pathless way across the ocean, in peopling continents, in building up mighty empires, that at length the intellect has become superior, in the estimation of men, to the moral instincts, and the higher and more sublime teachings which belong to our religious sentiments; so that to-day we stand amongst a people who, of all men, boast of their reason, of their intellectual capacity, of their material means, of their ability to build up great empires and extend themselves over continents, with new forms of government. In other words, we stand amongst a people who to-day have dethroned God, have overturned the moral Governor, and set up their own work, and declared, Vox populi, vox Dei. Yes, the popular will is our Pope, and according to the general idea, there is no God higher than the popular will asserts to be God. So, therefore, our popular God of to-day is our government, our Union, our arrangements, our pieces of parchment which we call Constitutions. Our Pope to-day is the Union; and, thank God! we have our Luthers, our Melancthons, our Zwingles, our Calvins, to dash that Pope into the dust. One of these reformers, who is sufficient for the occasion, who could stand amid the darkness of Washington, and, like one of these trees, from the dirt around him, grow straight up into the sunlight, to catch the inspiration of God, and stand erect as these trees,-such an one we have with us to-day, and he is now about to address you; one who could stand there, almost alone, and denounce and arraign this great crime of slavery, supported only by his consciousness of right and duty. Well may he be classed among the Luthers, among the reformers, of our day. I call upon Rev. Mr. CONWAY, formerly of Washington, but now of Cincinnati. 
SPEECH OF REV. M. D. CONWAY. 
The event which gives this day its lustre is such an one as we begin life by expecting on every hand, but, alas, as we get older, learn to celebrate as unusual and startling. The books of the realm of Faerie, the legend of the Mystic Land of History, train in us an ideal which would not be surprised to find on every highway a Dragon, in every rider a Prince George,- on every rock an Andromeda, on every wind her Perseus. Why haven't the old fogies who have their bolts and bars on the Press, as elsewhere, prohibited these formidable children's books which hint the nobility of rescuing the oppressed, of buckling on armor to confront oppressors? Can the doctrine of Heroism be safely taught? I heard once more told the other day, the fine old story of the Sleeping Beauty in the Enchanted Palace. There she lay with the terrible spell upon her; she stirred not, dreamed not; and her adherents were also locked in the paralysis of the evil spell. But after many had tried vainly to penetrate the thick hedges about her palace, one Prince, nobler than the rest, succeeds. He enters, unchains the spell with a kiss, restores her sceptre, and the palace once more resounds with voices of joy. Is this not a vision shown on the holy mount of childhood, and are not history and life glorious as 
<c04>
they conform to that pattern ? There lay the Sleeping Beauty, India, under the fearful spell of slavery, and never was England so princely as when her warm human kiss broke the spell which bound 800,000 immortal souls! This is what Garibaldi is trying to do for slumbering Sicily to-day. This is what John Brown tried to do for the fair South. And so long as Humanity anywhere is locked in the deadly spell of oppression, to this work every princely heart will dedicate itself forever and forever! (Applause.) 
By the way, I attended a Garibaldi sympathy meeting the other evening. I was not only interested but amused: the speakers were generally conservatives about America, but magnificent radicals about Italy. I could not keep out of my mind all the time the question, who are those martyrs and heroes in the dungeons and on the scaffolds of the Pope and the King of Naples? They are the John Browns of Southern Europe. Garibaldi is a John Brown: his followers are traitors and rebels to their own government. Sicily is their Harper's Ferry. The praise bestowed on them, and the maledictions of Pius, Bomba & Co., reminded me of the story of the curate of an Episcopal Church, who had always been in the habit of praying against the Catholics: one day the Bishop visited this church, one who was exceedingly High Church, even inclined to Romanism. The curare in his prayer fell into the old formula: 'O Lord, we beseech thee to save us from the pernicious principles and perilous practices of the-the (a look at the Bishop)-Hottentots.' (Laughter.) I hope our method will be different, and that we will only go abroad in our sympathies, whether to Italian or Hottentot, to return with all that we have witnessed there transmuted into light and glow, for our own, our American task.
My friends, how do we stand here and now before this task? Many good friends of the slave will at once point to the Republican party, and rejoice in the prospect of success which it undoubtedly has at present. This Republican party is the child of Frank Pierce and James Buchanan-before their time it was not an organized party. I know that this claim has been disputed by some of the Abolitionists, who say that Garrison and Phillips are the parents of that party. I must think otherwise. The crimes which the Democratic party has perpetrated within the last eight years; its outrage upon all good faith, upon even rudimentary justice; and lately its violation even of that kind of honor supposed to exist among thieves-these have given the American people a faint glimpse of slavery's abyss: the Republican party is their instinctive recoil. For a while we expected much of this party; but lately it has developed a certain special sign-a bad sign-one that is the unmistakeable indication of advancing decay. It is corrupting its best men. This is always a terrible sign. Why, what is the chief evil that slavery itself has done or can do amongst a people ? It is not that it can crucify freedom: life enough must ever remain in freedom to break the seal and roll away the stone of any sepulchre, and come forth triumphant. No weapon formed against freedom can prosper. We have already seen that Freedom had never made such immense strides as under the two Administrations hostile to her. What then is the evil? It is, that it rots great and noble hearts to the core. It is, that all the manhood of Choate and Webster and Everett and Winthrop is dragged behind its chariot. Now observe this terrible tendency in the Republican party. We all know that the cause of Justice, the cause of God, will go on with or without it; but I say that if the Republican party were in power for three terms it could never repay us for the loss from the circle of the brave and true, of William H. Seward. Nothing they could do can repay their having wrung from the tongue on which the words ' irrepressible conflict' and ' higher law  had once burned as live coals from God's altar, the falsehood that John Brown was justly hung. Alas, alas! That was the noblest man in the Senate; long time the conserver of a pure statesmanship; with a great brow, and a thought true as steel sheathed in it. Lost thus! Oh, that I could weep rather over his grave by some brave one in Florence, or his scaffold in Virginia. And he is not the only one who has been tainted by that party. Who can feel that the brave old socialist and outright warrior for freedom, Horace Greeley, is now as he once was? Well, I might add others, but will not. Only a wise man will see this sign and take care that he doesn't go next. Two old rats swam away from a ship at sea, whose provisions were rather short, and as they swam one asked the other why he had left. The reply was that all the cheese had given out. But why did you leave? Why, replied the other, that cook took all my cousins for a veal-pie, and I was pretty sure he'd, catch me next. (Laughter) Moral: when any party has started on a voyage, and has no other aim than that of reaching port, it will, in emergencies, catch you up for many services that you did not anticipate when you embarked with it.
I am confident that some new and higher modification of anti-slavery philosophy and action than any which has yet arisen, is to come forth and lead beyond this Republican party. And here let me say, that the only thing about these anti-slavery gatherings which I am disposed to criticise, is the gloomy view too often taken of the state of things. When I hear a speaker deploring that the Church does this and the State that, I wonder that he does not see a face that is just over him trying to catch his eye-one that would say, 'Be not deceived by these their disguises. The people do not love oppression nor lies. their hearts are yearning for liberty. These vile measures and men they go for, because some smooth tongue has gilded them with truth's guise; but they will soon find out the deception, and their retribution will be swift and terrible.' Why, I don't think the Church out West (and that is to be the Church of the Future) is so bad and timid. I at least can speak for the liberal churches, and assure you that, out of between thirty and forty of these, I have found, on inquiry, but five where the slavery question is ignored. But my special point is, that it is evident that in this country there is going on another chaos and another creation, in the religious world. Forms are passing away: essences are surviving. We are to have an American Religion: such is the unanswerable ' logic of events.' I see no danger to Christianity, no more than to the granite stratum underlying the upper crust of the earth; but I see that theology must be perpetually changing-the old bottles passing away with the old wine, the new coming forth at the demand of the ever-growing vineyard of God. And what are the signs of this new American Christianity? They are, that it will be a Gospel of Labor, a Kingdom of Use. Christianity must lay aside that old speculative costume which was given her at Nice, or Constantinople, or Geneva. It won't prove comfortable in such weather as she is to have here. But there is preparing for her a great seamless vesture, on this, continent. For its weaving, God has stretched out for warp our magnificent lakes, and prairies broadening to the sunset, and rivers which never weary of their munificence; and every steamer that floats on them, every engine that bounds over them, every telegraphic flash, is a shuttle bearing some thread to that warp; and forever they weave the white raiment of the carpenter's son (applause)-the Gospel of Work. First of all, it will redeem the laborer from all degradations, be he black or white. It will carry public justice and morality on to a pitch equal to that of steam and electricity. This is announced by all the trumpets of the earth and sky; and happy are they who are ready to scatter their palm-branches. in the path of him who loveth to fulfil every high hope and noble prophecy. [Loud applause.] 
At the conclusion of Mr. Conway's speech, an appropriate hymn was sung, and the meeting adjourned for an hour and half, to afford the company an opportunity to enjoy their picnics and the many attractions of the delightful Grove. 
<C05>
AFTERNOON SESSION. Shortly after two o'clock, the meeting was again called to order, and H. FORD DOUGLASS, of Chicago, was introduced. His excellent speech, with those of Hon. N. H. Whiting, of Marshfield, and Wm. Wells Brown, will be given next week.
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES G. DAVIS.
LADIES AND GENTLMEN:
I have been invited by the Committee of Arrangements for this celebration to say a few words to you this afternoon; and I assure you that, so far as I shall be able to express anything, those words shall be few.
I came here, ladies and gentlemen, to join with all, be they Abolitionists, Liberty-Party men. Free-Soil men, Republicans, or any men but dead men, to celebrate the great life-act of this century, the emancipation of the slaves in the West Indies; and I came here to draw with you, and in common with all, from the contemplation of that event, such lessons, such experience, for the future, as might aid us all in bringing on that good time, which, sooner or later, be it in this century or the next, or the next, shall surely come, of universal emancipation-not in this country alone, but in all countries-when man every where shall be freed from the bondage of his fellow-man. coming here with these sentiments, ladies and gentlemen, I supposed it was the desire and expectation of those who invited those of us who do not agree fully with what are called the anti-slavery men in this assembly, that we should not withhold our sentiments any more than they should withhold theirs; and therefore if, in the course of my remarks, I shall say any thing that does not agree with the sentiments of the speakers who have preceded me, I know that, coming upon this platform, they are open to comment. In fact, I might almost say, ladies and gentlemen, that I have sometimes been tempted to think that it was the desire of the so-called Garrisonian Abolitionists to act, in regard to those of their friends who differ from them in sentiment, the part of the spider in the old fable of ' The Spider and the Fly': 
'Will you walk into my parlor, 
Says the spider to the fly;' 
in order that any expression of disagreement as to the mode of operating against the great curse of this country may be freely criticised upon their part. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I for one do not object to that course, but I cannot rise for the first time before an anti-slavery audience, without putting in, as I hope I always shall, my protest-let it go, gentlemen, for what it is worth-against that extreme freedom, as I deem it, that libertinism, as I should call it, of speech, which comments, not alone upon the measures, the modus operandi, which is advocated by other men, but stamps the man and his motives with crime and dishonesty. (Applause.) I have investigated this question, so far as it is a question, for years, and I cannot be made to believe that any cause has been or ever will be promoted by such freedom of criticism.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, what should we say was the great lesson of this hour? It seems to me that if we are to learn any thing from the results of West India emancipation, we are to learn this: to believe in the union of all men who agree in a common motive and in a common principle. How was West India emancipation brought about? It was brought about by legislation. Who brought it about? Were they men who said the first step to bring it about shall be the destruction and annihilation of the Constitution of Great Britain? No; they were men who differed in opinion as to the modus operandi, but who united at last in that most beneficent act of legislation by which eight hundred thousand of their fellow-beings, who, as the sun fell upon them at its setting were slaves, when it dawned again upon them were freemen. (Applause.) But now, ladies and gentlemen, what do we hear to-day? When I reached this platform, I heard a gentleman whom I very much respect-and what distinguished man in the anti-slavery cause is there whom we do not all respect?assail first the principles and policy of Mr. Seward, then of Mr. Beecher, then of Mr. Andrew, and then of other distinguished gentlemen, who differ from him upon questions connected with the modus operandi in regard to the abolition of slavery. Now, I wish to put this question to this assembly, whether, with reference to the lesson we are learning to-day, it should not be our desire to bring the whole country upon the simple sentiment (if I may so express it) of opposition to slavery? Why comment in terms like this, that the man who can entertain certain sentiments, such as are expressed in a certain passage in Mr. Andrew's letter, is not to be trusted in the long run? Why comment upon men in discussing measures? Is there a man or woman here, with the sentiment or idea of anti-slavery in their breasts, who does not know that if the people of the North were as much imbued with anti-slavery as William H. Seward, the breath of Freedom would blow away slavery in a year? (Applause.) Is there a man or woman here who does not know that if we were as much anti-slavery in sentiment-however much we might differ in regard to measures, however much we might differ about the American Tract Society, or any religious notion-is there a man here who does not believe that if the whole North were as good anti-slavery men as Henry Ward Beecher, slavery would die? Is there a man here who does not believe that if all the North were willing to work as hard and sacrifice as much, and do as much, as Horace Greeley, that slavery would die in an hour? [Voice- ï¿½No,ï¿½- ï¿½I dont,' -ï¿½Yes.'] Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are some here who differ from me in opinion. I shall not call them names; I don't believe they are not anti-slavery men. (Applause.) I think they are honest men.
Now, I wish to say one word to those who are anti-slavery persons proper in regard to this matter. I think there are some things not sufficiently considered. And here I will remind you that my friend Remond is here, who will follow me. He is here as the spider, and I am the fly. (Laughter.) Here is an anti-slavery community, an anti-slavery organization, in these Northern States. Here are the anti-slavery speakers, who for years, amid ill report and good report, amid storm and sunshine, over mountain and valley, over hill and river, across the ocean, every where, have devoted themselves solely to the cause of the slave. I honor them for it. I believe that when Wm. Lloyd Garrison is brought to his last account, future ages, into far distant times, will never dig out marble white enough to bear his name, or record his glory. (Loud cheers.) But I do not believe that William Lloyd Garrison, or Wendell Phillips, or all those gentlemen, much as I respect them, -I do not believe that they exhaust the anti-slavery of this nation or the world. I believe that there are men who differ from them, I might almost say, heaven-wide in sentiment, who just as truly-perhaps not as greatly, perhaps not as heroically, perhaps not as thoroughly, as the result may prove, but who are just as truly and honestly anti-slavery as they are. All I ask of them is, all I ask of my anti-slavery friends is, that upon occasions like this, they shall admit that, with regard to those who differ from them. I do not find that they do.
Now, here is the great anti-slavery cause,-a cause with which thousands who are not known as within it sympathize with as fully as those who are known within it,-here is this great cause, to which these men have been devoted life long. Here is a nation eminently practical in every thing. Give them an idea, they put it into a new machine; give them a sentiment, they express it in new language; give them any thing that is new, it is put into a poem, a machine, a locomotive; something practical. Give them any thing, they must put it into action. Here is an association, capable, as it is, of doing an immense 
<c06>
amount of good, the creator, as I believe, of anti-slavery in the North, the originator of the anti-slavery party which it condemns, the originator of every rising anti-slavery sentiment in the country, which it condemns as it buds, and will only acknowledge when it is ripe,-here is this great association of gentlemen, who have never suggested any practical act with regard to anti-slavery. Let me say here, ladies and gentlemen, for fear of being misunderstood, that I do not deny that this Society has done vast good. I think we could not do without these gentlemen. I think that what they have done, all they have done, and all they can do, is to bring out and encourage the anti-slavery sentiment of the nation, and even of the world. They have done it. Should Wendell Phillips change his course to-morrow, should Wm. Lloyd Garrison be struck with the frenzy of a Breeckenridge, the words they have spoken, the principles they have adhered to, would live, not to influence this generation alone, but to actuate many generations of our fellow-men in centuries to come. Their work is to convert us all to the anti-slavery sentiment, and let that principle be as radical as it may, I care not: but it seems to me that they ought to remember that there are others who think, as the sentiment was expressed by my friend who just sat down, that they should make use of the scenery and pictures of the stage on which they are placed; that there are others who are inclined to act. Now, we all know, that whenever any of us have met together, under one common sentiment, the moment we began to act, to put it in force, we differed in opinion; and therefore it seems to me that our friends who are so accustomed to criticise, and criticise so sharply, those who think it not inconsistent with duty to vote at the ballot box, should remember the differences and difficulties under which-those labor who, in any way, undertake to put any great idea into action.
I told you, ladies and gentlemen, that I had but very few words to say, and what I did have to say, I wished to express frankly, without any circumlocation whatsoever, just as the idea lay in my mind, and I trust I have done it.
The remark was made by Mr. Seward, in Plymouth, a few years ago, in a conversation which I had with him-which I suppose it will not be improper to repeatthat he had no fault to find with Mr. Phillips and Mr. Garrison, none whatever; that he believed he had his sphere and they had their sphere: and his sphere, as he believed, was that of a statesman, and theirs was that of radical reformers. He had no quarrel with them, and all that he asked was that they should let him alone. Now, I do not claim that they should let him, or any other public man, alone; but I do claim this-that if William H. Seward is an honest anti-slavery man, we ought to have the charity not to condemn his motives with his acts, or stamp him as a knave, a compromiser, or traitor. I say that there is such a thing as charity in judging men, and we ought to exercise it. I do not mean to say that Wm. H. Seward may not have been a traitor; I am not setting myself up to condemn him or to praise him; I do not say he may not be any thing they choose to call him; but I do say that he may honestly believe that he can do more good as a statesman, and that if he can, by any means that he deems not dishonest, become President of the United States, we ought to give him credit for it, if he believes that he can, in that position, advance the anti-slavery cause materially in this nation. And so with regard to all the rest of us.
Now, how is it? Here is the great Republican party, as it is called. I do not care to defend the Republican party, by any means; I do not think all its positions are by any means defensible; but I say this, that practically, the cause of anti-slavery in this country, for the time being, depends upon a political party. That political party is now termed the Republican party; and I say that if any party, even a party failing to be anti-slavery, but holding itself out to the South as anti-slavery, can, in a contest with the South, obtain the reins of government in this country, it is a great step towards the abolition of slavery, and I think what these very gentlemen say in private though they do not often say it on the platform must be true, that there are no men among them who would rejoice more over a Republican victory than those who come upon this platform and argue that the Republican party is worse than the Democratic party. (Applause.) And why is it so, ladies and gentlemen? It is because it cannot be helped. It is because they know that there is more anti-slavery sentiment (whether it is such a pure sentiment as they agree with or not) in one party than in another, and they must rejoice when there is a Republican victory. Do we not all feel that any national Republican victory, any victory whatsoever, in which the South may be beaten by the North, in any issue involving the question of slavery or anti-slavery, would emancipate eight hundred thousand voters, at least, at the South? Do we not all know that in four years, or at most, in eight years, there would be as much freedom of discussion in Virginia as there is now in the State of Missouri?
I said that I would be brief. I thank you for listening to me so attentively as you have in the few blunt words I have presented, and will now take my seat.
SPEECH OF CHARLES L. REMOND.
CHAS. LENOX REMOND, of Salem, then took the platform, and after a few preliminary remarks, in the course of which he said that the time allotted to him was too short to enable him to refer to all the points raised by Mr. Davis, further than to say that he agreed with the minority of them, but disagreed with the majority, he continued as follows:-
I know, sir, that I not only stand in the presence of negro-haters this afternoon, in old Plymouth county, but I stand before slaveholders; and if you were not mean, and base, and cowardly, the slaveholder does not breathe who would dare to come into your presence. And this is the reason why we are here today; not to pride ourselves on emancipation in the West India Islands, not to speak of the intellect and the genius of the black man there, but to speak of that retrogression which may be seen in the sons of New England, as compared with those who did battle for American liberty and independence. And I wish to state here, also, in the outset, in reference to the fact, that a man originating in this community, goes down to the State of South Carolina, and there becomes a slaveholder, and then returns to the place of his nativity, and to the hearthstones of his associates, and is recognized as a gentleman in their midst,I wish to state, in view of this fact, that I have praises to bestow upon the South Carolina  slaveholder while I look with loathing upon those men of Abington who can recognize the renegade from their own community who becomes a slaveholder. (Applause and hissing.) Sir, I hear a hiss, and I suppose it comes from some friend of the slaveholder to whom I have referred. If he sympathizes with him, and thinks he would like to become a slaveholder in South Carolina, would to God that he could purchase the humble individual who is speaking upon this platform, and I would give him to understand that I believed the American Revolution meant something; (applause;) and if he was not a better man than I was, I would, in the language of Andrew T. Foss, ï¿½see daylight through his cowardly body.' (Loud cheers, and cries of ï¿½Good.')
I have to say one word in reply to our friend, Mr. Davis, who calls upon those who occupy this platform to exercise their charity toward, those who, with an anti-slavery name, differ from us in our measures. Sir, I can only know an anti-slavery man by his acts, at the present moment, by the demonstration of his moral heroism; and I find people in this very audience who feel that Mr. Dallas was just and manly in his feelings when he felt himself to be insulted by the announcement of Lord Brougham that there was
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
a negro present, and an equal, in the convention in which he was sitting. Yes, American negrocrats and slaveocrats can sympathize with Mr. Dallas, but they saw no insult in the fact that George M. Dallas had the impudence and hardihood to introduce Mr. Wilkes, a New York editor, to the Queen, who crossed the Atlantic for no other purpose than to report the recent bull-fight, in human form, between Heeman and Sayers. There was no insult to the Queen when Mr. Dallas introduced that character, but a great insult was offered to the American nation, in the person of its representative, when Lord Brougham announced the presence of Martin R. Delany in the Statistical Congress! Now, Mr. President, I have no pride in my complexion, but I sometimes think that I ought to pride myself in my complexion, in view of the baseness of the pale faces of this country. (Laughter and applause.) For what do we see? Dr. Delany, although a black man, is an intelligent gentleman, as has been recognized through out the West and the East: and, sir, he was in England upon an errand that ought to have put to shame George M. Dallas. The fact that his rights are not recognized in full in this country, that his children cannot be educated here, is the reason why he was there. I recognize the Hon. Wm. H. Seward as a gentleman and a statesman, after American parlance; and that he is so, is his condemnation, in the sentiment of the black man. What does Mr. Seward say? That he 'owes his first obligation to the Constitution and to the American Union.' What does he say further? That John Brown 'deserved his fate.' What do you, true Abolitionists, say in regard to that matter? And yet, we must exercise charity towards him? There was a time when no man was more eloquent in defence of a supposed culprit than Mr. Seward, and he showed his manhood on that occasion. His effort in behalf of James Freeman was very well; I am willing to respect him for that act. But when I see him getting down upon his knees, and allowing himself to be ridden goose-back by the slaveholders, that he may receive the nomination for the Presidency, I must, with every other black man, condemn him, notwithstanding his past virtuous acts. For how do we stand? If I go to Washington, where shall I find the Northern Senators and Representatives in that city standing? I am glad, in view of the approaching election; I am glad of the crisis to which reference has been made; and this is why I am glad. If the slaveholders shall carry out their threats, I shall say, God speed the triumph of the Republican party; but if they shall not, then I am among that number to whom my friend Davis referred when he said that we believed the Republican to be the worst of the three parties, or more, and yet glory in their success. It was a misrepresentation;—I do not say it was intentional. Stephen S. Foster and two or three others have made the declaration to which he has referred, but he has never heard Mr. Foster triumphing over Republican successes. This was a misrepresentation, and I wished to correct it here.
But to return to Washington. Mr. Davis tells us that we are doing nothing, and yet he says he would to God that our influence could be spread far and wide. Now, in Washington, the Garrisonians are recognized, not as he would recognize them, but as slaveholders almost always recognize them. I want that same work to be done all over our common country; for while I do not shrink from the thought of an imitation, on the part of the slaves, of revolutionists, I know the influence that can be exerted by the opposite opinion. I differ from Mr. Quincy and James Freeman Clarke, who look upon every effort of the black man to secure his freedom by force as a great mistake. I believe that every such effort made by the black man has done more than words can express; but be that as it may, I long for the time when our friend Davis, and those who feel like him, shall be spared the trouble of coming to this platform to make such speeches, and humiliate every would-be freeman among the black men by the positions they assume.
If there is one thing more than another that requires to be considered among us, it is, what constitutes an Abolitionist. My friend Heywood expressed it this morning—not that I care the snap of my finger about amalgamation; but, in the light of principle, if you would be free yourselves, you must recognize the doctrine at which some of you hissed to-day.
Now, I recognize my friend Davis as a very good Abolitionist, as the world goes—what Mr. Garrison calls, 'a certain kind of Abolitionist.' That is a very ambiguous term. Is he ready to take his stand upon this platform and say, that that which is law and constitution for me, that which is Union for me, shall be law and constitution and Union for him?—that that which is government for me shall be government for him? If he is not prepared to take that ground, then I am here to criticize him, and criticize him 'uncharitably.' I say, before God and the world, that my rights are as good as his, here or anywhere else; and so long as I shall live, I will insist upon exercising the same rights that he shall assert and exercise, though I be black as murky night, and he be white as alabaster. (Loud applause.)
Mr. DAVIS. I think I deserve a vote of thanks, for the best anti-slavery speech that has been made here to-day. (Laughter and applause.) In response to the questions Mr. Remond has put me, I say, heartily, 'Yes, always yes,' to every one of them. And this I will say, in addition: we have no Union now; I want a Union; and there is where I think we Republicans differ from the Abolitionists.
Mr. Davis's voice here failed him, and after one or two ineffectual efforts to speak, he found it impossible to proceed, and took his seat.
Mr. REMOND. I have only one further remark to make. Reference was made by my friend Davis to the criticisms upon the letter of Mr. Andrew. I am sorry that any thing should come to my ears to-day, in reference to that gentleman, so well calculated to affect the regard which I have all along entertained for him; but I wish to say here, that if Mr. Andrew represented himself in the letter which has been read here, I can no longer recognize him as an Abolitionist, nor any other than man who shall apologize, directly or indirectly, for this Government and Union, and for slavery, by talking about the large sensibility of the Anglo-Saxon, and the small sensibility of the colored man,—implying that yokes, and whips, and chains, and thumb-screws, and gags, disturb us but little, while they might keenly afflict a white man. In God's name, I ask, does not that water drown a black man as readily as a white man? Does not fire consume him just as quickly? May he not be frozen by the same degree of coldness? And yet a man as enlightened as Mr. Andrew talks about want of sensibility on the part of the colored man, and declares that he cannot realize his condition in slavery as the white man would! What mean, then, these affectional demonstrations on the part of the slave? Will he tell me that the young man who came from the South on the shaft of a steamboat, in dead winter, for his freedom, was wanting in sensibility? Was Madison Washington wanting in sensibility, when, upon the deck of the Creole, he said to his few comrades that the moment had come for them to act, and at the cost of their lives they did it? Was Margaret Garner wanting in sensibility, as a mother, when, rather than see her own daughter violated, she preferred to take her life? Colored men wanting in sensibility! Gracious God! The black man of this country, unlike that philosopher who was made to drink hemlock one instant, and died the next, is drinking hemlock from his cradle to his grave; and yet you talk about his being wanting in sensibility! I had supposed that John A. Andrew's interviews with colored men and colored women in Boston, had done a better work than this for him; but if these are the fruits of anti-slavery labor in Massachusetts, if these are the fruits of anti-slavery labor in Massachusetts, if these are the fruits of the preaching of the Garrisonians, then God hasten on the day when another class of men shall be raised up, who may be better
<c02>
calculated to convert such men! If John A. Andrew is a true representative of the anti-slavery of Massachusetts, I am not of him, and do not wish to be of him; and God knows that we may, as well one time as another, make up our minds to receive our freedom this century as the next, or three centuries to come, as our friend Davis has implied it may be necessary to wait. I do not believe it. Never, while I look at men and things as I am now at liberty to view them, will I believe that slavery will be seen in this country twenty-five years from to-day. I do not say that it will go down as we may wish it to go down, but it will go down; and if anti-slavery does not destroy it, sure I am that pro-slavery will. In the language of Byron I say, may all the curses of life be on the infernal monster, slavery, to-day, and not wait until to-morrow; and I hope that the time is not far distant when a voice shall be compelled to go out from New England that shall put a stop to it; but never will it be while such men as Stephen A. Douglas are recognized and honored in Cambridge and Boston, and such men as our friend Henry Ford Douglass are disfranchised in Ohio. 
I will not say more, but simply express the hope, that those who are present here to-day, who wish to do something 'practical,' in which friend Davis seems to think this Society has been deficient, though it seems to me that every petition and resolution we have ever offered meant something 'practical,'—I say, I hope those who desire to do something ‘practical,' will sign the petitions for the adoption of a Personal Liberty Bill by the next Legislature of our State, that shall make the soil of Massachusetts as free, at leasts as the soil of Canada. Not until we do this shall we deserve the name of Republicans or Democrats, certainly not of Christians. We shall deserve no other name but that of a nation of oppressors, liars and hypocrites, so long as a slave can be taken from our borders, or a slaveholder can walk upon our soil. (Loud applause.)
REMARKS OF HON. F. W. BIRD. 
The President then said that Hon. Francis W. Bird, of Walpole, was in the audience, and that the desire had been expressed by several persons to hear from him. He hoped, therefore, that Mr. Bird would take the platform, and say at least a few words. 
In response to this invitation, Mr. Bird briefly addressed the assembly. He said:—
I do not know, Mr. President, what friend or enemy of mine has been the means of bringing me here, and I hardly know what I am brought here for, unless to exhibit a specimen of a Republican who is also an Abolitionist. 
A VOICE—A rara avis. 
Mr. BIRD—Not so rare as I think some of our friends seem disposed to assume; rarer, I admit, than I wish they were. I am one of that class; and believe me, Mr. President, we answer a very useful purpose in the Republican organization. I remember that, twelve or sixteen years ago, the same class of men answered a very useful purpose in the Whig party. The Whig national party had aspirations similar to those of the Republican national party of the present day. They were especially afraid of being regarded as sectional, and at the same time, they wanted the votes of men who eared more about anti-slavery than they did about getting into the customhouse, and therefore the names of the most radical anti-slavery men were constantly used, in radical anti-slavery localities, to get votes for the Whig party. Well, that was a good purpose, Mr. President. It was very desirable that the Whig party should carry a given election against that terribly wicked pro-slavery Democratic party. Well, my friends, allow me to say that, in the judgment of our national friends at Washington, it is equally desirable now that the Republican party should carry the election against these various pro-slavery parties, and therefore they need all the anti-slavery capital they can get; and therefore it is that Republican Abolitionists answer a very useful purpose in the Republican organization; and if, by and by, when the Republican party goes into power, we find ourselves whistled down the wind, as the Whigs did who answered the same purpose a dozen years ago, all we have got to do is to do what the Whigs of that day did—to do the next best thing.
Now, as a Republican, I must say that I have none of the sensitiveness of my friend, my very excellent friend (Mr. Davis), in regard to the criticisms which are constantly uttered by our friends the radical abolitionists. They are just what we want. The Republican party does not claim to be an anti-slavery party—that should be said, in all honesty; and the Republican who entertains the idea that in belonging to the Republican party, he belongs to an anti-slavery party, simply deceives himself, that's all. I think that, as a Republican, I may be doing anti-slavery work; you may think otherwise, or you may say it is the very lowest form of anti-slavery work; still it is, with me, a step that is to be taken, and I confess, I am willing to say, that the only good thing I expect from the Republican party, if it should be successful in the next election, is this—that it will take the question of slavery in the territories out of the domain of national politics. The Republican party, I take it, may be regarded as unanimous upon that, as wholly opposed to the extension of slavery. I don't care what the Chicago Convention said about the Republicans not meaning to interfere with slavery in the States. It was none of their business. The Convention at Chicago did not make the platform for the Republican party of 1864. They had a right to say what they proposed to do, and it was, to oppose the extension of slavery into the territories; but what they say they do not propose to do is of no account at all. The Republicans of that year will take care of 1864. We go into the fight this year to oppose the extension of slavery, and, I take it, there is not a member of the party who will not sustain the Administration, and putting the whole power of the Federal Government in opposition to such extension. I think it is a small matter—little more than an abstraction; but the influence of the Federal Government on the side of freedom in the Territories for four years practically settles that matter. But, what next? Our Republican friends say—'Nothing. We don't mean to meddle with slavery in the States; we don't think it is quite fair, although it may be constitutional, to medal with slavery in the District of Columbia, or with the slave trade between the States. There is nothing to be done.' Who believes that the anti-slavery sentiment of the free States, in 1864, after the question of slavery in the territories is settled, will find nothing to do? I am willing, as a Republican, to leave that question open, and, when the time comes, trust to the instincts of the people to settle it right. At any rate, whatever the white man does, or does not, I am willing to leave the question with the slaves themselves. 
I appear here to-day, not because I expect to do you, or anybody, any good, but because I expect to get some good for myself. I find that the radicalism of the extreme wing of the Republican party is necessary, and even that such men are in danger of becoming popular; and I find that whenever this danger becomes imminent, all they need to do is to go to a Garrisonian meeting, and the danger is averted at once. (Laughter and applause.) 
A hymn was then sung, and the meeting (the time for the departure of the cars having nearly arrived) adjourned.
Those who celebrate the First of August at Abington have been accustomed, for many years, to be cheered by the sight and hearing of Wendell Phillips, William Lloyd Garrison, and Samuel May, Jr., on the platform. Various circumstances had prevented all of them from attending on this occasion Of course, all regretted their absence, and many spoke of them with grateful and affectionate interest.
<c03>
But it could not fail to be remarked, as another cheering indication of the progress of the Anti-Slavery cause, that whereas these men (with a few others, absent on this occasion because celebrating the same festival in other places,) in former years made the meeting, constituting its chief attraction, and overworking themselves because there were no others to speak, there was not, on this occasion, time to hear all those who were able and willing to make impressive addresses to the audience. The whole day was well and ably occupied by the speakers; and the active interest of the hearers was expressed alike by their earnest attention, their liberal contributions, and their general expressions of gratification. It was a day well and happily spent.

The Liberator
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, AUGUST 10, 1860.
LIMITATIONS OF CHURCH ANTI-SLAVERY.
The 'American Missionary Association' (established by men who despaired of the reform of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions) is a thoroughly Anti-Slavery body; its organ also, the American Missionary, bears a vigorous and active testimony against our country's great sin; and yet its concern for the credit of the church is so strong, its alliance with the church exerts upon it such a restraining influence, that it cannot bear to recognize the fact either that the American Church is the great bulwark of slavery, or that the Southern Church is as actively and heartily engaged in the support of that sin as the slave-trader, foreign or domestic, himself. It says, in its August number—' The evidences are accumulating that the mass of the Southern churches are drifting toward the unconditional support of slavery as it is.'
Instead of drifting towards the support of slavery, the Southern churches are, and have been for the last fifty years, anchored and fortified in the actual and efficient support of it. The evidence, to be sure, is accumulating; but at no time for the last fifty years has it fallen short of absolute demonstration. The position of the Southern churches towards slavery remains precisely where it has been throughout the lives of all of us, as shown by its practice. They buy, sell, hold, flog and breed slaves, exactly as they have always done. It is only their position towards anti-slavery that is changed, and the change is from hypocrisy to impudence.
At first, when remonstrated with respecting slavery, they said—' We see, feel, and lament the great evils connected with it; we trust that God, in his own good time, will open to us a way of escape from it; but in the mean time, we find it entailed upon us, and we cannot get rid of it.' Of course they lied when they said these things, for, had they been honest in saying them, thirty years ago, they would have applied themselves to the forming of some plan for the removal of these 'evils.' They never even attempted this; never formed any plan; never commenced any efforts! They told these lies because that seemed the readiest way to quiet their Northern brethren, and thus to escape from the demand made upon them. And this plan was, for a long course of years, successful. So far as the objectors to slavery were members of the Northern churches, they were quieted. But the Anti-Slavery people outside the church continued their agitation, which, extending by degrees to all the departments of business, enterprise and action in the country, compelled these hypocritical Southern church-members to take new ground. It became necessary, if they would retain, extend and perpetuate slavery, to act in defence of it. And then the clergy and the churches dropped their deceptive cant about regret, and unfortunate necessity, and boldly declared that slavery was good, and not evil, and that they were determined to maintain it. Audacity now serves their purpose better than hypocrisy.
Yet, even the enormous impudence shown in this last position does not suffice to remove the scales from eyes blinded by the church. The feeble utterance of the American Missionary, quoted above, is given expressly in view of the following perspicuous and thorough-going declaration of the North Carolina Presbyterian, an organ of the Old School Presbyterian Church, the editor of which was the pioneer mover in the persecutions of Rev. Daniel Worth, and of other anti-slavery ministers in that State. It says:—
'Whilst a diversity of views concerning the moral and political relations of slavery exists at the North, and is patent to the most careless observer, there is a unity of sentiment at the South which is as hopeful as it is extraordinary. Though the Southern mind is divided on every other subject, social, moral, and political, on slavery it is a unit. That slaveholding is both right and righteous, justifiable in the sight of man and God; that the relation of master and slave is neither sinful nor unnatural; that the system was designed for good, and has resulted in untold and inconceivable blessings to the negro race; that it is the duty of our people to pass and execute laws for the protection of their property, the maintenance of their institutions, and the punishment of intermeddlers and incendiaries; on all these points there is no division of opinion in the South.
'Our citizens are prepared, as with the heart and hand of one man, to assert and defend these principles in the halls of legislation, at the polls, and with arms, if need be, against invaders of their homes. They do not ask or expect the North to be pro-slavery, to introduce the system on their boasted "free soil," or even to admire it where it is already established by law. They merely insist that they shall be let alone, and allowed to live in peace and security.'
This is what the American Missionary calls 'drifting towards the unconditional support of slavery as it is.'
So thoroughly has the popular religion of this country become corrupted by the pro-slavery spirit, that, even after its professors have been converted to anti-slavery, and been brought to realize the enormous guilt and the enormous evil of making merchandize of human beings, after they have fully understood the wickedness of slaveholding and slave-trading when carried on by unregenerate men, they involuntarily and unconsciously form a more lenient judgment of it when pursued by ministers and church-members; and they seem positively unable to understand that the practice of this sin is incompatible with the Christian state.
The use of the word Christian has brought to mind the explanation—at least a partial explanation—of this strange delusion; for this word also has been so perverted as to bear a popular signification almost entirely different from its original one. A church-member is called a Christian, even if his life shows a habitual violation of all the rules of living given by Christ; though he lives upon robbery, breathes deceit, practises cruelty and violence in his daily occupation, and makes active exertions to uphold the sum of all villanies, if he has, at some time in his life, become a member of a church, its other members thenceforth think and speak of him as a Christian; and its anti-slavery members stultify themselves by continuing to give him the Christian name, in defiance of the testimony of a life openly devoted to the world, the flesh and the devil. Nay, so strong is their aversion to losing, from the ranks of the church, any of those who have 'a name to live' in it, that they insist on holding them by this slender thread, and of ignoring, not only the fact of their leading vicious lives, but their own expression of a determination to persist in them, as the evidence of their utter unworthiness to be ranked as Christians.—c. K. W.
Prentice, of the Louisville Journal, admits that the wrongs of women should be redressed, but volunteers the opinion that the women themselves also, now-a-days, might advantageously be redressed.
<c04>
THE TEXAS FRIGHT.
We gave, in the last Liberator, some absurd rumors respecting a plot said to have been formed by abolitionists and slaves in Texas, which proposed the burning of towns and the murder of white people generally, as measures preliminary to the freedom of the slaves. In the course of the last week, several variations upon this ridiculous theme have been played, various negroes and abolitionists being declared to have been hanged, and a still larger number imprisoned. The accounts first quoted declared that 'white men, friends of the abolition preachers Blunt and McKinney, who were expelled from the country last year, are the instigators of the plot.' We find in the Randolph Co. Journal, published at Winchester, Indiana, an account, by its Editor, of a meeting he attended, at which Elder Solomon McKinney gave an account of his expulsion from Texas, and the reasons of it.
At this meeting, Mr. McKinney declared himself always to have been a Democrat, and never an Abolitionist. He was a preacher, but had never preached against slavery. He had however attempted to collect money due to one of his Northern friends from a certain William Sprowel, then in Texas, 'who had left the North, between two days, deeply in debt.' Sprowel immediately circulated the report that McKinney was an abolitionist. A self-constituted committee of twenty-five or thirty persons commenced an examination into his affairs. Col. Crockett, 'a mobile,' acting as chairman. An old man, Mr. Blunt, who had known McKinney for thirty years, appeared in his defence, and exposed the falseness of Sprowel's charges. McKinney was then holding a meeting about three miles off. When he and his hearers were informed of these proceedings, the latter immediately drew up a statement that the charge was false, and that there was no tincture of abolitionism about their preacher. But 'the editor of their paper in Dallas Co. was not permitted to publish the certificate, under penalty of being burned out.' Mr. McKinney received a letter informing him that he and his friend Blunt were to be hanged. Such threats, in a slave-holding country, are often speedily executed, and the two friends started at once, with their families, for the North. They were speedily overtaken, robbed of all their money, and put in jail in the county town for the night. Early the next morning they were taken; out by a party led by a Dr. Pryor—' who was more a Doctor of a whiskey-barrel than of anything else'—and seventy lashes were inflicted, with a cowhide, upon each of these old men, cutting their shirts into ribbons, and marking their backs with 'gashes from five to six inches long.' This happened on the 25th of last August. The Editor of the Journal says, in closing-
'The cause of his whipping and expulsion was simply this: Sprowel, in order to get clear of the debt, raised the cry of abolition against him. Blunt incurred their displeasure because he defended McKinney—and all that was necessary to warrant them in brutally treating them, was to accuse them of entertaining opinions adverse to the institution of slavery. If slavery is not responsible for these outrages against the liberty of opinion and of speech, how does it come that these scenes of violence occur only where slavery exists?'
Such is one of the incidents which is expressly referred to as the origin of the present Texas fright. When we remember that much of the 'testimony' said to be elicited comes from slaves under the lash, and that a slave, once suspected, is flogged until he accuses some one else, it is obvious that the details are as unworthy of credit as the sum total.—C. K. W. 
KIDNAPPING IN MINNESOTA. 
Letters from our faithful friends Lewis Fords and S. H. King of Minneapolis communicate the following facts. 
Mrs. Prince, a Southern lady who intended to spend the summer at St. Paul, brought with her Henry Sparks, a slave. He chose to claim his liberty, according to the laws of Minnesota, and left her. But he trusted too much to the protection afforded by those laws, and did not remove far enough for his own safety; for, only a few days afterwards, he was seized by ten or twelve armed ruffians, who forced him into a carriage and drove away, since which nothing has been seen or heard of him. Probably he was carried 'down the river.' 
A writ of habeas corpus was served on Mrs. Prince, but it could not be proved that she had anything to do with the kidnapping. The probability seems to be that it was contrived and executed by certain Democrats, in connection with the hotel-keepers of St. Paul, for the purpose of encouraging Southern people to spend the summer in that region. It was in relation to this case that the Editor of the Minneapolis State Atlas asked, 'Is Minnesota a Free State?' His spirited article, under this title, may be found upon our first page. If all editors would speak out thus promptly and strongly, the downfall of slavery would be rapidly hastened-c. k. w.
LORD BROUGHAM AND THE UNITED STATES MINISTER In the last Liberator, reference was made to some remarks pointedly addressed by Lord gBroug ham to Mr. Dallas, the American Minister, in reference to the presence of a colored gentleman from Canada as a member of the Statistical Congress, whose sessions Mr. Dallas was attending. Some of the newspapers having commented severely upon this incident, Lord Brougham explained, the next day, as follows:— 
'At the meeting of the Statistical Congress, on Wednesday, Lord Brougham said:—I exceedingly regret that the observations I made on the first day have been interpreted into something disrespectful to the United States. No one who has known me will accuse me of such an intention. I respect our brethren of the United States, even when I differ from them. When I called attention, in the presence of our friend, Mr. Dallas, to the, in my opinion, important statistical fact, that a most respectable colored gentleman, from Canada, was a member of the Congress, I only called his attention to it, just as I would the attention of our excellent friend the representative of the Brazils, who is here to-day; and, God knows, I do not entertain the slightest disrespect for the Brazils. I ought also to have called the attention of the Count de Ripalda (the Spanish Representative) to the same subject; they have colonies, and they have persons of various colors in their possessions. I call his attention to it hereby. (Applause.)
PANORAMA OF SLAVERY.
This exhibition at the Melodeon, which is advertised to remain in Boston this week only, is a pictorial representation of the Slave Trade and Slavery. It is divided into three sections. The first represents the negro in Africa, in his natural condition, and proceeds to the various incidents connected with his enslavement, transportation across the ocean, sale as a slave in America, among people who call themselves Christians, and servitude in field-labor on a Southern plantation. The second presents various incidents of the war for liberty in Kansas, showing principally those scenes with which John Brown was connected; and the third shows the successive steps of John Brown's enterprise at Harper's Ferry, ending with the legal murder which was perpetrated upon him by the State of Virginia.
While these scenes are passing in review, the exhibitor gives an explanatory lecture. Both the lecture and the painting are well suited to show the wicked and inhuman character of slavery and the slave-trade, though in neither is an attempt made particularly to delineate their 'horrors.' The ordinary and essential features only of the slave-trade and slavery are represented, and these are shocking enough to the humane mind.—C. K. W.
The official Report of the First of August meeting at Milford—a well attended and highly interesting meeting—has been received, and will appear next week. The resolutions offered there, and unanimously adopted, make a vigorous application of the lesson of that day to the needs of our own age and country.
<c05>
ARMED RESISTANCE TO THE U. S. LAWS.—Milwaukee, Wisconsin, August 1st.—Sherman M. Booth, who was arrested some time since, and was awaiting his trial, for his course in the Glover rescue case, eighteen months since, was taken from the room in the Custom House, in which he was confined, at noon to-day, by ten armed men, while the U. S. Marshal and deputies were at dinner. The keeper was silenced by threats of violence, and locked up in place of the prisoner. A carriage being in readiness, the party proceeded with Booth to the country.
The above paragraph appeared in all the papers a week ago. The only additional circumstance that we have since seen stated respecting Mr. Booth, is that he was seen, by passengers from the West, over the La Crosse Road, to take a train at Schwartxburg which was going West.

THE TWENTY-SEVENTH
National Anti-Slavery Anniversary. 
When the claim for Universal Liberty was first made in our country, the best part of a life-time ago, the work lay wholly in futurity. The idea and the principles of Human Rights were to be re-planted, the justice and necessity of their cause as against Slavery to be proved, the prevailing apathy to be broken, the public mind to be awakened and enkindled, the insufficiency of a Church and State controlled by Slavery to compass Freedom to be demonstrated, the retrogression of the land towards barbarism under their sway to be made manifest, and freedom of speech, of the press, and of a new specific association to be claimed and exercised as the only sufficient instrumentalities of progress.
This is the initiatory work that has been done, and by it, abundant opportunities of direct action have been rendered practicable. The WORK ITSELF, in a thousand shapes, now lies before us, whose privilege it has been to make ready for it. The despotism is driven into open day. To meet it, requires devotion, industry, and the sacred fire of a true enthusiasm. It requires energy, cooperation, and the discipline of self-control. It requires generous contributions of money. We trust that all these indispensable requisites are now, as ever, ready.
We earnestly and cordially entreat all who love our native land in sincerity, whether Europeans or Americans, to unite with us more numerously and more generously than ever to meet the demands of a period of crisis unparalleled in the history of our country—new, indeed, in the history of the world. For when before has it ever happened that Freedom has been sought from among a dominant people for a down-trodden one, on so grand a scale as this? We ask aid of Europeans, while we bid them observe that their freedom makes progress only in exact proportion as our slavery is brought into discredit. We ask aid of Americans; for where is the American to whom this Cause of ours is not the supreme interest of the present hour as affording the only hope of Futurity? The work before us is ever that primary one contemplated by no other existing body, political or religious: the work that Church and Government are always tempted by the necessities of their position as such to neglect, adjourn, suppress. And the stronger the desire of their members to promote the cause, the stronger the temptation, being so placed, to temporise and to compromise.
To all these we confidently appeal for aid in the work they can neither do, nor do without.
We cordially invite all who love Liberty the world over, to meet us at the Music Hall, Boston, in the month of January next, in person or by letter, uniting their sympathies and contributions with ours in the great work of the time—the peaceful extinction of American Slavery.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING, 
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON, 
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN, 
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON, 
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, 
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS, 
CAROLINE WESTON, 
MARY WILLEY, 
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
SARAH P. ATKINSON,
ELIZA ANDREW,
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY.
SARAH P. REMOND,
ABBY FRANCIS,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H SOUTHWICK, EVELINA A. S. SMITH, 
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL, 
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE, 
ELIZA APTHORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT,
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY E. STEARNS. 
ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY.—The next quarterly meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will he held at NEWBURYPORT, Sunday, August 26, day and evening.
PARKER PILLSBURY, CHAS. L. REMOND, H. FORD DOUGLASS and others will address the meeting.
CHAS. LENOX REMOND, President. 
LYDIA M. TENNEY, Sec'y.
WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY.—The next quarterly meeting of the Worcester South A. S. Society will he held at Washburn Hall, in Worcester, Sunday, Aug. 12th, day and evening. PARKER PILLSBURY, H. FORD DOUGLASS, E. H. HEYWOOD, and other speakers, will be present.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President. 
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y. 
WORCESTER NORTH A. S. SOCIETY.—The next quarterly meeting of the Worcester North Anti-Slavery Society will be held at LEOMINSTER, Sunday, August 19, day and evening. PARKER PILLSBURY and H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak.
JOSHUA T. EVERETT, President. MOSES H. MERRICK, Sec'y. 
ASHBURNHAM. WM. WELLS BROWN will lecture at Ashburnham, Mass., on Saturday evening, Aug. 11, and Sunday, the 12th.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak in the Methodist Church, Diamond Plain, R. I., on Sunday next, at 5, P. M., Aug. 12.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Burlington, Vt., the second and third Sundays in August, 12th and 19th; and, August 24th, 25th and 26th, will attend a Convention in South Royalton, Vt. 
WM. WELLS BROWN will lecture at McIndoes Falls, Vt., on Friday, Aug. 17.
40,000 COPIES OF CHARLES SUMNER'S GREAT SPEECH! The undersigned has determined to supply the Clergy of the country, each one of them, with a copy of this,
THE GREAT SPEECH OF THE COUNTRY! 
ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS is required for this purpose. Such friends of freedom as desire to share with me the pleasure of this undertaking, may enclose their subscriptions to my friend, the Hon. SAMUEL E. SEWALL, No, 46 Washington street, Boston.
THADDEUS HYATT. 
Washington Jail, June 13, 1860.
MARRIED—In St. Philip's Church, New York City, July 31st, by Rev. William Douglass, Rector of St. Thomas's Church, Philadelphia, Rev. WILLIAM ALLSTON, of Raleigh, N. C. the present Rector of St. Philip's, to Miss ANNIE C. ROUSETT, of Geneva, N. Y.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S 
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER? 
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:—'My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's ' Restorer,' No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald' Rev. M. THACHER, Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22, 1855.
President J. L. EATON, LL. D., Union University,
Murfreesboro’, Tennessee.
'MADAM—I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, 
Editor 'Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio. 
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor 'Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N. Y. 
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c. 
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD. D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City. 
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era,' Boston, Mass.
'Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness,' Boston.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable drawing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN. 
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,—not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dyes, I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.} 
HAYTI. 
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's she writes to the 'American Baptist.'—'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.' 
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A, Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement, &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
‘I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD. Meriden, N. H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $ 1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has 'Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles—none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a crime is a offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER.
Oct lye op
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the Boston Journal.
THE LAST PRAYER.
All prayers I ever offered, Lord,
For any earthly bliss,
I merge at last in this:
Wilt Thou thy gracious help afford,
And while the shadows round me throng,
Let me be loving, true and strong; 
Keeping the child's faith in my breast,
'Mid the world's falseness and unrest,
Each bitter word and thought represt.
Full oft I weary am and weak,
And sometimes fails my trust,
I cannot lift me from the dust.
And thy sweet smile seems far to seek;
And I know watching hours of grief,
When human love gives no relief;
Yet I believe in each affliction
There lies a hidden benediction; 
Though light fades sometimes from my view,
I would keep my own spirit true.
The world keeps on its fierce, hot strife
For pleasure, wealth and fame; 
A great and lauded name 
Is prized above a noble life; 
Yet far more glorious in Thy sight 
Is he, who, with faith's armor bright. 
Contends against the hosts of wrong, 
Loving, yet fearless; meek, yet strong.
For this I pray my God, at last,
So claiming Thy best gift, 
While my full heart I lift, 
And all its care and sorrow cast 
On Him who came on earth to prove 
The depths of human grief and love.
Perchance some later day may bring
My spirit's long-lost music back,
The sunshine, faded from life's track,
May smile once more;—till then I'll sing
Still unto Thee a song of love:
I still will strive to look above;—
These clouds shall pass from heart and brow,
In thine own time; I know not how,
But while the shadows round me throng,
Let me be trusting, true and strong. L. H. F.
From the Atlantic Monthly.
MIDSUMMER.
Around this lovely valley rise
The purple hills of Paradise.
Oh, softly on yon banks of haze 
Her rosy face the Summer lays!
Becalmed along the azure sky, 
The argosies of cloudland lie, 
Whose shores, with many a shining rift, 
Far off their pearl-white peaks uplift.
Through all the long mid-summer day 
The meadow-sides are sweet with hay. 
I seek the coolest sheltered seat
Just where the field and forest meet,— 
Where grow the pine-trees tall and bland, 
The ancient oaks austere and grand, 
And fringy roots and pebbles fret 
The ripples of the rivulet.
I watch the mowers as they go 
Through the tall grass, a white-sleeved row; 
With even stroke their scythes they swing,
In tune their merry whetstones ring; 
Behind, the nimble youngsters run, 
And toss the thick swaths in the sun; 
The cattle graze, while, warm and still, 
Slopes the broad pasture, basks the hill, 
And bright, when summer breezes break, 
The green wheat crinkles like a lake.
The butterfly and humble bee 
Come to the pleasant woods with me; 
Quickly before me runs the quail,
The chickens skulk behind the rail,
High up the lone wood-pigeon sits,
And the wood-pecker pecks and flits.
Sweet woodland music sinks and swells,
The brooklet rings its tinkling bells,
The swarming insects drone and hum, 
The partridge beats his throbbing drum, 
The squirrel leaps among the boughs, 
And chatters in his leafy house; 
The oriole flashes by; and, look! 
Into the mirror of the brook, 
Where the vain bluebird trims his coat, 
Two tiny feathers fall and float.
As silently, as tenderly.
The down of peace descends on me.
Oh, this is peace! I have no need
Of friend to talk, or book to read:
A dear Companion here abides;
Close to my thrilling heart He hides;
The holy silence is His Voice:
I lie and listen, and rejoice.
THE TIDES.
BY WM. C. BRYANT.
The moon is at her full, and, riding high, 
Floods the calm fields with light; 
The airs that hover in the summer sky 
Are all asleep tonight.
There comes no voice from the great woodland round, 
That murmured all the day; 
Beneath the shadow of their boughs, the ground 
Is not more still than they.
But ever heaves and moans the restless Deep; 
His rising tides I hear; 
Afar I see the glimmering billows leap;
I see them breaking near.
Each wave springs upward, climbing toward the fair, 
Pure light that sits on high;
Springs eagerly, and faintly sinks to where 
The mother waters lie.
Upward again it swells; the moonbeams show 
Again its glimmering crest; 
Again it feels the fatal weight below, 
And sinks, but not to rest.
Again, and yet again; until the deep 
Recalls his brood of waves, 
And, with a sullen moan, abashed, they creep 
Back to his inner caves.
Brief respite! they shall rush from that recess 
With noise and tumult soon, 
And fling themselves, with unavailing stress, 
Up toward the placid moon.
Oh, restless sea, that in thy prison here 
Dost struggle and complain; 
Through the slow centuries yearning to be near 
To that fair orb, in vain.
The glorious source of light and heat must warm 
Thy bosom with its glow, 
And on those mounting waves a nobler form, 
And freer life bestow.
Then only may they leave the waste of brine 
In which they welter here, 
And rise above the hills of earth, and shine
In a serener sphere.
BE FIRM. 
Boldly face the strife before thee:
Difficulties big with gloom, 
In their rear are wreaths of glory 
For the heroes who.o'ercome. 
Valor 'a born from self-denial; 
Wisdom, from each stern rebuke; 
Power, from every pain and trial 
That the human soul may brook.'
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
CALUMNY AND REFUTATION
Finding in the (Baptist) Christian Watchman and Reflector an editorial article making grossly unjust statements in regard to Theodore Parker, I wrote a brief note to the Editor, specifying one of them, and asking for proof of it Below is the reply of the Editor, introducing what he calls proof, and repeating the unjust charges; and appended to it will be found my rejoinder to his reply, exposing the falseness of his pretended proof, as well as of his original charge, and published here because refused admission to the columns of the Watchman.—C. K. W.
'CHRISTIANITY FALSE AND HURTFUL.'
'To the Editor of the Christian Watchman and Reflector: 
SIR,—In a leading article, June 14th, entitled, "Theodore Parker," you say of that eminent and excellent man that "He boldly avowed.... that he believed Christianity to be false and hurtful." Will you have the kindness to refer (for my benefit and that of the readers of the Watchman) to some passage in Mr. Parker's writings containing the "bold avowal " thus calumniously attributed to him. Please, give us the words, and the place where they are to be found. 
Your obedient servant, 
June, 1860.' CHARLES K. WHIPPLE. 
The foregoing note deserves no reply, and it was our first impulse to let it pass in silence. In attributing to Mr. Parker a rejection of Christianity, and opposition to it, we referred to something that: has been notorious for eighteen years. It is idle to ask documentary proof for the benefit of our readers, or of Mr. Whipple. Our readers do not need the information, and Mr. W hipple has already decided that our statement is calumnious. He asks for evidence, but gives notice that his mind is made up. The modesty and candor of such a request are well matched. Not from any sense of duty to him, therefore, but solely in consideration of what is due to one who is no longer among the living to speak for himself, we undertake the supererogatory task set before us.
In his ' Experience as a Minister,' Mr. Parker says that 'all the six great historic forms of religion—the Brahminic, Hebrew, Classic, Buddhistic, Christian, Mohammedan—profess to have come miraculously from God, not normally from man.'—p85. But he pronounces the claim unfounded in fact. In other words, he accuses Christianity of; making a false pretension. ' I have departed from the fundamental principle of the Catholics and Protestants, denied the fact of a miraculous revelation, given exclusively to Jews and Christians, denied the claim to supernatural authority,' &c..—p. 149. 
Some men might say that this pretension to supernatural authority is not made by Christianitys, but only asserted for it by its unwise friends. But such a plea cannot be made in behalf of Mr. Parker. He distinctly charges that Christianity makes' the pretension, and that it is untrue. Moreover, he plainly intimates that Christianity, equally with, Brahminism and Mohammedanism, is a merely human fabrication. We might go into detail, and prove that he denied every characteristic doctrine, of the Christian religion, but a denial of the authority of Christ strikes at the root of the whole. If the trunk is felled, the branches fall with it. 
There is equally explicit proof that he, regarded Christianity as hurtful. Indeed, it would be a strange feeling that should make a man oppose so strenuously through many years something which he did not esteem hurtful. A reference to the paragraph on page 85 of his ' Experience,' already cited, respecting the ' six historic forms of religion,' discovers that in his judgment, 'each' of them (including Christianity) ' must ere long prove a hindrance to human welfare. That is to accuse the Gospel of a hurtful tendency, But he goes further, and charges upon it a present hurtful effect. He says:—
' If I wished to teach the nobleness of man, the Old Testament AND NEW were there with dreadful condemnations of human nature; did I speak of God's love for all men, the Bible was full of ghastly things—Chosen People, Hell, Devil, Damnation—to prove that He loved only a few, and them not overmuch; did I encourage free individuality of soul, such as the great Bible-men themselves had, asking all to be Christians, as Jesus was a Christ, there were texts of bondage, commanding a belief in this or that absurdity. There was no virtue, but the Scriptures could furnish an argument against it.'
Here again, be it observed, he does not oppose wrong interpretations of the Scriptures, but the Scriptures themselves. The New Testament was in his way at every step! With great propriety, therefore, he renounced the Christian name and profession. Jesus says to His disciples,' One is your Master, even Christ.' Mr. Parker said, 'He that was greater than the Temple, whose soul burst out its walls, is also greater than the Testament, but yet NO MASTER OVER YOU OR ME.'—p. 146. We, then, are not false to his memory, when we say that he opposed Christianity. They misrepresent his character and life who have the hardihood to deny it.
VINDICATION OF THEODORE PARKER. 
To the Editor of the Christian Watchman and Reflector: 
SIR,—I regret that business has prevented me from answering your comments upon my note in season for the paper following that in which they appeared.
I was about to say that I knew no rule that would authorize your remark that my note (requesting you to quote, from Theodore Parker's writings, the grounds of your calumnious charge against him,) 'deserves no reply.' But I remember that it is the custom of your paper—as of the class to which it belongs—to ignore or deny such truth as tends to discredit your sect or your system, and equally that which tends to show that your opponents are right in their points of difference with you. I need only remind you of your utter refusal to publish the proof (which I myself brought to you, and urged you to print,) of the direct maintenance of caste in the customs and the printed laws of one of the churches of your denomination in Boston, namely, Rev. Baron Stow's church of 'respectable WHITE persons,' although you freely and strongly condemn caste when it is practised so far off as India. 
After taking a month to search, (a delay which by no means surprised me, since I knew the thing did not exist for which you were searching,) you quote five passages from Mr. Parker's writings, presenting them as proof of your assertion (June 14th) that he boldly avowed that he believed Christianity to be false and hurtful.' Let us look at these passages. Here they are, all from Mr. Parker's ' Experience as a Minister,' and presented, with your italics, in the following order:—
1.'All the six great historic forms of religion—the Brahminic, Hebrew, Classic, Buddhistic, Christian, Mohammedan—profess to have come miraculously from God, not normally from man.'—p. 85.
2.'I have departed from the fundamental principle of the Catholics and Protestants, denied the fact of a miraculous revelation, given exclusively to 
Jews and Christians, denied the claim to supernatural authority,' &c.—p. 149.
3.'Each' [of the historic forms of religion] ' must ere long prove a hindrance to human welfare.'—p. 85.
4.'If I wished to teach the nobleness of man, the Old Testament AND NEW were there with dreadful condemnations of human nature; did I speak of God's love for all men, the Bible was full of ghastly things—Chosen People, Hell, Devil, Damnation—to prove that He loved only a few, and them not over much: did I encourage free individuality of soul, such as the great Bible-men themselves had, asking all to be Christians, as Jesus was a Christ, there weretexts of bondage, commanding a belief in this or that absurdity. There was no virtue, but the Scriptures could furnish an argument against it.'—p. 63.
5.'He that was greater than the Temple, whose soul burst out its walls, is also greater than the Testament, but yet NO MASTER OVER YOU OR ME.'—p.146.
Here is the whole of your evidence. What is to be said of it? 
It might be sufficient to say, first, that even these messages, thus dislocated from their order in the book skipping from p. 85 forward to 149, then back to 85, then back to 63, then forward to 146,)—and wrenched, <illegible> I shall show hereafter, from their connection, a connection proving a meaning precisely opposite to
<c03>
that ascribed to them in your deceptive alternating comments—do not prove your point, the pretended avowal of Mr. Parker 'that he believed Christianity to be false and hurtful.' 
It might be sufficient to say, next, that your point is disproved by a passage in one of your own quotations, (the 4th, above cited,) in which Mr. Parker says that he asked his hearers ' to be Christians'; and that it is also disproved by another passage, (which you took care not to quote, though it is on the same page with the last of your assumed proofs,) namely—' To me the name of Christianity is most exceeding dear.'—p. 146.
But, since your article is a good specimen of the double falseness of the assaults made by clergymen on Mr. Parker—first, statements directly false respecting his position, and next, a dishonest garbling of his language in the attempt to prove those statements—I prefer to place before your readers, in their proper order and connection, those same words of Mr. Parker which you have dislocated and garbled, in order to misrepresent them. 
Before doing this, however, I wish to remind you of a fact which, though very obvious, and very material to the present discussion, you have overlooked in your comments. It is this: In every religion which has a written basis, that is, which appeals to certain sacred books as its authority—as containing a correct statement of its principles, ideas and rules of life—there will be found a material discrepancy between the system as stated in these books, and the system, called by the same name, which is taught by the mass of its priests and practised by the mass of its religious people. Let us look at the illustration of this fact given by Judaism. 
Not only did the Hebrew prophets frequently testify against the priests of their time, as corrupters of religion, but Jesus of Nazareth, born a Jew, and speaking to Jews, warned them against the Scribes and Pharisees, (the clergy and principal church-members,) as corrupt and vicious, even while he was quoting, as just and true, the sacred books under whose sanction these Scribes and Pharisees pretended to be acting. 
The historian who should depict to us Judaism as it existed in the time of Jesus, would show us (would he not?) the practical working of that corrupt system, taught by the chief Priests and Scribes, and practised by the Pharisees, which Jesus rebuked and condemned; that is to say, something very different from the system enjoined by Moses and the Prophets in the Old Testament, which Jesus at the same time referred to with approval. There are then two widely different things, each properly described by the name Judaism; respecting each of which the name of Judaism must be used in ordinary speech and writing, unless we use a cumbrous and awkward periphrasis; and such periphrasis is unnecessary, because the connection will always show a candid inquirer in which sense the word is used. 
The same distinction holds in all those religions of Asia which have a written basis; which refer to certain sacred books as containing their principles and rules. Every one of the systems thus written probably contains more truth than falsehood; more good rules than bad ones; I think it would be safe to say (taking the Mohammedan faith as an illustration) that if its professors faithfully lived in accordance with the rules of the Koran, they would lead better lives than any of the nations now called Christian, in spite of the far greater light enjoyed by the latter. Yet every one of these systems, as written in the books, will be found to vary materially from the system bearing the same name which is orally taught by the Mussulman, Hindoo or Chinese priest, and acted upon by those who are esteemed most religious among his hearers. The system found in the life of the people (and I do not mean the openly irreligious part of the people, but the actual teaching of the priests, and the following of that teaching by priests and people)—is materially different from the system bearing the same name, found in the sacred books. And yet these two things are appropriately called by the same name, and the different meanings of that name are always made plain to the candid inquirer by the connection.
The same great difference exists—and exists in an equal degree—between the system called Christianity, as it is described in the writings of the New Testament, and the system (also called Christianity) which appears in the preaching of the clergy and the practice of their churches and themselves. And not only does this broad, general difference exist, but there are many minor differences, occasioned by the disagreement of sects, yet all covered by, and admitting, and generally allowed to admit, the word Christianity to designate them. 
For instance. It is an unquestionable fact that the New Testament—which is admitted to be the true exponent of the ideas, principles and rules of Christianity—represents baptism as belonging exclusively to Christian believers; to those who intelligently adopt Christianity as their rule of life. Nevertheless, the immense majority of those who call themselves Christians, and who are called so by others, teach and practise something materially different from this; affirming that the sprinkling of infants with water by a minister, at the request of a believing parent, is Christian baptism. Here is a material difference between the Christianity of the New Testament, and the thing which is called Christianity in the preaching and practice of Episcopalians, Presbyterians and Orthodox Congregationalism. Yet you make no scruple of calling these people Christians, and their system Christianity. And, since every candid reader understands what you mean by the word thus applied, and knows that, in all proper places, you make protest against the particular perversion of New Testament Christianity in question, and since the connection in which the word is used always shows such candid reader in which sense you use it, it would be absurd to make the periphrastic exception of their errors in regard to Baptism, every time you have occasion to speak of Christianity as existing among Episcopalians, Presbyterians, &c. Why should you not treat Mr. Parker's use of the word Christianity in these two customary and legitimate senses with the same candor?
But there is a difference still more sweeping and emphatic; a difference which places the Christianity of all the sects. Baptists as well as others, in direct contrast with the Christianity of the New Testament. It is this: There are some precepts in that book, precepts as strongly expressed and as manifestly taught there as any others, which none of the sects either preach, or attempt to reduce to practice. They ignore them, disregard them, live in the open violation of them; and this although they pretend to believe that the New Testament, which contains them, is given by direct inspiration of God, and is, as they are accustomed to call it, 'God's Word,' authoritatively binding upon the faith and practice of mankind. 
I will give two examples of commands of this sort, the plain and obvious meaning of which, (not the letter only) is universally disregarded by those who call themselves Christians, both by ministers in their preaching and by church-members in their lives. The first of these is repeated in all the following different forms, showing the importance which Jesus attached to it:—
'Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth!' 
'Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on! 
'Take no thought for the morrow! for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself! Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof!' 
'Labor not for the meat that perisheth!' 
'Why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field! they toil not, they spin not! If God so clothe the grass of the field, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?'
'Your Heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.' 
<c04>
'Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.' 
Here are not only direct and explicit commands not to labor for, or to take thought for, any store of food or clothing, but a direct and explicit promise that God would give those things to men, without care or labor on their part, just as he does to the lilies and the sparrows. The clergy and the churches utterly disregard both the command and the promise. It is necessary, then, to speak of their Christianity apart from the Christianity of the New Testament. 
The second example which I shall give, contains, in like manner, a command and a promise. This is but; a single passage. Yet, if given by direct inspiration of God, and perfectly clear and explicit, it is as absolutely binding as any other.
'Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders,of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord! And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up! And if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him!'
The clergy utterly neglect to preach, and the church-members to practise, obedience to this direct and explicit command. And they utterly disregard the promise annexed to it. It is necessary, then, to distinguish between so much of Christianity as is contained in their preaching and practice, and the Christianity of the New Testament. 
I think I have now shown that the words Christian and Christianity are customarily, and appropriately, and necessarily used in both these senses; and that any writer is authorized so to use them, letting the connection show which of these meanings he uses in any particular case. And I think it is equally plain that Mr. Parker, in using this common right, is no more required to specify the distinction between these two meanings, every time he uses the words in question, than you, Mr. Editor, are required, every time you apply those words to Episcopalians or Presbyterians, to specify our objection to their paedobaptist errors of doctrine and practice.
It is plain, I think, moreover, that when a missionary writes from his field of labor respecting the evils of Mohammedanism or Hindooism, he means the actual teaching of that system by the priests, and the lives led under that system by the people, quite as much as the erroneous ideas contained in the Koran or the Vedas; and that the actual condition of Mohammedans or Hindoos, in regard to the preaching and practice of their respective religions, would be appropriately called Mohammedanism or Hindooism, even though it should be found to vary considerably from the system laid down in the Koran and the Vedas. 
Having thus, as I think, established Mr. Parker's right to use the words Christian and Christianity to describe the preaching and practice of those who call themselves Christian—including the teaching of the clergy, the reception of that teaching by the people, and the course of life led, at the same time, by both preachers and people—I proceed to quote the full passage from Mr. Parker's ' Experience as a Minister,' a garbled extract from which you have given, and to show, by the connection in which this extract appears, that your representation of its meaning was incorrect, and that your remarks respecting it were unjust. This, though the fourth in order of your quotations, stands first in order in the book, and its meaning explains the meaning of subsequent passages.
'The critical study of the Bible only enhanced my reverence for the great and good things I found in the Old Testament and New. They were not the less valuable because they were not the work of miraculous and infallible inspiration,' and because I found them mixed with some of the worst doctrines ever taught by men; it was no strange thing to find pearls surrounded by sand, and roses beset with thorns. I liked the Bible better when I could consciously take its contradictory books each for what it is, and felt nothing commanding me to accept it for what it is not; and could freely use it as a help, not slavishly serve it as a master, or worship it as an idol. I took no doctrine for true, simply because it was in the Bible; what therein seemed false or wrong, I rejected as freely as if I had found it in the Sacred Books of the Buddhists or Mormons. 
I had not preached long before I found, as never before, that practically, the ecclesiastical worship of the Bible hindered the religious welfare and progress of the Christians more than any other cause.' —P. 60.
‘With Protestant ministers, the Bible is a Fetish; it is so with Catholic priests, likewise, only to them the Roman Church is the Master-Fetish, the 'Big Thunder,' while the Bible is but an inferior and subservient idol. For ultimate authority, the minister does not appeal to God, manifesting himself in the world of matter and the world of man. but only to the Bible; to that he prostitutes his mind and conscience, heart and soul; on the authority of an anonymous Hebrew book, he will justify the slaughter of innocent men, women and children, by the thousand; and, on that of an anonymous Greek book, he will believe, or at least command others to believe, that man is born totally depraved, and God will perpetually slaughter men in bell by the million, though they had committed no fault, except that of not believing an absurd doctrine they had never heard of. Ministers take the Bible in the lump as divine; all between the lids of the book is equally the 'Word of God,' infallible and miraculous; he that believeth it shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned; no amount of Piety and Morality can make up for not believing this. No Doctor is ever so subordinate to his Drug, no Lawyer lies so prone before Statute and Custom, as the mass of Ministers before the Bible, the great Fetish of Protestant Christendom. The Ephesians did not so worship their great goddess Diana and the meteoric stone which fell down from Jupiter. ' We can believe anything,' say they, 'which has a ' Thus saith the Lord ' before or after it.' The Bible is not only Master of the Soul, it is also a talisman to keep men from harm; bodily contact with it, through hand or eye, is a part of Religion; —so it lies in railroad stations, in the parlors and sleeping chambers of taverns, and the cabins of ships, only to be seen and touched, not read. The pious mother puts it in the trunk of her prodigal son, about to travel, and while she knows he is wasting her substance upon harlots and in riotous living, she contents herself with the thought that' he has got his Bible with him, and promised to read a chapter every day! ' So the Catholic mother uses an image of the ' Virgin Mother of God,' and the Rocky Mountain savage a bundle of grass: It is a Fetish. 
But with this general worship of the Bible, there is yet a cunning use of it; as the lawyers twist a statute to wring out a meaning they know it does: not contain, but themselves put in, or warp a decision till it fits their purpose, so, with equal sophistry, and perhaps self-deceit, do the ministers twist the Bible to support their special doctrine: no book has been explained with such sophistry. Thus, some make the Apostle Paul a Unitarian, and find neither Divinity nor the Preexistence ascribed to Jesus in the fourth Gospel; while others discover the full-blown Trinity in the first verse of the first chapter of the first book in the Bible; nay, yet others can find no Devil, no Wrathful God, and no Eternal Damnation, even in the New Testament. But all these ministers agree that the Bible is the ' Word of God,' ' His only Word,' miraculous and infallible, and that belief in it is indispensable to Christianity, and continually preach this to the people.
I had not been long a minister, before I found this worship of the Bible as a Fetish, hindering me at each progressive step. If I wished to teach the nobleness of man, the Old Testament and New were there with dreadful condemnations of Human Nature; did I speak of God's Love for all men, the Bible was full of ghastly things—Chosen People, Hell, Devil, Damnation—to prove that he loved only a few, and them not overmuch; did I encourage free individuality of soul, such as the great Bible-men themselves had, asking all to be Christians as Jesus was a Christ, there were texts of bondage, commanding a belief in this or that absurdity. There was no virtue, but the Scriptures could furnish an argument against it. I could not deny the existence of ghosts and witches, devils and demons, haunting the earth, but revelation could
<c05>
be quoted against me. Nay, if I declared the Constancy of Nature's Laws, and sought therein great argument for the Constancy of God, all the miracles came and held their mythologic finger up. Even Slavery was ' of God,' for the ' divine statutes' in the Old Testament admitted the Principle that man might own a man as well as a garden or an ox, and provided for the measure. Moses and the Prophets were on its side, and neither Paul of Tarsus nor Jesus of Nazareth uttered a direct word against it.'—pp. 61-4.
'I set myself seriously to consider how I could best oppose this monstrous evil: it required great caution. I feared lest I should weaken men's natural trust in God, and their respect for true Religion, by rudely showing them that they worshipped an idol, and were misled into gross superstition.'—p. 64.
However, when I saw the evil which came from this superstition, I could not be silent. In conversation and preaching, I explained little details— this was poetry in the Bible, and not matter of fact; that was only the dress of the doctrine, not truth itself; the authors of Scripture were mistaken here and there; they believed in a Devil, which was a popular fancy of their times; a particular prophecy has never been fulfilled.
But the whole matter must be treated more philosophically, and set on its true foundation. So, designing to save men's reverence for the grand truths of the Bible, while I should wean them away from worshipping it, I soon laboriously wrote two sermons on the contradictions in the Scripture,— treating of Historic Contradictions, where one part is at variance with another, or with actual facts, authenticated by other witnesses; of Scientific Contradictions, passages at open variance with the facts, of the material universe; and of Moral and Religious Contradictions, passages which were hostile to the highest intuitions and reflections of Human Nature.. I made the discourses as perfect as I then could at that early stage of my life: very imperfect and incomplete I should, doubtless, find them now.' —p. 66.
‘I kept my sermons more than a year, doubting whether the little congregation would be able to choose between Truth and Error when both were set before them, and fearing lest I should weaken their faith in pure religion, when I showed it was not responsible for the contradictions in the Hebrew and Greek Scriptures! But at length I could wait no longer; and to ease my own conscience, I preached the two sermons, yet not venturing to look the audience in the face and see the immediate result. In the course of the week, men and women of the commonest education, but of earnest character and profound religious feeling, took pains to tell me of the great comfort I had given them, by showing, what they had long felt, that the Bible is one thing and Religion another; that the two had no necessary connection; that the faults of the Old Testament or the New need not hinder any man from religious development; and that he never need try to believe a statement in the Bible which was at variance with his reason and his conscience. They thanked me for the attempt to apply Common Sense. to Religion and the Bible. The most thoughtful and religious seemed the most instructed. I could not learn that any one felt less reverence for God, or less love for Piety and Morality. It was plain I had removed a stone of stumbling from the public path.'—pp. 68-9. 
'All the six great historic forms of religion—the Brahmanic, Hebrew, Classic. Buddhistic, Christian, Mohammedan—profess to have come miraculously from God, not normally from man; and, spite of the excellence which they contain, and the vast service the humblest of them has done, yet each must ere long prove a hindrance to human welfare, for it claims to be a Finality, and makes the whole of human nature wait upon an accident of human History—and that accident the whim of some single man. The Absolute Religion which belongs to man's nature, and is gradually unfolded thence, like the high achievements of art, science, literature and politics, is only distinctly conceived of in an advanced stage of" man's growth: to make its idea a Fact, is the highest triumph of the Human Race., This is the Ideal of Humanity, dimly seen but clearly felt, which has flitted before the pious eyes of men in all lands and many an age, and been prayed for as the ' Kingdom of Heaven ' The religious history of the race is the record of man's continual but unconscious efforts to attain this, ' Desire of all nations;' poetic stories of the 'golden' age,' or of man in the garden of Eden, are but this natural wish looking back and fondly dreaming that ' the former days were better than these.' But, while all the other forms of religion must ultimately fail before this, fading as it flowers, each one of them has yet been a help towards it, probably indispensable to the development of mankind.'—p. 85.
‘To me the name of Christianity is most exceeding dear, significant of so great a man, and of such natural Emotions, Ideas and Actions as are of priceless value to mankind. I know well the errors, also, of the doubters and deniers, who in all ages have waged war against the superstitious theology of their times, and pulled down what they could not replace with better. I have not sat in the seat of the scornful; and while I warned men against the snare of the priest, I would not suffer them to fall into the mocker's pit. I have taken exquisite delight in the grand words of the Bible, putting it before all other sacred literature of the whole ancient world; to me it is more dear when I regard them not as the miracles of God, but as the work of earnest men, who did their uttermost with holy heart. I love to read the great Truths of Religion set forth in the magnificent poetry of Psalmist and Prophet, and the humane lessons of the Hebrew peasant, who summed up the Prophets and the Law in one word of LOVE, and set forth man's daily duties in such true and simple speech! As a Master, the Bible were a tyrant; as a Help, I have not time to tell its worth; nor has a sick man speech for that, nor need I now, for my public and private teachings sufficiently abound in such attempts. But yet, to me, the great men of the Bible are worth more than all their words; he that was greater than the Temple, whose soul burst out its walls, is also greater than the Testament, but yet no Master over you or me, however humble men!' —pp. 146-7.
Let us now survey the refutation of your charges furnished by these seven extracts. 
The first and the seventh show the absolute incorrectness of your statement that Mr. Parker accused 'the Gospel' of a hurtful tendency, and opposed ' the Scriptures, themselves’; expressly showing that, while he recognized errors and contradictions in these, as in other productions of fallible men, he placed them, as a whole, ' before all other sacred literature of the whole ancient world.' 
The second shows your statements—that Mr. Parker's charges of false pretensions, of hurtful tendency, of present hurtful effect, were directed against the Bible itself, the Gospel itself, Christianity itself, instead of against the false pretensions and wrong interpretations made respecting them by the clergy—to be an absolute reversal of the truth; since the fragment you quoted from it is there shown to be given as a specimen of the way in which—' as the lawyers twist a statute to wring out a meaning they know it does not contain, but themselves put in, or warp a decision till it fits their purpose, so with equal sophistry, and perhaps self-deceit, do the ministers twist the Bible to support their special doctrine; no book has been explained with such sophistry.’
The sixth extract shows—in direct contrariety to your representation of the meaning of the small fragment you quote from it — that when Mr. Parker names the 'Christian' among the ‘six great historic forms of religion—the Brahmanic, Hebrew, Classic, Buddhistic, Christian, Mohammedan'—he is speaking expressly of the perversion of Christianity manufactured by the clergy, which, with the other ' historic forms,' ' must are long prove a hindrance to human welfare.,' and contrasting these with ' The Absolute Religion,' before which ' all other forms of religion must ultimately fail.'
The seventh extract directly declares Mr. Parker's honor and reverence for true Christianity, expressly designating his acceptance of the summary of it made by Jesus. And this passage, near the end of his last work, exactly agrees with the following representations, made in his first publication, the famous South Boston Ordination sermon, on 'The Transient and Permanent in Christianity,' in which he declares the
<c06>
true Christianity, the religion first proclaimed by Jesus, and summed up by him as 'love to God and love to man,' to be identical with. ‘The Absolute Religion.' Here is the evidence.
'No doubt, an age will come, in which ours shall be reckoned a period of darkness—like the sixth century—when men groped for the wall but stumbled and fell, because they trusted a transient nation, not an eternal truth; an age when temples were full of idols set up by human folly, an age in which Christian light had scarce begun to shine into men's hearts. But while this change goes on; while one generation of opinions passes away, and another rises up; Christianity itself, that pure Religion, which exists eternal in the constitution of the soul and the mind of God, is always the same. The Word that was before Abraham, in the very beginning, will not change, for that word is Truth, From this, Jesus substracted nothing; to this he added nothing. But he came to reveal it as the secret of God, that cunning men could not understand, but which filled the souls of men meek and lowly of heart. This truth we owe to God; the revelation thereof to Jesus, our elder brother, God's chosen son.
To turn away from the disputes of the Catholics and the Protestants, of the Unitarian and the Trinitarian, of Old School and New School, and come to the plain words of Jesus of Nazareth, Christianity is a simple thing; very simple. It is absolute, pure Morality; absolute, pure Religion; the love of man: the love of God acting without let or hindrance.'—pp. 159, 60.
'Examine the particular duties it enjoins-; humility, reverence, sobriety, gentleness, charity, forgiveness, fortitude, resignation, faith, and active love; try the whole extent of Christianity so well summed up in the command. “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all they soul, and with all thy mind—thou shalt love they neighbor as thyself;" and is there anything therein that can perish?'—p. 160.
'Compare the simpleness of Christanity, as christ sets it forth on the Mount, with what is sometimes taught and accepted in that honored name; and what a difference. One is of God; one is of man. There is something in Christianity which sects have not reached; something that will not be won, we fear, by theological battles, or the quarrels of pious men; still we may rejoice that Christ is preached in any way. The Christianity of sects, of the pulpit, of society, is ephemerala transitory fly. It will pass off and be forgot. Some new form will take its place, suited to the aspect of the changing times. Each will represent something of truth; but no one the whole. It seems the whole race of man is needed to do justice to the whole of truth, as "the whole church, to preach the whole gospel." Truth is entrusted for the time to a perishable Ark of human contrivance. Though often shipwrecked, she always comes safe to land, and is not changed by her mishap. That pure ideal Religion which Jesus saw on the mount of his vision, and lived out in the lowly life of a Galilean peasant: which transforms his cross into an emblem of all that is holiest on earth; which makes sacred the ground he trod, and is dearest to the best of men, most true to what is truest in them, cannot pass away. Let men improve never so far in civilization, or scar never so high on the wings of Religion and Love, they can never outgo the flight of truth and Christianity. It will always be above them.'—p. 164.
In this last passage, the two sorts of 'Chiristianity' are contrasted, showing that which Mr. Parker accepts, and declares permanent, to be the Christianity of Christ; and that which he rejects, and declares ephemeral, to be ' the Christianity of sects, of the pulpit, of society." 
I have shown, Mr. Editor, the following things in regard to your declaration that Mr. Parker 'boldly avowed that he believed Christianity to be false and hurtful'; namely:
1. That it is unproved by your quotations from him, (one of which virtually disproves it.)
2. That those quotations are garbled, making an incorrect representation of his meaning.
3. That your comments upon these garbled extracts still further distort and pervert his meaning. 
4. That other passages in the very book (one of them on the very page) you were quoting, show the utter falsehood of the charge you make, and that the falsehood of it is further made manifest by explicit declarations in Mr. Parker's first published work, as well as in his last.
Holding that the evidence thus adduced justifies my original statement that your charge was 'calumnious,' I now call upon you to retract that charge. 
Your friend and servant for the truth,
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE.
Boston, July 29, 1860.

PROUTY & MEARS'S 
CELEBRATED
HOT-AIR FURNACES,
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty dtfferent patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the 'Clipper Improved,' 'Mount Vernon,' and ' Gold Medal.’
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the ' Beauty,' of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron '' Parlor Oven Stove' ever introduced into this market.
—ALSO—
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS'S Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c.
AT
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
BY
ALLEN S. WEEKS.
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,
BOSTON.
June 1—eoptf

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L. I
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation, in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any ‘Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this Househouse offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels. 
Address GEO. F. ADAMS. M. D.,
April 20 Physician and sole Proprietor.

ANTI-TOBACCO PUBLICATIONS.
THE Publications of the American Anti-Tobacco Society are for sale at Nos. 5, 9 and 13, Cornhill, Boston, and also at the Depository, Fitchburg, Mass.
Among them are the following:—
Six Tracts for Young America, or Boys.
A variety of Tracts for Raisers, Sellers, Smokers, Chewers, and Snuffers.
A variety for Ladies, Clergymen, Physicians and others.
The Zoological Temperance Convention; The Rev. Solomon Spittle; Uncle Tobey's Stories about Tobacco, for Youth and Schools of all sorts; Anti-Tobacco Envelopes, and a variety of handsome Cards, large and small, for Bands of Hope June 22.
