<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
223 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance
All remittances are to be made, and all letters missing to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three time at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents is three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, be are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO.7. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1864.WHOLE NO. 1723.
THE LIBERTAOR
LETTERS FROM ENGLAND. No. I.
LONDON, Jan. 15, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:-
DEAR SIR: It is literally years since I trespassed if upon your patience, and that of the readers, of the Liberator. My silence, however, has not been owing to any diminution of interest in the great cause with which your name stands so gloriously associated, but from a consciousness that the press work of the movement was being done much better by the pens of others than it could have been by my own. I have, nevertheless, been from time to time a co-laborer, although in another hemisphere, and in a very humble capacity. I should not now have obtruded myself upon your columns but for a special reason, to which I shall refer; but first allow me some general observations upon the present phase of the anti-slavery cause. Since 1846, when I had the privilege of traversing the United Kingdom with yourself and other friends of the slave, to arouse the public voice against the guilty action of the Evangelical Alliance, in virtually endorsing American Slavery, a great change has taken place in the position of the Abolition question. In the Southern States we have had the most remarkable illustration in the world's history of that singular principle of the Divine government,-"Quam Deus vult perdere prius dement at." The Philistine have been signally beaten, or rather, in a marvellous manner, they have been allowed to become the instruments of their own destruction. The first gun fired by the traitors pronounces their own doom. In hauling down the national flag at Fort Sumter. They hauled down slavery with it. Events have occurred which the most sanguine friend of the slave could not in 1846 have hoped to have lived to witness. The utmost that the youngest of the anti-slavery host of that day could have ventured to anticipate the realization of, at the end of a long life, was a glimpse from Pisgah's top of the still far distant Canaan: and yet it is neither presumption nor cant to say, that through the might of Him whose strong arm brought his ancient people out of the house of bondage, we are about to enter into the full fruition of the promised inheritance. Already we have tasted of the fruits of the land. The emancipation of 600,000 slaves-to say nothing of any other substantial good acquired-is no mean specimen of the grapes of Eshcol. It is three-fourths of the number for the ransom of whom in her colonies, England was almost deified in 1834.
Year anti-slavery battle has had to be fought almost as much in Great Britain as in America. United by kindred, religion, commercial relationships, and, to a great extent, by political and social institutions, the Saxon race on one side the Atlantic could not be afflicted without those on the opposite shore being painfully affected by the visitation. We snarl and bark at each other, mainly through jealousies fomented by the residuum of a people whom Lord Lyndhurst unjustly denounced, as a whole, at alien to us in blood, religion , and language. To the tree Americans these Irish Copperheads are indeed aliens in blood and religion, it not in language. Having miserably failed in their cabbage-garden insurrections at home, they are continually trying their hands at treason abroad. I am confident, however, that whatever political complications may occur, the American people, properly so called, have too much good sense to suffer themselves to be goaded into a war with Great Britain, to gratify the malignant hostility of a few of her expatriated subjects. Miserable pseudo patriots, who shouted " Ireland for the Irish," and drew hireling swords against the sacred cause of "Italy for the Italians"!
The Southern planters could not have maintained slavery without the tacit sanction of England. Had the churches disciplined the huge crime with the same finely as they do venial sins, it would have ceased to exist any bloody internecine war. Scrupulous in punishing small and questionable infractions of morality, sectarianism refused to his fellowship the vilest of criminals. It punctiliously abstained from eating with publicans and sinners, but hesitated not at the table of the Lord to take the bloodstained hand of the slaveholder. The mill-owner again, cared not how the cotton was grown-with what amount of tears and blood it was moistened, provided it was bought at the minimum of cash, -a temporary gain, however, which, like all plans founded upon a violation of God's laws, has proved a huge commercial error. The British abolitionists have had the important task to perform of exposing the evils, and bringing public opinion to bear against American slavery. The main instrumentality for the slave's redemption has been "the foolishness of preaching." If the South suumbs, which I believe she must do are long, it will be owing not so much to the might of arms as to the call of public opinion, which in this instance has elearly been the "Vox Dei." The slaveholders have verified to their Slomon's proverb, "Death and life are in the power of free speech which made the South demand of the United States government the enforcement upon the abolitionists of the silencing process. If they continued to speak, it are evident that slavery must ultimately die. The fetters have thus been stricken from the limbs of the slave, not by the sword, but by the power of the opinion of race upon race. It is said that a pebble dropped in a lakelet here, pulses the sympathy in that sanguineous stream which flows in the veins of the kindred races in England and America. It was most essential, therefore, to the slave's emancipation to prevent British sympathy from being extended to his oppressors. The work of the British abolitionist has been to convert the smile of complacency, or the vacant look of indifference to slavery, into a furor of displeasure, the lightning of which no blood-stained edifice could stand against. To keep our body politie, however, in sound anti-slavery health has required constant watchfulness in counteracting the pro-slavery poison which has been insinutes into its veins with a persistency and subtlety which no other which no other form of evil but slavery was capable of Slavery is indeed in its operations pre-eminently a mystery of inquity. Its cunning may fairly be of colonial emancipation threw the American slave holders at first into a paraoxysm of range. They railed at and cursed Britain for what was foolishly called its "philanthropy," but which was really nothing more than the renunciation of a sin, damning to the nation, and ruinous to the planters-a work not of supererogation, but simply "meet for repentance." But the slave curacy soon discovered that bullying England was a political mistake; and, therefore they abandoned the practice, and in lien thereof adopted the policy of their great head-took the form of a serpent, and sought to beguile those whom they could not intimidate. Most successful was their tortuous policy, which they worked chiefly, as I have said, through those potent instrumentalities in this country, the church and the exchange: for though
<c02>
British abolitionists have been constantly watching and combating pro-slavery influences imported from America, the events of the last three yean have shown that slavery has covertly succeeded to an alarming extent in debauching the minds, if not of "the people of this country," in the legitimate tense of that phrase, yet of a large number of individuals who bear the name of Englishmen; so much so, indeed, that had it not been for the incessant and laborious exertions of our Emancipation Societies, the world would have seen the anomaly, unparalleled in disgrace, of England, renowned for its anti-slavery spirit, recognizing a rebel confederacy, based upon the perpetuation and indefinite extension of slavery, and are lone-notwithstanding the denial of the intention by the Richmond conspirators-of the revival of the slave trade. Such a recognition would have led to a fierce and fratricidal war between England and America ruinous to both countries. I tremble when I think of the mine on which we have been standing, and I am grateful for that prevenient grace which has saved us from the horrors of an explosion.
It would be too wide a field to enter into the modus operandi by which this depravation of morals in Great Britain has been effected. Whatever power they may possess from their social and official position, numerically, our Southern sympathizers were always insignificant. The Americans have erred in estimating the number of British Copperheads by their own mendacious representations. At one time some of them went so far as to boast to me that they formed a majority of our people. I denied the truth of the statement, but added, " If it be as you say, we are a nation of criminals, whose moral standing is no better than that of Sodom and Gomorrah. Slavery is the ne plus ultra of crime-the ultima thule between earth and hell. Despite all your casuistry and mendacity, sympathy with the South is sympathy with slavery; and sympathy with crime, whatever abstract and negative forms it may take, is itself criminality." But the fact is, that however foully the aristocratical and mercantile classes here may have fallen on this question, the Copperhead assertion of the general prevalence of Southern sympathy has been demonstrated to be a wicked and scandalous libel upon the land of Sharpe, Clarkson, and "Wilberforce. Public opinion has been challenged upon the subject, and, by a verdict of a hundred to one, has condemned the rebels, and endorsed the policy of President Lincoln.
At the outbreak of the rebellion, sympathy with the South might have been the result of muddle-headedness; of an ignorance of the facts of American history-a sin of omission, however, towards a country with which our interests and honor are so closely identified, which was highly culpable. But, I presume, it is the same with you as with us-people are everlastingly talking magisterially about that of which they are profoundly ignorant. Englishmen, for example, boast loudly of Magna Chart a; but not one in ten thousand of them has the slightest knowledge of the contents of that document; and about the same proportion know the provisions of that which is, perhaps, the only thing approaching to a written constitution which we possess, the Bill of Rights, the name of which, however, falls glibly from everybody's tongue. Perhaps no man has spat out more pro-slavery venom, or talked more largely about American affairs, than James Arthur Roebuck, and yet, to show the profundity of his American knowledge, I may mention that he asserted to a friend of mine-no doubt because be was under the impression that such was the fact-that the world-renowned Saxon orator, Theodore Parker, was a black man, a regular nigger, of genuine African descent; no bad compliment to the race, if the fact had been so, and if the statement had come from a man who understood what he was talking about, or had ever read a line of the works of Theodore Parker. The incident itself is nothing, except as presenting a fair sample of Tear-em's knowledge of American affairs, and as an illustration of the penchant of vain men to prate dogmatically concerning that of which they know nothing. The present Lord St Leonards is reported to have said of the Lord Chancellor Brougham:-" He is certainly a clever fellow; if he knew a little of law, he would know a little of everything." So may we say of Roebuck-" He is certainly a clever fellow; if be knew a little of America, be would know a little of everything." By the way, I think you have attached too much importance to the apostacy of this notorious little-minded body. Rightly estimated, he is, after all, but a small devil in the pandemonium of British Copperheadism. His popularity, such as it is, was gained by his loud-mouthed democracy; and his notoriety, which is the converse of popularity, is owing to his championship of despotism. He supports "the People's Charter, and the tyrants of France and Austria, at the same time. The influence of such a man we may take valeat quantum. The great political mistake of Joseph Hume was the patronizing such a small and erratic being into political existence. The little wind-bag would now have been in its normal state of collapse, had it not unhappily been inflated by the breath of our great economist. Those who have worked in reformatory movements with Roebuck know the real value of his services. His supercilious assumption and wrong-headedness were always more than the flesh and blood of his colleagues could bear. His very instinct is to err. Lindsay, who, although by no means clever, is, nevertheless, shrewd in comparison with Roebuck, saw a weak point in the character of the man which might be made useful for Copperhead purposes, knew that it was the habit of Roebuck to take his cue upon all questions from the first talker he chanced to meet, and therefore Lindsay resolved to get hold of the Sheffield oddity, and cram him with Southern fallacies, which his Mephistopbeles was well aware that no amount of evidence or argument subsequently presented to him would erase from his mind. Roebuck's American knowledge is a fair specimen of the erudition of our Copperheads in American affairs. In fact, I hardly know anything that would be more amusing to you than to sit, as I have done repeatedly, in a corner in some of the little coteries, where our Copperhead savans are discussing the social and political position of America, North and South. The blunders yon would hear historical, geographical, juridical, and, as in the case of Roebuck, ethnological, are absolutely funny, and would enable you rightly to estimate our Copperheadism intellectually. One assertion which I nave heard coolly made is that the Northern States, including those of New England, up to 1860 reared slaves and sold them to the Sooth; and another respectable gentleman-not intending to lie-absolutely affirmed, and stuck to the assertion with the tenacity of a leech, that up to the tine of his election, Lincoln was a slaveholder. Such instances of mendacity might be multiplied ad infinitum. Pray do not do us the injustice of supposing that these personas are fair specimens of British intellect. The real intelligence of our country the voice of almost every individual who has a heart as well as a head-is with you. But the original plea of ignorance can no longer be set up is palliation of the crime of the Copperheads; overwhelming evidence having been presented to them of the falsehood of the premises upon which they had based their inhuman conclusions. A dog-ed adherence to the original error can only arise
<c03>
from a deliberate persistence in wrong-doing; from the mean motive that inasmuch as they have unwittingly told the lie, they are bound, in the maintenance of the notion of the infallibility of their own wisdom, knowingly to stick to it.
The hostility of our aristocracy to America, as a republic, is readily accounted for; intense hatred of a democratic government being notoriously a leading characteristic of the feudal genus. The disruption of the American Union would be a god-send to them, inasmuch as it would enable them-however illogical the inference-to point to the fact as evidence of the impracticability of a popular form of government. This esprit de corps will account for the misrepresentations of American, national, and local institutions, made by such suckling aristocrats as Lord Hartington. He went to America animated with a bitter spirit of detraction; with a resolute foregone conclusion in his mind, that democratic government should be a dead failure. He had not that true nobility of character which will impel a roan, after examination, to acknowledge a mistake, and so he did some Dun dreary superciliousness. That falsehood which he wished to be true he has, probably, by a judicial principle of man's constitution, now come to believe to be true. To the Copperheads his speech was a great catch; but toe world generally will estimate it at its real value, as a specimen of the manner in which the suppressio veri becomes the suggestion falsi. Going, however, from the great to the small, when we find, as we did yean ago, such a truly noble man as Lord Carlisle seduced by the blandishment of the planters into the folly of talking about " Southern chivalry," we cannot wonder, although we may pity the ignoble position in which Lord Hartington has placed himself. Lord John Manners, in immortal doggrel-which he would now give his cars to recall -thus propounded the principle of his order:-
" Let law and learning, wealth and commerce die; But give us still our old nobility."
But the middle-class sympathizers with slavery have no such apology of educational prejudice and antagonistic interests. They voluntarily do the flunkey to the aristocracy without the quid pro quo of pay and plush breeches. They have proved themselves to be traitors to their own order, as well as foes to humanity. They have deliberately gibbeted themselves as fools as well as rogues; fools, because they are rogues not only to no profit, but absolutely to their own detriment as a body; for the feudal order, to whom they are doing such menial suit and service, would not merely continue the African in slavery, but would, had they the power, reduce their middle-class parasites to villanage, a fate which would, in fact, be a just retribution for their sympathy with Southern slavery.
Among the leading agencies in debauching the minds of men upon the American question must be ranked the press, the influence of which embraces the extremes of good and evil-ascending almost to the gates of heaven, and descending to the very confines of hell. Amongst the writers of the present day there has sprung up a class who display an affectation superior to the instincts of humanity; but in striving to rise above, they descend far below its ordinary level. Puncture their cuticle, and they show extreme sensitiveness; but point them to the sufferings of ordinary flesh and blood, and they will assume the indifference of stoics. To feel an interest in the fate of 4,000,000 slaves, Buffering the most cruel treatment, is " mere humanity-mongering," a vice unworthy of an intellectual man. This pride in cold-bloodedness is to be met with in every grade of press-writers, from the great Carlyle to the small Jenkins. The highest ambition of the sect is to exhibit themselves as literary monstrosities-all heads and no bowels; to make themselves such unnatural beings as Frankenstein managed to create, judging of them from the productions of their pens. As babes they must have been fed, not upon mother's milk, and the usual infantine spoon victuals, but upon verjuice and aquafortis. Their mission is not the utilities, much less the philanthropies of life, but to do the sensational business; to take high degrees, not in the humanities, but in the inhumanities. Some are literary contortionists or acrobats. Others aspire to be great in fence; and others in the slashing line, just as an expert swordsman will show his dexterity by cutting in twain a leg of mutton at a single blow. Others delight in literary vivisection; with a refined taste akin to that of those who can derive exquisite pleasure in the ennobling pursuits of bull baiting, dog fighting, and pugilism. Ethics-especially those of Christianity-what has a literary man to do with them? They are all very well to restrain fools, but not men of intellect The honor of these press men would be grievously touched if it was thought that they feared either God or Devil. The latter, indeed, they regard as a theological myth created by priests, very properly, to keep in awe common people; bat literary men know that his existence is all humbug. As for God, they have precisely the same self-appreciation as that attributed to a great actor, of whom it was asked, " What is Mac's religion?" " Unitarian," was the reply, " he believes in one God-William Charles Macready." These writers have set un their own Pantheon, in which every man perches himself upon his niche, and expects the world to offer him incense as the great Jove. Well, such writers we must admit to be in their appropriate sphere when misleading and depraving the public mind on such a subject as that of American slavery. To them a slave republic is no doubt the perfection of an earthly paradise-except that it would be better as an absolute monarchy- and the slave trade, as a natural corollary, must be regarded as the most glorious sport which a literary man could delectate in. We are disposed to mourn the fall of some of these writers. They are, at all events, humbling to the pride of human nature, as showing the depths to which it is capable of descending. Man created in the image of God may become an incarnation of the Father of Lies. Prominent amongst these literary apostates is the miserable being who has recently been doing to order the Times correspondence in the South. What has been the cause of the change of his opinions on the slavery question, from zenith to nadir? Can we for a moment suspect that it is a merely mercenary motive? By no means. When we met him in Glasgow in 1846, his sympathies with humanity, Mack as well as white, were apparently strong. Then be landed the North, and denounced the Sooth as the land of fiends. The emancipation of the African bondsman was then a prominent feature of
"The good time coming."
No one would impute to him a mere business simulation; that as the commercial policy of the proprietors of the paper be was editing was anti-slavery, therefore be was anti-slavery; and now, by parity of reasoning, that as the commercial policy of the Times is strongly pro-slavery, therefore be is strongly pro-slavery, and he most, of coarse, now represent the old Southern devils as saints, and the former Northern sainta as devils-per order. I repeat emphatically, that nobody would for a moment believe the great priest of the British press to be a mere literary prostitute, ready to write either up or down any question, according as the rate of remuneration
<c04>
rises or falls on either side; but, nevertheless, there if the extraordinary fact that his a vowed aspirations, politically, are now for evil instead of good, for slavery instead of freedom; and consequently, it would appear-although it may be shown that it is not so-that he has abjured his old political creed, and those principles of Christianity in which be was educated as a boy in the Caledonian Asylum. I leave mental philosophers to study and explain the singular phenomenon, for it is far beyond my ken. He is not like other tools of the slaveocracy who are unworthy of pity, however pitiable they may have rendered themselves. For example, yon have with you at the present time the bele noir of the Metropolitan press -the only man in existence who can out-" Times" the " Times " in fidelity of representation. He is eating the mutton of your leading men, and sending off by the next mail blackening misrepresentations of the characters and cause of his hospitable entertainers. Nobody, however, is surprised at this conduct, because nobody expected of him anything else. One great radical defect, however, is with the readers and not the writers of the press. They passively suffer the rings to be inserted in their noses, and then of course their keepers can lead them whithersoever they will. The press will always remain a tremendous power for evil, so long as people will be content to do their thinking by proxy. This lamentable state of things must continue until we have the only legitimate censorship of the press, an enlightened public opinion; until the world regards the general productions of literary men, as a judicious scriptural student does, commentaries upon the Bible, as writings which may be very useful in leading, but which may also be very mischievous in misleading; which may prove invaluable guides to truth, but which may nevertheless contain, to use the somewhat nervous but inelegant language of divines, a " most damnable heresy."
Another prominent cause of the perversion of the minds of so many Englishmen was the guilty reticence of the public on the subject of American slavery. Samuel Martin set the example, at the opening meeting of the Congregational Union in 1861,not by reticence, certainly, but by sneers at Northern sincerity, and by exhibiting an unmistakable bias in favor of the slave-holding rebels. Our religious denominations have in times past sent deputations with fraternal greeting to the American churches, when they were decidedly pro-slavery, and also addresses, earnestly exhorting the Americans to abandon the "awful sin of slavery," "the sum of all villanies," etc., etc.; but when these pro-slavery sinners become converted, and take anti-slavery action, then they are virtually disfellowshipped by their zealous anti-slavery brethren in Great Britain. It was the descendants of the Pilgrim Fathers whom our churches took to their arms; but when the men of Plymouth Rock are engaged in a struggle for the freedom of the slave, as well as their own national existence, with a fiendish slaveocracy, the Puritan ties that united so closely the American and British brethren are instantly severed; the "brotherly love," for some unaccountable reason, does not " continue." As for the Episcopal sect in this country, they never professed much love for the descendants of those who were the victims of the cruel persecutions of English prelacy; and therefore they do not sympathize with them in the pending struggle. Abstract principles of righteousness weigh as nothing in the scale against Episcopalian prejudices. Even the mitred son of William Wilberforce has little or none of his father's anti-slavery blood in his veins. We have no right, indeed, to expect sympathy with freedom or humanity in a mere priest. As the genius of the Roman Catholic system is assuredly despotism, its sympathies naturally went with the South. It hates the United States for its protestantism, and, therefore, gives its countenance to her rebellions subjects. The church is the test of the sympathy and action of the Romish clergy and laity. They were indifferent to the fate of Protestant Hungary; but they are endeavoring to excite the European powers to go to war for Catholic Poland. As a rule, the Roman Catholics arc rotten politicians; if politicians, indeed, they can rightly be called. By the obligations of their religion they can have no sympathy with freedom and humanity, except as these words are defined by the priest; and we know pretty well what that definition is. There is, however, a shaking amongst our Nonconformist dry bones. Its ministers are evidently desirous of shifting from their pro-slavery position, but they want to do so without the humiliating confession of previous sinful wrong-doing, of fallibility in knowledge and judgment. Copperheadism among Dissenters is now almost confined to Deacondom; a power which ministers do not like to come into collision with. Spurgeon is reported to have said, " The difference between the devil and a deacon is this-resist the devil, and he will fly from you; resist a deacon, and be will fly at you."
It is difficult to conceive the cause of the corruption of our members of Parliament upon the American question. The late Thomas Duncombe, who sat in the House of Commons between thirty and forty years, and who voted for the abolition of our own colonial slavery, sent for me a short time before his death, and said, " Good God! Farmer, what is the cause of the fearful apostacy amongst members of the House of Commons on the anti-slavery question? I scarcely meet with a fellow who is not rotten upon the subject; many of them positively give their sympathies to the infernal slaveholders. We shall actually have to begin, and teach the first principles of anti-slavery again. We must do something to counteract this dreadful and dangerous state of things." Death soon afterwards removed that noble man to another sphere, otherwise he would bare rendered us powerful aid in bringing about that change of opinion which has since been effected, and which will yet be more fully completed.
And now for the more specific topic for which I took op my pen. Every great movement has one man who is pre-eminently its representative or embodiment. In the anti-slavery cause in Great Britain, that man is par excellence GEORGE THOMPSON It is with mingled feelings of sorrow and satisfaction that I find we are about to lose, and you to gain him. His services may be regarded as the property of the two countries; bat when he has left us, as an Englishman I shall almost be ready to take up the complaint of Job-" Neither is there any day's-man betwixt us, that might lay his hand upon us both." Perhaps his anti-slavery labors here are over, for the danger of British recognition of the South is past. American bullets will complete the conversion which the Emancipation Society, however invaluable its services, could not fully effect. It is fitting, no doubt, that a man who has fought so long and so nobly in the anti-slavery conflict should share in the triumph;, and be present at the jubilate which I feel you will be called upon to celebrate on a not far distant day. The present, perhaps, is an appropriate occasion to do what hat never yet fully been done, namely, to give a sketch of the public services of Mr. Thompson. It has been suggested to me by friends here, that I should take upon myself the task, inasmuch at no man has been more intimate with him in public labors and private friendship for twen-
<c05>
ty years. It may be objected that this is a work of supererogation, inasmuch as Mr. Thompson, at a recent soiree, gave a review of his past labors, a full report of which has been published in American papers. My answer is, that George Thompson is capable of doing full justice to every body but himself; the history of his public life aunt never be an autobiography. His aim in his recent speech was simply to defend himself against the charge of ever having been a hired advocate; he did not depict in its true colors his utter self-abnegation throughout his public life. No man has been more disinterested, and yet no man hat been more wantonly slandered, both here and in America.
Yours, very truly, W. FARMER.

FAREWELL SOIREE TO MR. GEO. THOMPSON.
[From the London Star of Jan. 18.]
At Radley's Hotel, on Saturday evening, a farewell soiree, held under the auspices of the Emancipation Society, was given to Mr. GEORGE TJHOMPSON, who will sail for the United States on Saturday next. There was a numerous attendance both of ladies and gentlemen, and the proceedings were of a very interesting character. WILLIAM EVANS, Esq., the chairman of the society, presided. Among the gentlemen who were present were the following:-M. Victor Schoelcher; Judge Winter, of Georgia; the Hon. F. H. Morse, the American Consul; Mr. Edmond Beales, of Lincoln's Inn; the Rev. Dr. Massie, the Rev. J. C. Galloway, M. A.; Mr. Henry Vincent; Mr. Washington Wilks; Dr. Tomkins, of the Temple; the Rev. Seila Martin; Mr. M. D. Conway of Virginia; the Rev. J. Long, of Calcutta; Mr. G. J. Holyoake; Mr. W. Shaen, M. A.; the Rev. Dr. Johnstone; Mr. L. A. Chamerovzow, Secretary of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society; Mr. R. Hill, of Bedford; Mr. Mason Jones; Mr. John Williams; Mr. W. T. Mallison, Treasurer, and Mr. F. W. Chesson, Hon. Secretary of the Emancipation Society; and Messrs. W. Tweedie.G. Newman, W. E. Comer, R. Moore, D. M'Donnell, C. H. Elt, J. M'Carthy, G. Dornbusch, W. Farmer, and R. Smith. 
Mr. F. W. CHESSON, the Hon. Secretary, read the following letters:-
FROM JOHN BRIGHT, M. P.
ROCHDALE, Jan. 14. 
DEAR SIR, -I cannot be in London on Saturday, and cannot, therefore, be present at the proposed farewell meeting to Mr. Thompson. I should like to shake hint by the hand, and to give him my good wishes before be sails for the United Stales.
I remember his visit to this town, thirty years ago, on his mission on behalf of the slave in the English colonies. I remember his speech, and the effect it produced upon me. I have heard as many speeches as most men since then, in and out of Parliament; but I have never since heard a speech so moving in its eloquence and so grand in its object as that which be delivered in this town. I hare always considered Mr Thompson as the real liberator of the slaves in the English colonies; for without his commanding eloquence made irresistible by the blessedness of his cause, I do not think all the other agencies then at work would have procured their freedom.
And now, thirty years later, Mr. Thompson will have the opportunity of seeing with his own eyes the process of liberation in American-not a peaceable process as ours was, because with us slaves were comparatively few, and the power of the slave-owners small, but liberation through the process of a desperate war, intended by the slave-owners to make slavery perpetual. Whilst be will grieve over the calamities of the war, he will look through them to the establishment of freedom over the whole of the North American continent, and he may see in the not distant future the abolition of slavery in Cuba and in Brazil; for I am persuaded that when the United States are free from slavery as England is, the united opinion of the two nations will do much to destroy the evil in every professing Christian country.
I have not spoken of Mr. Thompson's labors is other causes besides that of the destruction of slavery- they are known to most of those who will be with you on Saturday evening. I can say honestly, and I say it with pleasure, that, during the last thirty years, there has been no movement on behalf of any good cause and there has been no victory in this country to freedom and the people, in which Ac has not borne an honorable part.
I wish him all success in everything to which he may devote himself, and that be may witness snore and more the growth and the fruit of the gnat principles which he has done so much to impress upon the minds of men.
Regretting much that I cannot be with you, I am, very truly yours,
(Signed) JOHN BRIGHT.
F. W. CHESSON, Esq.
FROM MR. F. A. TAYLOR, M. F.
19, ALDERMANBURY, Jan. 12.
DEAR SIR, -I am sorry that another engagement will prevent my being present at the meeting to bid farewell to Mr. George Thompson. I have known him for a quarter of a century, and always energetic and able on the right side. The Emancipation Society are dearly much indebted to him for his valuable assistance, given without cost to them.
But what is more, humanity is indebted to him for services rendered to the cause of abolition in America, when social obloquy and personal danger bad to be Incurred for the truth's sake. In England it is easy to profess emancipation principles:-two years ago, one would have thought it difficult to maintain the other side.
Mr. Thompson win be welcomed is be ought to be on the other side of the Atlantic by the abolition party. May that party speedily include the whole of re-united America!
(Signed) P. A. TAYLOR.
FROM PROFESSOR GOLDWIN SMITH.
OXFORD, Jan. 4.
Mr DEAR SIR:-My engagements, I am sorry to say, place it quite out of my power to attend the farewell soiree to he given to Mr. George Thompson on Saturday next.
Pray express my regret to Mr. Thompson, and present to bin my sincere thanks for his generous and valuable services to our cause. They will, I am sure, be deeply appreciated and remembered with gratitude by all to whom the cause is dear.
Believe me, my dear sir, years very truly,
(Signed) GOLD WIN SMITH .
FROM PROFESSOR CAIRNES.
74, Lower Mount street, DUBLIN, Jan. 13.
DEAR SIR: -I regret greatly that it will not be in my power to be present at the entertainment to be given to Mr. Thompson. Allow ma. however, to express my sense of the in valuable services which he has rendered to the cause represented by the Emancipation Society-services which have not yet been adequately recognized, and which, in my opinion, richly merit the tribute of admiration and respect which it is proposed to bestow.
(Signed) J. E. CAIRNES.
Letters to the same effect were also received from B. Scott, Esq., Chamberlain, of London; Mr. a Lucas, Serjeant Parry, Professor Newman, Mr. Wiliam Hargreaves, Rev. F. Bishop, Chesterfield; Mr. E. Ashworth Briggs, Daventry; Dr. Waddiagton, Mr. Harper Twelve trees, Herr Karl Blind, Mr. Edward
<c06>
Miall, professor Bessley, Mr. J. Cunnington, Brent-ford; Mr. T. Emery, Leicester; Mr. C. S Miall, Mr. William Duthie, Mr. J. A. Partridge, Birmingham; Mr. Joseph Cooper, Mr. R. D. Webb, Dublin; the Rev. Dr. Burns, and many others.
The Hon. secretary then read the address, from which we make the following extracts:-to george thompson, esq. "You have twice visited the United states in the service of negro emancipation- a cause dear to freedom and philanthropy. On your first visit, nearly thirty years ago, you were attended by the admiration and good wishes of a vast majority of your countrymen, rejoicing in that great triumph of justice and humanity-the abolition of British colonial slavery- which your ardent eloquence had immensely aided. At the time of your second visit fifteen years later, you were the representative in the. House of Commons of one of the largest of English constituencies-a dignity conferred upon you with unexampled enthusiasm in recognition of your labors for every form of freedom and progress. To have since received abundant evidence that the heart of your old constitutionents and of the British people is faithful to the principle of Universal freedom-faithful to the claims of he negro to be regarded as a man and a brother- faithful to the champions of his cause-and faithful to be Government that has dared to incur the utmost perils which can threaten a commonwealth, rather than abandon the enslaved to perpetual to perpetual bondage and degradation. Now, on the eve of your third voyage in the track of the Pilgrim Fathers, we bid you God speed to the great and goodly land which they opened up to the adventures and hopes of humanity-we bid you God speed as a fellow-laborer, beloved and honored-and we charge you with a message of friendship, congratulation and encouragement to our brethren of the American Republic.
It is as members and friends of the London Emancipation Society we offer you these words of temporary farewell. Associated together at a crisis the history of both countries-organised for the special purpose of informing the British public, and of comforting with their sympathy our American kinsmen-we owe more to you than to any other man of our number. With unwearied seal, with unfailing eloquence, with a perfect knowledge of the great theme, with unequalled powers of instruction and persuasion, you have toiled with us and with kindred associations at a sacrifice of health and comfort which demands our cordial gratitude. We are glad to be able to spare you-as we could not have done twelve months since. Then there was widespread error as to the issues involved in that great civil war, which we knew to be the death struggle of the slave power. Though not to a moment did the heart of the British people hesitate between the negro and his master, there was much hesitation to believe the Government and loyal people of the United States engaged in a war of emancipation Happily, it is so no longer. Events have proved stronger than the strongest prejudices and doubts. But among those events we rank high the speeches by which acts of legislation and of war have been interpreted. Words are deeds, when bravely spoken in the right cause at the right moment. Such words have been yours. They have been sharp to convince and strong to move. They have greatly helped to set the mind and heart of England, wholly and firmly, on the side of the free States fighting for freedom-on the side, of Abraham Lincoln, the first President of the American Republic, who has ruled in the spirit of the American Declaration-'All men are by nature free and equal.'
Tell him, we pray you, that the people of England honor him for the wisdom, the courage, and the constancy he has displayed-that they thank the God who has raised him up to deliver an oppressed people and to purify a polluted common wealth. Tell Mr. Seward and the statesmen of the Republic mat England will honor them in proportion as they are faithful to the Proclamation of Freedom. Tell the Sumners and Greeleys to preach by tongue and pen continually, that England will be the firm of America through whatever misunderstanding or estrangement may arise. Above all, tell Garrison and Phillips, the New England abolitionists-the old guard of the emancipation army-that the mother country holds their services in the warmest remembrance, as the very worthiest offspring of our common ancestry. These messages you will be free to speak. At your first going to America, even Boston refused you a hearing. At your second, New York was unprepared to receive you. Now, Washington itself will give you a welcome. The Republic will hail you as a faithful friend. We confide you to its keeping. We pray God to guard you by His providence. We shall look far your retard, hearing the trophies of happy victory in a holy war-the glad tidings that the Union has been restored, slavery utterly abolished, peace and freedom ruling securely over all the vast domain which oppression tried to wrest by civil war from the possession or the hopes of civilized mankind. In the hope that you will return thus rewarded for the labor and perils of your anti-slavery career, we bid you an affection-ate farewell."
The CHAIRMAN, in an enquent speech, expressed his strong feelings of sympathy with the objects of the meeting, and said that there were many gentle men in the room who were better able man himself to give a due estimate of the value of Mr. Thompson's public services. He could testify from a recent visit to the United States, to the enormous change which had taken place in public feeling on the question of emancipation. This he illustrated by a reference to a visit which he paid to an extensive camp of negro soldiers near Philadelphia; and he remarked, as an interesting coincidence, that in one of the houses overlooking the camp, Charles Sumner for a long time lay prostrate, and, as it was thought, dying from the effects of the ruffianly assault upon him in the Senate Chamber at Washington. In conclusion he anticipated for Mr. Thompson a hearty reception on his return to the United States, (Land cheers.)
Mr. HENRY VINCENT, who was received with warm applause, rose to move the address to Mr. Thompson. He said that the document just read was couched, not in the language of flattery, but of earnest admiration, and remarked that it recalled to his memory the period of his when, with other young men enamored of great principles, he marked through the streets of Hull to listen to that worthy man-(hear, hear)-who raised them to a loftier hope, and led them to swell that tide of public opinion, by which not only the Reform Bill was earned, but slavery overthrown is our colonies. (Applause) He reminded the meeting how George Thompson had devoted himself year by year to the discussion of the slavery question; how he had helped to educate the people of England in those first principles of justice which had left its mark amongst us, not withstanding the shameful degeneracy of later days-that sentiment which had enabled us to stand by the glorious North American Republic in its present struggle (applause); and avowed that, for his own part, he could not visit a town, or enter a public meeting, without finding among those whom he might fairly term the disciples of George Thompson, dear old faces with their brows frosted with age, surrounded by troops of young fellows who had drunk in the tame principles. (Cheers) It would be strange, now that our good friend was about to leave, us, to visit the land where a conflict was raging far more intense than any which had raged in this country since our civil wars, if we did not earnestly grasp his hand, thank him for the good he had done in the past, thank him for what he was doing now, and earnestly wish him is the land of conflict such strength and such wisdom as might enable him still further to serve
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
" I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that, under that States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OFTHE SLAVES. . . From-the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. . . . It is a was power. I my it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." -J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
the same noble cause. (Cheers.) Remarking further on the cheering prospects of the anti-slavery cause in America at the present time, and the splendid gifts which Mr. Thompson had brought to bear in behalf of its principles, he expressed a confident hope that the American people would extend to him the ready hospitality of a great and a free people. “George Thompson," he said, addressing that gentleman, in conclusion, “as one who has known you long, I wish you God speed in your visit across the Atlantic." (Cheers.) 
M.VICTOR SCHOECHER was next called on by the chairman, announced to have been Under Minister of Marine, during the Provisional Government of France in 1848, and to have been the statesman by whose means emancipation was originated and carried out in the French colonies. The speaker very cordially supported the address, remarking that no man deserved the honor better than Mr. Thompson, whose services in the cause of emancipation had acquired for him not only an English, but a French and Continental reputation.
The Hon. F. H. MORSE, the American Consul in London, in cordial terms expressed his gratification at as an American at being present on the occasion, and tendered his good wishes to the guest of the evening.
The Rev. SELLA MARTIN, whom the chairman complimented as the eloquent representative of the colored race, said that many of the slaves, even in the land of bondage, were familiar with the name of their honored guest, and felt the gratitude which only a slave can feel for his efforts to effect their liberation. (Cheers.)
Mr. M. D. CONWAY, of Virginia, supported the motion in a speech of some length, and remarked on the denunciative language which he had heard directed against Mr. Thompson in his native State. He trusted that all men in all countries, who advocated the cause of liberty and progress, would be drawn closer together, and thus, by simultaneous cooperation, advance the great principles which they had at heart. (Applause.)
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON, who was received with great enthusiasm, then addressed the meeting in reply. 
Expressing his sincere thanks for the kindness done him, and the difficulty he felt in adequately acknowledging his obligation, he intimated the pleasure he experienced at finding the address supported by Mr. Henry Vincent and M. Victor Schoelcher, whom he thanked for their presence to speak a kind word for him. Tendering his sincere thanks also to the other gentlemen, individually, who had supported the address, he went on to contrast the situation of America in respect to the slavery question on his former visit with that it exhibited at the present time. He described how, twenty-nine years ago, in the city of Boston, conspiracies were set on foot for his destruction; how he found a gallows fixed at his door as a hint of the fate to which the great majority of the people of the State wished to bring him; and how, at the same time, he received many illustrations of the kindness entertained towards him by the negroes. He said that, during his first visit to Boston, he accidentally discovered that a large body of negroes had been organized for his protection, and that wherever he went, he was guarded by these men, who thus gave a bright example of negro gratitude and devotion. (Cheers.) He went to America now properly on private business, but happy, at the same time, to have the opportunity to witness the altered state of things in that country; and he hoped as he was present when the cradle of the revolution was rocked, or rather when the abolition principle was, for the first time, borne in the way of open utterance, he might be privileged to see that principle triumphant, and slavery overthrown while he was there. (Cheers.) Dwelling on the greatly ameliorated condition of the negro, especially in the New England States, he said that, in the State of Massachusetts, there was not now a common school which was not as freely open to the child of black parents as to the palest and most aristocratic offspring of the white race. (Cheers.)
Having detailed many experiences of anti-slavery agitation in America, he noticed the observations which had been made upon the reception which he would now meet under the altered circumstances of that country. It was not his reception in Boston or Washington of which he thought; but it was that he should once again see the faces of those whom he once met in the dark hours of the conflict—that he should once again meet GARRISON and PHILLIPS, and the select few among the men and women of America with whom he had co-operated in those days, and with them celebrate the approaching triumph. (Loud cheers.) While expressing his feelings of attachment towards America, he said that he loved his own country better; and concluded a lengthened address by bidding his friends an affectionate farewell, amidst reiterated cheers.
The Rev. Dr. MASSIE and Mr. MASON JONES afterwards addressed the meeting; and the usual acknowledgment to the chair brought the proceedings to a close. 
FAREWELL TO MR. GEORGE THOMPSON. 
[From the Manchester Examiner and Times of Jan. 22.] 
Yesterday, a socree was held in the large room of the Manchester Town Hall, on the occasion of a farewell address being presented to Mr. George Thompson, the well-known advocate of free trade, reform, and negro emancipation, on his leaving England for the United States of America. After tea and coffee had been served, Mr. George Wilson took the chair. Amongst the company were Messrs. Ernest Jones, Councilors Thompson and Butterworth, John Noble, Dr. Watts, T. Roberts, T. H. Barker, J. Etscourt, J. R. Cooper, Robert Cooper, Captain Chester, a colored gentleman; Thos. Clegg, Rev. J. C. Street, M. Kyllman, J. C. Edwards, H. O. Greening, John Glasebrook, J. H. Rapper, Dr. Pankhurst, W. War burton, D. Macrae, and S. P. Robinson.
The CHAIRMAN, on rising to open the proceedings of the evening, was greeted with loud cheers. He said, for many years the opinion which he had entertained of the public services of Mr. Thompson had placed that gentleman in his (the chairman's) estimation, in the large amount of services which he had contributed to the interests of humanity, in the very front rank of living men. (Applause.) The connection of Mr. Thompson with the abolition of West India slavery was known to all. (Cheers.) Sometimes we were apt to forget the labors of the men who long ago commenced the war against slavery, while we were in the enjoyment of the fruits of those labors in the present day. If it was true that we awarded praise to the man in any capacity of life who rescued a single lost individual, and placed him again in society, our thanks were due in a tenfold degree to that man who had enabled us by his abilities to clear away the foul reproach which rested upon England, and make her laws consistent with the highest laws of humanity and justice. (Cheers.) He knew and heard Mr. Thompson when he delivered his first speech in the Friends' Meeting House, and afterwards he heard Mr. Thompson's speech in the Irwell street Chapel; and he believed that not one who heard him on either of those occasions, owing to the instruction he imparted, would now be found in any way favoring or conniving at slavery in the Southern States of America. (Applause.) Then again, Mr. Thompson was connected with him (the chairman) in the agitation for the repeal of the corn laws. (Loud applause.) In connection with these and other great and good causes. Mr. Thompson had passed his life. It had been his (the chairman's) desire to see Mr. Thompson engaged again in another great movement in this country. When the present parliament was elected, there was a great promise given which was yet unfulfilled. (Hear.) But Mr. Thompson had made up his mind to go to America, where he would be received with cordial welcome by thousands. Mr. Thompson had made the homes of many people bright by his efforts; he hoped Mr. Thompson's future home would be a bright one, too; and that all the blessings which Providence might have in store for the man who deserved them, as he did, would served, as he did, would be his present and final reward. (Cheers.) 
[Mr. BARKER then read the felicitous and complimentary address to Mr. Thompson, which was published in last week's Liberator.]
Mr. ERNEST JONES said the occasion was in some respects gratifying, and in others melancholy. It was gratifying to see the long-tried and honored champion of political and commercial liberty going with good hope and heart to carry on his holy mission in another part of the world. It was melancholy and painful to learn that there was to be a long parting with their honored friend. (Cheers.) His influence here would, however, not be terminated by his departure. (Cheers.) The seeds he had sown would put forth fruit. If there was one thing above all others which was the most holy, it was to do justice to the oppressed, and to advocate his cause under every
<c02>
disadvantage, difficulty, or danger. This Mr. Thompson had done, and he had done not only a service to the oppressed, but to humanity at large. (Cheers.) If the intellect of the negro race was not now so elevated as that of the whites, yet that race was part of humanity—humanity lying fellow, to bear glorious fruit of civilization and intelligence in the coming time. (Cheers.) It was for the Anglo-Saxon race, as the torch-bearers of the present, to brighten the pathway in the future. (Cheers.) Another consolation at parting was that Mr. Thompson went as an ambassador of peace to the other side of the Atlantic not the ambassador of courts or cabinets, accredited by diplomatic parchment, but with the sign manual of the goodness and virtue of the people, seeking to form a treaty of mutual recognition and alliance with the people of another nation.
Mr. Councillor THOMPSON, in seconding the adoption of the address, said it was notorious that the old hunter liked to be in at the death-(cheers;) therefore, they should not wonder over much at Mr. Thompson’s desire to end his days in America. They would have their friend rejoicing in the glorious consummation of liberty one of these days; and when liberty was achieved in the United States, slavery was doomed the world over. (Cheers.)
Mr. ESTCOURT, in supporting the motion, lamented that Mr. Thompson should have to go abroad to spend his declining years. Dr. PANKHURST, said it was becoming that the recruit should salute the thirty years tried veteran. (Cheers.) When the end of the conflict was approaching, it might be believed that the event would be signaled by the greatest and proudest triumph over the worst and most malignant vices. It was felt that slavery had everywhere received its death-blow. (Hear.) Liberty had received another security for perpetual existence among mankind. And when the active scenes of to-day should have become a part of history, immortal honor would rest upon the heads of those who preferred to ease and comfort the integrity of their nation and the good of mankind. (Cheers.) In that day the guest of this evening would not be unremembered for his services. (Cheers.) When the masses of the people of the two nations had a fair knowledge of the circumstances of each other's position, and a fair understanding of each other's motives, war was an absolute impossibility between America and England. 
(Cheers.) If that were the case, whosoever, by information, argument, and advocacy, could dispel delusions, remove misconceptions, and bring in enlightenment and truth, might indeed be regarded as an ambassador from the court of peace. (Cheers.)
The Rev. J. C. STREET said Mr. Thompson's name had been largely associated with the great question of the freedom of the black race—a race which had done so great a work for the world, and which the world seemed to have forgotten—a race which in past times stood foremost in civilization and in thought, and had left us legacies which we would not let perish. (Cheers.) In the tidal roll of great events this race of men seemed to have been thrown back for a while, and the strong men of muscle and of power had stood forward and tried to crush them. But in that black humanity was a sterling strength, God-given, out of which would come higher manifestations of true power than had yet been seen. And it was something to the honor of a man like Mr. Thompson to have detected this truth, and devoted his life to proclaim it and help its realization.. Kindred to that great question, as all great questions were kindred, was that of equal liberty and rights among all peoples. And no voice in all this country, not even excepting one man, whose name he (Mr. Street) never pronounced but with profound reverence—the name of John Bright—(great cheering,) no voice had been more eloquent than the voice of George Thompson in behalf of equal civil liberty among all classes. (Cheers.)
Dr. J. WATTS spoke of his personal indebtedness to Mr. Thompson for his earnest teaching of the great truths that should guide public men and measures. There was a greater work before Mr. Thompson in America than any he had yet accomplished, for the clouds were breaking, the morning star was appearing, and the light of freedom was dawning in the Northern States. That great work would be to reconcile the white and black races, so that they could shake hands as brothers, and feel that they were in every sense equal. (Cheers.) And no man was more fit for this work than George Thompson, for he had been the friend of the negro from his youth, and yet was no partisan. Of Mr. Thompson it might be said that he never set his hand to a bad cause, and never turned his back upon a good one. (Hear.) It was a shame that such a man should have to leave his country. (Hear.)
The motion having been put to the meeting, the address was adopted unanimously, and with great applause.
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON, on rising to reply, was greeted with much applause, the audience rising and prolonging their demonstration. He spoke with considerable emotion of his long and intimate friendship with thousands in this country. Admitting the defects of our constitution and administration, he said: “England, with all thy faults, I love thee still." His conscience told him that he had never been false to his principles or to truth; neither had he ever bargained his services to any party or person. (Cheers.) It was no slight wrench to part from a loved land and a dear home, however humble. But his hands were clean, and this was a proud satisfaction. He was going to America to do something to keep the wolf from the door. He did not go a disappointed man, nor reflecting upon his country; but in order to obtain a wider sphere of usefulness. It was no slight affliction to leave old England, and he should drag with him a lengthening chain wherever he travelled. He left behind him four children and a dozen grandchildren, all of whom he loved, and some of whom were now present. (Cheers.) He hoped his friends would exemplify the Christian virtue of remembering the widow and the fatherless. He left a country that he loved, for he had seen no better; and though he was going to the land of the Amazon and the Mississippi, he should remember with far greater affection our not very pellucid Irwell. (Hear and laughter.) He also left a sovereign whom he loved. (Hear.) The force that drew him to America was not the expectation of an ovation, but the desire to meet again and labor with the pioneers in the glorious cause of emancipation. (Cheers.) America had long been recreant to the great principle of her Declaration—that God had created men free and equal, and had endowed them with an inalienable right to liberty—but the cause of human freedom was again paramount in that country. From his earliest youth his sympathies were strongly excited on behalf of the oppressed negro race. The feelings aroused by the poems of Cowper were deepened by the stories told him by his father of what he had seen when captain's clerk on board a slave ship trading between Africa and America. These feelings were increased still more by the speeches he had heard as a boy in Freemasons' Hall, London—the dulcet tones of Wilberforce and the magnificent oratory of the now deceased Henry Brougham—(sensation)—for Henry Brougham was no more, he died ere he tarnished the brightness of that diadem with which he was before time checked. (Cheers.) Mr. Thompson gave a sketch of his early career as a public speaker in the anti-slavery cause, and described his first visit to Manchester nearly thirty years since. When he alighted from the coach at the Royal Hotel, he was met by many venerable Christian men, whose names were still cherished in Manchester, including the late Isaac Crewdson and his brother Joseph, Peter Clare, and many others. They went together to the Friends Meeting House, where he delivered his first speech in Manchester. From that time his public life had been in the cause of human freedom. He was for freedom in everything, personal, religions, and political, restrained only by the laws of justice and of truth; and his labors had brought him a rich reward. In the course of those labors he had learned the foul injustice that was done to the negro race, as injustice was done politically to the working classes of this country, and his sense of this injustice to the negro was heightened by discovering the virtues of which the negro race was redolent. They had a noble specimen of that race on the platform, and he represented four millions and a quarter of the human race, dwelling upon the continent of America, who but yesterday were considered only fit to be personal chattels in the hands of their masters. How it intensified the evils of slavery to think that it condemned four millions of the human race, having souls like ourselves, to the level of creeping things and four footed beasts, that it, in a word, uncreated them, and called them “things," selling them on the auction-block like any description of merchandise. (Hear.) Mr. Thompson contrasted the present anti-slavery feeling in America with the detestation of the doctrine 30 years ago, when the Manchester Town Hall would have contained all the abolitionists of Massachusetts. What marvellous change had occurred! The whole public sentiment was revolutionized. At that time he was denounced as not worthy to live; now the Governor of the State (Mr. Andrew) was as ardent an
<c03>
abolitionist as Wm. Lloyd Garrison himself, and presided over the meeting that denounced the murder of the martyr, John Brown. (Cheers.) Adverting to the question of reform in England, Mr. Thompson said he had no apprehension that it would be much longer delayed. He felt that the cause of reform was progressing and would progress, not only in England, but everywhere. (Cheers.) Mr. Thompson concluded by wishing his friends an affectionate farewell.
Mr. J. GLAZEBROOK and Mr. W. PATTEN then presented an address to Mr. Thompson, on behalf of the Union and Emancipation Society of Ashton-under-Lyne. The address noticed Mr. Thompson's unabated and zealous advocacy of the great principles of political and social reform; his labors to free commerce from its shackles, and secure a suitable administration for India; his eloquent addresses in parliament and throughout the country on behalf of liberty, philanthropy, and the rights of labor; and, above all, his efforts to annihilate the heinous and cruel practice of slavery. The address concluded with good wishes for his well-being in America—" the future refuge of the liberties of mankind." It was signed by the Mayor of Ashton, and many of the leading inhabitants.
 Mr. THOMPSON, in reply, said he received with the deepest gratitude the address presented. He should carry away with him many vivid scenes he had witnessed in Ashton-under-Lyne, and the most vivid would be the last be attended at the Town Hall there.
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12,1864.
WELCOME TO AMERICA!
We have now the privilege of making the gratifying announcement to our readers, that our eloquent co-laborer for more than thirty years, GEORGE THOMPSON, of England, arrived in the steamer Arabia, on Saturday, from Liverpool. The passage across occupied just fourteen days, which, at this usually boisterous and inclement season of the year, was a very good one. Mr. Thompson was so fortunate as not to experience even momentary sea-sickness, and finds himself in better condition as to health and spirits than when he started. Though thirteen years have elapsed since his former visit, time has scarcely made any perceptible change in his appearance, notwithstanding the severe illness and paralyzed condition of his system which followed his residence in India, and put his life in so much peril on his return home. May the period of his public usefulness be yet greatly prolonged, and his days many on the earth!
Mr. Thompson has not come to America for the purpose of entering the lecturing field; but, primarily and mainly, with reference to business affairs; yet we doubt not he will be desirous of responding, as far as time and strength will allow, to the many invitations that will be extended to him in various parts of the country. 
His first appearance will be at Music Hall, on Tuesday evening next, to deliver his promised lecture before the Parker Fraternity Association, in which he will show the popular sentiment of England in relation to America and the rebellion. There will, of course, be a great demand for single admission tickets in addition to those of the regular course, and a crowded audience may be confidently anticipated.
A GRAND RECEPTION MEETING, in special recognition of the eminent services rendered by him to our country in England, since the rebellion broke out, will be given to Mr. Thompson in Music Hall, on Tuesday evening, February 23d, under such auspices, it is believed, as will be creditable to Boston and the Commonwealth. Should the state of his health be such as to enable him to do so, it is hoped and anticipated that the chair will be filled by Governor. Andrew on the occasion, who is too familiar with the philanthropic and liberty-loving efforts of Mr. Thompson, on both sides of the Atlantic, and who entertains for Mr. T. too high a regard, to need any urging to give his countenance and presence to such a testimonial. Next week we shall be able to give all the details respecting it.
Our readers will peruse with interest and pleasure the proceedings of the soirees given in honor of Mr. Thompson in London and Manchester, prior to his departure for America, to which we devote several columns. The tributes bestowed upon him, by those who were absent as well as present, were eminently merited, and of an exalted character. We call particular attention to what John Bright,—so widely known and honored,—says of Mr. Thompson's services and labors in the cause of West India emancipation, and the reform movements in England:-
“I have always considered Mr. Thompson at the real liberator of the slaves in the English colonies; for without his commanding eloquence, made irresistible by the blessedness of his cause, I do not think all the other agencies then at work would have procured their freedom."
And again:—
"I can say honestly, and I say it with pleasure, that, during the last thirty years, there has been no movement on behalf of any good cause, and there has been no victory in this country to freedom and the people, in which he has not borne an honorable part."
“This is a splendid tribute indeed, from one who carefully weighs his words, and who is not a dealer in panegyric. It was from 1830 to 1834 that the electric flame of British humanity was kindled so intensely as to melt the fetters of the West India bondmen; and, unquestionably, this was mainly owing, as Mr. Bright says, to “the commanding eloquence" of George Thompson, “made irresistible by the blessedness of his cause," throughout the kingdom at that time. It was then we became personally acquainted with him, during our first visit to England, and obtained from him the pledge that, after seeing his work accomplished in the overthrow of colonial slavery, he would devote himself to the task of breaking the fetters of the millions of bondmen in America. He nobly redeemed that pledge; but, grossly misunderstood and basely calumniated, he was treated, on his arrival in 1834, as an enemy rather than as a benefactor, and ultimately driven by murderous violence from the country. Thank God, those days of darkness and horror are past, and a general disposition is cherished to show respect and honor to the man once so maligned and hunted in Freedom's cause. Here is a pleasing illustration of the mighty change which has taken place in public sentiment.
Hon. John Z. Goodrich,. Collector of this port, an intimate friend and an old associate of Col. Taylor in Congress, gave a complimentary levee in his behalf at the United States Hotel on Wednesday evening. Some two thousand invitations were issued, and full one-half of this number must have been present. Included among them were Hon. Edward Everett, Ex-Gov. Washburn, Mayor Lincoln, and many members of the Legislature and city government, and several other distinguished citizens. The reception took place in the spacious parlor of the hotel, where those present were severally introduced to Col. Taylor by Hon. Mr. Goodrich. The Journal says:-
During the evening, ex-Governor Wasburn made a few remarks, formally introducing Col. Taylor, who responded briefly, thanking his friends and the citizens of Boston and Massachusetts for the very generous welcome extended to him, and for the many manifestations of sympathy in behalf of the suffering patriots in Tennessee. At the conclusion of his remarks, nine hearty cheers were given for Col. Taylor.
At the invitation of Mr. Goodrich, his guests then repaired to the dining-room, where a sumptuous entertainment, which had been provided; was disposed of.
Subsequently there were remarks by various gentlemen, including a brief address by Mr. George Thompson, the celebrated English advocate of freedom, who has recently arrived in this country.
Mr. Thompson spoke of his great pleasure in having listened to one of America's most distinguished scholars and orators, and to the stirring Tennessee patriot in Faneuil Hall, in the afternoon, and having subsequently received an invitation to this place, he had come to offer his humble and sincere respect. Until within a few seconds, he said, he had no idea of speaking; but being called up on, he had consented to respond; and having no recollection of ever uttering a single unfriendly word to our Government, if he
<c04>
could not address them with eloquent lips, he could nevertheless speak to them with a clear conscience.
He thanked God he had lived to see the noble position America had taken, and he hoped in a few days to have an opportunity to speak more fully upon the state of affair in England, in relation to our great struggle with the rebellion. Three years ago, he said, owing to the gross misrepresentations of the press, and the lavish expenditures of money by those in the interest of the rebellion, there was a threatened danger of the English sentiment becoming perverted. He felt it a duty to devote himself to the work of this great and glorious republic; and while we here have been diligently engaged in fighting our battles, he had been fighting them as sincerely abroad. Ours in England, he said, has been a conflict of opinion, not of blood, and we have carried on our wordy war, and the result is that we have effectually spiked the guns of the adversary. We have brought cotton down to forty-two, and no buyers, and made Mason disgusted with our country; we have kept from entering the seas vessels built to prey upon the beautiful harbors and extended commerce of your country; we have succeeded in bringing the press to speak in tones of moderation; and more, and best of all, we have brought the masses of the honest, intelligent and virtuous people to sympathize with you. 
The name of your good President is never mentioned without exciting admiration. If, so long as he remained here, Mr. Thompson said, his humble voice could assist in bringing us out of our present troubles, it would afford him extreme pleasure; for it was his heart's desire and prayer that this war should soon cease, and that the sword drawn for liberty, justice and humanity be returned to its scabbard, and the principles of a free government forever vindicated. 
In concluding his remarks, Mr. Thompson made an eloquent allusion to George Washington as the founder of American Independence, and Abraham Lincoln, by his proclamation for the extermination of slavery, as the founder of American liberty. The address was frequently applauded, and at the close nine hearty cheers were given for the speaker.
Other addresses were made by Hon. Josiah Quincy, Jr., Hon. Charles Hudson, ex-Mayor Fay of Chelsea, Judge Russell, Nathaniel Richardson, Hon. John Z. Goodrich, and a son of Col. Taylor; and the guests separated at a late hour, after heartily cheering Col. Taylor and Mr. Goodrich.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
It appears that Major George L. Stearns, late Superintendent of the recruitment of colored troops in Tennessee, has felt obliged to resign that very important post. The only reason known for this withdrawal is the persistency of Secretary Stanton in treating him with such discourtesy as not only to injure his feelings, but to obstruct and thwart his movements in enlisting colored troops.
 Mr. Stearns, a gentleman of great administrative capacity as well as of great zeal in the service of the country, left a lucrative business to accept this office. He has neither received nor expected either pay or subsistence from the Government, bearing his own charges in everything but transportation. No person is better fitted to fill the important function in which he has been acting; he has met with distinguished success in it so far as his movements were left untrammelled; he desired nothing better than to be allowed to proceed in this work while the exigencies of the country required it; it would seem, therefore, that the indignities must have been great which have compelled him to withdraw.
Why is such a course of treatment pursued? The only answer I have heard to this question is, that we must take men as we find them, and that Mr. Stanton has the misfortune to be capricious, passionate, headstrong and obstinate. Let us suppose that this answer settles the matter as far as Mr. Stanton is concerned. But the further question arises—Does Mr. Lincoln choose to allow his officers to counteract and neutralize each other in this manner? Is he willing that his chief agent in the War Department should interfere to prevent the success of that policy of enlisting negroes as soldiers, which he has long since openly adopted as one efficient and indispensable means of success against the rebels?
There is much reason to suppose that Mr. Lincoln is willing to see discouragements, obstructions and delays thrown in the way of a thorough trial of the elevation of the negroes to the grade of soldier ship. By his own statement, military necessity and not justice was his reason for commencing this movement; and since its commencement, he has allowed all manner of opposition to be made to its successful working by, those officers of the army who shared the popular prejudice against the colored race. Thus, after this class of men had been invited to enlist as soldiers, and had answered that call with hearty enthusiasm, they were for a long time only employed as laborers. While they remained such, both these men and their officers were treated with contumely and insult by the officers and men of the white regiments adjoining them. When they were allowed to participate in the fighting for which they had enlisted, instead of receiving the indulgent consideration which prudence as well as kindness would dictate for raw recruits, they had the hardest and most hopeless duty of the veteran soldier assigned them; being not only- placed where David placed Uriah,” in the forefront of the hottest battle," but sent to attack the walls of impracticable fortifications, amply manned by the forces of the enemy, so that approach and attack were alike fatal, and alike hopeless. If they had shrunk from this self-sacrifice, the taunting cry would have been raised that the negro would not fight. They stood the test bravely, heroically, so as to extort a cry of admiration from the whole loyal country. And then, shame upon shame, when the paymaster came round, he offered them only a part of the regular soldiers' pay which had been promised at the time of their enlistment! 
Now, in connection with these permitted obstructions and discouragements of the policy of negro soldiership, look at the two following facts of recent and simultaneous occurrence.
After receiving obstruction, discouragement, discourtesy and non-performance of promises from the War Department, from time to time ever since he took this Superintendency of negro recruiting in Tennessee, Mr. Stearns is now obliged, by the continuance of this ill-treatment on the part of the Secretary, to relinquish it altogether, and to abandon one of the fields where colored soldiers are most accessible and most needed. At the same moment, the President orders a draft of two hundred thousand more white men, though great exertions in all the loyal States have failed to raise one-half of his former demand for three hundred thousand.
While hundreds of thousands of able-bodied black men in the South, now left without employment, are eagerly desirous to enlist, and are there inhabiting the very spots, and familiar with the very region where their services are needed, the recruiting of these men is diminished or discontinued; and this at the very time when a new call is made to compel unwilling whites, a thousand miles off, to leave their present occupations, and march as soldiers to the very points where the black men remain unemployed. 
The question then comes up—Can these things take place, is there the least probability that such a sequence of events should happen, but by the choice of the President, the Commander- in-Chief of the army—by his preference that black men should be kept out of the distinctions and rewards that in this case must accompany successful soldiership, and that the way may be left clear, after the rebellion is suppressed, either for his favorite scheme of expatriation of the colored people, or for the assignment to them, here, of some middle ground between slavery and freedom? I see no solution but this of the strange inconsistency that appears in the President's conduct. It is because the boy born in Kentucky, the man bred in Illinois, cannot bear to think of the black man as a free and equal citizen, that he prevents him from entering upon the career of a successful soldier, the first step to citizenship. No other theory will account for the facts.
The people are coming more and more clearly to see that the negro is our most efficient instrument, first to overthrow the rebellion by fighting, next to prevent the possibility of its return by standing as a free loyal citizen with his rights protected by the Government, on the very land formerly monopolized by the slaveholder. We want his alliance for both these purposes. We 
<c05>
want him attracted by the favorable attitude of the Government to stand and act as the determined opposer alike of rebellion and slavery. One word from the President, spoken into the right tone, would draw 
his powerful alliance to the nation's side, and annihilate at once the present and future hopes of the rebels. 
If Abraham Lincoln will not speak that word, will no heartily and vigorously pursue that policy, and require his subordinates to unite in it, the part of the people is to find some one who will.-C.K. W.
IMPORTANT PETITION TO CONGRESS.
The following is the form of a Petition adopted in compliance with a vote of the late Thirtieth Anniversary Meeting at Philadelphia, and which has been approved by leading anti-slavery persons of various parties and denominations. The subject is one of vital moment; and the exigencies of the time point to this action as absolutely necessary to a speedy, honorable, and safe conclusion of the war. We ask our friends and readers, one and all, to interest themselves and those around them in the immediate and extensive circulation of this Petition. It is so brief that it may readily be copied at the head of a letter sheet, or printed copies may be obtained by applying to either of the anti-slavery offices in Philadelphia, (106 North Tenth street,) New York., (48 Beckman street,) or Boston, (221 Washington street.) Let the action be prompt and vigorous. Those who have already signed the Loyal Women's Petition need not hesitate to sign this also, is the two, though in harmony, are not identical. Friends! let the word be Immediate! Not an hour is to be lost.
When the signing is completed, let the Petition be forwarded at once to some reliable member of Congress, or, if preferred, to one of the above named offices, where it will receive prompt attention.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned, citizens of————————,believing Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as is forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country.
MEN. WOMEN.
AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION.
The Supreme Court is now a source of anxiety. It may check the advance of freedom. We chafe under the provisions that make this court supreme, the highest judicial tribunal. We seek some way to evade in this danger. We ask an amendment to the Constitution. Would to God that we had it! Would that it stood to-day that our flag should never blush another hour above the slave! May the day soon come when the shadow of that (dear) flag consecrates forever to freedom the land on which it falls!
But they who desire ends must consider means. The question “how," recurs. How shall this amendment to the Constitution be made? Can the Congress make it? The Congress may propose it; but that is all. 
Can the President make it? The President may not touch the Constitution, save to lay his hand upon it and swear “to preserve, protect and defend it" as it is!
It can be amended in but one way. Three-fourths of the State Legislatures, or a popular majority in three is fourths of the States, must endorse any proposed amendment. There is no other way; And the moment we enter on this, we are set front to front with the Supreme Court which we sought to avoid. For what States are entitled to vote on this amendment? Shall South Carolina vote side by side with Massachusetts? 
The Supreme Court must decide. Nobody can hope for such an amendment to-day, unless we exclude certain States from the ballot. Nor can we exclude one State to-day without confronting the Supreme Court to-morrow.
We are told that we may care nothing about the status of certain States in the Union. but the whole question hinges upon that! We can advance hardly a step till we decide it. The trial by court must follow the trial by battle. 
Ah, it is so much more easy to criticise than to correct! It is so much more easy to fix our eyes on the longed- for harbor ying fair in view, and to call out to the pilot that he is not taking the shortest cut to port, than it is to find and follow the hidden channel, winding amidst currents and rocks and sands, by which the good ship must be brought in! 
From the beginning, we have been fettered and hindered by laws which yet it would be madness to break,. The laws of honor have bound as, when to break them would have given us victory for the time. The Constitution has bound usas, when at times there has been sore temptation to thrust it aside. To thrust it aside would be like scuttling our ship in mid-ocean to put out a fire in her hold. H. C. B. 
New Bedford, Feb. 3,1864.
FREE SPEECH IN NEW ORLEANS.
NEW ORLEANS, (La.) Jan. 23, 1864. FRIEND GARRISON—You will pardon me for the liberty I take in writing to you, not having the pleasure are of a personal acquaintance? but being a reader of the Liberator, and having always been a believer in the doctrines taught therein, and the great cause of human liberty, in which you have so long and so faithfully labored, I could not forbear calling your attention to our address, (a copy of which I herewith enclose,) delivered in this city on Saturday evening, 2d inst., before the Free State Union Association of New Orleans, by Dr. Dostie, who has long been a resident of this city. It shows what a great change has taken place here, and what rapid progress the truth is making in the South. Two years ago, any man giving utterance to such sentiments would have been hung to a lamp-post, or to the first tree by the way-side; but in this instance the speaker was not only listened to with the strictest attention, but was greeted with rounds of applause from the audience, who were mostly citizens of New Orleans. The Abolition-killers of the North will find new fields of labor opening before them.
I see that Judge Eastman of New Hampshire, who contracted to put down the Abolitionists in that State last year, has given it up as a hard job, and retired, although he told the people in his speech accepting the nomination that it must be done, or the country was ruined. The people of New Orleans, who have experienced all the blessings of the “Divine Institution," (as the Rev. Dr. Palmer taught them to regard it,) when free, and at liberty to express themselves relative thereto, do not think so highly of it. A majority of them would have banished it long ago, if they had the power, but they were ruled with a rod of iron by the Slave Power. They can now, for the first time in their lives, write, read, speak, think and believe what they choose without fear; and it is a luxury that they indulge in pretty freely. And while the common people are rejoicing over the destruction of slavery, and the prospect of the fullfall enjoyment of their own rights and privileges, the tyrants-are trembling with fear, knowing that “”the kingdom has passed from them." They begin to see their situation as it is. They feel guilty, knowing that “the spoil of the poor is in their houses," and that they have “used oppression and exercised robbery”—" vexed the poor and needy”—" oppressed the stranger wrongfully”—"decreed unrighteous decrees”—" turned aside the needy from judgment”—”taken away the right from the poor"—"robbed the fatherless”—" ground the faces of the poor”—" beat the people to pieces”—" bought the poor for silversliver, and the needy for a pair of shoes—" cast lots for the people”—"given a boy for a hariot, and sold a girl for wine that they might drink.” “Therefore terrors by reason of the sword are upon them."
Yours, for the truth, N. W. GOVE.
<c06>.
FREEDOM ADVANCING.
Florida returning to the Union on the basis of Freedom, and without a Slaves
At a public meeting in St. Augustine, Florida, Dec. 19, called by the leading men of that State, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:- 
Resolved, That the resumption of Federal relations in the Union, with such reforms of the late Constitution as will make future rebellion and secession impossible, is the first interest of Florida, and the first duty of the citizen.
Resolved, That among these reforms we recognise, as foremost in importance, that of recognizing the fact that ALL persons in the State are FREE, and providing, by fundamental laws, that slavery shall henceforth be prohibited.
The oath proposed to be administered to all who shall wish to take part in the work of readmission into the Union contains the following:-
"I, A. B., do solemnly swear,... that I will obey and observe all laws of Congress touching slavery and the conditions of slavery, and all proclamations of the President of the United States relating to the same subject, and that I will do what in me lies to induce all others within the circle of my influence to do the same."
A Committee of twelve was appointed to call the Convention. A similar movement is being made is Tennessee, in Arkansas, and in Maryland. A movement is on foot in Texas in the same direction. No decision of the Judiciary will ever stop these and other subjugated rebel, States from returning to the Union without a slave, and with a Constitution forever prohibitingslavery within their limits.
The bill already or soon to be before Congress provides—
"That the Constitution of the returning State shall not be repugnant to the President's Proclamation of Jan. 1, 1863."
The bill declares that the Convention called by any rebel State to form a Constitution “hall provide by an ordinance, forever irrevocable without the consent of Congress—that the freedom of all persons heretofore held to service or labor in such State, who shall here been declared free by act of Congress, or by proclamation of the President, shall be recognized and guaranteed by the Constitution":-"That from and after the adoption of said State Constitution, slavery, or involuntary servitude, expect for punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall be forever prohibited in said State."
The bill also provides—" That all laws, judicial decisions, or usages of said (returning ) State, which recognize or sustain slavery, or which exclude the testimony of colored persons, or which deny them the right of trial by jury, or punish persons who may teach them to read and write... shall be utterly void in the courts of the United States within said districts. That all persons held to service or labor in any rebel State shall be and they are hereby discharged from such service or labor, and they and their posterity shall be forever free; and if any such persons, or the posterity of any such persons, shall be deprived of their freedom under pretence of any claim to service or labor, the courts or judges of the United States shall, on habeas corpus, discharge such person."
One section provides “that if any person shall attempt to reduce to slavery any person thus made free under any pretence whatever, he shall be liable to a fine of from $1500 to $5000, and to imprisonment from five to twenty years."
Let this bill pass, and be signed by the President, and all fears of Rebel States returning to the Union with slaves vanish. Let the President fall back on the great principle of the democratic party, in regard to the decision of the Court, and he will support it as he can keep his pledge-i.e. “Each public officer who takes an oath to support the Constitution, means that he will support it as be understands it, and not as it is understood by others." [President Jackson's Message at the opening of the Twenty-Second Congress.]
Lincoln believes the proclamation perfectly constitutional. As a constitutional measure, he is pledged "never to retreat or modify the proclamation, nor return to slavery any person made free by the terms of the proclamation, or by any act of Congress." As President, he is pledged to carry out his own views of the Constitution, and not the views of the Court, should the Court decree the proclamation unconstitutional. The Union Leagues and the masses in all the loyal States will sustain him, in keeping his pledge to allow no person to be returned to slavery who is made free by the proclamation, and by the set of rebellion. The decisions of that imbecile and satanic court, over which that drivelling tool of slavery, Taney, presides, have been set at nought by the democratic party and democratic Presidents. It will be set at nought by Lincoln, I think, by the Union League, and by all the loyal masses, should it decree that proclamation unconstitutional, and seek to reenslave the millions made free by its terms. To this end let all friends of freedom work, work, WORK, one year longer—and then may all say—"IT IS FINISHED!"
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
LETTER FROM A. H. LOVE.
PHILADELPHIA, 2d mo.2d,1864
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR AND RESPECTED FRIEND,—Thy kind reference to my letter in thy editorial notes was unexpected, perhaps undeserved. I so love the cause that from my very sincerity I thank thee.
For one, I continue to be encouraged. I am just in receipt of a letter from a friend, for whom kind intercession procured a release from the iron hand of conscription, after he had been several months in the army of the Potomac, upholding by stoic endurance the testimony of non-resistance.. He says—"I was sent for to report to the Provost Marshal, and ascertained that Secretary Stanton had given an order for my release till called upon, merely requiring my parole of honor, styling me at the same time a member of the Society of Friends. I took occasion to inform him that I did not belong to that Society, and never pretended to be a member. ‘What, then, do you be long to?' he asked. I replied—'To no organization, religious or political. “What, then, are you!’ be inquired, in astonishment. I answered, “They call me a practical non-resistant.' He said,' A' They call me a practical non-resistant, eh! and are you ready to give your parole according to this order?" '‘Yes,' I replied, 'by affirmation’ And it was accordingly administered, and after some delay I was released." How these acts of our Government gladden my soul! and oh, the hope, indeed the confidence they inspire that all will yet go well!
The cords of true and generous sympathy vibrate in response to thy remarks in reply to our friend Wendell Phillips. Right nobly has thy charitable and generous spirit spoken unto America! I vote eye for the amendment, making the language “in danger of sacrificing." So does every one with whom I have conversed.
Wendell Phillips aims the shafts of his eloquences at the leaders of the people, whilst thy spirit goes forth to the people themselves, educating them to the right, the pure and the Christian, that they may demand it all of the head of the Government and the leaders of a party. This letter is the true course. Until we are willing to be led, no one can successfully lead. Let us give a cheer to the good work done, and thus encourage a better, and make our appeals for the best. Let us never close our hearts against the natural impulses of gratitude. There is cause for it in the efforts making for freedom and justice. In the Emancipation Proclamation—the Bureau for the Freedmen—the rights of the negro upon the military plane—the declaring of one- tenth of the inhabitants of the South who uphold the Government and espouse freedom as equivalent, indeed superior, to nine-tenths of those who are neither loyal nor Christian; a declaration tempered with magnanimous charity, and contemptuous but merited discrimination, from which I feel we have but little to fear. Conversions under such grading will be rapid. It required courage to
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FEBRUARY 12.
THE LIBERATOR 27
make this declaration. The strength came from a Higher Power. It demands, in this light, our gratitude and support, keeping a watchful eye that no <illegible> advantage shall be taken for slavery.
But, above all, we have cause for cheer in just such cases as I have presented, where true, loyal and conscientious men, who are Christians and cannot fight, are released from military duty by a generous Government, even in the midst of peril, with the clangor of arms on every side. It is truly noble, and all hail to this awakening of the conscience of the nation! We can see, even now, the dawn of a brighter day. Thus, whilst far from satisfied, I am cordially encouraged. I love to see room to grow, I love to see and to applaud the growth. Onward and upward are twin virtues-cheer and encouragement are their angels.
A hearty greeting to our noble coadjutor—indeed, inspired leader-George Thompson! Philadelphia unites with Boston in bidding him welcome to our shores, and may he witness whilst here the striking of the last fetter from the last slave! We all know he will never hesitate at any effort to accomplish it. May the moral force of the divine in man, directed by the Supreme Divinity, work on without fear or failure! I remain, thy sincere friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE.
THE DRAFT QUESTION.
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 7, 1864.
FRIEND GARRISON: The decided, manly and faithful testimony of ALFRED H. LOVE, as published in the Liberator of the 29th ult., is worthy of all commendation. HUMAN RIGHTS do not exist by virtue of the existence of HUMAN GOVERNMENTS, but HUMAN GOVERNMENTS exist by virtue of their faithfulness in securing HUMAN RIGHTS, truly understood; the RIGHT TO LIFE being paramount.
It is not a sectarian question; it is simply a question of yea or nay, whether “we ought to obey God rather than men.”
What Human Governments cannot do, in that they are weak, it is the divine mission of Christianity to accomplish, and thus to secure and perpetuate Human Rights, and establish: “glory to God in the highest; on earth peace, good-well to men.” This it will do; “and the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey Him.”
Respectfully,
JOHN WEST.
LETTERS OF MR. FARMER.
We publish, to-day, the first of a series of communications from the pen of Mr. WILLIAM FARMER, of London. The present one relates to the state of feeling in England during the last three years, in regard to the struggle which has been going on in this country between the North and the South, and graphically de-scribes the phases of opinion amongst the various classes of British society. The papers which will follow have reference to the public career of GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ., now upon our shores. Mr. Farmer is an accomplished stenographer, and during the last twenty years has been engaged, at intervals, in travel-ling with public men engaged in promoting parliamentary measures of reform, and reporting their speeches for the press. He was so occupied during the long agitation for the repeal of the Corn Laws. He was the special reporter of Mr. Thompson’s speeches while that gentleman was a member of the East India Company, and during the same period accompanied Mr. Thompson in several anti-slavery tours through the United Kingdom. He is well known to, and enjoys the friendship and confidence of, the person whose character and labors he has undertaken to sketch, and we can bear our own testimony to his intimate acquaintance with the affairs of this country, his zeal and fidelity in the anti-slavery cause, his appreciation of American institutions, and his desire to see peace restored upon the principles of universal liberty and perpetual union. Mr. Farmer is an active member of the Committee of the London Emancipation Society—an association which has contributed largely to the enlightenment and rectification of the popular sentiment in England.
BOOKS FOR THE CAMP FIRES. James Redpath, Boston, announces a series of ten cent Books for the Camp Fires, of a much higher class than the dime publications now in the market. They will contain from 96 to 124 pages; new type, good paper-“neatly bound in greenbacks” No.1 is-“On Picket Duty and Other Tales,” by Miss L.M. Alcott, whose Hospital Sketches has been one of the most popular books of the season. No. 2 is “Clotelle, a tale of the South,” with five fine illustrations. No. 3 is-“The Vendetta,” one of Balzac’s best tales, translated for the publisher. No. 4 is—Gulliver’s Travels in Lilliput. No 5 is Victor Hugo’s eloquent description of the Battle of Waterloo. Each number is complete in itself and unabridged. Ten cents sent to the publisher will se-care a specimen copy, postage paid, to any home or camp address- or fifty cents for the list above an-<illegible>. The five will all be published before the close of February. Address, Jas. Redpath, publisher, Boston.
"REDPATH'S BOOKS FOR CAMP FIRES,"No. 2, a Southern story by a loyal Southerner, is published. The Green Mountain Freeman says of this series: “They will not only prove most entertaining and captivating reading for camp fires, but home fires will be made all the more pleasant by their delightful presence.”
HARPER'S MAGAZINE for February is capitally made up, both in the variety and merits of its articles. The leading illustrated papers are “Simon Kenton,” a biography of a Kentucky frontiersman, and “Monomy” descriptive of a locality on Cape Cod. Other more noticeable articles are “A Historical Mystery,” The Siege of Louisburg,” ”On the Stage,” by Mrs. Kemble,” “Four Days at Gettysburg,” “A Gossip about Fires,” “Renan and his Book,” with a portrait—all interesting, readable, and in the best magazine style. There are several good stories, too, as usual. Sold by A. Williams & Co., Boston.
Our readers will please recollect that, in order to secure the publication of the proceedings of the late great Anniversary Meeting, in Philadelphia, of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, it is necessary to obtain subscriptions in its behalf, and it is considered best to have these subscription made for copies of the pamphlet, at cost; which we believe will not exceed thirty-five cents per copy, or say, three copies for one dollar. Subscriptions may be sent to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston; or to OLIVER JOHNSON, 48 Beekman street, New York.
TRASK’S TEMPERANCE TRACTS. True in their facts and philosophy;
Strong in their structure as arguments;
Keen and racy in their wit;
Heartsome in the humanity that glows through them;
<illegible> in their appeal to the conscience, and in the startling issues they set before the mind.
We most earnestly commend them and their able and indefatigable author to the attention and aid of the entire community. This is our word. Read and inwardly digest these tracts, and SUPPORT the One man power that has created them. E. T.
Miss Anna E. Dickinson lectured at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Monday night, upon the subject, ”Words for the Hour.” The house was crowded from floor to ceiling, and there was much enthusiasm throughout. 2500 persons were present.
The New York Illustrated News has passed in to the hands of Mr. J.H. Demorest, a stanch <illegible> who is infusing new life and energy into it, and intends to use its pages to illustrate the <illegible> of <illegible> and the blessings of freedom.
<c02>
GRAND AND SAVING RESOLUTIONS.
Senator Sumner has introduced the following resolutions on reconstruction and emancipation.
1. Resolved, That in order to determine the duties of the National Government at the present moment, it is of the first importance that we should see and understand the real character of the contest which has been forced upon the United States, for a failure truly to appreciate this contest must end disastrously in a failure of those proper efforts which are essential to the re-establishment of unity and concord; that, recognizing the contest in its real character, as it must be recorded by history, it will be apparent beyond controversy, that this is not an ordinary Rebellion, or an ordinary War, but, that it is absolutely without precedent, differing clearly from every other rebellion and every other war, inasmuch as it is an audacious attempt, for the first time in history, to found a wicked power on the corner-stone of Slavery; and that such an attempt having this single object—whether regarded as Rebellion or as War—is so completely penetrated and absorbed, so entirely filled and possessed by slavery, that it can be justly regarded as nothing else than the huge impersonation of this crime, at once rebel and belligerent, or in other words, as Slavery in arms.
2. Resolved, That, recognizing the unquestionable identity of the Rebellion and of Slavery, so that each is to the other as another self, it becomes plain that the Rebellion cannot be crushed without crushing Slavery, as Slavery cannot be crushed without crushing the Rebellion; that every forbearance to the one is a forbearance to the other, and every blow at the one is a blow at the other; that all who tolerate Slavery, tolerate the Rebellion, and all who strike at Slavery, strike at the Rebellion; and that, therefore, it is our supremest duty, in which all other present duties are contained, to take care that the Barbarism of Slavery, in which along, the Rebellion has its origin and life, is so utterly trampled out that it can never spring up again anywhere in the rebel and belligerent region: for leaving this duty undone, nothing is done, and all our blood and treasure have been lavished is vain.
3. Resolved, That, in dealing with the rebel war, the National Government is invested with two classes of Rights—one the Rights of Sovereignty, inherent and indefeasible everywhere within the limits of the United States, and the other the Rights of War or Belligerent Rights, which have been superinduced by the nature and extent of the contest; that, by virtue of the Rights of Sovereignty, the rebel and belligerent region is now subject to the National Government at its only rightful government, bound under the Constitution to all the duties of sovereignty, and by special mandate bound also ”to guaranty to every State a Republican form of government and to protect it against invasion;” that, by virtue of the Rights of War, this same region is subject to all the conditions and incidents of War, according to the established usages of Christian Nations, out of which is derived the familiar maxim of public duty, ”Indemnity for the Past, and Security for the Future.”
4. Resolved, That, in seeking the restoration of the States to their proper places as members of the Republic, so that every State shall enjoy again its constitutional functions, and every star on our national flag shall represent a State, in reality as well as in name, care must be taken that the Rebellion is not allowed, through any negligence or mistaken concession, to retain the least foothold for future activity, or the least germ of future life; that, whether proceeding by the exercise of Southern Rights or of Belligerent Rights, the same precautions must de exacted against future peril; that, therefore, any system of “reconstruction” must be rejected, which does not provide by irreversible guarantees against the continued existence or possible revival of Slavery, and that such guarantees can be primarily obtained only through the agency of the National Government, which to this end must assert a temporary supremacy, military or civil, throughout the rebel and belligerent region, of sufficient duration to stamp upon this region the character of Freedom.
5. Resolved, That, in the exercise of this essential supremacy of the National Government, a solemn duty is cast upon Congress to see that no rebel State is pre-maturely restored to its constitutional functions, until within its borders all proper safeguards are established, so that loyal citizens, including the new-made freedmen cannot at any time be molested by evil disposed persons, and especially that no man there may be made a slave; that this solemn duty belongs to Congress under the Constitution, whether in the exercise of Rights of Sovereignty or Rights of War; and that, in its performance, that system of “reconstruction” will be found the best—howsoever it may be named— which promises most surely to accomplish the desired end, so that Slavery, which is the synonym of the Rebellion, shall absolutely cease throughout the whole rebel and belligerent region, and the land which it has maddened, impoverished and degraded shall become safe, fertile and glorious from assured Emancipation.
6. Resolved, That, in the process of “reconstruction,” it is not enough to secure the death of slavery throughout the rebel and belligerent States only; that experience testifies against slavery wherever it exists, not only as a crime against humanity, but as a disturber of the public peace and the spoiler of the public liberties, including the liberty of the press, the liberty of speech, and the liberty of travel and transit; that obviously, in the progress of civilization, it has become incompatible with good government, and especially with that “republican form of Government,” which the United States are bound to guaranty to every State; that from the outbreak of this rebel war, even in States professing loyalty, it has been an open check upon patriotic duty and an open accessory to the rebellion, so as to be a source of unquestionable weakness to the National cause; that the defiant pretensions of the master, claiming the control of his slave, are in direct conflict with the paramount rights of the National Government; and that, therefore, it is the further duty of Congress, in the exercise of its double powers, under the Constitution, as guardian of the National safety, to take all needful steps to secure the extinction of slavery throughout the United States, so that this crime against humanity, this disturber of the public peace, and this spoiler of the public liberties shall no longer exist anywhere to menace the general harmony; that civilization may be no longer shocked; that the constitutional guaranty of a republican form of government to every State may be fulfilled; that the rebellion may be deprived of the traitorous aid and comfort which slavery has instinctively volunteered; and that the master, claiming an unnatural property in human flesh, may no longer defy the National Government.
7. Resolved, That, in addition to the guaranties stipulated by Congress, and as the cap-stone to its work of restoration and reconciliation, the Constitution itself must be so amended as to prohibit slavery everywhere within the limits of the Republic; that such a prohibition, leaving all personal claims, whether of slave or master, to the legislation of Congress and of the States, will be in itself a sacred and inviolable guaranty, representing the collective will of the people of the United States, and placing Universal Emancipation under the sanction of the Constitution, so that freedom shall be engraved on every foot of the national soil, and be woven into every star of the national flag, while it elevates and inspires our whole national existence, and the Constitution, so often invoked for slavery, but at last in harmony with the Declaration of Independence, will become, according to the holy aspirations of its founders, the sublime guardian of the inalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; all of which must be done in the name of the Union, in duty to Humanity, and for the sake of permanent Peace.
Should these resolutions be adopted and enforced, the republic will be saved, slavery utterly destroyed, and freedom extended from sea to sea.
Senator Sumner will also introduce a bill providing that in the Courts of the United States there shall be no exclusion of any witness on account of color.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 8, 1864.
Senator Clark, of New Hampshire, will soon introduce a joint resolution declaring negro soldiers entitled to pensions.
Mr. Sumner presented a memorial from the colored men of Philadelphia, asking the privileges of the elective franchise. Referred to the Committee on Freed men and slaves.
Mr. Sumner introduced a joint resolution to amend the Constitution of the United States, so that all per-sons shall be equal under the law, whether white or colored, and that no person shall hereafter be held under bondage. Referred to the Judiciary Committee.
Mr. Anthony moved to repeal the joint resolution to amend the Constitution of the United States, approved March 2d, 1861. Referred to the Judiciary Committee. This amendment would give power to Congress to abolish slavery throughout the country.
Mr. Sumner introduced a bill repealing all laws for the rendition of fugitive slaves.
Mr. Sumner introduced five resolutions defining the powers of the National Government.
Mr. Carlisle said he did not believe the three years starvation of the rebels would result in an early death, nor that there could be an early cessation of hostilities. The Union could never be restored by mere coercion. He denied that the Federal Government had the power to emancipate slaves, but contended that such power was held by the States. He favored the taking of slaves for military purposes without emancipating them, holding that <illegible> power was not conferred on the General Government by the Constitution. We should use force against force for the suppression of the rebellion, but not resort to acts repel-ling the love of honest citizens of the South who had never gone willingly into rebellion. We have for three years resorted to the coercive powers of the government; why not change our policy a little, and leave all those <illegible> subjects to the Military Department, where they properly belong?
<c03>
THE PAY OF SOLDIERS.
On motion of Mr. Wilson, (Un., Mass.) the bill equalizing the pay of United States soldiers was taken up.
Mr. Fessenden (Un., Me.,) was opposed to the retrospective character of the bill, though he was in favor of placing colored troops on the same footing as other troops from and after its passage.
Mr. Wilson thought the bill should be a retrospective one; for the troops in the colored regiments had been assured before they were mustered into the service, that they would receive the same pay, and be placed on an equal footing with white troops. The gross acts of injustice heretofore done to this portion of our soldiery should be rectified.
Mr. Tea Eyck (Un., N. J.,) thought this a matter of justice. If these colored men had been promised certain things by our war authorities, it became our duty to recognize and legalize the promises held by them. These were sufficient reasons to induce him to vote for the bill.
Mr. Lane, of Kansas, supported the bill in its retrospective character.
Mr. Fessenden said that the troops raised by Gen. Hunter had no pledge from the Government. This bill proposed a very loose mode of legislation. Recruiting officers were prone to offer inducements not authorized by law to promote enlistments. If officers had undertaken to promise these colored recruits more than $10 per month, it was from a misapprehension of the law. It would not be proper to legislate to pay more than we had contracted to pay. He thought that from the passage of this bill all of our soldiers, without regard to color, should be placed on an equal footing. As to paying what the Government did not at present owe these colored men, under its contract with them, he was opposed to it.
Mr. Conness (Un., Cal.,) did not think the Treasury could afford to make this bill retrospective. He would propose an amendment giving them pay after the passage of this act.
Mr. Pomeroy (Un, Kansas,) thought the Treasury of the United States always sufficient to provide for an act of justice.
Mr. Conness inquired whether this act would cause the rebels to acknowledge colored troops as soldiers.
Mr. Pomeroy replied that the effect of the act would be the acknowledgment of colored troops as real soldiers.
Mr. Conness regarded this as a proposition involving money, and nothing more. It was a question as to the payment of a certain amount of money under a contract.
Mr. Lane (Un., Kansas,) said the Government was under a moral if not a legal obligation to redeem its obligations to the 1st Colored Kansas Regiment.
Mr. Conness desired that the Senator should introduce a separate bill for the purpose.
Mr. Wilson stated that the present number of colored troops in the field and in the departments would reach 50,000. These had been enlisted mostly within the last six months.
Mr. Doolittle (Un., Wis.,) believed that the Government should act in good faith to these soldiers. At the same time, there are considerations which should lead us to act cautiously In the matter. There were many white soldiers serving in the army without receiving the bounties given to subsequent recruits. If we adopted this bill, we should give the old soldiers similar benefits.
Mr. Fessenden calculated that the bill, in its retrospective action, would incur an expense of <illegible>1,500,000.
Mr. Doolittle argued that as the wives and children of many of our colored troops were being supported by the Government, they should not receive the same bounty and pay as white recruits, whose families were dependent on them for support.
COLORED SOLDIERS. The colored soldiers among the Vermont troops at Brattleboro’ were incensed almost to mutiny at being required to leave the State without receiving, as did the white soldiers, their bounty. They expected to be treated in all respects as white soldiers. How long shall colored men have occasion to complain of this species of injustice? Ought not our delegation in Congress to be called upon to use their influence to redress this grievance? And ought not the State to pay them the bounty, and make their pay equal to that of white soldiers, as Massachusetts has done, if the General Government will no? But the true way is for the General Government to do justly in the matter.- Vermont Journal.
FREE SUFFRAGE IN KANSAS.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Kansas:
We, your petitioners, respectfully pray your lionorable body to take the initiatory steps towards amending the Constitution of the State of Kansas, by striking out the word “white” in Articles five and eight.
We thus pray your honorable body, because by the word white, in the said Articles, our colored citizens are deprived of the elective franchise, and also of the honor of serving in the Militia of the State-grievances oppressive to them and injurious to the State. Because-
1st Proscriptive and unjust laws, besides being oppressive to the weaker, are injurious to the dominant class, as they destroy that nice sense of justice among the people, which is necessary and vital to the existence of a republic. The habit of injustice towards any class confuses the moral perceptions, and makes the controlling element careless of the rights of all minorities, even when the minority may be of the dominant class. In short, the rights of all are endangered, while the rights of any are denied.
2d. In politics it is always dangerous to do violence to the genius of a government.
The founders of this government labored for freedom: bequeathing to their children a government whose vital and animating principle was Liberty. The present unhappy condition of our country is the result of a perversion of the Government from the noble ends for which it was instituted, to the base purposes of tyranny and injustice.
3d. Whatever tends to repress just aspirations in any class of citizens is hurtful to the State, by dwarfing the manly virtues of patriotism and self-respect. Men cannot feel the full glow of patriotic love for a country that makes them the victims of exceptional and unjust legislation.
4th. The colored population of this State have furnished as large a per centage of soldiers to the defence of the State and Union as the white. Their courage and soldierly capacities are admitted even by those who would deny them the fruition of their valor and devotion. Brave men are the pressing need of our country now, and at all times constitute the most precious wealth of a nation.
5th. In a despotism the people endure the burthen of one tyrant only. Where the majority oppress the minority, the victims endure the weight of many tyrants.
6th. It is a reproach to Republican institutions, and to our State in particular, that children of the soil -patriotic and devoted as any other-should be denied essential rights, while they are lavished with indiscriminate profusion on many who, now in the nation's hour of trial, shun the duties incidental to American citizenship.
7th. The Articles which we seek to have amended, violate the Constitution of the United States-the supreme law of the land. They are in effect a Bill of Attainder against this portion of the population of the State, corrupting the blood of the present and of future generations, without an alleged offence.
They also operate as an ex post facto law, condemning men for having been born black.
The Constitution of the United States, in article 1, section 2, expressly declares that “No State shall pass any bill of attainder, or ex post facto law.”
By the Constitution of Kansas, a colored citizen of Massachusetts removing to this State loses the most valued privilege of the American citizen-the elective franchise-plainly violating the 2d section of the 4th article of the Constitution of the United States, which declares that “The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.”
Finally, we beg you to take the action implored, to the end that Kansas may be placed in her rightful position in the van of the new and grand era now dawning, when liberty in all its fair proportions, unshorn and unrestricted, shall be the faith of a repentant and regenerated nation. And we, your petitioners, will ever pray.
A CAMPAIGN DOCUMENT.
In 1860, just before the Presidential nomination, ex-President Frank Pierce wrote a letter to his old friend Jefferson Davis, stating that he had great confidence in the said Davis, and declaring “Northern Abolitionism” must be put down at all hazards. “If blood most flow,” said he, ”then the fighting will not be altogether on Southern soil”; “the Northern Abolitionists will have as much as they can do at home”; with similar sentences after this sort.
Pierce was bound off about this time, on account of the illness of his wife, but he left all the more readily because he had every confidence in his friend Jeff’s ability to manage matters, and get up a warfare against the Abolitionists. The New York riots were only the sequel to these proceedings, and in accordance with Democratic and “Conservative” sentiment. It will be remembered that Pierce was very indignant at a suspicion that he had sympathized with the rebellion; but in the captured correspondence of his friend Jeff. Davis, this letter appeared, and it cannot be denied. The letter, in Pierce's own hand-writing, has been forwarded to Boston, and has been lithographed by thousands of copies, so as to appear a perfect fac simile of the ex-President's manuscript. It is rather rough to betray Frank <illegible> weaknesses, and his party’s sentiments, after this fashion; but it will make a glorious campaign document With this, and the “One Armed Soldier” as a companion, there is nothing to prevent these rascally “Northern Abolitionists” from still marching along. How are you, Pierce?- Cape Cod Republican.
<c04>
THE PRESIDENT'S EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
The London Daily News of the 13th ult. says that immediately after receipt of the telegram which stated that Mr. Wendell Phillips had represented President Lincoln as having told him that the publication of the Emancipation Proclamation was a mistake, a gentleman well known in Liverpool wrote to Mr. Whiting, Solicitor to the War Department at Washington, asking him if the report was true. The following was Mr. Whiting's reply:-
Statements have been privately and publicly circulated that the President has said to Mr. Wendell Phillips, that “he had no expectation that the Emancipation Proclamation would do any good, or be of more effect than the Pope's Bull against the comet. The greatest folly of his life was issuing the Emancipation Proclamation.” Several letters have been addressed to me, inquiring whether such statements were true. I cannot do Mr. Phillips the injustice to believe that he ever made the assertions attributed to him; and I have the highest authority for denying that the President ever, on any occasion, to any person, used the language or expressed the sentiments thus erroneously laid to his charge. The proclamation was one of a series of measures called for by a great public emergency. It was not suddenly resolved upon. Months of anxious observation, consultation and reflection had been given to the subject of military emancipation before it was finally carried into effect. It was deemed a measure of solemn import, of awful responsibility, and, in its ultimate results, of immeasurable importance to the country. It is true that the President did not at first expect such immediate and extraordinary effects to flow from it as were anticipated by its sanguine advocates; but he had then, and has now unbounded confidence that it would become an efficient means of suppressing the rebellion, and would prepare the way, in the hostile districts, or that state of society in which liberty and union would become forever one and inseparable.
The President Would not have made a proclamation if he had no confidence in its efficacy. He would not have declared to all the world that he believed it to be an act of military necessity, if no such necessity had existed. Events have occurred since the begining of the year which have demonstrated the power and wisdom of that great and irrevocable act of justice and humanity which will render the name of President Lincoln illustrious through all time. In his Message to Congress he uses the following language:
“While I remain in my present position, I shall not attempt to retract or modify the Emancipation Proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery, any person who is free by the terms of the Proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress.”
And in the proclamation of amnesty he has insisted on a complete submission to the terms of emancipation.
WILLIAM WHITING,
Solicitor of the War Department.
FROM PORT ROYAL.
[Correspondence of the Traveller.]
BEAUFORT, S. C., Jan. 31,1864.
Quite a number of speculators arrived by last steamer to be present at the land sale on the 18th of February, but to their surprise they found nearly all the plantations, staked off in 20 acre lots, and entered for pre-emption. It is doubtful whether the sale which is still advertised will come off according to the law of Congress, or whether it will be set aside by the instructions of President Lincoln obtained by Mr. French and Gen. Saxton. Certain it is that those who came hoping to buy land, now wear very long faces, and look gloomy at the prospect ahead.
Sea Island Cotton is worth $1.30 in New York, and $1 is offered for it here. Mr. Philbrick of Brookline, Mass. who bought a number of places last year, is about shipping 73,000 pounds; his whole expense of raising the same was about $22,000, and the cost of his land $8000. No more such bargains can now be made, three and four thousand dollars being offered for plantations which last March cost only as many hundred. This is partly due to the success of cotton growers this year, and partly to a belief, now pretty general here, that the Secesh will soon cave in.
Col. Morgan, Chief of Commissary Department of the South, has to-day offered to take all the vegetables which can be raised here at 25 per cent, advance on New York prices! Until this offer was made, Dr. Marsh of the Sanitary Commission had expected to lease some land of government for a vegetable garden, he having spent $10,000 in two weeks last summer for potatoes and onions.
FREEDMEN OF SOUTH CAROLINA. The freedmen of South Carolina are making large investments in the land of rebels about to be sold by order of the Government. A letter in the New York Post says:
The negroes are marking out their twenty-acre lots all over the department, and I have been informed today by Mr. Ketchum, who receives the deposits, that on this island alone over twenty thousand dollars have been paid in by the freedmen to secure their homes. The idea that they can become landholders fills them with delight, and there is no doubt but the soil will be well cultivated. The negroes who bought lands last year have done well. One man-Kit Green-will clear more than two thousand dollars, and another-Henry Pope-nearly as much, from their cotton corps alone.
The President has sent instructions to Gen. Saxton to give the privilege of preempting deserted and confiscated plantations to the negroes cultivating them, each one to be allowed to take twenty or fifty acres, according to his ability to pay two-fifths of the price, which is fixed at one dollar and a quarter per acre. The same privilege is given to soldiers and sailors. Gen. Saxton, Military Governor of the Department of the South, has called attention to this important matter in a special proclamation, in which he characterizes it as second only in its beneficial results to the emancipation proclamation, and calls upon all the teachers and friends of the contrabands to aid them in selecting and securing their land claims.
THE FREEDMEN.
The first annual meeting of the United States Commission for the relief of the National Freedmen, representing various Freedmen's Relief Associations in the Eastern, Middle and Western States, was held in Washington, on the 5th of February, 1864. The following resolutions were unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That this Commission respectfully address themselves to the President of the United States in the expression of their earnest desire that measures be adopted to give to the slaves made free by the power of the government, a legal and quiet possession of adequate land for their residence and support, as rapidly and as early as the responsibilities of the government shall render possible.
Resolved, That we have learned with great pleasure that initiatory steps have been taken in Congress to establish a Bureau of Emancipation, or Freedmen's Affairs, and that it is our earnest desire, in view of the urgent necessity for some such action on the part of the Government, that no time be lost in following up those steps by final action.
Resolved, That this Commission express lo the EXecutive and to Congress their deep conviction of the importance and necessity of the adoption of measures whereby all descendants of the African race in our country, enlisted in the army and navy, shall be placed in all respects, as regards pay, clothing and consideration, on the same footing with other soldiers and sailors in the service of the United States.
Ordered, That copies of the foregoing resolutions be transmitted by the Secretary to the President of the United States, and to the chairman of the appropriation committees of the Senate and House of Representatives.
FRANCIS GEORGE SHAW, President.
J. M. Mc KIM, Secretary.
USING NEGROES. The Rebel Congress has been discussing a proposition to employ free negroes and slaves for military purposes. We presume that our Copperhead “Conservatives” will have no fault to find with their “Southern brethren,” if they should carry out the scheme of using negroes somewhat more extensively than they have hitherto done, for war purposes. We venture to say that we shall not hear a word from Copperhead lips or press against the rebel employment of negroes to help kill the brave sons of the North and overthrow the Government; not-withstanding all the howling that has been heard from that quarter against enlisting the services of negroes in putting down Rebellion.
GARRETT DAVIS. This Kentucky Senator, who is suffering badly from the usual copperhead complaint, sometimes called “nigger on the brain,” and who introduced some very defiant and treason sounding resolutions into the Senate, some weeks ago, for which he was brought up at a taut pull by Senator Wilson's resolution of expulsion, has backed down. The insurgent slave-driver having made a very humble retraction, explanation and disclaimer of any bad intent,-having in fact got quits down upon his marrowbones-, -Senator Wilson, last week, withdrew his resolution of expulsion, saying dryly when he did so, “I have no unkindness towards the Senator from Kentucky. He undertook the other day to launch some vulgar flings, some smallish sarcasms at me, but I feel very much as did the man who said when his fractions little wife was berating him, that he did not care much about it, for it did not hurt him, and seemed to do the little thing a great deal of good.”-Independent Democrat.
The venerable Josiah Quincy entered upon his ninety-third year on Thursday, the 4th inst.
<c05>
We had the pleasure, last evening, at a friend’s house, of hearing Madame Louise de Mortie, a highly gifted lady of color, read some of Whittier's splendid poems, with other selections. She is well educated, and reads with an earnest, well-placed intonation and a pure pronunciation. We can recommend her as equal to the best of oar public readers.
Since writing the above, at the solicitation of a large number of our citizens, she has <illegible> to give a Public Reading at Harmony Hall.
We were pleasantly entertained, last evening, on dropping into Harmony Hall, by hearing a selection of readings by Madame Louise de Mortie, a lady of color, from Boston. Her readings were from Whittier, Longfellow, Jerrold, Grace Greenwood and others, and they received ample justice from this talented lady, whose appearance and bearing indicated the highest education and refinement. She is apparently of French or Creole and African descent; in complexion, a clear mulatto; has abundant straight black hair, is tall, dignified, and very prepossessing in features. We think that if Madame Mortie were brought before the public at Pine's Hall, she would draw a crowded house.- Poughkeepsie Eaqle.
PREJUDICE VINCIBLE. The Boston Transcript has the following, which shows that what N. P. Rogers used to call “colorphobia,” may be cured:
The introduction of a colored man into the gang of caulkers at the Navy Yard, in Charlestown, some weeks since, created quite an excitement, and several of the white caulkers refused to work by the side of the black man. But the subject of this baseless prejudice worked on without reference to the feelings with which he was regarded by those in the same department. He has proved himself so capable to discharge the duties incumbent upon him, and his conduct has been so uniformly courteous and correct, that the aversion of his fellow-men has been completely overcome. On a recent occasion, the caulkers presented him with a silver goblet, and eleven of the workmen who had previously struck contributed to its purchase. Nobly done!
HARTFORD, Conn., Feb. 5. The original building of Colt’s Pistol Factory was destroyed by fire this morning, with all the machinery and a large amount of other property. The building was 500 feet long by 60 wide; L, 100 by 60. The office, a large three-story building, was also destroyed. The new building in which the Minie rifles are made was saved. Seventeen hundred workmen were employed, half of whom are thrown out of work. Several lives have been lost by the falling in of the roof of one of the buildings. Their names are not yet known. In the building destroyed, Colt's pistols and revolving rifles were manufactured. In the buildings saved, United States rifles are manufactured. The company having a large contract from Government for this weapon, this portion of the works will continue, giving employment to 700 or 800 men. The stock of pistols and rifles completed and in process of completion for market, destroyed by this fire, was valued at $1,000,000.The machinery destroyed cost more than half a million, and the whole loss is estimated at $2,000,000. The whole insurance on the property was $660,000, of which about 60 per cent, was on the property destroyed. About 900 men are thrown out of employment. The fire broke out in the drying room in the attic, and spread with great rapidity. Its origin is a mystery. One man was killed, and another is yet missing.
Gen. Butler has, during the short time he has been in command of the Department of Virginia and North Carolina, raised between three and four thousand colored soldiers. He took the responsibility of offering a bounty of ten dollars, which had a marked effect in stimulating enlistments. The War Department has since ratified his action.
NEGROES AT ROME. The Rome correspondent of the London Times says that at the last annual “Academia Poliglotta” of the great Catholic College of the Propaganda, the youths who carried off the palm were two negroes, rejoicing in the names of William Samba and John Provost Their delivery and action were wonderful, and called forth thunders of applause even in a church.
On Friday, the Woman's Loyal National League sent to Washington 100,000 signatures to their Emancipation petition. This is the first installment of the million to be presented to this Congress. The petition is intrusted to the care of the Hon. Charles Sumner.
The Rev. Mr. Staples, Unitarian, of Brooklyn, died on Friday morning. His health had long been very poor, and his decease, therefore, was not unexpected. He had shining qualities, and his loss is widely deplored.
John W. Andrews, who figured so conspicuously during the Copperhead riots in New York, last July, and who, after having done his full share in hunting down, hanging and roasting innocent negroes, was arrested in a Brothel in bed with a negro wench, has been handed over by Gen. Dix to the civil authorities for trial.
A Richmond paper records, for the sake of posterity, it says, the current prices in that city for making and repairing boots: For making boots, $225; footing, $140; cavalry boots, $250; gaiters, $110, and so on. The present generation may take some interest in these prices.
A FAIR HIT. The Boston Transcript says: “The Davises, Jeff. and Garrett, are at the head of two cooperating factions. Jeff, leads the rebels, and Garrett the Copperheads.”
Only three Republican Senators were present at Fernando Wood's party, the other evening, in Washington. No man who had any regard for himself should have been there, for Wood is morally corrupt, and traitorous to his country, at heart.-Roxbury Journal.
A rebel letter-writer, discussing the ragged and shoeless condition of the rebel army in Virginia, calls them "Lee's Miserables."
A Mr. Mure, conservative member of the British Parliament, recently addressed his constituents with a plea in favor of recognizing the rebels. “" The question of slavery apart,” said the ingenious Mure, “the South has every claim on our sympathies.’ Mr. Mason must have smiled when he read this.
A Southern paper speaks of the sale of nine slaves at an average price of $3348, as highly flattering to such property. The same paper quotes pork at Richmond at $3 25 per pound. From this we see that a slave will buy a little over 1300 pounds of pork. Before the rebellion, a likely slave would have bought 30,000 pounds of pork, or twenty-six times the amount If rebel slaveholders are satisfied with these figures, others ought to be.
THE COLOR DISTINCTION. Colored people have been compelled to ride in cattle cars on the Orange and Alexandria Railroad. The attention of the War Department having been called to the abuse, orders have been issued that thereafter on all Government roads or trains there shall be no distinction of color.
The Western Freedmen's Aid Commission at Cincinnati has shipped, during the past week, about eight tons of supplies to Memphis, and nearly nine tons to Nashville, to be distributed through its agents to the freed people. These shipments were composed mostly of clothing, comprising, among other articles, about two thousand new blankets and forty boxes of new shoes. Some five thousand volumes of school books were also sent forward.
THE MISSOURI EMANCIPATION BILL PASSED.-  The Missouri Legislature has passed the Emancipation Convention bill by a vote of 80 to 34, after amending it so as to postpone the election of members of the Convention until November. The amendment was adopted by the close vote of 60 to 57.
The Maiden Bank robber and murderer has at last been arrested in the person of Edward W. Green, Postmaster of Maiden. Green has confessed the crime, and most of the money has been recovered. He is twenty-seven year old, and has a wife and one child, and heretofore has borne a good character.
DEATH OF A PROMINENT CITIZEN. Frederick Tudor Esq., the great pioneer in the New England ice trade, and long one of our first East India merchants, died Friday morning at his residence on Beacon street, corner of Joy street, in the 81st year of his age.
James B. Clay, a son of the distinguished statesman, Henry Clay, died at Montreal on Tuesday night, Jan. 26. He was a secessionist and a fugitive at the time of his death. Since his residence in Canada, he had been hand-in-glove with Vallandigham and other fugitive rebels in concocting plots against his country. He was about 47 years of age.
<illegible> Ward is said to be lying dangerously ill, at Great Salt Lake City, Utah, of typhoid fever, and but slight hopes are entertained of his recovery.
Palmer, the sculptor, has generously contributed four of his most valuable works to the Albany Army Relief Bazaar, viz.: “The Angel of Peace in Bondage,” Bust of Hamilton,” <illegible> of the Peasant Girl,” and the <illegible> Good morning.” Subscription tickets to the above are for sale in this city by Messrs. <illegible>
THE FIRE AT COLUMBIA, S. C. The late fire at Columbia, South Carolina, destroyed three million dollars' worth of cotton, a large part of which belonged to the rebel government.
<c06>
COLLECTIONS
By the Finance Committee, for Expenses, and as Donations, at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, Jan. 28, 1864.
Edmund Quincy, 5 00 Mrs. E. P. Perkins, 1 00
Perley King, 1 00 M. B. Goodrich, <illegible>
Samuel Barrett, 20 00 A. M. Clement, 1 00
Mary May, 3 00 Lewis M. <illegible>, 1 00
Alden Sampson, 5 00 Julia A. R. Barrett, 50
D.O. Goodrich, 2 00 Ruth Buffum, 1 00 
E. W. Wood, 1 00 M. Haskell, 50
Friend, 2 00 Sarah C. Atkinson, 1 00
Elizabeth Jenkins, 1 00 J. S. Turner, 1 00
Russell Marston, 1 00 Mrs. A. <ilegible>, 1 00
M. S. Bowker, 1 00 Maria S. Page, 1 00
Abraham Folsom, 2 00 Mary H. S.Page, 1 00
Charles Richardson, 1 00 Sarah A. Allen, 1 00
E. H. Day, 3 00 Wendell Philips, 1 00
H. Wayne, 2 00 Mrs. W. W. Brown, 1 00
Josiah Henshaw, 3 00 E. G. Lucas, 1 00
N. White, 1 00 Anna Southwick, 1 00
E. H. Bradford, 1 00 -White, 1 00
Sarah H. Cowing, 1 00 Eliza F. Eddy, 1 00
E. H. Orne, 50 C. M. Leonar, 50
A1van and Nancy Martha H. Greene, 1 00
Howes, 5 00 J. A. Smith, 2 00
Ezekiel and Alice John C. Haynes, 5 00
Thacher. 5 00 D. B. Morey., 1 00
Jonathan Buffum, 2 00 Sarah Otis Ernst, 1 00
Josiah Hayward, 1 00 Mrs. L. L. Jameson, 1 00
Lucy G. Ives, 3 00 T. Teamoh. 50
Sarah Hayward, 1 00 H.H. Brigham., 1 00
Mary Westacott,. 1 00 J. M. Simms, 1 00
G. M. Mirick, 1 00 L. H. Bowker., 1 00
A. B. B., 1 00 W. B. Richards, 50
R. W. N., 1 00 M. M. Rogers, 1 00
Gardner, 1 00 C. K. Whipple, 1 00
H. G. Jackson, 1 00 Geo. Fred. Sumner, 1 00
P.Gerry, 1 00 R. Clapp, 2 00
E. Richardson, 50 L. D. Gray, 50
H. Sargent, 2 00 Bourne Spooner, 2 00
Mary Plumer, 2 00 Samuel May, Jr., 5 00
A. Stan wood, 2 00 W. L. Garrison, 1 00
Z. H. Spooner, 1 00 John Bailey, 1 00
Deborah Kimball, 1 00 John T. Sargent, 1 00
S. Cheney, 50 Edwia Thompson, 1 00
M. F. J. Flint, 1 00 Caroline R. Putnam, 5 00
Susan C. Sargent, 1 00 A. K. Foster, 1 00
Eliza J. Kenny, 1 00 John W. Pulsifer, 3 00
Emily Horn, 1 00 John R. Manley, 2 00
Mary Brigham, 1 00 Georgiana Otis, 1 00
George W. Greene, 1 00 E. S. Coffin, 15
For Freedom, 1 00 John C. Dunlap, 1 00
C. B. and E. F. Mc- S. J. Davee, 1 00
Intire, 1 00 Hiram Wilson. 50
Abby A. Bennett, 1 00 Caroline Weston, 1 00
John P. Jewett, 1 00 Mary G. Chapman, 5 00
Thomas P. Wiggin,1 00 M. W. Chapman, 1 00
Mary Clap, 1 00 D. Weston. 1 00
Catherine Clap, 1 00 Isaac Stearns, 10
R. C. Trask, 2 00 William Spooner. 1 00
Martha Clapp, 1 00 A. T. Foss, 50
Marianne Paine, 1 00 H. W. Blanchard, 50
B. A. Newell, 50 Wm. A. Jackson, 50
A. W. Ford, 50 Sarah R. May, 1 00
Friends from R. I., 3 00 Nahum Osgood, -
Misses McFarland, 2 00 E. & E. H. Richards, 2 00
Joshua Coolidge, 1 00 E. Sprague, 2 00
E. D. Draper, 1 00 William Ashby, 5 00
Charles E. Hodges,5 00 Mrs. Theo. Brown, 1 00
Jefferson Church, 1 00 M. Grimes. 10
E. Church, 5 00 C. P. Drew, 1 00
Otis G. Cheever, 1 00 Josiah Henshaw, 1 00
Susan Cheever, 1 00 F. C. M. Henshaw, 1 00
Mary M. Brooks, 1 00 Sarah J. Nowell, 2 00
Sarah Fitch, 1 00 C. H. Kirktand, 25
W. W. Dutcher, 1 00 A. Merrill, 1 00
J. and Mary C. Saw- 23d Regt. Mass. Vols-1 00
year, 5 00 H. W. Kimball, 25
Mrs. A. Wallingford, 1 00 Soldier. 25
B. P. Rice, 1 00 H. O. Straffln, 25
J. W. Pulsifer, 2 00 A. Woodman, Port.
I. K. Mclntire, 1 00 land, 5 00
-Spooner, 1 00 Edwin E. Bennett, 2 00
J. Sharland, 1 00 Stephen Clapp, 1 00
Mary Willey, 1 00 A. A. Bent, 1 00
R. R. Crosby, 1 00 Joel Smith. 1 00
H. C. Ireson, 1 00 C. Cowing, 1 00
E. D. Ireson, 1 00 A. B. Humphrey, 50
Sarah S. Russell, 5 00 S. Dodge. 1 00
Noah Shaw,(!) 50 C. C. McLanthlln, 3 00
B. Snow, Jr., 2 00 Elizabeth M. Powell, 1 00
T. B. Drew, 1 00 E. Wellington, 1 00
Daniel Low, 2 00 Margaret E. Bennett, 50
J. T. Everett, 2 00 D. S. Whitney, 50
Elijah Hobart, 3 00 R. Howland, 6 00
G. Miles, 1 00 Richmond Johnson, 20
Melzar Sprague, 1 00 Mary C. Whiting, 1 00
S. B. Pratt, 1 00 William Willis, 50
N. White and wife, 5 00 N. H. Whiting, 2 00
E. B. Chase, 1 00 A. Keith, 50
F. H. Drake, 25 W. E. Cash. 1 00
A. T. Draper, 1 00 Francis Milliken., 5 00
M. A. Dutcher, 1 00 W. L. Garrison., Jr.., 2 00
R. L. C., 50 Cash, various sums, 44 80 
PLEDGES 
To the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, at Annual Meeting, Jan. 28, 1864.
Wendell Phillips, $100 00 
Thomas M. Brown, 5 00
Mary May, 50 00 
Eben S. Page, 2 00
Samuel May, Jr., 50 00 
J. B. Smith, M. D. 2 00
Benjamin Snow, Jr.,25 00 
W. P. Garrison, 2 00
Bourne Spooner, 20 00 
Mehitable Haskell, 2 00 
George F. Adams, 10 00
COLLECTIONS BY PARKER PILLSBURY.
East Walpole, Mass, $5 42 
Concord, N. H., 11 30
Henniker, do. 5 00
Ira Wilkins, Weare, N. H., 5 00
Mrs. Hannah Sawyer. do. 1 00
Collection, do. 2 00
Lowell, Mass., 4 75
Harwich Convention, Mass., 25 00 
Hanson, do. 4 65
North Abington, do. 6 64 
For the Agency Fund.
Capt. P. S. Crowell, East Denuis, 25 00
Edward Harris, Woonsocket, R. I., 25 00 
PARKER FRATEBNITY COURSE. 
SIXTH SERIES-SUPPLEMENTARY COURSE, 
AT MUSIC HALL. 
Lecture on TUESDAY EVENING, Feb. 16, by 
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., of England. 
Subject-The popular sentiment of England in regard to America and the Rebellion.
Tickets, admitting the bearer and Lady to the course, at $1.50. Tickets, admitting one person to the course, at $1,00. 
For sale at Oliver Ditson & Co’s, 277 Washington Street; John C. Haynes & Co’s,  33 Court Street; John S. Rogers, 1077 Washington Street, and at the Liberator Of fice.
LORING MOODY, agent of the Educational Commission for Freedmen, will lecture in
Andover, Tuesday, Feb. 16.
Haverhill, Wednesday,  Feb 17 
Dover, N. H., Thursday, Feb 18.
Biddeford, Me., Friday, Feb 19.
Portland, Sunday, Feb 21.
North Yarmouth, Wednesady, Feb 23.
Bath, Thursday, Feb 24.
Brunswick, Sunday, Feb 28.
Augusta, Tuesday, March 1.
MEDALLION OF JOHN BROWN.-The subscriber invites the attention of her friends and the public to a number of Medallions of JOHN BROWN, just completed by her, and which may be seen at <illegible> No.89, Studio Building. Trement Street. M. EDMONIA LEWIS.
Boston, Jan. 29, 1864.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-LutherClark, M. D;David Thayer, M. D., Office hours from 2 to 4. P. M.
DIED- In Salem, on the 6th inst., HELMN C. M. Fose, daughter of Frederick, L. P. Fogg, aged 17 years and 10 
months. She was deeply religious and a firm advocate of liberty, and lived and died much respected by those who knew her best.-[comn.
THEODORE PARKERS MEMORIES,
JUST PUBLISHED BY 
S. R. URBINO,
13 School Street,
FOREIGN BOOK-STORE.
A School Magazine Free!
CLARK'S SCHOOL, VISITOR-Vol. VIII.
THE Publisher of this <illegible> Monthly, in order to reach all schools, will send the <illegible> one year gratis to one persons (who will act as agent,) at any post-office in the United States. This is an <illegible> offer.
Address, with five cents enclosed, for particulars, 
J. W. DAUGHADAY, <illegible>
Dec. 25. 1308 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
OUR AMAZON SISTER-THE WEST.
BY AUGISTA COOPER KIMBALL.
Raise a shout, oh firm-hearted New England,
While struggling at Freedom's behest!
Lift a clarion cry for her triumph-
Our Amazon sister-the west!
For the world of Humanity's clapping
Its hands at the glorious sight
Of the giantess marching to conquest,
And lending her strength for the Right.
We had noted her beauty majestic,
Believing her born to command;
There was guerdon and crown in the future,
Awaiting the strength of her hand;
"I was grand when she rose up colossal,
But nobler and grander than all
Was the sight of her soul, keen and ready,
Out-flashing at Liberty's call.
Not in vain the rude life of the prairies,
Whose roughness gave power to her arm;
It had nourished her strength for a struggle
To vanquish the demons of harm:
How her great beating heart shook her bosom,
When battle-cries rung on the air,
And she held back her breath, like a creature
That crouches and bounds from her lair.
Then glancing at lake and soft verdure,
And streams rolling down to the seas,
Her brow's blooming wreath of Contentment
She flung with disdain to the breeze;
And shouted , "God spread my wide prairies
For Liberty's home, not her grave;
And I'll gather a harvest of slaughter,
Ere I feed on the toil of a slave."
Then her eye caught the fire and the glory
That burned in the spirits of old;
And changed were her light native ballads
To measures beroic and bold;
And we knew the true blood of her fathers
Warmed all her young veins in its flow,
As she lifted her head for the conflict,
And steadily marched on the foe.
And when near the stronghold of traitors,
She sprang with her fingers to clasp
The old wrinkled throat of Oppression,
With pioneer strength in the grasp,
How she held her strong grip till he faltered,
And gasping fell down on the plain,
While the locks on his brow, thin and grizzly,
 Were wet in the red carnage rain!
And we saw her proud form standing dauntless,
Her own purple blood dripping down,
As she clutched through the mist of the battle,
At Tyranny's iron-wrought crown;
And, lo! as she stands yet unflinching,
Still giving her young life and power,
Her brow sprouts a green springing laurel,
The future shall bring into flower.
Then shout for her triumph, New England,-
Our Amazon sister-the west!
Lift up the clear voice like a trumpet,
In praise of her valor and zest!
Let a song of thanksgiving go upward,
And ring on the throne overhead;
For she stands with her banner uplifted,
Her heel upon Tyranny's head,
For the Liberator.
THE VOLUNTEERS' WELCOME HOME.
BY F.M. ADLINGTON.
Hark! hark! on the gale, in the distance, is heard
The sound of our Liberty drum!
Now swells the loud chorus, by multitudes cheer'd
They come-our defenders-they come!
Ring out the shrill trumpets of freedom and fame!
Our sons have return'd from the war!
Now give them a welcome in LIBERTY'S name-
Huzza for the veterans! Huzza!
Huzza! Huzza! Huzza!
II.
Surrounded by thousands, the faithful and true,
Whose bosoms with gratitude burn,
All eager some action of kindess to do,
To welcome the soldiers' return.
Make way for that mother-she sees her brave boy,
Though batter'd and mark'd with a scar-
She clasps to her bosom her pride and her joy-
Three cheers for the mother-Huzza!
huzza! Huzza! Huzza!
III
Make way for the maiden, so modest and shy,
who seeks for the lad she loves best;
She catches the glance of  his far-searching eye-
He clasps the dear girl to his breast.
She pray'd for her lover with constancy still,
Nor falter'd when he was afar-
Then give her the soldier's salute with a will-
Three cheers for the maiden-Huzza!
Huzza! Huzza! Huzza!
IV
The veteran sire has found his lost son,
His arms round his darling are case;
He handles his sword, or examines his gun-
They bring to his mem'ry the past
when he the proud flag of his country sustain'd,
And gallantly fought in the war
which Britain provoked-he our honor maintain'd-
Three cheers for the veteran-Huzza!
Huzza! Huzza! Huzza!
V.
Lift up the old banner, now shatter'd and torn,
And spread its scarr'd folds to the gale!
That banner, wherever by our gallant sons borne,
Has caused the fierce rebels t o quail.
It floated in triumph on many a field,
Though riddled with amry a scar;
The breasts of our heroes have still been its shield-
Three cheers for our banner-Huzza!
Huzza! Huzza! Huzza!
VI
Huzza for the banner that ever shall wave,
Whose stars but with heaven's shall fade,
The glory of freemen, the hope of the slave,
Whose fetters fall off in its shade!
Huzza for the guardians of justice and truth,
Of liberty, honor and law,
Our true-hearted men and our dear gallant youth-
Three cheers for our heroes-Huzza!
Huzza! Huzza! Huzza!
North and South the war cries come:
Sounds the trumpet, beats the drum.
Hosts contending, marshalled foes
Battle while the red blood flows.
Two great armies whose Ideal
Bursts into the earnest Real.
Ideals twain, on battle height
Flaming into radiant light!
One, is Freedom over all;
One, is Slavery's tyrant thrall:
These are written on the plain
'Mid the Battle's fiery rain.
These the Powers that must contend
To the dark and bitter end.
Look upon the Nation's dead!
Lo, the blood of martyrs shed!
Dying that our Country may
Know her Resurrection day!
What shall be the Traitor's gain!
Endless soon, undying pain.
Ever o'er the giant wrong
Sings the Right her tirumph song.
<c02>
Yes, as sure as God doth reign,
Right the mastery shall obtain!
Over all these beauteous lands
These two Brothers clasp their hands.
These two Brothers, now at strife,
Make one heart, one soul, one life!
This at last will be their song:
"One forever, free, and strong."
 Northmen, ye have not in hate
Closed the heart's fraternal gate!
Ye have not, for greed nor gold,
Forged the slave-chains manifold!
 But in patience ye have wrought
Out your godlike, freeborn thought!
 Ye have toiled that men might be
clothed with truth and liberty.
God hath answered from the skies;
Bids you for his own arise!
Now the work is at your door;
Help his meek and suffering poor!
There are hearts uncomforted,
weeping o'er the battle-dead.
There are wounded brave ones here;
Bring your hearts of kindness near!
Freedom shiver at your gate-
Let them nor forgotten wait!
Bind-the wounded heart that bleeds;
Mould your speeches into deeds!
This is what all true hearts say:
"Glorious is our work to-day!"
-Continental Monthly for February.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C.PEARSON,
Author of  Cousin Frank's Household."
CHAPTER XIX.
 The strange story concerning his wife that Mrs. Gray had started, and the news of her sudden illness, were not long in reaching Mr. Nelson; but the effect was not  only  to fill him with concern for her, and he was soon at her side, absorbed in ministering to her necessities. Her life trembled in the balance, and this was all he thought of, or could think of. And when Lelia returned to consciousness, it was to find him bending tenderly over her. 
"Thank God  the crisis it passed !" said he, in a husky whisper  She will live, and I shall yet be happy!" 
His care was unremitting, and by every art in his power he sought to divert her mind from the cause of her sickness, and impress her with his unabated attachment.
When she had so far convalesced as to ride out, he was delighted, and his joy bubbled up in language the most extravagant. She had been restored to him from the grasp of death, and was doubly dear for the danger of losing her, and for the fair though frail little being that she now bore in her arms.
When at last the painful question of her parentage was broached,-for they had both avoided it as if by mutual consent, in their many sad yet loving conversations, Mr. Nelson said,- 
"Let the worst come, Lelia; let it appear that you are indeed of the origin indicated, and every generous mind must see that it is an exceptional case.  You were not to blame for it; and I was as ignorant concerning it as yourself. We were legally united ; have been smiled upon by an appreciative public;  your rare charms of person and of mind have been acknowledged at home and abroad; and I believe, setting aside a few like Mrs. Gray, all, after the first shock, will receive you as cordially as of yore. If they do not-(his brow darkened as he said it)-they shall learn that I am true to my vows, that my happiness is wrapped up in yours, and that I have resources in myself and my home sufficient for my lifetime. But," he added, more cheerfully  "I have strength of will, wealth and influence to wield against your puny assailants, enough, I make sure, to carry you triumphantly through every annoyance, to a day brighter for the clouds that may intervene."
Mr. Nelson expected to overshadow the influence of Mrs. Gray and her sympathizers, and in pursuance of this plan, as soon as Lelia's health would endure the excitement, gave a grand party, inviting a large circle of relatives and friends. Nothing that wealth and talent could do to render the occasion attractive was omitted.  Never had the Old Dominion witnessed preparations for a reunion more magnificent.  Nor did Mr. Nelson care to conceal from the public eye the brilliant arrangements that were being made. He had studied human nature too long not to know what magic there is in pageantry, what social miracles it works, even to the forgiveness of the gravest misdemeanors. The movement was bold and adroit, and he felt sure of winning. The favorite of the people may expect too much of them, however, and this he was soon to find. He was destined also to have illustrated in his own experience the familiar text, Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." He had been a zealous defender of the slave-code in its length and breadth. He had taken strong ground not only as a politician, but as a lawyer, against any deviation from the enactments pertaining to slave descent, and more than once had publicly argued for their enforcement, urging with zeal that  the child follows the condition of the mother," so that if she be a slave, her offspring are slaves, though the father be a free man. But he labored under the illusion, that society would turn from its time-worn channel for his sake; that his happiness was so much more important, his interest so much greater than others, that all would see his case  "exceptional," at he loved to express it.
The festive evening came, bringing with it terrible disappointments.  Many on whose attendance he most counted disregarded the invitation, and those present came from motives not the most flattering.  Lelia was scarcely noticed in her own house. In vain Mrs. Brownlee, ever true, came to the rescue with her great tact-the reception was a painfully awkward affair, relieved only by her consummate management. She understood, as by intuition, the disaffection of the guests, and entertained them so charmingly that they seemed to forget it for awhile. Some one was constantly engaged at the piano, the liveliest airs were played, the sweetest songs sung.
The company could not resist the cheerful influence of the music, and the genial conversation of the ubiquitous Mrs. Brownlee. Proud of Mrs. Nelson, she treated her with the utmost cordiality, and would not excuse her from taking her turn at the harp. With a perfect command of the instrument, Lelia was much at her case; and as she played and sang some favorite airs, many were subdued to tears. 
Mr. Nelson was critically observant of the attention bestowed on his wife. When, after an undisputed triumph in the musical performances of the evening, she left her place by the harp, surpassingly lovely and accomplished as she was, he flattered himself that his friends would do homage to her beauty and worth, and approve his choice; but the chilling reserve still maintained towards her, the cold looks with which she was regarded, convinced him of his mistake.  The guests left;  he was piqued and indignant at their course, and also deeply chagrined that so many were absent,-recognizing it as an intended slight.
 Lelia felt it all, but was silent. It was as she had feared; yet she did not so much regret it for herself,-she was happy in her husband's love,-but it distressed her that he should so soon meet so ominous a trial for her sake. Mr. and Mrs. Manson were present at the fete, and afterwards made frequent visits. They were obsequious  to their uncle, and treated Lelia politely in his presence; but when he chanced to be absent, Amelia especially could not conceal her I will.
<c03>
"What presumption for you to marry uncle!" said she on one occasion " But his friends will never treat you as his wife. You may be sure of that! I wonder what you were thinking of! Did you dream you were a real born lady, and not a servant? No, you knew very well all about your low origin; yet you dared to use your arts in entrapping uncle. But you'll  get your pay! He'll be quits with you yet. Mark my words!" she added, crimson with passion  it'll be just as I say.  Uncle will hate you more than he has ever professed to love you. Impudent gipsy! the law ought to take it up, and imprison you for life!" 
Mrs. Nelson, surprised beyond measure, bore her abuse meekly, avoiding reply, lest she should add fuel to the flame.
Meanwhile, Mr. Manson having found Mr. Nelson, who was walking in his grounds, after general conversation, adroitly introduced his views in regard to his uncle's alliance. At every interview, of late, he had, by hints or insinuations, attempted to injure Lelia in his esteem; now gradually, with an increasing show of respect to his senior, he continued his flendish work.
" I find people puzzled with your course in marrying,"  he said.  Most regard it with strong aversion." 
" Indeed! but I take it a man should he more solicitous to please himself in getting a wife, than to gratify others. You cannot deny that a man has a right to do what he pleases in such matters ?"
O, no, certainly not," replied Mr. Manson ," of course he can do as he pleases, if he does not violate established customs, and offend the sensibilities of society. It would hardly seem right to do that"
"I have yet to learn if I must give account to society how I manage my domestic affairs," replied Mr. Nelson, his dark eye flashing.
"Give account ?" rejoined Mr. Manson , "certainly not.  I should hope, with your genius and distinction, that society would esteem you too highly to venture criticism. But, like Misfortune, busybodies  love a shining mark; and your public distinction, in place of shielding you from their attacks, I regret to say, renders you more exposed."
"We shall see! we shall see!" said Mr. Nelson, moodily. 
"I would not for the world have your next election defeated," added the nephew." But the prejudices of people are inveterate;  and your rivals will use your marriage to divide your party, and advance their own." 
"Well," rejoined Mr. Nelson, "let them do their worst-I'm ready for them."

They now entered the parlor; and Mr. Nelson, absent and displeased, fell to reading the papers. An unpleasant  restraint was  in  conversation, notwithstanding Amelia brightened up with affected gaiety until Mrs. Brownlee came in, and by her tact made things put on a better appearance. 
After a lively chat with Mr. and Mrs. Manson, she turned to Lelia, and said,- 
"Come, Mc. Nelson, you must indulge at to some music." 
Mrs. Brownlee was proud of her musical accomplishments;  and, besides, she wished Mr. Nelson, who was a fine judge and lover of music, to have his attention turned from his meddlesome relatives to his wife.
Lelia, feeling that there was a hard-hearted plot to pervert  her husband's  affections, poured forth her soul in the most touching airs.  Mr. Nelson was melted, and looked the admiration he felt. The music ceased, and taking hit hat and cane, he left the room. All were silent for a few moments, when Amelia, beckoning to her husband, followed her uncle, and surprised him in Lelia's arbor listening to her birds,and reviving unclouded hours.  He was evidently not pleased with the intrusion, but, nevertheless, strove to treat them with civility. 
Amelia was no diplomat, but marshalled her depreciating  remarks respecting Lelia with  great  skill. She retired from the field, however, when her uncle's portentous frown warned her that she might go too far. 
Although Mr. Nelson despised hit relatives for the course they were taking, and felt outraged by the intermeddling of others, yet was he not reaping the fruits of his own teachings? Were not those considerations strictly in harmony with Southern views, and indeed with his own-love aside? Was it strange if he was not wholly invulnerable to such assaults, when they appealed to his most controlling sentiments and passions? The poison was at work.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Brownlee and Mrs. Nelson were in conversation in the parlor.  Not a change passed over 
Mr. Nelson's mind that affected hit happiness, without sympathetically affecting her, and she was in an agony of apprehension for the last few moments. 
"I fear Mr. Nelson's friends are doing me mischief," taid Lelia. 
"I fear so too, I confess," replied Mrs. Brownlee, and you will need great prudence and discretion to preserve your influence over him while this trial lasts. His sentiments and course for years, as a Southern politician and a slaveholder, are all against you in this strange matter." 
"Advise me, dear Mrs. Brownlee," said the young wife, anxiously "How shall I conduct! What shall I do?" 
"There is the refuge of prayer," replied the good lady, "here will be sympathy for you in Heaven- do not forget this. It is your bett resort in trouble.  Remember the passage, Is any one afflicted, let him pray.' I fully believe that Heaven has an antidote for every earthly sorrow. All things are possible with God.  He can bring to naught the counsels of the designing. In regard to your apprehensions," added she,  " should they ever be realized, keep your sorrows fast locked from every human eye. Divulge them to no one, unless it be to me. I shall still hope to claim a place in your affection and confidence. Should Mr. Nelson, influenced by his friends, and perverted by false social distinctions, forget his duty to you in any degree, be to me.  I shall still hope to claim a place in your affection and confidence.  Should Mr. Nelson, influenced by his friends, and perverted by false social distinctions, forget his duty to you in any degree, be  very patient and attentive, study  his peculiarities, anticipate his wishes, and avoid every cause of irritation. Let him see that it is the purpose of your life to promote his happiness; and, if he have the generous heart I trust he has, the tide of his love will, in time, turn in your favor, even though be should not abandon the views he has always held concerning the laws that support our domestic institution, which I believe to be all wrong. My fear is, that a life of devotion to this awful code, and  the wielding of arbitrary power-the habit of subjecting the happiness of others, called slaves, to his wishes-may so have vitiated even his nature as to give your enemies too great advantage. I trust, however, this is not so, and that all will yet be well." 
"Thank you, dear Mrs. Brownlee, for your kind words and wise admonitions. I will do all that a trusting and affectionate wife can do to retain my husband's love.
"After a formal dinner, the Mansoos look leave; and whatever of regret they might have lodged in Mr. Nelson's mind, respecting his connection with Lelia, she was so attentive, yet unobtrusive, so charming and lovable, that her husband soon spurned the unworthy thoughts that had obtruded themselves, and once more was  himself.  Lelia, however, rejoiced tremblingly,-a certain foreboding whispering that all danger was not over.
CHAPTER XX.
POLITICAL  INTERFERENCE.
The life of Mr. and Mrs. Nelson was passing serenely, nothing having occurred for some time to disturb their felicity, when some of his political friends made him a call.  They were xealoos partixans, and he owed his elevation so little to their efforts. They had a private consultation with him for hoars, on a subject of immense importance, and deeply interesting to their disinterested natures-it impeached the integrity of Southern institutions-it was his marriage! And they did not scruple no express their surprise and horror at his choice of a wife. 
"Have you see my lady!" asked Mr. Nelson.
<c04>
"No, sir, nor is there any occasion for it," replied the politicians.
"Permit me then to suggest, gentlemen, that you are hardly competent judges," said Mr. Nelson.
"It is not to her that we object," they responded, it is to her origin. The conventional usages of society make it impossible for you to elevate-her to your standing; in the attempt, you infallibly lower yourself to her ignoble level. You may do as others do, without degradation, bat you cannot retain her as your wife without loss of caste.  We are your friends and supporters, and as such it is our doty to apprize you that your alliance is most odious in the eyes of your constituents;  indeed, unless it be repudiated, your election for the next term will be utterly impossible." 
"I cannot but think, gentlemen,." said Mr. Nelson, that you attach altogether too much importance to a matter of purely private concern. Aside from a few meddlesome females, whose gossiping propensities make them contemptible, I cannot believe that my domestic affairs are much talked about.  Certainly the question as to who or what my wife may be, is scarcely grave enough to turn an election." 
"You are entirely mistakes," said the chief speaker of the party, as to the importance attached to your unfortunate marriage. It is the topic in all our circles, the exciting theme at every fireside. Why, sir, admit for a moment that a slave may be elevated by marriage, and you strike a blow at our institution from which it cannot recover! The question is  not' who or what your wife may be,' as  to personal charms or mental accomplishments-not at all; but whether our domestic institution is right or not.  Is it not so, since she is slave-born?" 
Mr. Nelson was conscious that he had fallen into the pit he had helped to dig through years of public championship. 
"Besides," continued his caller, already the opposition  papers are raising the hue-and-cry on this subject that must, if something is not done to checkmate them, not only destroy your prospects politically, but draw on you the incensed eyes of both parties.  Indeed, there is no telling where the excitement will stop, unless yoa take a timely step to allay the popular furor; for you must be too well acquainted with Southern blood not to be aware that everybody and everything will be forced to give way, that endangers oar institutions. You have supposed that little attention is being given to your anomalous marriage; but let me show you what must convince you of your infatuation. Yet this it a trifle to what must come, unless you remove the cause of irritation-and that right soon. Here is an article in a Richmond paper; let me read it to you." It was an editorial, pointed so unmistakably at his marriage, though calling no names, that he could not but see its application. What its influence would be he knew too well. Public life was his element, and nothing could be more terrible than the prospect of defeat, brought about, too, by being discarded by his own party. The paleness of death blanched his cheek, as Love and Ambition came into fierce conflict. 
The politicians saw their advantage, and as they left, expressed the hope that he would devise speedy means of dissipating the gloom which had gathered in his political horizon. With a forced smile, he thanked them for their courtesy in waiting on him, and obsequiously assured them that there should be no difficulty in adjusting his domestic matters to their satisfaction. He had, in principle, yielded the point at issue; they congratulated  one another, and made known to his party the success of their mission.
 Mr. Nelson, up to this time, had looked at his relations to society in general, and to his party in particular, with a judgment led captive by the heart Bat the Southern  Voice had made itself heard, and he trembled before it as if he were the veriest culprit in existence. His own enunciated principles, as a slaveholder, reasserted their power.  He had been accustomed to subjecting scores of human beings to his away sacrificing them without scruple to his advancement, and now the wife of his bosom must bow to her fate!  He reasoned in this way : The fact being known that her mother was a slave, settled the question of her condition, and I cannot prevent it. Why then should I seek to hold her in a false position?  Why keep alive hopes that can never be realized of that equality with the free, which neither the law nor our social customs warrant? Her beauty, worth, accomplishments, complexion-society and the statutes make no difference as to these; indeed, as a matter of fact, they in variably make the position of the slave-born all the more remediless, as they serve only to enhance the value of this species of property.  And as to the fact of mar riage, did I once dream that Lelia was of such base parentage?  It was her misfortune-there is no redemption from it; and if I rebel, what will it accomplish but my ruin as well as hers!  Such reasoning affected his conduct towards Lelia, though in her presence its inexorable logic would often melt like ice in the sun's rays, and he was spell-bound so that he could not breathe a syllable of it in her ear.
His political friends followed up their advantage with cruel persistence: and as the days crept slowly on, the young wife was very sorrowful.  Ambition had the mastery of her husband's breast.  He dined abroad frequently with his  partizas acquaintances and parties of gentlemen were often at the mansion; but Mrs. Nelson, sad, and in poor health, rarely left her apartment An inordinate desire of power was consuming the finer traits of his character, and the domineering, impatient habits which slaveholding had ingrained with his whole nature, rendered him harsh towards the lovely being he had sworn to cherish. At length, at a convivial gathering in the flush of wine-drinking, he declared that his marriage was only a form got up for his amusement, and as a joke for his friends!-that it was in no sense legal, and he had never intended acknowledging the servant-not he, indeed! And he drank off another glass of wine, lest his heart should, after all, fail him. 
His friends warmly commended. 
"I always knew Nelson was hoaxing us," said one. 
"So I thought," said another.
"I made sure he'd some day return to his senses, even if he were in earnest," said a third" So here's to the health and long life of Senator Nelson!" and the company drank and applauded, and applauded and drank.
Mr. Nelson reached home much the worse for drink," and unconsciously to himself, in wandering sentences revealed to Lelia the degraded part he had played. 
INFORMATION WANTED.
WILLIAM LLOTD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-As I am a stranger to you, allow me to  introduce myself to  you as a pioneer  brother Abolitionist, of thirty years' standing-being now in the sixtieth year of my age.
I espoused the cause in the firm conviction that slavery was a great  moral, political, social evil, and ought therefore to be immediately abolished: that, as such, if suffered to continue, it would eventually bring down upon the nation the judgments of Heaven to its utter destruction. Nor has this conviction in the least diminished; indeed, the country hi now reaping the fruit of its own doings.
The people have  been faithfully and sufficiently warned of their sin and danger, bat they would not listen to it.  Instead of forsaking the sin by hearty, sincere repentance and confession, they have seemet determined to continue in it until by the judgment of God they are compelled to give it up.  What such a repentance will amount to, is a question of no little importance at it concerns the future destiny of the nation.
Now, my dear brother and friend, as I know of no paper that holds forth these(my) views, free and independent of party predilections-in which its maoagen will give each and all its patrons a fair opportunity ooeas Moalty to express their views-I have written this letter with the express object of inquiring where one might be obtained-presuming that you would know.  I want a 
<c05>
paper, toe, a weekly, that will give the general news, general and detailed account of the progress of the war, the battles, svc.  I want a paper that will not speak against the administration, and the policy it  is pursning, unless there shall be good and substantial reasons for doing so.  If there is, or shall be, I want it to come out boldly and fearlessly on the side of justice and equity, without fear or favor of any man, sect, or party. 
I have believed, and still believe, that the rebellion might have been effectually put down in six months, or a year at the farthest, with far less loss of life and treasure, had the President have called into action, on or immediately after he took his seat, three million of troops. And this I believe  might have been done on the fall of Sumter, when the people were so aroused to arms. If we had not the full means to clothe and equip them, we could have sent to Europe and purchased what was lacking. 
When the President took his seat, he seemed to have no realizing sense of the magnitude and in veteracy of the rebellion, and the determination of its conspirators to destroy and ruin the country. This is shown by his first call for seventy-five thousand.  The war from its commencement, on our part, has been altogether too friendly, while the enemy has been in dead earnest.  But we are beginning to learn, after two and a half years' conflict, the nature of the boost we are fighting.  It is slavery, American slavery.  And slavery is hell let loose!  It defies human power, and attempts to dethrone the Most High God!  It mocks at human suffering and agony.  Witness its unparalleled, savage, fiendish barbarity in starving the Union prisoners at Richmond.

This is the dear (!) creature which has been so long petted and caressed and idolised by the nation. This is the creature for which it is said, (and the people have been taught to believe,) special provision is made in the Constitution of the United States; the very creature which has  been admitted Into our churches, to our communions, and at our alters.
In one thing I do rejoice,-that the churches and the whole people North, and many of them South, are beginning to undentand these things. They cannot help to undentand, if they have not lost all sense.  How easily, securely, they might have escaped these bloody scenes,  had they listened in time to  the voice of wisdom! But they would not hear.
Never was there an individual nor a nation sent to perdition without warning. This  nation has had its prophets; and though comparative few in number to those who have worshipped at the shrine of Mammon, yet they have been faithful in their warnings and admonitions to the people.  They have done their work well. 
Now, the great question in my mind is, has the nation already sinned so grievously as to be beyond redemption? We know from the apostle's account that this was the case with the Jewish nation-God's own peculiar people-and with many others.  Are we sure that it is not so with oar own beloved, favored country?  What evidence have we that it is not?  Those nations had their priests, or prophets who cried peace, peace;- so have we those who are trying to make the people believe that the Union will be  restored.  That devoted city-Jerusalem-was looking for the Messiah to come and deliver it, until the very eve of its destruction. The Jews were observant  of their religious ceremonies, and full of the offerings of slain beasts.  (See 1st . Isaiah.) Just so it is with this people now.  They seem to have an idea that they can appease the just anger of the Almighty by their hypocritical observances , "They draw near to God with their mouth, while their heart is far from him." 
The North has given its approval to the sin of human slavery, and helped to support the secursed system,  and  hence has become implicated; and having  corrupted itself with the South, it will be no marvel if the North and South shall be given up  utterly  to destroy one another.  This they are already doing.  If there were deep, sincere heart-felt sorrow for this great national sin-anything beyond a vain, formal, shallow pretence-there would yet be hope. But no such sign appears. 
The nation has not, in my opinion, got through with its worst troubles yet.  I see in the papers the question of reconstruction of the Union is brought up before the people.  Here, I apprehend, lies oar greatest trouble and danger.  The North will be divided, and the South will  take advantage of it.  Even those who are so fierce for putting down the  rebellion- most of them, and they are the majority-are for doing it in a way most agreeable to the feelings and least damaging to the interest of the rebels.  This has been the case ever since the commencement of the war.  This same conciliatory spirit-the master spirit of the age-will, in all probability, prevail on the question of the reconstruction of the Union.
But I must close. Please pardon me the liberty I have here taken to express to you some of my views.
Hoping you will inform me where, and on what terms, I can obtain a paper devoted to freedom, a free government, free institutions, and for conducting the war as here suggested, 
I am, dear Sir, yours, respectfully, 
DAVID WELLMAN, JR. 
Woodbury,(Con.) 1864.
 PEACE AND WAR. 
BROTHER GAXRISON-It seems to me  that now you, and the Abolitionists, and the peace men generally, have become warriors, it is not forwarding the deliverance of the slave by occupying so large a space in the Liberator as you have done in publishing brother Love's letter.
The question now is, not pence, bat war-bloody war.  Peace was right every moment the Abolitionists preached peace; but the moment the slaveholders resorted to war to perpetuate their disbolical slave system, then war must be the word.  Though I would respect bro. Love's consclentions convictions, I say earnestly his is not the kind of war the slave needs. The example he thinks be is setting amounts to nothing.  For thirty years, the Abolitionists preached peace to the nation, and warned it of the consequences of wrong-doing.  But, instead of repenting, the slaveholders say, "We will perpetuate our slavery, if by so doing we murder every man in the Free States."  Then the time had come for Abolitionists to talk peace no longer. 
I have lamented many times that I have not a constitution to carry me by the side of our worthy 
Bro .Capt. Daniel Foster, who is liberating our down-trodden brothers and sisters from slavery. He can talk peace to some purpose.  The peace that he gives to, slaveholders is the only kind they will listen to.

I think bro. Love's ideas belong to the past.  It is no time to talk of what a man did eighteen hundred years ago.  Peace men argued too long to try to make it appear that Jesus never used physical force.  He did so when be thrashed the money-traffckers.  What did he tell his friends to sell their clothes and buy swords for? For use, of course.  Besides, I have discovered, within a short time, that peace aad war are both right! Capt. Foster is a Christian, and doing a noble work for the coming of peace on earth and good will among men.  Christians cannot kill Christians; but Christians can kill sinners, for their good.
We never could have freed the slave without the sword.  I said, in the commencement of this letter, that the peace men had become warriors.  While we give all our influence to the Government to make this a war for freedom, I do not think it right to call ourselves peace men.  A war of ideas and A war of bullets are joint partners.  To-day we will wage a war of ideas; but if, to-morrow, we see no other way to free our brother man
we will wage a war of bullets.
Yours, for pence my long as possible; but when <illegible> buy war, then let them have war!
SEWARD MITCHELL.
Cornville, (Me.) Jan, 3l, 1864.
<c06>
 MISS DICKINSON'S LECTURE IN WASHINGTON.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the National Freedman's Relief Society, of the District of Columbin, held on the 26th of January, 1864, the following letter was read:-
WASHINGTON, Jan. 23, 1864.
Rev. W.H. Chanming:
SIR,-We have the honor the enclose herewith a draft for the ten hundred and thirty dollars, being the proceeds of the lecture delivered by Mis Anna E. Dichinson, in the Hall of the House of Representatives, on Saturday evening, the 16th inst.
It is the special request of Miss Dickinson that this fund be appropriated for the benefit of the National Freedman's Relief Society of the District of Columbia, of which you are the Vice President.
It was is respense to an invitation of members of Congress that Miss Dickinson delivered her lecture at the Capital.  Her benevolence and patriotion evineed in this gift entitle her to the gratitude not only of those who are the recipients of her muniflcence, but of every lover of his country.
Very respectfully, your obedient servants,
H. HAMLIN,
SCHUYLER COLFAX.
Whereupon the following resolutions were adopted:
Resolved, That the National Freedman's Relief Society of the District of Columbia receive with sincere gratitude, admiration, and pleasure, the generous gift from Miss Dickinson, entrusted to our stewardship by the letter of Vice President Hamlin, and Mr. Speaker Colfax.
Resolved, That in response to this letter which pays honor justly due to an earnest and great-hearted weman, while it manifests the humane statesmanship of its writers, we hereby offer our respectful thanks to Vice President Hamlin and Mr. Speaker Colfex for thus receiving and conveying the liberal contribution of ten hundred and thiry dollars.
Resolved, That having watched with proud satisfaction the career of Miss Dickinson, as one among many illustrious proofs of the patriotic devotedness of American women in this hour of our nation's trial, and having been delighted listeners, among thousands of hearers,, to her high-toned eloquence and pathetic uppeals, we cordially wish her good speed and continued triumphs; and we assure her that we shall feel it to be an honor and privilege to dispense the fund she has committed to our care in behalf of the destitute freedman in this District.
Resolved, That copies, duly attested, of these resolutions be sent to Miss Dickinson, the Vice President and the Speaker, and that they be published.
WILLIAM HENRY CHANNING, Vice President.
N. DUBLOIS, Secretory.
GEORGE E. BAKER, Treasurer.
Anna E. Dickinson repeated, at the Cooper Institute, on Tuesday evening last, the lecture lately delivered by her in the Capital at Washington.  Such a jam was never before witnessed, we think, in the Institute.  The pressure in the aisles was such, even three-quarters of an hour before the time appointed for the lecture, that the ushers in charge of the reserved seats found it impracticable to discharge the duty assigned them; and the consequence was that a considerable number of the reserved seats were occupied by persons who had no right to them, while some of those who held tickets therefor were excluded.  It is believed that from three to five thousand people left without gaining admission to the building.  William Cullen Bryant Presided, and introduced the lecturer in a brief but exceedingly felicitions speech.  Miss. Dickinson spoke with even more than her usual power, and the most oredical sentiments she uttered were applauded to the echo.  The lecture will be repeated at the Academy of Music, in Brooklyn, next Monday evening.-Anti-Slavery Standard.
HON.JOHN M. BOTTS ON PUBLIC AFFAIRS. In answer to a letter from the Hon. G.S. Smith, Tressurer of the Virginia State Government, too the Hon.John M. Botts, urging on behalf of Gov. Pierpont his acceptance of the position of Senator from that State, Mr. Botts has writter a letter (as has already been stated) declining the proffered honor, and taking a review of public arrairs generally.  The following is a summary of its contents:-
Mr. Botts states that he is fully aware of the responsibility or United States Senator, that the position is one which ought to satisfy the aspirations of any mederate man, but that he is compelled at present by solemn convictions of duty to decline accepting any office from either of the numerous governments of Virginis, representing or professing to represent that State.  His unselfish motives, he states, might be impugned, but he nevertheless believes the term not far distant when he may be able to aid in healing the bitter animosities of the two sections.  He charges the leaders of the rebellion as having , "with miscalculation upon miscalculation and blunder upon bluder" brought ruin and destruction upon the, "Old Mother of States," and closes by saying that neither war, nor want, nor suffering, can last forever, and that when the proper time arrives, he believes he may be instrumental in the work of union and reconciliation.  In a conversation with Mr. Botts, he stated that never for a single instant during this war has he doubted the final result.  His opinion of George B. McClellan is not at all complimentary to that gentleman, whom he regards, if not positively disloyal at heart, at least in the light of an ambition aspirant for undeserved honors.  
Mr. B. stated that he believed that the majority of the rebel array regarded McClellan as being as truly devoted to their interests as Robert E. Lee, and that a man who would not, when his name was used in connection with Davis, Vallandigham, Wood, and others of the same political complexion, come out boldly and disclaim the association, was totally unfit to be Commander of a Union army.  Mr. B. says that of all the promises made to the Southern people by the leaders of Secession, only one may possibly be fulfilled.  The promise referred to is the one of Mr. Toombs, of Georgia, who, it will be remembered, said he would yet call the roll of his slaves as the foot of Bunker Hill Monument.  Mr. B. thinks that if President Lincoln will collect the slaves of Mr. Toomos, and permit him to visit the North, the prophecy may be fulfiled.
John Ten Broeck, a member of the Ellsworth regiment, arrived in New York last week.  At the battle of Fredericksburg, Mr. T. had a narrow escape from a premature burial.  He was stunned by a shell, and taken up for dead.  He was accordingly laid in a trench with six others, to be buried.  He came to just as the dirt was about being shoveled into the grave.
A contraband gave birth recently to a child on the plantation of Gov. Wise.  A female teacher from Massachusetts, who was called to assist the mother, persuaded her to name the child John Brown wish.
The original Franklin printing press arrived in Boston recently, and was presented to the <illegible> Charitable Mechanice' Association by Mr. Winthrop.  It may be seen at the common council room.
Three men, a father and two sons, named Scott, were burned to death in a single camp near Lynnfield, N. B., one night last week, from a for which they left burnign when they weat to sleep.  They belonged to St. David's
Chief Justice Taney is nearly eighty seven years old.  He was appointed by Jackson, in 1836.
GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at messers. H.B. Sharmed & Co new Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS RIXTURES,
In the most careful mannor.  New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all hinds furnished at short notice.  Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to LIghting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel.  Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charies street, 
Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Standwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly
THE PROBLEM SOLVED!
An intensely interesting work, arguing the insvitable and only just solution of the relations of the white and Negro races on this continest. It may be starting to some, but it is TRUE, and being demonstrated by every day's events.  Wendell Phillips said, "I have so hope for the future, as this country has no past and <illegible> has not past, but in that subtime mingling of races which is God's own method of civilizing and elevating the world."  It is entitled
"MISCEGENATION."
It unfolds a Future for this country hardly dreamed of as yet by its people, as the result of the recognition of the brotherhood sad social and political rights of the Negro.  It treats of the relation of the Irish and Negro, Miscegenetic Ideal of Beauty in Woman, Secret of Southern Superiority, The Type Mis a Miscegenation, The Fastern, No White, No Black, &c.
Address AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, 121 Nazar Street, New York, successors to Tousey & Dextor Hamilton. Price, 26 etc.
New York, Feb.3.  


