THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed )POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV.NO.5.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, .FEBRUARY 3, 1865.
WHOLE NO.1774.THE LIBERATOR
<c01>
Selections.
ADDRESS OF HENRY WARD BEECHER
At the Restoration of the Stars and Stripes at Fort Sumter, April 14, 1865.
On this solegan and joyful day, we again lift to the breeze our father’s flag, now again the banner of the United States, with the fervent prayer that God would crown it with honor, protect it from treason and send it down to our children with all the blessings of civilization, liberty and religion. Happily, no bird or beast of prey has been inscribed upon it. The stars that redeem the night from darkness, and the beams of red light that beautify the morning, have been united upon its folds. As long as the an endures, or the stars, may it wave over a nation neither enslaved nor enslaving! (Great applause) Once, and but once, has treason dishonored it. In that insane hour, when the guiltiest and bloodiest rebels of time hurled their fires upon the fort, you, sir, (turning to Gen. Anderson,) and a small heroic band, stood within these now crumbled walls, and did gallant and just battle for the honor and defence of the nation’s banner. (Applause) In that cope of fire, this glorious flag still peacefully waved to the breeze above your head, unconscious of harm as the stars and skies above it. Once it was shot down. A gallant hand, in whose care this day it has been, plucked it from the ground and reared it again, cast down but not destroyed. After a vain resistance, with trembling hand and sad heart you withdrew it from the height, closed its wings, and bore it far away, sternly, to sleep amid the tumult of rebellion and the thunder of battle. The first act of war had begun—the long night of four years had set in, while the giddy traitor whirled in a maze of exhilaration. Dim horrors were already advancing, that were ere long to fill the land with blood. To-day you are returned. Again we devoutly join with you in thanksgiving to Almighty God, that He has spared your honored life, and <illegible> to you the honors of this day. The heavens over you are the same; the same shores are seen; morning comes and evening as they did. All else how changed! What grim batteries crowd the burdened shores! What scenes have filled this air and disturbed these waters! These shattered heaps of shapeless stone are all that is left of Fort Sumter. Desolation broods in yonder sad city. Solemn retribution hath avenged our dishonored banner. You have come back with honor, who departed once, four years ago, leaving the air sultry with fanaticism. The surging crowds that rolled up their frenzied shouts as the flag came down are dead, or scattered, or silent, and their habitations are desolate. Ruin sits in the cradle of treason. Rebellion has perished, but there flies the same flag that was insulted. (Great and prolonged applause.) With starry eyes it looks all over this bay for that banner that supplanted it, and sees it not. You first then for the day were humbled are here again to triumph once and forever! (Applause.) In the storm of that assault, this glorious ensign was often struck, but (memorable fact!) not one of its stars was torn out by shot or shell. (Applause.) It was a prophecy. It said: “Not one State shall be struck from this nation by treason.” (Applause.) The fulfillment is at hand. Lifted to the air to-day, it proclaims, after four years of war, not a State is blotted out. (Applause.) Hail to the flag of our fathers and our flag! Glory to the banner that has been through four years, black with tem-pests of war, to pilot the nation back to peace with-out dismemberment! And glory be to God who, above all hosts and banners, hath ordained victory and shall ordain peace! (Applause.)
Wherefore have we come hither, pilgrims from distant places? Are we come to exult that Northern hands are stronger than Southern? No! but to rejoice that the hands of those who defend a just and beneficent government are mightier than the hands that assaulted it. (Applause.) Do we exult over fallen cities? We exult that a nation has not fallen. (Applause.) We sorrow with the sorrowful; we sympathize with the desolate; we look upon this shattered fort and yonder dilapidated city with sad eyes—grieved that men should have committed such treason, and glad that God hath set such mark upon treason that all ages shall dread and abhor it. (Applause.) We exult not for a passion gratified, but for a sentiment victorious; not for temper, but for conscience; not (as we devoutly believe) that our will is done, but that God’s will hath been done. We should be unworthy of that liberty entrusted to our care if, on such a day as this, we sullied our hearts by feelings of aimless vengeance, and equally unworthy if we did not devoutly thank Him who hath said, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord, “that He hath set a mark upon arrogant rebellion, ineffaceable while time lasts. Since this flag went down on that dark day, who shall tell the mighty was that have made this land a spectacle to angels and men! The soil has drunk blood, and is <illegible>. Millions mourn for millions slain, or, envying the dead, pray for oblivion. Towns and villages have been razed; fruitful fields have turned back to wildernesses. It came to pass as the prophet said “The sun was turned to darkness, and the soon to blood.” The course of law was ended. The sword sat chief magistrate in the nation. Industry was paralyzed; morals corrupted; the public weal invaded by rapine and anarchy; whole States ravaged by avenging armies. The world was mazed; the earth reeled when the flag sunk here. It was as if political night had come, and all beasts of prey had come forth to devour. That long night is ended; and for this returning day we have come from afar to rejoice and give thanks. No more war; no more accursed secession; no more slavery that spawned them both. (Great applause.) Let no man misread the meaning of this unfolding flag. says: ”Government hath returned hither.” It proclaims, in the name of vindicated government, peace and protection to loyalty; humiliation and paints to traitors. This is the flag of sovereignty. The Nation, not the States, is sovereign restored to authority. This flag commands, not supplicates. There may be pardon, but no concession. (Great applause.) There may be amnesty and oblivion, but no boned compromises. (Applause.) The nation to-day has peace for the peaceful, and war for the turbulent. (Applause.) The only condition of submission is to submit. (Laughter and applause.) There is the Constitution—there are the laws—there is the Government—they rise up like mountain of strength that shall not be moved; they are the conditions of peace. One nation under one Government, without slavery, has been ordained and shall stand. There can be no peace on other basis. On this basis reconstruction is easy, and such neither architect nor engineer. Without this <illegible> no engineer or architect shall ever reconstruct these rebellious States. We do not want your cities nor your fields; we do not envy your <illegible> soil, or heavens full of perpetual summer. Let agriculture revel here. Let manufactures make every stream twice musical, build fleets in every 
<c02>
port, inspire the arts of peace with genius second only to that of Athens, and we shall be glad in your gladness, and rich in your wealth. All that we ask is unswerving loyalty and universal liberty—(applause)—and that, in the name of this high sovereignty of the United States of America, we demand, and that, with the blessing of Almighty God, we will have. (Great applause.)
  Did I say that we brought back the same banner that you bore away, noble and heroic sir? It is not the same; it is more and better than it was. The land is free from slavery since that banner fell. When God would prepare Moses for emancipation, he overthrew his first steps, and drove him for forty years to brood in the wilderness. When our flag came down, four years it lay brooding in darkness; it cried to the Lord: “ Wherefore am I deposed?” Then rose before it a vision of its sin; it had strengthened the strong and forgotten the weak; it proclaimed liberty, but trod upon slaves. In that seclusion it dedicated itself to liberty. Behold to-day it fulfills its vows! When it went down, four million people had no flag. To-day it rises, and four million people cry out: “ Behold our flag!” “ Hark!” they murmur, “ it is the gospel to the poor; it heals our broken hearts; it preaches deliverance to the captives; it gives sight to the blind; it sets at liberty them that are bruised.” Raise up the glorious gospel banner, and roll out the messages of God! Tell the air that not a spot sullies thy whiteness. Thy red is not the flush of shame, but the flush of joy. Tell the dews that wash thee that thou art pure; say to the night that thy stars lead toward the morning, and to the morning that a brighter day arises with healing on its wings; and then, O glowing flag! bid the sun pour light on all thy folds with double brightness, whilst thou art bearing round and round the world the solemn joy—“a race set free!” a nation redeemed!” The mighty hand of government, made strong in war by the favor of the God of battles, spreads wide to-day the banner of liberty that went down in darkness, that arose in light, and there it streams like the sun above, neither parcelled out nor monopolized, but flooding the air with light for all mankind! Ye scattered and broken ye wounded and dying! bitten by the fiery serpents of oppression! everywhere, in all the world, look upon this sign, lifted up, and live! and ye, homeless and houseless slaves! look, and ye are free! At length you, too, I have part and lot in the glorious ensign that broods with impartial love over small and great, the poor and the strong, the bond and the free. In this solemn hour, let us pray for the quick coming of reconciliation and happiness under this common flag. But we must build again from the foundations in all these now free Southern States. No cheap exhortations to forgetfulness of the past, to restore all things as they were. God doth not stretch out his hand as He has for four dreadful years that men may easily forget the night of this terrible act. Restore things as they were? What! the alienations and jealousies, the discords and contentions, and the causes of them? No! In that solemn sacrifice on which a nation has offered up for its sons so many precious victims, loved and lamented, let our sins and mistakes be consumed utterly and forever. No, never again shall things be restored as before the war. It is written in God’s decree of events fulfilled. Old things are passed away. That new earth in which dwelleth righteousness draws near. Things as they were! Who has an omnipotent hand to restore a million dead, slain in battle, or wasted by sickness, or dying of grief broken-hearted? Who has omniscience to search for the scattered ones? Who shall restore the lost to broken families? Who shall bring back the squandered treasure, the years of industry wasted, and convince you that four years of guilty rebellion and cruel war are no more than dirt upon the hand which a moment’s washing removes, and leaves the hand clean as before? Such a war reaches down to the very vitals of society. Emerging from such a prolonged rebellion, he is blind who tells you that the State, by a mere amnesty and benevolence of government, can be put again by a mere decree in its old place. It would not be honest, it would not be kind or fraternal for me to pretend that Southern revolution against the Union has not reacted, and wrought revolution in the Southern States themselves, and inaugurated a new dispensation. Society is like a broken loom, and the piece which rebellion put in and was weaving has been cut, and every thread broken. You must put in new warp and new woof; and weaving anew, as the fabric slowly unwinds, we shall see in it no gorgon figures, no hideous grotesques of the old barbarism, but the figures of liberty—vines and golden grains framing in the heads of Justice, Love and Liberty. The august Convention of 1787 framed the Constitution with this memorable preamble: “We, the People of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain this Constitution for the United States of America.” Again, in the awful convention of war, the people of the United States, for the very ends just recited, have debated, settled and ordained certain fundamental truths which must henceforth be acted and obeyed. Nor is any State, or any individual, wise who shall disregard them. They are to civil affairs what the natural laws are to health—indispensable conditions of peace and happiness. What are the ordinances given by people speaking out of fire and darkness of war, with authority inspired by that same God who gave the law from Sinai amid thunders and trumpet voices? First—that these United States shall be one and indivisible. Second—that States are not absolutely sovereign, and have no right to dismember the Republic. Third—that universal liberty is indispensable to Republican government, and that slavery shall be utterly and forever abolished. Such are the results of war. These are the best fruits of the war. They are worth all they have cost. They are foundations of praise. They will secure benefits to all nations as well as to us. Our highest wisdom and duty are to accept the facts as the decrees of God. We are expected to forget all that has happened! yes, the wrath, the conflict, the cruelty, but not those overruling decrees of God which this war has pronounced as solemnly as on Mount Sinai! God says: “ Remember, remember!” Hear it to-day under this sun—under that bright child of the sun, our banner—with the eyes of this nation and of the world upon us, we repeat the syllables of God’s providence, and recite the solemn decrees, NO MORE DISUNION! NO MORE SECESSION! NO MORE SLAVERY! (Load and prolonged applause.)
  I charge the whole guilt of this war upon the ambitious, educated, plotting, political leaders of the South. (Applause.) They have shed an ocean of blood. They have desolated the South. They have poured poverty through all her towns and .cities. They have bewildered the imagination of the people with phantasms, and led them to believe they were fighting for their homes and liberty,
<c03>
whose homes were unthreatened, and whose liberty was in no jeopardy. Those arrogant instigators of civil war have renewed the plagues of Egypt, not that the oppressed might go free, but that the free might be oppressed. A day will come when God will reveal judgment, and arraign at his bar these mighty miscreants; and then every orphan that their bloody game has made, and every widow that sits sorrowing, and every maimed and wounded sufferer, and every bereaved heart in all the wide regions of this land will rise up, and come before the Lord to lay upon these chief culprits of modern history their awful witnessings. And from a thousand battle-fields shall rise up armies of airy witnesses, who, with the memory of their awful sufferings, shall confront these miscreants with their words of fierce accusation, and every pale and starved prisoner shall raise his skinny hands in judgment. Blood shall call out for vengeance, tears shall plead for justice, grief shall silently beckon, and love, heart-smitten, shall wait for justice. Good men and angels will cry out: “ How long, O Lord, how long! will Thou not avenge?” And, then, these guiltiest and most remorseless traitors—these high and cultured men, with might and wisdom used for the destruction of the country—these most accursed and detested of criminals, that have drenched a nation in needless blood, and moved the foundations of their times with hideous crimes and cruelty—caught up in black clouds, full of voices of vengeance and lurid with punishment, shall be whirled aloft and plunged downward forever and forever in an endless retribution, while God shall say: “ Thus shall it be to all who betray their country;” and all in heaven and upon earth will say amen! (Voices“Amen!” “Amen!”) But for the people misled, for the multitude drafted and driven into this civil war, let not a trace of animosity remain. (Applause.) The moment their willing hand drops the musket, and they return to their allegiance, then stretch out your own honest right hand to greet them. Recall to them the old days of kindness. Our hearts wait for their redemption. All the resources of a renovated nation shall be applied to rebuild their prosperity, and smooth down the furrows of war.
  Has this long and weary period of strife been an unmingled evil? Has nothing been gained? Yes, much. This nation has attained to its manhood. Among Indian customs is one which admits young men to the rank of warriors only after severe trials of hunger, fatigue, pain, endurance. They reach their station not through years, but ordeals. Our nation has suffered, and now is strong. The sentiment of loyalty and patriotism—next in importance to religion—has been rooted and grounded. We have something to be proud of, and pride helps love. Never so much as now did we love our country. (Great applause.) But four such years of education in ideas—in the knowledge of political truth—in the lore of history—in the geography of our country—almost every inch of which we have proved with the bayonet—have never passed before. There is half a hundred years advanced in four. We believed in our institutions and principles before, but now we know their power. It is one thing to look upon artillery, and be sure that it is loaded; it is another thing to receive the discharge. (Laughter.) We believed in the hidden power stored in our institutions. We had never before seen this nation, thundering like Mount Sinai at all those that worshipped the calf at the base of the mountain. A people educated and moral are competent to all the exigencies of national life. A vote can govern better than a crown. We have proved it (Applause.) A people, intelligent and religious, are strong in all economical elements. They are fitted for peace and competent to war. They are not easily inflamed, and when justly incensed, not easily extinguished. They are patient in adversities, endure cheerfully needful burdens, tax themselves for real wants more royally than any prince would dare to tax his people. They pour forth without stint relief for the sufferings of war, and raise charity out of the realm of a dole into a munificent duty of beneficence. The habit of industry among freemen prepares them to meet the exhaustion of war with increase of productiveness. Commensurate with the need that exists, their habits of skill enable them at once to supply such armies as only freedom can muster, with arms and munitions such as only free industry can create. Free society is terrible in war, but afterwards repairs the mischief of war with celerity almost as great as that with which the ocean heals the seams gashed in it by the keel of plowing ships. Free society is fruitful of military genius. It comes when called; when no longer needed, it falls. back as waves do to the level of the common sea. And no wave may be greater than the undivided water. With proof of strength so great, yet in its infancy, we stand up among the nations of the world asking no privileges, asserting no rights, but quietly assuming our place, and determined to be second to none in the race of civilization and religion.
   At present, the South reaps only suffering, but good seed lies buried under the furrows of war that Peace will bring to harvest. First: deadly doctrines have been purged away in blood. The subtle poison of secession was a perpetual threat of revolution. The sword has ended that danger. That which reason had affirmed as a philosophy, the people have settled as a fact. Theory pronounces that there can be no permanent government where each integral part has the liberty to fly off. Who would venture upon a voyage in a ship, each plank and timber of which might withdraw at its pleasure? (Laughter and applause.) But the people have reasoned by the logic of the sword and of the ballot, and they have declared that States are inseparable parts of national government They are not sovereign. State rights remain, but sovereignty is a right higher than all others, and has been made into a common stock for the benefit of all. (Applause.) All further agitation is ended. This element must be cast out of political problems henceforth—that poison will not rankle in the blood. Second—Another thing has been learned—the rights and duties of minorities. The people of the whole nation are of more authority than the people of any section. These United States are supreme over Northern, Western and Southern States. It ought not to have required the awful chastisement of this war to teach that the minority must submit the control of the nation’s government to a majority. The army and navy have been good political schoolmasters. (Laughter and applause.) The lesson is learned. Not for many generations will it require further illustration. Third—No other lesson will be more fruitful of peace than the dispersion of those conceits of vanity which on either side have clouded the recognition of the manly courage of all Americans. If it be a sign of Manhood to be able to fight, then Americans are men. The North certainly are in no doubt whatever of the soldierly qualities of Southern men. Southern soldiers have learned that all latitudes bread courage on this continent. Courage is a passport to respect. The people of all the region of this nation are likely hereafter to cherish a
<c04>
generous admiration for each other’s prowess. The war has bred respect and respect, will breed affection. (Applause.) Fourth—No other event of the war can fill an intelligent Southern man of candid nature with more surprise than the revelation of the capacity, moral and military, of the black race. It is a revelation indeed. No people were over less understood by those most familiar with them. They were said to be lazy, lying, impudent and cowardly wretches, driven by the whip along to the tasks needful for their own support and the functions of civilization. They were said to be dangerous, bloodthirsty, and liable to insurrection; but four years of tumultuous distress and war have rolled over the area inhabited by them, and I have yet to hear of one authentic instance of the misconduct of a colored man. They have been patient, and gentle, and docile, and full of faith and hope and piety; and when summoned to freedom they have emerged with all the signs and tokens that freedom will be to them what it was to us—the swaddling band that brings them to manhood. And after the government, honoring them as men, summoned them to the field, when once they were disciplined and had learned the art of war, they proved themselves to be not second to their white brethren in arms. And when the roll of men that have shed their blood is called in the other land, many and many a dusky face will rise, dark no more, when the light of eternal glory shall shine upon it from the throne of God. Fifth—The industry of the Southern States is regenerated, and now rests upon a basis that never fails to bring prosperity. Just now industry is collapsed, but it is not dead; it sleepeth. It is vital yet. It will spring like mown grass from the roots, that need but showers and heat and time to bring them forth, so that in many districts a generation will see the wanton waste of self-invoked war repaired. Many portions may lapse again to wilderness, yet in our time we shall see States, as a whole, raised to a prosperity, vital, wholesome and immovable. Sixth—The destruction of class interests, working with a religion which tends towards true democracy, in proportion as it is pure and free, will create a new era of prosperity for the laboring people of the South. Upon them has come the labor, the toil and the loss of this war: they have fought blindfolded, they have fought for a class that have sought their degradation, while they were made to believe that it was for their own homes and altars. Their leaders meant a supremacy which would not long have left them political liberty save in name; but their leaders are swept away. The sword has been hungry for the ruling classes. It has sought them out with remorseless zeal. New men are to rise up. New ideas are to bud and blossom, and there will be men with different ambition and altered policy. Seventh—Meanwhile the South—no longer a land of plantations, but of farms—no longer tilled by slaves, but by freedmen—will find no hindrance to the spread of education. Schools will multiply; books and papers will spread; churches will bless every hamlet. There is a good day coming for the South. Through darkness and tears and blood she has sought it. It has been an unconscious Via Dolorosa, but in the end it will be worth all it has cost. Her instructions before were deadly. She nourished death in her bosom. The greater her secular prosperity, the more sure was her ruin. Every year of delay but made the change more terrible. Now by an earthquake the evil is shaken down, and her own historians in a later day shall write that from the day the sword cut off the cancer, she began to find her health. What then shall hinder the rebuilding of this Republic? The evil spirit is cast out. Why should not this nation cease to wander among tombs, cutting itself? Why should it not come clothed and in its right mind to sit at the foot of Jesus? Is it feared that the government will oppress the conquered States? What possible motive has the government to narrow the base of that pyramid on which its own permanence stands? Is it feared that the rights of the States will be withheld? The South is not more jealous of State rights than the North. State rights from the earliest colonial days have been the peculiar pride and jealousy of New England. In every stage of national formation, it was peculiarly Northern and not Southern statesmen that guarded State rights as we were forming the Constitution. ‘ But, once united, the loyal States gave up forever that which had been delegated to the National Government, and now in the hour of victory the loyal States do not mean to trench upon Southern State rights. They will not do it or suffer it to be done. There is not to be one rule for high latitudes and another for low. We take nothing from the Southern States that has not already been taken for Northern. The South shall have just those rights that every Eastern, every Middle, every Western State has—no more, no less. We are not seeking our own aggrandizement by impoverishing the South. Its prosperity is an indispensable element of our own. We have shown by all that we have suffered in war how great is our estimate of the importance of the Southern States of this Union, and we will measure that estimate now in peace by still greater exertions for their rebuilding. Will reflecting men not perceive, then, the wisdom of accepting established facts, and with alacrity of enterprise begin to retrieve the past? Slavery cannot come back. It is the interest, therefore, of every man to hasten its end. Do you want more war? Are you not yet weary of contest? Will yon gather up the unexploded fragments of this prodigious magazine of all mischief, and heap them up for continued explosions? Does not the South need peace? And since free labor is inevitable, will you have it in its worst forms or in its best? Shall it be ignorant, impertinent, indolent, or shall it be educated, self-respecting, moral and self-supporting? Will you have men as drudges, or will you have them as citizens, since they have vindicated the government and cemented its foundation stones with their blood? May they not offer the tribute of their support to maintain its laws and its policy? It is better for religion—it is better for political integrity—it is better for industry —it is better for money, if you will have that ground motive, that you should educate the black man, and by education make him a citizen. (Applause.) They who refuse education to the black man would turn the South into a vast poor house, and labor into a pendulum—necessity vibrating between poverty and indolence.
From this pulpit of broken stone, we speak fresh our earnest greeting to all our land. We offer to the President of these United States our solemn congratulations that God has sustained his life and health under the unparalleled burdens and sufferings of four bloody years, and permitted him to behold this auspicious consummation of that national unity for which he has waited with so much patience and fortitude, and for which he has labored with such disinterested wisdom. (Applause.) To the members of the government associated with him in the administration of perilous affairs in critical times, to the Senators and Representatives of the, United States who have eagerly fashioned the instruments by which the popular will might express and enforce itself, we tender our grateful thanks. (Applause.) To the officers and men of the army and navy who
<c05>
have so faithfully, skillfully and gloriously upheld their country’s authority by suffering, labor and sublime courage, we offer here a tribute beyond the compass of words. (Great applause.) Upon these true and faithful citizens, men and women, who have borne up with unflinching courage in the darkest hour, and covered the land with their labors of love and charity, we invoke the divinest blessing of Him whom they have so truly imitated. (Applause.) But chiefly to the God of our fathers we render thanksgiving and praise for that wondrous Providence that has brought forth from such a harvest of war the seed of so much liberty and peace. We invoke peace upon the North. Peace to the West. Peace be upon the South. In the name of God, we lift up our banner, and dedicate it to Peace, Reunion and Liberty, now and forevermore, amen! (Great applause.)

THE NATIONAL BEREAVEMENT.
VOICE OF THE PRESS.
The rebellion, as it dies, wins its most signal victory. By the blow of the assassin,—who profits by the unsuspicious courage of one of the most generous of men,—the rebellion takes the life of the only man in this country who could have saved the lives of its leaders.
This act of cowardice will outlive the memory of every other act of the rebellion. It, it is its most fitting memorial.
Whether, with some historians, we consider the great rebellion as beginning when a coward’s blow struck Mr. Sumner down, or whether, with others, we count it as beginning when outlaws of Missouri were permitted to make ravages on unarmed settlers in the wilderness, or whether its birthday were the day when an army opened fire upon a starving company of men which had spared them for weeks as they made their open approaches, or whether its birth is to be reckoned from the time when its leaders swore fealty to the Constitution only that they might plunder the nation’s treasury and arsenals,— one ruling principle has presided in its history from its birth to its death. In the moment of its death, that principle reveals itself most precisely, in two deeds of the meanest and lowest crime, to which no savages till now known in history would have descended.
And as to the methods of the rebellion,—whether its most distinguished invention in war, till now, were the hanging unarmed citizens, seized in their beds, over the tracks of railways, as a lesson to travellers,—or the sending emissaries into the country of its enemies to overturn trains of cars, and take the lives of women, children and grey-haired men, together, hundreds of miles from the seat of war,— or the firing at an hour agreed upon of the hotels of a great city filled with travellers from every country, who had no concern in warfare,—or the burning of ships upon the seas, as the signal to lure brave men to their destruction when they urged all speed on their vessels in hope of saving life,—or the collecting of prisoners of war by thousands in a prison where they would freeze to death in slow but certain torture,—or the gathering them beneath an almost tropical sun in midsummer, and starving them in the long madness of delayed death,—whatever boast may be made by General Lee, the head of the army, or Mr. Davis, the head of the State, as to their ingenuity in devising these modern improvements in warfare for which they are responsible, the two crimes of Friday are still the acts which will outlive them all in memory. Nothing can be more wicked or more base than have been all these new methods of barbarous warfare. But when the ruler of a nation is murdered in cold blood, the act is remembered as is no other murder; and the chivalry which kills unarmed nurses who are vainly trying to defend a sick man from his assassin is especially and typically Southern. We will do the rebels the justice to say, that their system of warfare embraces many other acts as atrocious. But the station and the condition of the victims, and the moment selected for the murders, give these two crimes a preeminence which will make them the monument of all.
To speak of these murderers simply as accomplices of the confederate government at Danville, we need not produce their credentials signed by Mr. Davis. He has been carrying on war for more than four years in a spirit which is recognized at once as the inspiration of these crimes. And these crimes themselves belong to that outer circle of barbarism which the Constitution of the confederate States is pledged to defend. It is more than four years since, that a colleague of Mr. Davis in the Senate said that the people of Mississippi would hang a United States Senator by the wayside if he were found in their country, and as he said so he approved of the determination. He made himself party in the intention. When the confederate States withdrew from such check as the Federal government had on them, it was to inaugurate in fact just such a system of murder to their political opponents as had been here proclaimed. The murder of the loyalists of Tennessee was only one example of such crimes. The murder of the President is another. If any confederate authority had, in the faintest whisper, disowned them heretofore, we should have less right now to charge such acts on the government which profits by them. But that government has never dared repudiate one of them. The Tennessee murders, the crime for which Beall was hanged, the New York fires, the atrocities of Semmes, the agonies of Belle Isle, and the starvation of thousands at Andersonville and Salisbury are to this hour tacitly justified by the government at the hands of whose agents they were wrought.
That government cannot disown them, and preserve caste among its people. It cannot disown them in truth. But for that it is careless. It cannot disown them without sacrificing itself. Therefore they have never been disowned. They never can be. So much direct right is there for charging a similar act, which has been a thousand times threatened by the organs of that government, and is now carried out in precisely the way which they have prefigured, upon the men who stand convicted of like atrocities committed on a larger scale.
The truth is, that assassination is a part of the system against which for these four years we have made war. The war is the war of civilization against barbarism. It is the war of a people which cultivates the arts of peace, and looks for a steady improvement in social order, against a people pledged to resist all such improvement, and proud of their skill in the arts of bloodshed. When the war began, the first feeling of the country was that it was the rebellion of outlaws against civil order. The special crime we thought of then was treason. Treason was justly charged, but it was not our only enemy. Less superficial students soon saw that here was a republic matched against an oligarchy,— democracy fighting against aristocracy. But that statement does not define the contest. As we went on, the country found that universal freedom was at
<c06>
issue, against the right to carry slavery everywhere. But that was not all. We found that we were contending, under the system by which a Christian civilization has instigated warfare, against those who were proud to acknowledge that they knew no higher law than passion. We found, that is, that we were fighting against barbarians. The straggle is one of the struggles which must come as the world advances, now in an arena of blood, now in happier conflicts, between civilization and barbarism.
One feature of this barbarism is slavery. But that is only one. Another feature is an oligarchy which oppresses all laboring men. But that is only one. One feature is the maintenance of ignorance. But that is only one. One feature is the setting religion outside of life,—as a piece of Sunday ornament. But that is only one. Duelling, the starvation of the poor, the oppression of minorities, the debasement of women, the imprisonment of strangers, virtual isolation from all mankind, are all separate parts of the system. But no one of them is to be spoken of as if it were the only characteristic of the system, or as if it gave to it its name. Its name is barbarism. Murder is simply one of its traits, but it is a necessary and essential trait. Through the whole rebellion, and long before the rebellion, it was seen as one of the natural features of the system. It has now found for itself a mark sufficiently exalted to draw the attention of the world and of history. The census showed before the war that in Texas, in days of peace, a man’s chance of being murdered was twenty-four times what it was in Massachusetts. But people do not care for statistics. It is some such tragedy as that of Friday which makes them rightly estimate the social system from which such crimes are born.
There was no need, therefore, for Booth to scream out the motto of the State of Virginia, as he fled from the scene of murder. With her credentials or without them, no one would have doubted that he represented her interest and was true to her system. It is in view of successive murders of more humble victims,—of murder on the wholesale upon prisoners of war,—of incendiary attempts planned by officers commissioned by them,—all crimes which the confederate government dares not disown,—that it and its system will be held responsible for this central and emblematic crime. It is of no consequence to show that Booth did or did not hold a parchment with its authority. His crime is a part of its system of war,—and for it that system will be held responsible.—Boston Daily Advertiser.
The immediate presence of the horrible crime which has stricken the Republic to the heart, in the hour of its transcendent and long-awaited triumph, is unfavorable to a full and dear conception of its importance and its consequences. It must necessarily appear to different observers under different aspects, and each will especially lament it for some reasons which will have less force and weight with others.
For our own part, it intensifies oar regret, while it is nevertheless our abiding consolation, that the lamented Head of the Republic now sleeping in his bloody shroud was never provoked to the exhibition of one trace of hate or even wrath toward those against whom he was compelled to battle for the life of the Nation. From the hour, now eleven years past, when, in view of the treacherous repudiation of the Missouri compact, he enunciated the axiomatic yet startling truth: “The Union cannot permanently exist half slave and half free,” down to that of his assassination, he uttered no syllable of retort to the hideous vomitings of abuse and slander wherewith he was incessantly covered by the partisans of the doomed but still vital and venomous “ institution.” Perpetually represented to the Southern people as a libel on Humanity and a tiger ravenous for blood, he not only put forth no speech, no paper, no manifesto, that gave the least countenance to these calumnies, but he never, in his most intimate and confidential moments, indicated a hope, a wish, that evil should befall one of these enemies, save as it should be necessary for the salvation of the country. And this fact, hitherto suppressed and distorted will now make itself felt and respected: The blow that struck down Abraham Lincoln bereft the Union’s misguided and criminal assailants of the firmest and most powerful opponent of all avoidable severity, all not indispensable harshness, in suppressing their rebellion. His very last public utterance —the speech of the Tuesday night prior to his assassination—was conceived in this spirit, and had no other purpose than to reconcile the North to the most gentle and magnanimous treatment of the discomfited insurgents. If ever man made war in a Christian spirit, Mr. Lincoln was that man. His first Inaugural is the most affecting appeal ever made to a disaffected party against the madness and crime of plunging their country into an abyss of blood and horror. His last Inaugural, so solemn and religious in its tone, and now seeming to have been written under the shadow of impending death, is pervaded by the same spirit. His failings as a leader in such a crisis were prompted by a nature slow to anger, and shrinking from any but the most indispensable shedding of blood. No portion of the American people have greater reason to deplore his murder than those in whose presumed interest or to glut whose malignity it was perpetrated.
President Lincoln fell a sacrifice to his country’s salvation as absolutely, palpably, as though he had been struck down while leading an assault on the ramparts of Petersburg. The wretch who killed him was impelled by no private malice, but imagined himself an avenger of that downcast idol which, disliking to be known simply as Slavery, styles itself “the South.” He was murdered, not that Slavery might live, but that it might bring down its most conspicuous enemy in its fall. HIS death sets the seal of Fate to the decree that dooms Slavery speedily to perish, not in this country only, but in all its remaining lurking-places throughout the civilized worldN. Y. Tribune.
How awful and solemn the blow which has fallen upon every true heart in the nation I Abraham Lincoln, the man of the people whom the Providence of God had raised up to us, “ the foremostman of all this world,” in the flush of his success over the enemies of his country, while the peals of exultation for the great, work accomplished were yet ringing in his ears, when his countrymen of all parties, and liberal minds abroad, had just begun to learn the measure of his goodnees and greatness, is struck down by the hand of the <illegible> All of him that could perish now lies in the cold embraces of death. His warm, kind, generous heart beats no more; his cool deliberate, wise and noble brain thinks for us no more; his services to this nation and to mankind are ended and he has gone to the Rewarder of all sincere, honest, useful endeavors, The tears and <illegible> of twenty millions of people, who are stretched as they never were before by the death of a single man, follow him to his bler, as their gratitude and lasting reverence will follow his fame through all time to come.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMT, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding states become the theatre of a war, CIVIL., servile, or forign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves take or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a power; and when your country is actually in war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRYY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded by the board, and MARTIAL POWER <illegible> THE PLACE OF TERM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”J. Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Mr. Lincoln had earned the love of his countrymen to a greater degree, perhaps, than any other person who has filled the President's chair, scarcely excepting the "Father of his Country" For Washington the universal feeling of love was toned to a grave and profound awe by the imperturbable dignity of his character, and the impressive majesty of his presence. No one could approach him, even with those deep and lively sentiments of admiration which the grandeur and disinterestedness of his career always awakened, without being impressed with a certain solemn veneration. Next to Washington, President Jackson had taken the firmest hold of the popular mind, by the magnanimity of his impulses, the justice of his sentiments, and the inflexible honesty of his purposes. But the impetuosity of Jackson, the violence with which he sometimes pursued his ends, made him as ardent enemies as he had friends. But Mr. Lincoln, who had none of Washington's elevation, and none of Jackson's energy, yet by his kindliness, his integrity, his homely popular humor, and his rare native instinct of the popular will, has won as large a place in the private heart, while history will assign him no less a place in the public history of the nation.
The whole nation mourns the death of its President, but no part of it ought to mourn that death more keenly than our brothers of the South, who had more to expect from his and sense of justice than from any other man who could succeed to his position The insanity of the assassination, indeed, if it was instigated by the rebels, appears in stronger light when we reflect on the generosity and tenderness with which he was disposed to close up the war, to bury its to heal over its wounds, and to restore to all parts of the nation that good feeling which once prevailed, and which ought to prevail again. Let us pray God that those who come after him may imitate his virtues, and imbibe the spirit of his goodness.-N. Y. Post.
SPEECH OF GENERAL BUTLER.
A meeting of citizens of Massachusetts in Washington was held at the rooms of the Massachusetts State Agency, on Tuesday evening, last week. A series of appropriate resolutions were adopted. Gen. Butler made a speech, the following report of which we copy from the Journal:-
The parricidal act of striking down the flag, the symbol of government, caused every true-hearted man in the country on that day to come together, and joining hands to swear never to cease their efforts until that greatest of sins, slavery, was extinguished, the authority of the Union restored, and the authors of the great wrong to the nation punished. We had gone forward through four years, spending millions of money and almost millions of lives, and had succeeded in fully eradicating the national sin, and by force of arms in sustaining the national authority, and destroying the armies of the rebellion. In our joy at our victories, and the successes of our arms, the nation had begun to be divided upon the question whether we should punish the treasonable authors of our calamities, and whether we should not receive back the authors of the rebellion, and extend to them the hand of friendship as brothers.
But the same madness of hate which impelled the rebels in 1861 to precipitate us unprepared into a war, and to unite us in its prosecution, on the 14th of April, 1865, by the murder of our beloved President, prevents us from making a too precipitate peace, and forgetting our vow that these national parricides should be punished. The shot at Sumter, and that from the assassin's pistol at Lincoln, were but the emanations of the rebellion which were needed to unite the North, then as now, as one man in the full determination that slavery should be voted out-that slavery should be extinguished-and that perjury and treason should be punished. Another lesson to be drawn from the sad death of the President was that the people of the rebellious States were not yet fitted in spirit to be admitted as a portion of this Union, and that the soul of the rebellion had not been subdued, that it had not been extinguished. Yet we had begun to talk of receiving them back on equality with ourselves!
Two experiments had been made in taking back rebellious States-one in Louisiana, the other in Virginia. By the first, we were warned that the people were not fit to become a part of the Government of the United States, by the attempted murder of a member of Congress for words spoken in debate by the representative of the returning State; and when President Lincoln attempted to call Virginia into her practical relations with other States, he was answered by the assassin's bullet-sped to his death under the war-cry of the motto of that State. We had begun to talk of the noble magnanimity of the rebel General. We had seen that, on the very day of the murder of the President, he and his staff had been received with cheers in the city of Richmond, and by a portion of the people he was set up as a soldier of honor, and a General whose example was worthy of example!
It was impossible to understand this-it was impossible to understand chivalric treason, magnanimous murder, and pure-minded perjury. Of all others, this case was the worst. Educated at the public expense-advanced to dignity and honor in the army-marrying into the estate of Washington-his case was one of overt treason. Treason and perjury were united with ingratitude, and if such as he was to be pardoned and petted, then indeed were the wrongs of the country unavenged. Indeed, it seemed to be the special providence of the death of the President to prevent this-to teach that perfidy, murder and treason were not the insignia of erring brothers or wayward sisters. (Applause.) We are not ready to receive such men back to take part with us, or to be of us. Another lesson this death has taught us is, that if we had proceeded too soon and too fast to bring back these States, we should have perilled the passage of the Constitutional amendment abolishing slavery.
This conspiracy of assassination teaches us that there is a spirit abroad that renders it necessary that we should hold these rebellious States until the rebellion is conquered, subdued and submissive to the laws, and until, by the act of the people of these States, it is made certain that by no political action can freedom to all ever be disturbed. Then, and not till then, is the country prepared to receive back the rebellious States. (Applause.) The hour calls our attention to another coincidence of time. On the 19th of April, 92 years ago, the first blood was shed of Massachusetts men in the Revolution. On the same day, four ago, the first blood of Massachusetts soldiers stained the soil of Maryland, as we marched to the defence of the Capital. On the 19th of April, the last victim of this accursed spirit of hate will be borne to his final resting-place; and as with the same promptness with which Massachusetts rallied to avenge the blood of her first martyrs, her martyrs of Lexington and Baltimore-so will her citizens go forward as one man to take just retribution upon the authors of the rebellion, and the aiders and abettors of the murder of Lincoln. (Applause.)
THE PRESIDENT IN RICHMOND.
The following particulars of President Lincoln's late visit to the rebel ex-Capital are by the correspondent of the Philadelphia Press:
The great event after the capture of the city was the arrival of President Lincoln in it. He came Rocket's wharf in one of Admiral Porter's vessels of war, and, with a file of sailors for a guard of honor, he walked up to Jeff. Davis's house, the headquarters of General Weitzel. As soon as he landed the news sped, as if upon the wings of lightning, that "Old Abe," for it was treason in this city to give him a more respectful address, had come. Some of the negroes, feeling themselves free to act like men, shouted that the President had arrived. This name having always been applied to Jeff., the inhabitants, coupling it with the prevailing rumor that he had been captured, reported that the arch-traitor was being brought into the city. As the people pressed near, they cried, "Hang him!" "Hang him!" "Show him no quarter!" and other similar expressions, which indicated their sentiments as to should be his fate. But when they learned that was President Lincoln, their joy knew no bounds By the time he reached General Weitzel's headquarters, thousands of persons had followed him to catch a sight of the Chief Magistrate of the United States. When he ascended the steps, he faced the crowd, and bowed his thanks for the prolonged exultation which was going up from that great concourse. The people seemed inspired by this acknowledgment, and with renewed vigor shouted louder and louder, until it seemed as if the echoes would reach the abode of those patriotic who had died without witnessing the sight.
General Weitzel received the President upon the pavement, and conducted him up the steps. Gen-
<c02>
eral Shepley, after a good deal of trouble, got the crowd quiet, and introduced Admiral Porter, who bowed has acknowledgments for the cheering with which his name was greeted. The President and party entered the mansion, where they remained for half an hour, the crowd still accumulating around it, when a headquarters' carriage was brought in front, drawn by four horses, and Mr. Lincoln with his youngest son, Admiral Porter, General Kautz and General Devans entered. The carriage drove through the principal streets, followed by General Weitzel and staff on horseback, and a cavalry guard. There is no describing the scene along the route. The colored population were wild with enthusiasm. Old men thanked God in a very boisterous manner, and old women shouted upon the pavement as high as they had ever done at a religious revival. But when the President passed through the Capitol yard, it was filled with people. Washington's monument and the Capitol-steps were one mass of humanity, eager to catch a glimpse of him.
It should be recorded that the Malvern, Admiral Porter's flag-ship, upon which the President came; the Bat, Monticello, Frolic, and the Symbol, the torpedo boat which led the advance, and exploded those infernal machines, were the first vessels to arrive in Richmond.
Every one declares that Richmond never before presented such a spectacle of jubilee. It must be confessed that those who participated in this informal reception of the President were mainly negroes. There were many whites in the crowd, but they were lost in the great concourse of American citizens of African descent. Those who lived in the finest houses either stood motionless upon their steps or merely peeped through the window blinds, with a very few exceptions. The secesh inhabitants still have some hope for their trembling cause.
I visited yesterday (Tuesday) several of the slave jails, where men, women and children were confined, or herded, for the examination of purchasers. The jailors were in all cases slaves, and had been left in undisputed possession of the building. The owners, as soon as they were aware that we were coming, opened wide the doors, and told the inmates they were free. The poor souls could not realize it until they saw the Union army. Even then they thought it must be a pleasant dream, but when they saw Abraham Lincoln, they were satisfied that their freedom was perpetual:-"I know that I am free, for I have seen Father Abraham and felt him. "When the President returned to the flagship of Admiral Porter, in the evening, he was taken from the wharf in a cutter. Just as he pushed off, amid the cheering of the crowd, another good old colored female shouted, "Don't drown Massa Abe, for God's sake!"
[Correspondence of the Boston Journal.]
I was standing upon the bank of the river, viewing the scene of desolation, when a boat, pulled by twelve sailors, came up stream. It contained President Lincoln and his son, Admiral Porter, Capt. Penrose of the army, Capt. A. H. Adams of the navy, Lieut. W. W. Clements of the signal corps. Somehow the negroes on the bank of the river ascertained that the tall man wearing the black hat was President Lincoln. There was a sudden shout. An officer who had just picked up fifty negroes to do work on the dock found himself alone. They left work, and crowded round the President. As he approached, I said to a colored woman:
"There is the man who made you free."
"What, massa?"
"That is President Lincoln."
"Dat President Linkum?"
"Yes."
She gazed at him a moment, clapped her hands, and jumped straight up and down, shouting "Glory, glory, glory!" till her voice was lost in a universal cheer.
There was no carriage near; so the President, leading his son, walked three quarters of a mile up to Gen. headquarters-Jeff. Davis's mansion. What a spectacle it was! Such a hurly-burly-such wild, indescribable, ecstatic joy I never witnessed. A colored man acted as guide. Six sailors, wearing their round blue caps and short jackets and bagging pants, with navy carbines, were the advance guard. Then came the President and Admiral Porter, flanked by the officers accompanying him, and the correspondent of the Journal, then six more sailors with carbines-twenty of us all told -amid a surging mass of men, women and children, black, white and yellow, running, shouting, dancing, swinging their caps, bonnets and handkerchiefs. The soldiers saw him and swelled the crowd, cheering in wild enthusiasm. All could see him, he was so tall-so conspicuous.
One colored woman standing in a doorway, as the President passed along the sidewalk, shouted: "Thank you, dear Jesus, for this! thank you, Jesus!" Another standing by her side was clapping, her hands, and shouting: "Bless de Lord!"
A colored woman snatched her bonnet from her head, whirled it in the air, screaming with all her might, "God bless you, massa 
A few white women looking out from the houses waved their handkerchiefs. One lady in a large and elegant building looked awhile, and turned away her head, as if it was a disgusting sight.
President Lincoln walked in silence, acknowledging the salutes of officers and soldiers, and of the citizens, black and white. It was the man of the people among the people. It was the great deliverer, meeting the delivered. Yesterday morning, the majority of the thousands who crowded the streets and hindered our advance were slaves. Now they were free, and beholding him who had given them their liberty.
EXTRAORDINARY AND INEXPLICABLE CONDUCT OF GEN. SHERMAN!
WAR DEPARTMENT,
Washington, April 22.
Yesterday evening, a bearer of dispatches arrived from Gen. Sherman. An agreement for a suspension of hostilities and a memorandum of what is called a basis for peace had been entered into on the 18th inst. by Gen. Sherman with the rebel Gen. Johnston. The rebel Gen. Breckinridge was present at the conference.
A Cabinet meeting was held at 8 o'clock in the evening, at which the action of Gen. Sherman was disapproved by the President, by the Secretary of War, by Gen. Grant, and by every member of the Cabinet. Gen. Sherman was ordered to resume hostilities immediately, and was directed that the instructions given by the late President in the following telegram, which was penned by Mr. Lincoln himself, at the Capitol, on the night of the 3d of March, were approved by President Andrew Johnson, and were reiterated, to govern the action of military commanders.
On the night of the 3d of March, while President Lincoln and his Cabinet were at the Capitol, a telegram from General Grant was brought to the Secretary of War, informing him that General Lee had requested an interview or conference to make an arrangement for terms of peace. The letter of General Lee was published in a letter of Davis to the rebel Congress. General Grant's telegram was submitted to the President, who, after pondering a few minutes, took up his pen, and wrote with his own hand the following reply, which he submitted to the Secretary of War. It was then dated, addressed and signed by the Secretary of War, and telegraphed to General Grant, as follows:
"WASHINGTON, March 3,1865-12 P. M. Lieut. -General Grant:
The President directs me to say to you that he wishes yon to have no conference with General Lee, unless it be for capitulation of Lee's army, or on some minor or purely military matter. He instructs me to say that you are not to decide, discuss or confer upon any political question. Such questions the President holds in his own hands, and will submit them to no military conferences or conventions. In the meantime, are to press to the utmost your military advantages.
E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War."
The orders of General Sherman to General Stone-man to withdraw from Salisbury, and join him, will probably open the way for Davis to escape to Mexico or Europe with his plunder, which is reported to be very large, including not only the plunder of the Richmond banks, but previous accumulations.
A dispatch received by this Department from Richmond says: "It is stated here by respectable parties that the amount of specie taken South by Jefferson Davis and his partisans is very large, including not only the plunder of the Richmond banks, but previous accumulations. They hope, it is said, to make terms with General Sherman or some other Southern commander, by which they will be permitted, with their effects, including this gold plunder, to go to Mexico or Europe. Johnston's negotiations look to this end."
After the Cabinet meeting last evening, Gen. Grant started for North Carolina to direct operations against Johnston's army.
(Signed) EDWIN M. STANTON, 
Secretary of War,
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1865.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirty-Second Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 9th, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
The Executive Committee urges upon all the members of the Society a prompt attendance at this meeting. The questions to come before it are of the greatest importance. Some members of the Committee propose, in view of the almost certain ratification of the Anti-Slavery Amendment of the United States Constitution, to dissolve the Society at this annual meeting; while others would postpone such dissolution until the ratification of that Amendment is officially proclaimed; and others, still, advocate continuing the Society's existence until all the civil rights of the negro are secured.
Besides this, whichever of these views receives the sanction of the Society, there is the further question whether the Standard shall be continued.
On these and other accounts, our deliberations will be most interesting and important, and ought to assemble all the members and earnest friends of the Society.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS,
C. C. BURLEIGH,
Secretaries.
TO AND FROM CHARLESTON.
In the Liberator of April 7th, we announced to our readers that, having been invited by Hon. Edwin M. Stanton to be present at the ceremony of raising the American flag on Fort Sumter, by General Anderson, on the 14th inst., we had accepted the overture, and should accordingly be absent from our post for the next two or three weeks. The spirit which prompted that overture, and the tribute to uncompromising abolitionism which it implied, we very gratefully appreciated; and we take this occasion to express to the Honorable Secretary our heartfelt thanks for his considerate kindness, on an occasion of such historic interest and significance.
The noble steamer Arago, commanded by Capt. Gadsden, left New York for Charleston on Saturday noon, 8th inst., and arrived at Hilton Head early on Wednesday morning. It was the intention of Secretary Stanton to have taken passage in her at Fortress Monroe; but the absence of President Lincoln of Richmond, and the severe injuries received by Secretary Seward in consequence of jumping from his carriage under perilous circumstances, made it necessary for him to remain at his post. The loss of his company was much regretted by the entire group of invited guests-among whom were Judge Swain, of the U. S. Supreme Court, Judge-Advocate Holt, Hon. Henry Wilson, Hon. Joseph Hoxie, Judge Kelley, Lieut. Gov. Anderson, (brother of the General,) of Ohio, Judge Kellogg, Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, Rev. Dr. Storrs, Theodore Tilton, Esq., and Hon. George Thompson. General Anderson, General Dix, General Townsend, General Doubleday, Commodore Rowan, and other prominent officers, were also on board.
Every thing conspired to render the trip as delightful as possible, The weather throughout was superb, the ocean in its quietest mood, (which, nevertheless, is ever a restless one.) and the nights brilliant with moon and starlight. Whatever may have been the differences of views, on other subjects, among those on board thus promiscuously brought together, there were none respecting the detestable character of the rebellion, its origin and object, and the necessity and duty of exterminating slavery, root and branch. The expressions of gratification at our presence were hearty and frequent, and also at that of our country's faithful friend, Mr. Thompson; and every courtesy and kindness were extended to us both. As scarcely any seasickness was felt, social intercourse was universal; conversation taking a wide range, but having special reference to the state of the country, and its future peace and security. Great apprehension was very generally expressed lest a mistaken leniency should be shown to the leading actors in this horrible rebellion, and concessions made in the reconstruction of the revolted States which would breed another explosion, and again endanger the stability of our government. Judge Holt was particularly strong and emphatic upon these points. There seemed to be but one feeling; and that was, that sound policy as well as abstract right demanded that the fullest justice should be meted out to the colored population of the South, whose terrible wrongs had brought this tempest of fire and blood upon the land, and upon whose loyalty and valor the chief reliance must be placed in holding the South hereafter to the performance of her constitutional duties.
On the morning of the memorable 14th, the Arago anchored off Charleston bar, and, with considerable difficulty, in consequence of a heavy swell of the sea, transferred her passengers to a small steamer, which conveyed them to Fort Sumter. One hour later, and perhaps neither General Anderson nor the orator of the day. Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, would have been able to reach the Fort in season to have had the programme carried out, as the wind and the waves were steadily increasing in power. Had they failed, what exultation would have been felt throughout rebeldom!
The day proved to he very fine, and was ushered in by salvos of artillery. All the vessels in the harbor, including the naval fleet, put on their gayest attire, and the national ensign floated from all the principal fortifications, except Fort Sumter. The services at the Fort were in the highest degree impressive, a brief sketch of which was given in our last number. The speech of General Anderson, previous to hoisting the identical flag which, after an honorable and gallant defence in 1861 he was compelled to lower, was very brief, but uttered with deep feeling; and the address of Mr. Beecher was as happily conceived as it was eloquently expressed, and elicited the most rapturous applause from an immense assembly, thrilled by the sublimity of the scene.
To add to the joy and exultation of the occasion, the intelligence had most opportunely arrived that morning of the surrender of General Lee with his army to General Grant; thus giving assurance that the rebellion had gone down just as the "stars and stripes" were about to be unfurled on Sumter,-henceforth the banner of universal emancipation!
Previous to the raising of the flag, the steamer Planter, Capt. Robert Small, which, it will be remembered, run the rebel gauntlet in 1862, came to the fort loaded down with between 2,000 and 3,000 of the emancipated race, of all ages and sizes. Their appearance was warmly welcomed, and their joy seemed to be unbounded. Capt. Small was subsequently introduced to many distinguished gentlemen, to whom he narrated his interesting adventure with lively satisfaction.
On the evening of that day, a handsome banquet was given at the Charleston Hotel, by General Gill-more, to the invited guests who came in the Arago; at the conclusion of which, eloquent and stirring speeches were made by Judge Holt, Judge Kelley, Hon. Joseph Hoxie, Lieut. Gen. Anderson, George Thompson, Theodore Tilton, and others. The speech of the occasion was made by Judge Holt, which was one of the most forcible speeches to which we ever listened, and delivered with great energy. We shall be able to give it entire hereafter, as it has been printed in pamphlet form at Washington, and a copy of it is now before us.
The Arago sailed from Charleston harbor on the next evening, carrying home most of the number who came in her; but a few remained behind (ourself
<c04>
included) to join Mr. Beecher and family in an excursion to Beaufort, Savannah, St. Augustine, &c., by permission of the Secretary of War. It was at Beaufort that intelligence was received, by a telegram sent to Senator Wilson by General Gillmore from Hilton Head, respecting the awful and quite unparalleled tragedy at Washington. The sorrowful impression produced we need not attempt to portray. Suffice it to say, that all thought of going to Savannah and Florida was at once abandoned,-each one feeling that his appropriate place was to be at home, to meet whatever exigencies the hour might bring forth. Accordingly, with heavy hearts, we returned to Hilton Head, and sailed that evening in the swift and beautiful steamer Suwo-Nada for New York, we arrived on Friday morning last. In another paper we shall give further particulars.
MEETING IN TREMONT TEMPLE.
Addresses by Wendell Phillips, Rev. James Freeman Clarke, D. D., Hon. George Thompson, and others.
The meeting in Tremont Temple, on Sunday evening, to consider the great question of our country and its perils, was attended by an immense audience, which filled the lecture room to its utmost capacity. Soon after the doors were opened, the hall was filled, and hundreds were compelled to leave the Temple, unable to gain admittance. The meeting was called to order by Colonel Albert J. Wright, who-in the unavoidable absence of Judge Thomas Russell, who had been announced to preside-occupied the chair. Prayer was offered by Rev. James Freeman Clarke, D. D.
William Wells Brown was introduced as the first speaker. He interested the audience for about half an hour with a brief sketch of his eventful and really romantic life. His early life was like that of most slaves,-plantation life. He worked his way along in different positions as a slave until he was about seventeen years of age; then he attempted to escape, but did not succeed. His second attempt to escape was successful, and his relation of his preliminary arrangements for running away, and his manner of dealing with his treacherous fellow-slave "Sam," caused much merriment and applause among his listeners.
Wendell Phillips was the next speaker. He addressed the audience as follows:
These are sober days. The judgments of God have found us out. Years gone by chastised us with whips-these chastise us with scorpions. Thirty years ago, how strong our mountain stood, laughing prosperity on all its sides! None heeded the fire and gloom which slumbered below. It was nothing that a giant sin gagged our pulpits; that its mobs ruled our cities, burnt men at the stake for their opinions, and hunted them like wild beasts for humanity. It was nothing that, in the lonely quiet of the plantation, there fell on the unpitied person of the slave every torture which hellish ingenuity could devise. It was nothing that as husband and father, mother and child, the negro drained to its dregs all the bitterness which could be pressed into his cup; that, torn with whip and dogs, starved, hunted, tortured, racked, he cried: "How long! oh Lord, how long!" In vain did a thousand witnesses crowd our highways, telling to the world the horrors of this prison-house. None to consider, none believed. Trade turned away its deaf ear-the Church gazed on them with stony brow-Letters passed by with mocking tongue. But what the world would not look at, God has set today in a light so ghastly bright, that it almost dazzles us blind. What the world refused to believe, God has written all over the face of the continent, with the sword's point, in the blood of our best and roost beloved. We believe the agony of the slave's hovel, the mother and the husband, when it takes its seat at our board. We realize the barbarism that crushed him in the sickening and brutal use of the relics of Bull Run, in the torture and starvation of Libby Prison, where idiocy was mercy, and death God's best blessing; and now still more bitterly we realize it in the coward spite which strikes an unarmed man, unwarned, behind his back; in the assassin which dabble with bloody knife at the throats of old men on sick pillows. Oh, God! let this lesson be enough! Spare us any more such costly teaching!
This deed is but the result and fair representative of the system in whose defence it was done. No matter whether it was previously approved at Richmond, or whether the assassin, if he reaches the confederates, be received with all honor, as the wretch Brooks was, and as this bloodier wretch will surely be, where-ever rebels are not dumb with fear of our cannon. No matter for all this. God shows this terrible act to teach the nation, in unmistakable terms, the terrible foe with which it has to deal. But for this fiendish spirit, North and South, which holds up the rebellion, the assassin had never either wished or dared such a deed. This lurid flash only shows us how black and wide the cloud from which it sprung.
And what of him in whose precious blood this momentous lesson is writ? He sleeps in the blessings of the poor, whose fetters God commissioned him to break. Give prayers and tears to the desolate widow and the fatherless, but count him blessed far above the crowd of his fellow-men. (Fervent cries of "Amen!"). He was permitted himself to deal the staggering blow which sent rebellion reeling to its grave; and then, holding his darling boy by the hand, to walk the streets of its surrendered capital, while his ears drank in praise and thanksgiving which bore his name to the throne of God in every form piety and gratitude could invent, and finally to seal the sure triumph of the cause he loved with his own blood. He caught the first notes of the coming jubilee, and heard his own name in every one. Who among living men may not envy him? Suppose that, when a boy, he floated on the slow current of the Mississippi, idly gazing at the slave upon its banks, some angel had lifted the curtain and shown him that in the prime of his manhood he should see this proud empire rocked to its foundation in the effort to break those chains, should himself marshal the hosts of the Almighty in the grandest and holiest war that Christendom ever knew, and deal, with half-reluctant hand, that thunderbolt of justice which would smite that foul system to the dust-then die, leaving a name immortal in the sturdy pride of one race and the undying gratitude of another-would any credulity, however sanguine, any enthusiasm, however fervid, have enabled him to believe it Fortunate man! He has lived to do it! (Applause.) God has graciously withheld him from any fatal misstep in the great advance, and withdrawn him at the moment when his star touched its zenith, and the nation needed a sterner hand for the work God gives it to do.
No matter, now, that, unable to lead and form the nation, he was contented to be only its representative and mouthpiece; no matter that, with prejudices hanging about him, he groped his way very slowly and sometimes reluctantly forward; let us remember how patient he was of contradiction, how little obstinate in opinion, how willing, like Lord Bacon, "to light his torch at every man's candle." With the least possible personal hatred, with too little sectional bitterness, often forgetting justice in mercy, tenderhearted to any misery his own eyes and in any deed which needed his actual sanction-if his sympathy had limits, recollect he was human, was more honest than his fellows, and with a troth to his own convictions such as few politician achieve. With all his shortcomings, we point proudly to him as the natural growth of democratic institutions. [Applause] Coming time will put him in that galaxy of Americans which makes history the day-star of the nations-Washington, Hamilton, Franklin, Jefferson and Jay. History will add his name to the bright list, with a more loving claim on gratitude than either of them. No one of those was called to die for his cause. For him, when the nation needed to be raised to its last dread duty, we were prepared for it by the baptism of his blood.
What shall we say as to the punishment of rebels? The air is thick with threats of vengeance. I admire
<c05>
the motive which prompts these. But let remember no cause, however infamous, was ever crushed by punishing its advocates and abettors. All history proves this. There is no class of men base and coward enough, no matter what their views and purpose, to make the policy of vengeance successful. In bad causes, as well as good, it is still true that "the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church. "We cannot prevail against this principle of human nature. And again, with regard to the dozen chief rebels, it will never be a practical question whether we shall hang them. Those not now in Europe will soon be there. Indeed, after paroling the bloodiest and guiltiest of all, Robert Lee, [loud applause,] there would be little fitness in banging any lesser wretch.
The only punishment which ever crushes a cause is that which its leaders necessarily suffer in consequence of the new order of things made necessary to prevent the recurrence of their sin. It was not the blood of two peers and thirty commoners which England shed after the Rebellion of 1715, or that of five peers and twenty commoners after the rising of 1745, which crushed the House of Stuart. Though the had lasted only a few months, those blocks and gibbets gave Charles his only chance to recover. But the confiscated lands of his adherents, and the new political arrangement of the Highlands,-just and recognized as such, because necessary,-these quenched his star forever.
Our rebellion has lasted four years. Government has exchanged prisoners and acknowledged its belligerent rights. After that, gibbets are out of the question. A thousand men rule the rebellion,-are the rebellion. A thousand men. We cannot hang them all. We cannot hang men in regiments. What cover the continent with gibbets! We cannot sicken the 19th century with such a sight. It would sink our civilization to the level of Southern barbarism. It would forfeit our very right to supersede the Southern system, which right is based on ours being better than theirs. To make its corner stone the gibbet would degrade us to the level of Davis and Lee. The structure of Government which bore the earthquake shock of 1861 with hardly a jar, and which now bears the assassination of its Chief Magistrate, in this crisis of civil war, with even less disturbance, needs, for its safety, no such policy of vengeance; and should use only so much severity as will fully guarantee security for the future.
Banish every one of these thousand rebel leaders-every one of them, on pain of death if they ever return! [Loud applause.] Confiscate every dollar and acre they own. [Applause] These steps the world and their followers will see are necessary to kill the seeds of caste, dangerous State rights and secession. [Applause] Banish Lee with the rest. [Applause.] No government should ask of the South which he has wasted or of the North, which he has murdered, such superabundant Christian patience as to tolerate to our streets the presence of a wretch whose hand upheld Libby Prison and Andersonville, and whose soul is black with sixty-four thousand deaths of prisoners by starvation and torture.
What of our new President? His whole life is a pledge that he knows and hates thoroughly that caste which is the Gibraltar of secession. Caste, mailed in State rights, seized slavery as its weapon to smite down the Union. Said Jackson in 1833, "Slavery will be the next pretext for rebellion. "PRETEXT! That pretext and weapon we wrench from the rebel hands the moment we pass the anti-slavery amendment to the Constitution. Now kill Caste, the foe who wields it. Andy Johnson is our natural leader for this. His life has been pledged to it. He put on his spurs with this <illegible> of knighthood. He sees that confiscation, land placed in the hands of the masses, is the means to kill this foe.
Land and the ballot are the true foundations of all governments. Intrust them, wherever loyalty exists, to all those black and white, who have upheld the flag. [Applause.] Reconstruct no State without giving to every loyal man in it the ballot. I scout all limitations of knowledge, property or race. [Applause.] Universal suffrage for me. That was the Revolutionary model. Every freeman voted, black or white, whether could read or not. My rule is, any citizen liable to be hanged for crime is entitled to vote for rulers. The ballot insures the school.
Mr. Johnson has not yet uttered a word which shows that he sees the need of negro suffrage to guarantee the Union. The best thing he has said on this point, showing a mind open to light, is thus reported by one of the most intelligent men in the country-the Baltimore correspondent of the Boston Commonwealth:-
"The Vice-President was holding forth very eloquently in front of Admiral Lee's dwelling, just in front of the War Office in Washington. He said he was willing to send every negro in the country to Africa to save the Union. Nay, he was willing to cut Africa loose from Asia, and sink the whole black race ten thousand fathoms deep to effect this object. A loud voice sang out in the crowd, 'Let the negro stay where is, Governor, and give him the ballot, and the Union will be safe forever!' ' And I am ready to do that too!' [loud applause,] shouted the Governor with intense energy, whereat he got three times three for the noble sentiment. I witnessed this scene, and was pleased to hear our Vice-President take this high ground; for up to this point must the nation quickly advance, or there will be no peace, no rest, no prosperity, no blessing, for our suffering and distracted country."
The need of giving the negro a ballot is what we must press upon the President's attention. Beware the mistake which fastened McClellan upon us-running too fast to indorse a man while untried-determined to believe him hero and leader any rate. The President tells us that he waits to announce his policy till events call for it. A timely and statesmanlike course. Let us imitate it. Assure him in return that the government shall have our support like good citizens. But remind him that we will tell him what we think of his policy when we learn what it is. He says, "Wait-I shall punish; I shall confiscate; what more I shall do, you will know when I do it"
Let us reply: "Good! So far good! Banish the rebels. See to it also that, before you admit a single State to the Union, you oblige it to give every loyal man in it the ballot,-the ballot, which secures education,-the ballot, which begets character where it lodges responsibility-the ballot, having which, no class need fear injustice or contempt-the ballot, which puts the helm of the Union into the hands of those who love and have upheld it. Land-where every man's title deed, based on confiscation, is the bond which ties his interest to the Union; ballot-the weapon which enables him to defend his property and the Union;-these are the motive for the white man- the negro needs no motive but his instinct and heart Give him the bullet and the ballot-he needs them-and, while he holds them, the Union is safe."
To reconstruct now, without giving the negro the suffrage, would be a greater blunder, and, considering our better light, a greater sin than our fathers committed in 1789; and we should have no right to expect from such reconstruction any less disastrous results.
This is the lesson God teaches us in the blood of Lincoln. Like Egypt, we are made to read our lesson in the blood of our first-born, and the seats of our princes left empty. We bury all false magnanimity in this fresh grave, writing over it the maxim of the coming four years-"Treason is the greatest of crimes, and not a mere difference of opinion. "That is the motto of our leader to-day. That is the warning this atrocious crime sounds throughout the land. Let us heed it, and need no more such costly teaching. [Loud applause]
The chairman then introduced Rev. James Freeman Clarke, D. D. He spoke of the great calamity which had fallen upon the nation in the death of its head, and of the manner in which the sad intelligence was received by the people of America. During the last week, we had seen a greater sight than mortal eye ever looked upon before. We have seen one spontaneous outbreak of love, showing a spontaneous expression such as no despotic power on earth could
<c06>
command. Had the Emperor of France or Russia ordered that the city of Paris or St. Petersburg should be draped in mourning, and authorized the police to see the order executed, nothing like what we have seen could be accomplished. Love is stronger than fear. There has not been an alley, a court-yard, a humble home of a day laborer, a hired room of a poor seamstress, which has not shown some touching pathetic proof of the great love him whom God made the emancipator of a race and the savior of a nation. Honoring him, have honored ourselves the most. In him we had a man not by any means handsome-rough, uncouth; not highly cultivated; not given to much eloquence or long speeches; but if he had anything to say, he said it, and then stopped. He went right on in his homely, honest, sincere way, seeking only to do what his heart and soul thought ought to be done, Standing by his corpse, the nation feels that to do highest honor to Abraham Lincoln will be to finish the great work he has so well began 
In conclusion, Mr. Clarke said that we began to see the old spirit of flunkeyism coming up again every where. The newspapers are beginning to tell us, in telegraph, that Generals Grant and Lee are on good terms, as if that was good news to us; that General Lee has had his photograph taken in six different positions! little things are straws, showing the tendency of things, which must be checked. Our great aim must be to make America strong and firm enough to say that no man who has been in any way connected with this rebellion shall have anything to do with the reconstruction of the Union. They have committed treason, and are subject to the penalties of the laws.
Hon George Thompson, of England, was the next speaker. He spoke in words of high eulogy of Abraham Lincoln, and said the news of his death caused in him more genuine sorrow than that of any other public man. His language was severe in speaking of the leaders and participators in the rebellion, to whom he charged the foul murder committed on the fourteenth day of the present month in Washington. In the grave of Abraham Lincoln, said the speaker, are buried all the hopes for them of compromise or leniency. Mr. Thompson concluded his address with a graphic sketch of the hoisting of the American flag upon the flag staff on Fort Sumter, at which interesting ceremony he had the honor to be present.
ANDREW JOHNSON, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
In his first public words, after taking the oath as President of the United States, Mr. JOHNSON referred to the past of his life as an indication of his course and policy in the future, rather than to make any verbal declarations now; thereby manifesting an honorable willingness to be judged by his acts, and a consciousness that the record was one which he need not be ashamed to own. In both views of the subject, the people will honor him more, and confide in him more, than if he had undertaken, at this early day, to broach any special plan, or unfold any particular policy.
The public press has already begun to take Mr. Johnson at his word, and has reproduced several of his most notable speeches, made since the political leaders of the South first dared to bring to light their abhorred schemes of Secession, and conversion of the Republic into a great Slaveholding Empire. These speeches are such as to greatly encourage all friends of the Union, in this season of their affliction, and of the national distress and loss. They show that the mantle of Mr. Lincoln has fallen upon shoulders which will wear it worthily, and give the strongest ground for our belief that the "Republic will suffer no detriment" under the administration of the new President. It is consoling to remember the confidence and personal regard which, during all the dangers and difficulties of the last four years, ABRAHAM LINCOLN has steadily felt for ANDREW JOHNSON. Having made him, at a comparatively early period of its administration, Military Governor of Tennessee, a place of the very greatest importance, and beset with dangers and trials, he retained him there until the election of last November transferred him to the office of Vice President; a sufficient testimony that the people also appreciated his services as of the highest order.
Foremost among the speeches of Mr. Johnson stands his to the Tennessee Convention, which, in January last, by a nearly unanimous vote, declared Slavery in that State forever abolished. This speech was made on the 14th of January, and is very uncompromising and eloquent. "Yesterday," said he to the Convention, "you broke the tyrant's rod, and set the captive free. (Loud applause.) Yes, gentlemen, yesterday you sounded the death knell of negro aristocracy, and performed the funeral obsequies of that thing called slavery. I feel that God smiles on what you have done. O, how it contrasts with the shrieks, and cries, and wailings which the institution of slavery has brought on the land!"
Our readers, especially, cannot have forgotten the speech which Mr. Johnson made to the colored people in Nashville in October last, as it in the papers of the day. It was exceeding touching, by reason of its tender, heartfelt compassion for all the degradation, insult and unoffending people so long. Its scorn and were terrible as he arraigned the "master" class for their long career of lust, tyranny and crime. He hoped a Moses would arise to lead this persecuted people to their promised land of freedom. "You are our Moses," should first one, and then a great multitude of voices. But the speaker went on: "God no doubt has prepared some where an instrument for the great work he designs to perform in behalf of this outraged people; and in due time your leader will come forth-your Moses will be revealed to you." "We want no Moses but you!" again shouted the crowd. "Well, then, "replied Mr. Johnson, "humble and unworthy as I am, if no better shall be found, I will indeed be your Moses, and lead you through the Red Sea of war and bondage to a fairer future of liberty and peace."
In connection with the extracts last given the following remarks of President Johnson, addressed a few days since to John M. Langston and others of Ohio, a committee of the "National Equal Rights League," have a special significance and interest. Mr. Johnson said:
"Where the colored people know me best, they confidence in me. No man can charge me with having proved false to the promises I have made to any class of people in my public life. I fear that leading colored men do not understand and appreciate the fact that they have friends on the South side of the line. They have, and they are as faithful and stanch as any North of the line. It may be a very easy thing, indeed popular, to be an emancipationist North of the line, but a very different thing to be such South of it. South of it costs a express these sentiment, together with my thanks, to the people whom you represent.
And, with regard to the great and vital questions of RE-CONSTRUCTION of the Union, we have strong reasons for anticipating the most favorable results from President JOHNSON'S administration. He has not failed to express distinctly his views of the enormity of the crime of treason, and that the men who commit the crime must suffer the pains and penalties thereof there is to be no pardon for rebel leaders. Clemency to them is cruelty to the country, a mockery of of our soldiery, and a breach of faith with the cause of popular Liberty all the world over.-M.
MEMORIAL TO MRS. LINCOLN. A movement is on foot among the merchants of Boston to collect one hundred thousand dollars, to be presented to Mrs. Lincoln as a token of the respect and veneration felt by the people for the memory of their departed President.
NATIONAL FAST DAY. The President has issued a Proclamation, appointing the 25th of May next a day of Fasting and Prayer, in commemoration of the national affliction at the assassination of Mr.Lincoln.
APRIL 28. THE LIBERATOR. 67.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
THE LATE JUDGE GALE OF MONTREAL 
The friends of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and of the cause it represents, have become acquainted during recent years with the name of this venerable gentleman, as one who took a very lively interest in all our efforts to suppress the Slaveholders’ Rebellion, and whose published views indicated a very clear understanding of the real merits of the question. He was also a munificent contributor to the funds of the Anti-Slavery Society during the years of the war, in the conviction that the cause of Justice, Humanity, and good government, the world over, was vitally concerned in the success of our arms over those of Southern pro-slavery treason. During all this time his health has been feeble, but his mind unclouded and bright, and deeply interested in the progress of Freedom’s cause until within a few months, when memory and his usual mental strength were much impaired.
The Hon. SAMUEL GALE died in Montreal, Canada, April 15th, 1865, in the 82d year of his age. His father was an English gentleman of the same name, who came to this country in 1770 in the service of the British government, and married Miss Wells of Brattleboro, Vt. Their son, whose death we now record, was born at St. Augustine, Florida. He studied law at Montreal, and was admitted to the bar in 1808, and ere long secured a large practice. In 1815 he was appointed a magistrate in the Indian territories. After wards he went to England in behalf of the friends and supporters of Lord Dalhousie, whose administration of Canadian affairs had been assailed. In 1834, Mr. Gale was appointed a Justice of the Queen’s Bench for the Province of Montreal, and held the office until 1849, when he was forced to retire by continued ill-health, and the approaching infirmities of age. His wife, who was Miss Hawley of St. Armand West, died several years ago, leaving three daughters, who survive their father.
In the early part of his life, Mr. Gale was a stead fast supporter of the crown, as his parents were before him and of the prerogatives of the Sovereign as by law established. Yet he was no friend to arbitary government or legislation. In a good sense of the word, he was ”a conservative,”—not in that sense which would wed him to the support of wrong. ”Both as a lawyer and judge,” says a memoir of him in the Montreal Gazette,” he won the respect of his associates alike by his ability and bearing. Of late years, his heart has been most deeply interested in the freedom of the slave. He could not speak with patience of any compromise with slavery, and waxed indignant in denunciation of all who in any way aided, abetted, or even countenanced it. When the Anderson case was before the Upper Canada Courts, he was one of the most active among those who aroused agitation here. When the Prince of Wales visited the country, he got up a congratulatory address from the colored people of Canada, which however was not received, as the Prince was desired by the Duke of Newcastle not to recognize differences of race and creed wherever it could be helped.”
These traits of character and incidents of his life are those which will especially secure for him the respect and honor of loyal Americans. They recognize in him a mind and a heart above mere local and national differences, embracing great principles of justice and right, and frankly committing himself to their support. And while our neighbors in Canada feel that their community has lost ”a loyal subject, a learned and upright judge, a kind, true and steadfast friend in Judge Gale,” we, of the party and service of Freedom in the in the United States, may still more feel that his heart, his best thoughts, hopes, wishes, and prayers, were given to our cause and to our country in her great contest with the worst of despotisms, and that his latest blessing was upon the efforts of all anti-slavery and truly loyal men to make her forever the land of the Free,-M.
In a note to us respecting the decease of Judge Gale, Mrs. Child says:—
Both as lawyer and judge, he was highly respected for his intellectual ability, legal learning, and perfect integrity. All who knew him honored him as a steadfast, true, straight-forward and upright man. His sense of justice was very strong, and early manifested itself in a disposition to espouse the cause of the oppressed. When a boy, at school in Quebec, he defended colored children whenever white children evinced a disposition to domineer over them. In his later years, he zealously espoused the Anti- Slavery cause, and became one of its most liberal contributors. In 1861, he sent the American Anti-Slavery Society $50; in’62, he sent $100; in’63, he sent $200; and in’64, he sent $400. These generous donations were accompanied by letters full of good sense and sympathy with the United States in the great struggle that was going on. When his last letter was read at our Anniversary in January, his name was received with cheers, expressive of our heartfelt respect and gratitude 
When the famous Anderson case was before the upper courts in Canada, the infirmities of age did not prevent Judge Gale from exerting himself zealously in behalf of the fugitive slave. He was liberal, but not ostentatious in his charities, and many are the poor and afflicted who have reason to bless his memory.
It appears that a Committee of the Common Council, in the City of New York, had voted to exclude colored people from the funeral procession accompanying the body of President Lincoln through that city on Tuesday last. The Tribune of that morning announced, however, that Mr. Acton, President of the Police Commissioners, had assigned a place in the procession to colored Societies and individuals, and that the police would see that they occupied it without hindrance from any quarter. Information was sent to Gen. Dix, that the Secretary of War desired that no person should be excluded from the procession on account of color. It is fortunate for the credit of New York that prompt interposition prevented the disgrace which would justly have followed the enforcement of an order embodying the sprit and letter of the slave system. If such vulgar and anti republican ideas still rule in the minds of municipal functionaries, it is quite time that negroes, throughout the country, should be made voters.-C. K. W. 
Henry Ward Beecher said lately to his parishioners—If Jeff. Davis ”was my lawful prey to night, I would do by him as I did by another wasp yesterday. Law the fellow on my door in the country, and was just about to smash him, when I said, What’s the use? It’s only a wasp, and it’s not at all probable that he and I will meet again, and I’ll let him go. That’s what I’d do with Jeff. Davis.” The Transcript said of this statement, April 7th “We wonder that some one in his auditory did not cry out, ’Oh, Mr. Beecher, how selfish you are! You let the wasp go because there was no probability of his stinging you; and you don’t seem to care about the certainty of his stinging somebody else.’” On the 17th inst., the same paper asks, ’Was our President stung by the wasp that Henry Ward Beecher held back his hand from crushing? Perhaps we may learn something about the nature of wasps before we are stung to death!”
These suggestions are timely. Surely there ought, in the present, to be an end of amnesty to traitors and calenderers. C. K. W. 
Miss EDMONIA LEWIS has just completed a medallion likeness of President Lincoln. We have seen it, and think she has met with a marked success. We hope that many will visit her room (Studio Building ) to see it 
Miss Lewis has also executed a bust of Dr. Hebbard, by order of his friends in Boston, as a testimonial in appreciation of his lectures in this city last autumn. It may be seen at Williams & Everett’s. All who are faultier with Dr. Hebbard’s peculiar features pronounce this work a decided success, and it is in contemplation, we learn, to have it done in marble 
<c02>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. N0. XXXII.
NEW YORK, April.20, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The Greek tragedians would have found, in the national event of last week which precludes thought of any other, the amplest material for their most awful dramas. Neither the mighty among men, nor the immortal gods would have been wanting; for a ruler of rulers has been struck down amid the attestations of Divine interposition. For a spectacle ready made, I can conceive none so complete as the removal of the President by the violent hand of an assassin. The time of its enactment is the holiday of the Republic—that anniversary which four years ago illustrated the virtue of the North, and her endurance when, at the expiration of that period, she was able to celebrate at Fort Sumter the overthrow of the rebellion which had its origin there. While you, with Mr. Thompson and Mr. Beecher, and all that goodly company, were exulting with unutterable emotions in the restoration of the flag in the harbor of Charleston,—for all of liberty and national regeneration that the occasion symbolized, —an unconscious instrument of the Eternal Goodness was preparing the catastrophe for which the people mourn to-day. The scene is in a theatre itself, yet with the whole earth for a stage, and all mankind for breathless spectators. Mr. Lincoln might have fallen in Richmond, or in the Capitol at Washington upon some public occasion, or in the White House, in his audience-chamber. This would have been in a manner natural, but not striking. It is in a theatre that the scene is laid. The actor, not the actor, is at home in his profession. He might have been one who was stimulated by a spirit of revenge for injuries received in his own person or property by the fortune of war. He might have held slaves and lost them, or owned a vast estate and been stripped of it, or have seen his kindred suffer or perish for their complicity with the rebellion, or himself have endured wounds and imprisonment for the same offence. Here was nothing of the kind. The sole occasion of hatred, the sole incitement to murder, was Southern birth and Southern sympathy: no assassin could have had less justification than this. Other features of the comparison are these: As Mr. Lincoln was by turns either humorous or melancholy, so while he witnesses the broadest of comedies, he is made the subject of the foulest of tragedies. The butcher, after felling with unerring aim his victim, leaps out to the view of the amphitheatre, flourishes his dagger like the lean and hungry Cassius that he is, and vanishes with the cry—“Sic semper tyrannis!” The curtain falls upon a nation in tears.
Does any one inquire for the deus ex machina? Consider again the circumstances. Was the assassin’s motive revenge? He had it not, for himself or for the South. Personally, he was without excuse for vindictiveness, having experienced no wrong from the President. The Confederacy was equally inexcusable: it had prospered by the leniency of its opponent. Did he kill for hire? He will have received the wages of sin, which are death, or will be an outcast on the face of the earth—a man without a country and without human sympathy; lacking which, all wealth is despicable. Was it fame which he sought? He has attained only infamy—as the dastard tool of a writhing barbarism, whose record cannot possibly be blackened by the crimes of its dying- hour. He has torn the last pellicle of disguise from the loathsome body of” chivalry,” and branded himself, its latest representative, a sneak and murderer. He has exposed the nature of slavery so that it can never be misunderstood again. Finally, did he hope to benefit the cause of the South by paralyzing the Federal Government? He signally failed. He has substituted Andrew Johnson for Abraham Lincoln. He has taken down from above the national tribunal the motto ”Amnesty,” and placed in its stead this other: ”Abandon hope, all ye that enter here.” He has removed from the people of the North every trace of difference on the question of rebel treatment, every vestige of party lines. ”We are,” said one of the editors of a Copperhead journal here, ”we are twenty-five millions of Abolitionists.” Walk through the streets of this mourning metropolis, and you will believe it. The South has therefore shut itself out from the clemency on which it might have counted securely, and, more than that, from the moral support of every civilized people. It has simply committed suicide.
If the hand of Providence is not visible in all this—in the defeat of the aims of assassination, and in the unparalleled strengthening of the popular will to exterminate the cause and the contrivers of rebellion—then we may look in vain through history for the existence of a God. To Mr. Lincoln must be ascribed a fortunate end. Another four years of office might have brought an anti-climax; now he departs from the topmost round of glory. He is not a truncated shaft, as slavery intended: martyrdom is the Corinthian capital, without which the pillar had been incomplete. Lovejoy was the protomartyr of freedom, Lincoln the latest and the most conspicuous. Does Illinois suffer in 1865 for the tragedy of 1837 at Alton? Has Mr. Seward no cause to reverse his sentence of John Brown—“Justly hung”?
It would be superfluous to describe the popular feeling in this city on Saturday last and ever since, for the grandeur of this event consists in the unification of all classes and populations throughout the land. The display of mourning is almost universal. A fishing village upon your sandy cape could scarcely assume a more universal garb of woe, if news were to come that a storm had whelmed its fleet at the banks, and robbed every household of a member. The first sensation was such as Schiller expressed at the grave of Rousseau:
“Einst war’s finster, und die Weisen starben; 
Nun ist’s liehter, and der Weise stirbt”—
Once times were gloomier, and the wise ones vanished; 
Now it is brighter, and the Wise One dies.
But the new President has succeeded to the confidence reposed in his predecessor, and men confess that individuals may die, but God and the Republic will survive.
I cannot frain from concluding this letter with a fact of which I am cognizant, as it affords the most striking contrast I can imagine to the damnable malignity which the subjugated South has just displayed. There called upon me within a week an  ill-clad man, who pleaded for charity only by presenting his case in such a straightforward manner that I had no reason to doubt him. He was enlisted in a militia company in Mississippi when the rebellion broke out, and was ”voted over” with his associates to the Confederate service, without so much as a by-your-leave. His arm was the cavalry, and he had been transferred at various times to the chief points in the Confederacy, receiving in one battle a wound in his leg, which still discharges bone. He said: ”I have taken the oath of allegiance, —I never wanted to fight,—and have been here two weeks without being able to obtain a day’s work. I know how it is, sir. I was a printer by trade, but I can’t go into an office here, because I am dirty, with no change of clothes, and the vermin are on me —I can’t help it—I can’t get rid of them.” He was hoping some day to pass through our lines to his family and home. ”Remember when there,” I said to him, ”to vote where they belong the men who forced you into this war, and to see that you allow the negro all the rights  that you desire for yourself.” His voice trembled a little when in reply be expressed his eager ness to meet the Governor of Mississippi face to face I never had anything against the negro—I never held slaves. They’ve done a good deal for me. I tell you, sir, the other night a colored soldier in this city took me into his own lodging” —in spite of his vermin, his tone implied” although be had lost a leg. And the next day, but I didn’t know it, sir, he pawned some of his things to raise money for me.” I shared in the emotion of this recital. I am thrilled now, whenever I recall the story. A rebel soldier entertained by one of the outraged race, and he a cripple perhaps made so on the field where his guest was
<c03>
fighting against him! I say let the world judge what slavery does for master and slave respectively, and net this picture of Christian forgiveness against that Devil’s chef d’ <illegible> of the 14th April.
DU PAYS.
ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
THE SLAVEHOLDER’S DAGGER HAS REACHED THE NATION’S HEART.
GLOUCESTER, April 15, 1865.
DEAR GARRISON— The assassination of President Lincoln is accomplished. Slaveholders and their allies have done the deed. Slavery, that instigated the rebellion, that began and for four years has carried on this civil war, has done it. The spirit that has assassinated and mutilated five hundred thousand of our sons and brothers and fathers and husbands on the battlefield, and one hundred thousand in rebel prisons, and carried desolation and anguish to the homes and hearts of the whole land, has done it. It is the spirit of slaveholders and their apologists and allies in the North and in Europe. The man who can buy and sell men and women, and hold and use them as chattels, is an assassin at heart. So are those who plead or apologize for slavery. There is no conceivable crime which they will not commit, if an opportunity offers.
And this spirit has ruled the national legislation, courts and Presidents for fifty years previous to 1861. The spirit of slaveholding assassins has ruled the pulpit, the press, the commerce, the politics, the literature, and the social and family relations of the North.
While the slaveholder’s dagger was aimed at the heart of the despised negro, Church and State, priest, and politician, acquiesced, openly or silently, and hugged the assassins to their bosoms. When it was aimed at the life of the republic, even then the North could hardly be aroused. In the great Convention of the Northern wing of the Rebellion at Chicago, one of the leaders exclaimed, “We’ll cut the throat of every Lincolnite we meet. Will you help us?” “Yes, yes,” was the response of thousands.
At length, the assassin that struck down Lovejoy in Alton, Sumner in the Senate, and five hundred thousand other defenders and friends of freedom, has pierced the heart of President Lincoln, Secretary Seward and his son! The blow was struck by slaveholders and their allies. Slavery is the assassin. Shall that assassin ever again be admitted to place and power in the nation? Will this deed find apologists in the North? Stern and terrible will be the spirit it will awaken throughout the land.
President Lincoln is a martyr to free labor. Hundreds of thousands have been sacrificed to slavery as soldiers, in prisons and in battles. Now the slaveholder’s dagger has pierced the heart of the representative man of the nation. Will this open the eyes of the North to see slavery as it is? Could nothing less atone for wrongs done to the slave than the blood of bur twice-chosen and most esteemed President? God save the people from the spirit of revenge!
I have been through the streets and public places of resort in the town of Gloucester, and have just come in; have met many citizens and returned soldiers. The business and amusements of the town seem almost entirely suspended. Flags are flying at half mast in the harbor, on the forts, and all over the city. The bells are tolled. Deep anguish is in all hearts, and a stern sorrow clouds every brow. A terrible and a determined purpose is expressed in the faces and tread of the soldiers. The men are huddled together, and speaking in emphatic tones, to one another, the thoughts and emotions that well up with-in them. The wives, mothers, daughters and sisters of the town are gathered in groups in parlors and kitchens, to whisper to one another the terrible news, and give vent to the thoughts that oppress them. Even the children suspend their sports of merriment to listen to the deep, stern, sorrowing utterances of their elders. The atmosphere overhanging Gloucester seems surcharged with grief. No event ever so deeply affected this town before. Though always before Democratic, and the stronghold of Democracy in the State, out of 1300 votes at the last Presidential election, it give 1100 for Abraham Lincoln.
Now, to feel that he is immolated on the altar of that piratical power that has cost their country so much blood and treasure, is more than they can bear. Lincoln would not think his life itself of more value than that of any of our sons and brothers that the dagger of the same assassin (slavery) has stricken down. But he was the President of a republic regenerated and redeemed from slavery; of a republic which he has done much to save to the cause of impartial justice and equal rights. As such, the dagger of the slaveholder has pierced his heart, and, through him, the heart of the nation, whose political head he was. Millions of slaves has this nation victimized on the bloody attar of slavery. The same spirit has now immolated its President on the same altar. The nation will miss and mourn its genial, honest hearted and noble President.
He was the people’s President No head of any nation ever got nearer to the hearts of the people. The very elements of his nature, which many in this and in foreign lands deemed so undignified in a President, and which all that is slaveholding, murderous and unprincipled in the nation has tried to turn against him, have only made him nearer and dearer to the great popular heart. His warm, hearty, genial and truly democratic nature, that found expression in spicy, telling anecdotes, stories, and jokes, brought him dose to the sympathies, thoughts, affections and every day life of the people in every cabin. They made him the bosom friend of the fathers and mothers and little ones of the country, in their kitchens, parlors, nurseries and bed-rooms. No one ever dreamed that his warm, social nature, that thus found expression, was unbecoming the man. I have yet to learn that what becomes a man, can ill become a President. What does not disgrace a man, cannot disgrace a President. Most every family feels that one of the family circle is gone, and that a vacancy is there which none but their kindly and great-hearted President could fill. He is identified with the domestic and social thoughts, feelings and life of the people as no man before him, in a position so exalted, ever was. At the same time, no ruler nor statesman was ever more pleasantly, gratefully and honorably associated with the life and history of any nation, than will President Lincoln be with the life and glory of the American Republic. What will the emancipated negro, the continent of Africa, and the toiling millions of the world think and say of him in all coming time? While in Me body, no man was ever more thoroughly cursed by slavemongers and their allies, and by tyrants and oppressors generally, than President Lincoln; out of it, no man will be more heartily and gratefully admired and blessed by the world’s true democracy.
SLAVERY IS THE ASSASSIN! The ball that pierced the brain of our kind-hearted and noble President was aimed by slaveholding rebels and their sympathizing allies. The man who apologizes for slavery, apologizes for the assassin, and makes himself an accessory to the murderous deed. This assassin, (slavery) is the monster that has been held up by AMERICAN THEOLOGY as approvingly ordained of God, and the Heaven sent missionary to carry salvation, through the loving, gentle Martyr of Calvary, to Africa! President Lincoln, as the people’s right hand, gave this assassin of the negro, of freedom, justice and free institutions, the death-blow. Now the surviving tools and minions of that assassin, instigated by the same spirit of murderous” hatred to free labor, free schools, free press, free society, free thought and speech and a free Republic,” have slain the political embodiment of freedom to labor and the laborers of the nation, the continent and the world. In so doing they have given to President Lincoln a name and a place in the history of nations, and in the great human heart, never before given to man.
God save the people from the spirit of revenge! God save the loyal masses from retaliation! from ”blood for blood! ”from” evil for evil!” Also, from
<c04>
that mawkish sentimentalism, that most unwise, most thoughtless and hurtful sympathy with the conquered rebels and slavemongers which shall make earth’s most colossal criminals feel that, in involving the nation in the horrors of war to enslave its laborers, they have done no wrong! Like Burr, Arnold, and Cain, let them be made to feel that they are” fugitives and vagabonds on the earth,” till they cry out—” —“My punishment is greater than I can bear.”
GOD SAVE THE AMERICAN REPUBLIC!
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
HARPER’S MONTHLY MAGAZINE, for May, gives the following variety:—1. Was hoe Revisited. 2. Childless. 8. Lyman Beecher. 4. Heroic Deeds of Heroic Men—VI.—The Change of Base. 5. Over the Meadow. 6. The House We Live In. 7. St. Leon’s Heir. 8. Infancy and Age. 9. Recollections of Thomas. 10. On the Heights. 11. Armadale, by Wilkie Collins. 12. The University of Oxford. 13.Our  Mutual Friend, by Charles Dickens. 14. The Old Letter. 15. Monthly Record of Current Events. 16. Literary Notices. 17. Editor’s Easy Chair. 18. Editor’s Drawer.
This number has the usual variety of illustrations, and completes the thirtieth volume of a Magazine which has now deservedly a circulation exceeding one hundred thousand copies. Long may it flourish!
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for May, offers the following table of contents:—1. With the Birds. 2. Gold Egg—A Dream-Fantasy. 3. Out of the Sea. 4. My Student Life at Hofwyl. 5. The Grave by the Lake. 6. Ice and Esquimaux—V. 7. Notes of a Pianist—III. 8. Diplomacy of the Revolution. 9. Our Battle-Laureate. 10. Doctor Johns—IV. 11. The Chimney Corner—V. 12. Needle and Garden —V. 13.  Castles. 14. Fair Play the Best Policy. 15. Reviews and Literary Notices. 16. Recent American Publications.
Ticknor & Field, Publisher, Boston.
A CARD.
To the Members of the American Anti-Slavery Society:
I read with profound regret the leading editorial in the Anti-Slavery Standard of April 8th; an evident plea for the disbanding of our Society. Had it not been so, this protest would be unnecessary.
Why should we disband before the work to which we pledged ourselves is accomplished?  The DECLARATION of SENTIMENTS, unanimously adopted by the Convention which formed our Society and framed our Constitution, proclaims:
“We further believe and affirm—That all persons of color who possess the qualifications which are demanded of others, ought to be admitted forthwith to the enjoyment of the same privileges, and the exercise of the same prerogatives, as others; and that the paths of preferment, of wealth, and of intelligence, should be opened as widely to them as to persons of a white complexion.”
Our Constitution itself has the following article:
“ARTICLE III. This Society shall aim to elevate the character and condition of the people of color, by encouraging their intellectual, moral, and religious improvement, and by removing public prejudices, that thus they may, according to their intellectual and moral worth, share an equality with the whites of civil and religious privileges; but this Society will never, in any way, countenance the oppressed in vindicating their rights by resorting to physical force.”
Certainly while the question whether the negro race under our flag shall have the ballot and the rights of citizenship hangs trembling in the balance, with all the weight of the Administration thrown into the scale against it, such an hour is no time to dissolve a Society thus pledged to” all persons of color.”
But waiving this, and even admitting what the Standard editorial claims, that the abolition of chattel slavery was all we sought, still while Delaware and Kentucky remain slave States, and before any decisive action has been had on the Constitutional Amendment, it is no time to disband. What right, under its pledges, has the Society to disband while one legal slave remains in the republic? But there are thousands upon thousands. What right has the Society to disband while the system of slavery remains legal under the Constitution? Yet that system stands untouched. The President’s Proclamation emancipates certain slaves, but has no reference to the system, and the Anti Slavery Amendment to the Constitution is not yet law.
If slavery itself were substantially ended by this disappearance of every slave, or if the system were technically ended by the adoption of the Anti-Slavery Amendment, there might be some reason to consider the question of disbanding; but while slavery remains, both substantially and technically, we should, it seems to me, be wholly unfaithful to our trust to disband. When every slave is freed and the system itself legally ended, it will be time enough to consider what then is our duty. I am not willing to-day, in advance, to pledge myself even then to disband. I consider no freedom real and no emancipation effectual, under such State and Federal governments as ours, until the negro has the ballot. This was the unanimous vote of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society at its late January meeting,—a Society which is one of the largest auxiliaries of the American Anti Slavery Society. The Administration is unalterably determined to reconstruct the rebel States by giving all civil power to the white race. Are those whites to be trusted with the rights and fortunes of their late victims? It would be absurd in these columns to ask any Abolitionist that question. The whole history of the Union, North and South, and of the Anti Slavery cause on both sides the ocean, says NO to it. To reconstruct these rebel States as” governments of white men,” robbing the negro of the ballot, would be a greater blunder, and, considering our better light, a greater sin than our fathers committed in 1789 in their compromise with slavery, and we should have no right to expect from it less disastrous results. I deem it the duty of our Society to hold on till its full work is done. To dissolve this Spring would, it seems to me, be false to its trust To dissolve when the mere abolition of chattelism is accomplished is practical surrender to its foe.
The editors of the Standard, in their recent article, suggest to the members that they can retire into the ranks of Freedmen’s Associations. Alms giving to the negro is very well, highly honorable to the newly-converted givers, very useful to the negro, and may be necessary for a little while. But I protest against its continuance for any length of time. I am still an Abolitionist, still a believer in the “negro’s ability to take care of himself,” and do not intend to insult him by holding him up before the country as a chronic pauper. Let us” Abolitionists not quit the attitude we have held for thirty years, but stand claiming for the negro justice, not privileges; rights, not aims.
As for the Standard, I hope and trust it will be continued; and, freed from that blind partisanship which has made it the mere organ of the Administration, I hope it will be, what it should always have been, the organ and true representative of a Society which, by its own voice and that of its most active constituents, has three times within the past year proclaimed its distrust of the purposes of the Administration.
I trust that the important question to be discussed at our coming anniversary will move every member to make the utmost possible exertion to be present, and do his share to save us from any misstep on so momentous an occasion.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Boston, April 10,1865.
MR. PHILLIPS AND THE STANDARD.
We print today a Letter from Mr. Phillips, occasioned by the leading article, on the approaching Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in the Standard of the 8th inst. We hardly need say to our readers that there is no difference of opinion between us and Mr. Phillips as to the importance of securing the right of suffrage to the Negro in the Reconstruction of the rebel States. The assertion of the equal civil and political rights of the black with the white man has always been a recognized duty of alt Abolitionists, and we are bold to affirm that this paper has never failed in it. The only question between us, as to that matter, is, bow that equality of rights can be best asserted, in the present condition of the country. He thinks, apparently, that the continued existence of the American Anti-Slavery Society is most important, if not essential, to the due discharge of that duty. We think that such continued existence is at best immaterial and indifferent, ‘and that the work can be as well if not better done without its help.
We entirely agree with Mr. Phillips as to the duty of all Anti-Slavery men to be diligent in their business as Abolitionists, as long as there remains any vestige of technical or virtual Slavery within the National domain. If he and a majority of the Meeting next month think that they  can do this better by continuing the existence of the Society, the minority will make no factious opposition, bat leave them to do their work in the way that commends itself to their sense of duty. In such case, we of the minority shall claim the equal right of withholding our cooperation with them. We beg him to believe that we have no purpose of forsaking the service of the slaves so long as there is one held even technically in bondage, or of the Freedmen after every fetter is broken, as long as they are deprived of any civil or political privilege possessed by any white man. But
<c05>
we think that the cause of the Negro has far transcended the limits and the functions of any voluntary association. It is the Nation’s work, and the Nation aknowledges it to be so. It is the recognized business of the Cabinet, of Congress, of the great political parties, of the Churches, of the great body of the people. It is our privilege to work with these great forces, as a part of them or in concert with them. The American Anti-Slavery Society was a necessity thirty years ago, and has been until now, or very -recently, because all these agencies were arrayed in deadly hostility against the Negro. The public mind had to be purified by long moral agitation, and fitted to profit by the calamities which slavery was to bring upon the Nation. It has encountered them, and learned the lesson they were sent to teach. Slavery is dead, or, at worst, in its death agony. The Nation sees that it can have no permanent peace and good government until it is trampled out of existence. The American Anti Slavery Society was gathered to bring about this state of things. Having brought it about, it may honorably and gracefully cease from its specific work. If the Cabinet, the Congress, the Churches, the political parties, and the great body of the people had received Garrison when be first went to them with his message from God as they do now, there would have been no need of his forming the American Anti-Slavery Society. Having now received it, though after much tribulation, the Society, it seems to us, comes naturally to an end. Its position has been sublime in the time past; it should be careful lest, by refusing to see the changed aspect of the time present, it become ridiculous.
Mr. Phillips says,” the Editors of the Standard suggest to the members that they may retire into the ranks of the Freedmen’s Associations.” If he will read our article again, he will see that we made no such suggestion. The only allusion made to those associations was in the statement that we should decline acting with the American Anti-Slavery Society, if it should decide to act as one, after Slavery had been abolished—which, if we understand him. Mr. Phillips contemplates as at least a possibility. Those associations, undoubtedly, will receive the cooperation of all Abolitionists, but they occupy but a small part of the field of political, ecclesiastical and social action that invites their activity. As we understand their scope, those associations look far beyond the mere alms-giving against which Mr. Phillips protests as an insult to the Negro. They include, we believe, every-thing that he himself demands. If we do not mistake them, they are as resolute as he for the extension of the suffrage to the Negro. But in order that there may be Negro Suffrage, there must be Negroes, and self-supporting and intelligent ones. That there may be Negroes, they must be fed during the transition stages; that they may be self supporting, they must be furnished with land, and means to cultivate it, and protection against extortion and oppression; that they may be intelligent, they must have school-teachers. When they are able to provide for themselves in all these particulars, of course these associations will gladly cease from their labors of help and overnight. But this is aside from our purpose.
We desire Mr. Phillips, and all who agree with him as to the continuing of the Society, to remember that there is no difference of opinion on our part who differ from them in this particular, as to the duty of all of us towards the Negroes, before and after they shall have been set technically free by the adoption of the Amendment. It is merely a question of means and instrumentalities. It seems to us that the American Anti-Slavery Society is superseded by the world that has come up to do its work. We are no longer a peculiar people, though still, we hope, zealous of good works. We think that we should joyfully accept the new situation, for it is the situation, whether we accept it or not. We could wish that the Society with which we have identified ourselves for the best part of our lives might finish its course with dignity as well as joy. We do not see how it can distinguish itself from the world around it, now, excepting by the splitting of hairs, by making distinctions without differences, and by cavillings and carpings such as have made Anti-Slavery Meetings of late neither pleasant nor profitable. We think that we can bestow our time and pains more advantageously for the Negroes and for the country, as well as more profitably to ourselves, upon other methods, such as the changed world we live in may demand or create.
To the charge Mr. Phillips makes against the Editors of the Standard, of a” blind partisanship which has made it the mere organ of the Administration,” we shall condescend to make no reply. Let our readers judge between us whether we deserve it or not. We know that Abolitionists tried and true as he have blamed us for the very opposite fault of undue severity and even injustice towards the Administration. We claim to have observed the impartial course our office, demanded of us towards it. However this may be, we shall shortly retire with the knowledge that we have done our duty to the best of our judgment and ability, and to the satisfaction of the Executive Committee who appointed us.—Anti-Slavery Standard.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON IN CHARLESTON.
The Charleston correspondence of the New York Tribune has the following paragraphs.
“On Saturday, the 15th inst., General Saxton called a mass meeting of the freedmen and women of Charleston. By eleven o’clock, fully ten thousand had assembled upon Citadel square and in Zion’s Church. I walked to the square with William Lloyd Garrison. Think of the great pioneer Abolitionist of Boston in the streets of Charleston! As Mr. Garrison entered the square, he was introduced to about two thousand slave children by Mr. James Redpath, Superintendent of Public Instruction. When the, children were told who Mr. Garrison was, they surrounded him, threw up their hats or caps, caught hold of him, fell down and over each other, and sent up shout after shout of such welcome and greeting as I may safely say were never before witnessed on the soil of South Carolina. The enthusiasm of the children was fully shared by the thousands of assembled adults. We worked our way to Zion’s Church, where the main meeting was held. It was estimated that four thousand people were within the building, and that fully three-fourths were formerly slaves. Gen. Saxton presided, assisted by Major M. R. Delany (colored.)
As Mr. Garrison went upon the platform, he was presented by Samuel Dickerson, through the hands of his two daughters, with two very beautiful bouquets of flowers. Mr. Dickerson was a slave until the new dispensation; also his two daughters, who had been sold from him, but now, through the primary instrumentality of Mr. Garrison, he believed had been restored to him, with freedom for all. The presentation was accompanied by a brief address, which surprised and astonished every Northerner who heard it. For accuracy, ability and eloquence, it could not have been excelled by any graduate of Harvard. Of such material have the chivalry made staves—a  man whom Judge Kelly of Philadelphia fitly ranked in original ability as a compeer of Calhoun Mr. Dickerson, it seems, has been hitherto distinguished as a slave among slaves for his power and eloquence as a speaker.
Mr. Garrison spoke briefly. His reception by the immense meeting of freed people was marked by an almost intense cordiality of feeling, and presented such a scene as will not soon be forgotten by those who witnessed it. There stood the liberator, who began his work more than thirty years ago, and before him were thousands of the liberated. Mr. Garrison alluded to his past labors, to then and now; but said, unto God be all the praise for all the good results achieved. He addressed excellent words of counsel to the freed people, exhorting them to show their appreciation of freedom by industry, frugality, and in striving for education for themselves and their children.
General Saxton then introduced Senator Wilson, who said this was the proudest day of his life. He stood in the home of the rebellion with the great anti-slavery leader of the country, William Lloyd Garrison, by his side, and with his heel upon the slave power. You have, he said, no master now; you are freemen forevermore. No master but Almighty God, owing obedience only to the laws of the land. Abraham Lincoln as President of the United States has decreed that you shall never again be slaves. The mention of Mr. Lincoln’s name called forth the most enthusiastic demonstrations for several minutes. Shouts, cheers,’ God bless him,’ tears, waving of bats and handkerchiefs. Mr. Wilson proceeded to speak at length with great earnestness and power, and his excellent exhortations cannot fail to be fruitful in good results to those to whom they were addressed. He was followed by Judge Kelly of Philadelphia, the Hon. George Thompson, and Theodore Tilton.”
CAPTURE OF SELMA, ALA. The Union account of Wilson’s capture of Selma shows it to have been a most gallant affair. The fortifications surrounding the city, said to be nearly as formidable as those at Atlanta, were stormed by our gallant troopers, dismounted, and over two thousand prisoners and one hundred guns were secured. An account of the attack says:
All the arsenals, naval iron works, magazines and Government building at this extensive rebel <illegible> were destroyed, General Winslow was left in com and to command of the place, with a brigade of troops, while Wilson, with the remainder of his command, pushed on to achieve fresh successes. The capture of Selma gives us control of the termini of the Alabama and Mississippi, and Alabama and Tennessee railroads, thereby depriving the enemy of their last main thoroughfare of communication.
The Albany Journal states that Ex-President Fillmore’s house at Buffalo, N. Y. displayed no mourning on Monday last, in  striking contrast with other houses in that vicinity, whereupon the people gathered in a crowd, and covered the front of the Ex-President’s house with ink. The Buffalo papers attempt to screen Fillmore from blame in this case.
<c06>
Among the official documents found in the rebel capital on the entry of our troop troops into Richmond, was a bill offered in secret session of the House of Representatives, January 30, 1865, establishing a Secret Services Bureau, for the employment of secret agents,” either in the Confederate States or within the enemy’s lines, or in any foreign country,” and authorizing the chief officer” to organize such a system, FOR THE APPLICATION OF NEW MEANS OF WARFARE APPROVED and of secret service agencies, as may tend best to secure the objects of the establishment of the bureau.”
Can it be possible that robbery, arson, assassination and murder were the ”new means of warfare” which were then  approved by the rebel Congress, and all of which have since been used in the rebel cause? It behooves the rebel leaders to promptly disavow these acts, or else the whole world will believe that they were committed with their knowledge and approval. —Journal
The mysterious deaths of Presidents Harrison and Taylor; the attempted assassination of  President Buchanan, in order to remit the executive authority into the hands of Vice President Breckinridge; the plot to kill President Lincoln at Baltimore when he passed through that city on his way to his first inauguration; the recent assassination of President Lincoln and Mr. Secretary Seward; all point in one direction, and attest the ferocity of that pro-slavery oligarchy which has resolved either to rule or to pull down the pillars of the republic, and engulf the people in direst anarchy.
PITTSBURG, Pa., April 25. J. F. Duncan, a reliable citizen of Pittsburg, who has just returned from Meadville, mentions singular circumstance in connection with Booth’s assassination of the President. While stopping at the McHenry House in Meadville, on the 4th of June last,. Booth wrote on a pane of glass the following inscription: ”Abe Lincoln, departed this life Aug. 13, 1864, by the effects of.”<illegible>” Booth’s name was written on the hotel register in the same handwriting. Several of his friends at different times occupied the same room. A complete register has been kept of all the names of the occupants of that room since June last.
It is stated by the Chicago Post that, many months ago, while playing an engagement in that city, Booth remarked at rehearsal one day to a brother actor, that ”the man who would kill Abraham Lincoln, would immortalize himself.” When asked how such a deed would achieve immortality, he responded by quoting the lines he often used, and seemed to dwell upon with peculiar favor and emphasis:
“Fame not more survives from good than evil deeds,
The ambitious youth who fired the Ephesian dome,
Outlives in fame the pious fool who reared it.”
The Tribune’s Washington dispatch says the investigation of the conspiracy, now going on, shows that Mr. Lincoln’s death had already been attempted by poison 
WAR DEPARTMENT.
WASHINGTON, Monday April 24, 1865.
This Department has information that the President’s murder was organized in Canada, and approved at Richmond 
One of the assassins, now in prison, who attempted to kill Mr. Seward, is believed to be one of the St. Albans raiders.
EDWIN M. STANTON, 
Secretary of War.
ANDREW ATZEROTH. The Philadelphia Inquirer gives a long account of the arrest and subsequent examination and identification of Atzeroth, the supposed assassin of Seward, from which the following, referring to the operations of the arresting officer, is an extract:
“He found, by questioning different parties whom Atzeroth had visited, that the accused had come from Washington a day or two before, and at the house of one of the gentlemen, while eating dinner, had upon the assassination of the President being broached, abruptly stopped eating, and made use of the following language: ’IF ALL OF THEM HAD DONE THEIR DUTY, GRANT WOULD HAVE BEEN FIXED THE SAME WAY!’’’
MOURNING  AT  NASHVILLE. Nashvile, Tenn., 20th, The procession to-day, in honor of the funeral of President Lincoln, was the largest and most imposing ever seen in this city. All places of business were closed, and every store and dwelling appropriately draped in mourning. The procession numbered upward of fifteen thousand people, among whom were Generals Thomas, Rosseau, Miller, Whipple, Fowler, and Donaldson Over ten thousand were in the procession, also Gov. Brownlow, both Houses of the Legislature, the Quartermaster and Fire Departments, the latter with their machines draped, various Lodges of Masons, Odd Fellows, German Societies, Fenian Brotherhood, and other Associations. The streets were thronged with, citizens. Addresses were made by Gov. Brownlow, Rev. Mr. Allen, and others:
NEW YORK, April 25. New York has amply paid her last tribute of respect to the remains of Abraham Lincoln. They were escorted to the Hudson River Railroad Depot by a funeral procession never equaled in this country, and, perhaps, in the world.
The procession closed with large delegations from all kinds of societies from Brooklyn, and finally several thousand respectably dressed and well appearing negroes. It was three hours passing a given point, and ere the end of it reached the depot, the corpse of our martyred President was many miles away from the city.
Take the procession altogether, it was one of the largest, if not the greatest, ever seen in New York, and the utmost good feeling was manifested. Everywhere the passing of the coffin was the signal for all to uncover their heads. All over the floor of the hearse on which the coffin rested were strewed the most beautiful flowers. The hearse itself was the theme of praise from all as most appropriate for the occasion.
All along the route an immense concourse of people lined the streets, filled the windows, balconies, stoops, and housetops, all of whom seemed of one accord in respect to the memory of the departed.
After the procession passed, an immense meeting; was held in Union square, at which a funeral oration was delivered by Hon. George Bancroft.
Similar imposing demonstrations were made in Philadelphia, as the remains of the lamented President were carried through that city.
Mr. Seward and his son Frederick are slowly recovering from their dreadful wounds.
Gen. Sherman’s proposition to surrender everything for which the war has been waged to the rebels has met with unqualified condemnation here, President Johnson, in presenting it to his Cabinet, said:” This proposition is not debatable, yet I shall be pleased to hear your comments on it.” General Grant left at an hour’s notice—only taking an aid-de-camp and a saddle and bridle.— Washington Cor.
Jeff. Davis, says the Washington Republican, arrived at Danville on Monday afternoon succeeding his flight from Richmond, covered with dust and perspiration. His only baggage consisted of three dilapidated trunks, which looked hardly fit for a journey to Mexico. He was accompanied by two or three members of his Cabinet, and the whole party seemed to be in an extremely demoralized condition. Breckinridge, the rebel Secretary of War, had not turned up, and was not heard from, although diligent inquiries were being made for him.
MASSACHUSETIS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY 
Receipts into the Treasury to April 1, 1865.
George W. Stacy, Milford, to redeem pledge, $2.00
Miss Elizabeth Farnsworth, Groton, 1.50
Mrs. M. M. Brooks, Concord, to redeem pledge, -20.00
Rev. F. Frothingham, Brattlebero’Vt.,-7.10
Bourne Spooner, Plymouth,,-2.50
Mrs. Mary May, Boston, to redeem pledge,,-50.00
E. D. DRAPER, Treasurer 
Boston, April 2, 1865.
Copies of the Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society, (1860-61, or the year preceding the Rebellion,) will be sent by mail to any person desiring it, on application to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston, enclosing ten cents for postage, &c.
MARRIED—In Worcester, April 11th, by Rev. Mr. Richardson, Mr. O. C. Wood to Miss ADELATDR V. RUTNAM 
DIED— In this city, April 12th, LUCY, wife of THOMAS DALTON, aged 72 year and 9 months,
In Pittsburg, Pa., March 25, ANNE PAUL, daughter of GEORGE B. and SUSAN PAUL VASHON and, aged 1 year and 5 months.
At West Newton, 25th <illegible>, ”LITTLE NATTIE,” aged 8 months, only son of Nathaniel T. Allen.
At Montreal, Canada, 15th April, Hon, SAMUEL GALE, heretofore one of the Justices of the Court of Queen’s Bench for the District of Montreal, in his 82d year.
Farm for Sale Franklin, Mass.,
CONTAINING thirty-five acres of tillage and pasture, including eight acres of wood-land. Also, house, <illegible>, and carriage-house, all in excellent order  built some fourteen years ago, with all the modern improvements, range, hath, be Also, apple, and peach trees, grapes, currants, etc. Further information can be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, No. 221 Washington Street, Boston.
March 31.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
THE ASSASSINATION OF THE PRESIDENT.
With a slight alteration in the text, says the Tribune, Tennyson’s great Ode gives grand expression to the event:
Bury the President
With a people’s lamentation,
Let us bury the President
To the noise of the mourning of a mighty Nation,
Mourning when their leaders fall,
And sorrow darkens hamlet and hall.
Lead out the pageant: sad and slow, 
As fits an universal woe,
Let the long procession go,
And let the sorrowing crowd about it grow,
And let the mournful martial music blow,
The Martyr President is low.
Nor can the character of the President be better described than in the lines:
Mourn for the man of amplest influence,
Yet clearest of ambitious crime,
Our greatest yet with least pretence,
Rich in saving common-sense,
And, as the greatest only are,
In his simplicity sublime:
Such was he whom we deplore.
Let the <illegible> be toll’d,
And a deeper knell in the heart be knoll’d,
And the sound of the sorrowing anthem roll’d,
And the volleying cannon thunder his loss.
And through the centuries let a people’s voice,
In full soclaim,
A people’s voice,
The proof and echo of all human fame,
Attest their great commander’s claim
With honor, honor, honor, honor, to him,
Eternal honor to his name.
His work is done; but his great example, standing colossal, to be seen of every land, will to the end of time teach that “the path of duty is the way to glory.” But now comes the last <illegible> of all:
Hush, the dead march wails in the people’s ears:
The dark crowd moves, and there are sobs and tears:
The black earth yawns: the mortal disappears;
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust;
He is gone who seemed so great-
Gone; but nothing can bereave him
Of the force he made his own
Being here, and we believe him
Something far advanced in state,
And that he wears a truer crown
Than any wreath that man can weave him.
But speak no more of his renown,
Lay your earthly fancies down—
God accept him, Christ receive him.

CHARLESTON AND FORT SUMTER,
ON APRIL 14, 1861, AND 1865.
O, raise a shout, a shout of exultation!
Shout, loyal hearts, from shore to shore!
The Lord has tried, the Lord has purged this nation,
And Treason’s stronghold is no more.
Four years ago, this day, in pride infernal,
And frantic rage, a traitorous band
Against a power legitimate and paternal
Struck the first blow, with murderous hand.
Four years, this day, they first commenced the sowing, 
Whereof they now what harvest reap!
See, SHERMAN with his seythe gigantic mowing, 
Stands in the red swaths ankle-deep.
Four years ago, to-day, they called the thunder
To strike the People’s sovereign crown;
The thunder struck—but whom? Look yonder,
Charleston may tell you who is down.
Four years ago they bragged, soon should be flaunting 
Their rag upon the nation’s dome;
But see, to-day, our flag stands there, while panting, 
The ragged braggarts run from home.
Four years ago, upon a cursed “foundation,”
They raised a “White” House of their own;
To-day it lies a blackened desolation,
And ground to dust its corner-stone.
Four years ago, the God of man defying,
They set their Idol on the throne;
But, <illegible>to-day, the Baal priests are flying,
Their God and temple overthrown.
Four years ago, in abject terror quaking
‘Neath Slavery’s yoke, black chattels bent;
To-day, proud Charleston’s ruined walls are shaking
With the shouts of a Freedmen’s regiment.
Yes, God has judged! This is his token:
The righteous God be thanked and praised!
The poor slave’s iron yoke is broken,
The proud oppressor is abased.
Four years ago—Oh, day of humiliation!—
Our flag went down, the banner of the free;
But, lo! to-day—Oh, glorious restoration!—
Aloft again, it floats triumphantly!
Aloft it floats, and—fitting retribution!—
Raised on the same walls by the same true hand
Which, in defence of law and Constitution,
So nobly then strove Treason to withstand.
Aloft it floats! waving a proud defiance
To traitors near, to envious haters far;
For loyal hearts, a strong arm of reliance;
For all oppressed, a guiding Polar star
There shall it float! to-day and hence forever,
The dear old flag, the banner of the free;
And traitorous kins, or foreign foes, shall never
Divide again our blood-bought unity!
EMANUEL VITALIS SCHERE 
“I prophecy that the flag which now flaunts the breeze here will float over the dome of the old Capitol before the first of May. Let them try Southern chivalry, and test the extent of Southern resources, and it may eventually float over Faneuil Hall itself.”—L.P. Walker, Rebel Secretary of War, April 12, 1861.
Alexander H. Stephens, Vice President Southern Confederacy, in a an address to the citizens of Savannah, in March, 1861, made use of the following words:-“the prevailing ideas entertained by Jefferson and most of the leading statesmen, at the time of the formation of the old Constitution, were, that the enslavement of the African was in violation of the laws of nature; that it was wrong in principle, socially, morally, and politically. These ideas, however, were fundamentally wrong. It was a sandy foundation, and the idea of a government built upon it was wrong; when the storm came and the wind blew, it fell. Our new government is founded upon exactly the opposite ideas. Its foundations are laid, its corner-stone rests upon the great truth that the Negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition. This, our new government, is the first in the history of the world built upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth.”

THE DOG AND THE COPPERHEAD
BY DAVID BARKER.
One day last week, as the railroad train,
Just east of Etna bog,
Was thundering along through the State of Maine,
It came to a yelping dog
And I saw that the dog looked poor and mean,
As he eat on this hinder part, 
And yelped like sin as he stood between
A sled and a broken cart.
But the train passed on through the Etna bog—
Passed on from the sled and cart—
Passed on from the lousy yelping dog,
Still left on his hinder part.
One day this week, as Freedom’s train
On its holy mission sped,
And thundered along through the State of Maine,
It came to a Copperhead.
And it made me think of the railroad train
That <illegible> through the <illegible> bog,
And thundered along through the State of Maine,
In spite of the yelping dog.
For the train on its holy mission sped,
And gladdened each loyal heart,
But it left the <illegible> Copperhead 
Still flat on his hinder part.
<c02>
Selections
REMINISCENCES OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
FROM”THE FIELD, THE DUNGEON, AND THE ESCAPE,” BY ALBERT D. RICHARDSON.
On the day of Mr. Lincoln’s first inauguration, I was travelling in a crowded railway car in Mississippi and Louisiana. While the train was stopping, and conversation could be heard through the carriage, some one alluded to the event. Another passenger replied: ”I hope to God he will be killed before he has time to take the oath.” A third said: “have wagered a new hat that neither he nor Hamlin will ever live to be inaugurated.” Nearly all present belonged to the educated, wealthy, slaveholding class, the class who originated and conducted the war. Several expressed approval of these remarks; not one uttered a word of dissent.
I was in the Cotton States for weeks after this, and the subject was frequently alluded to in my presence. I heard but one man condemn the proposed assassination, and he was a Unionist. Again and again leading journals, which were called reputable, asked:” Is there no Brutus to rid the world of this tyrant?” Rewards were openly proposed for the President’s head. If Mr. Lincoln had been murdered in Baltimore, every thorough Secession journal in the South would have expressed its approval, directly or indirectly. Of course, I do not believe that the masses, or all Secessionists, would have desired such a stain upon the American name; but even then, as afterwards, when they murdered our captured soldiers, and starved, froze, and shot our prisoners, the men who led and controlled the Rebels appeared deaf to humanity and to decency. Charity would fain hold them insane; but there was too much method in their madness.
Their last great crime of all was, perhaps, needed for an eternal monument of the influence of Slavery. It was fitting that they who murdered Lovejoy, who crimsoned the robes of young Kansas, who aimed their gigantic Treason at the heart of the Republic, before the curtain went down, should crown their infamy by this deed without a name. It was fitting that they should seek the lives of the three officers most conspicuous of all for their mildness and clemency. It was fitting that they should assassinate a Chief Magistrate, so conscientious that his heavy responsibility weighed him down like a millstone; so pure that partizan rancor found no stain upon the hem of his garment; so gentle that e’en his failings leaned to virtue’s side; so merciful that he stood like an averting angel between them and the Nation’s vengeance. 
The Southern journals were very denunciatory of the new President from the moment when he started for Washington. His speeches along the route were indeed far from being his best efforts. They lacked the stimulus of debate. He was nothing if he was not argumentative. Opposition alone could bring out his unrivalled logic.
But the Rebel newspapers represented him—a man who used neither spirits nor tobacco—as in a state of constant intoxication. They ransacked the language for epithets.” Idiot” and” Baboon” were the terms they usually applied. Even in vituperation history repeats itself. Fifteen centuries before, the Roman satirists were wont to characterize the great Julian as an ape and a hairy savage.
But their chief hatred was called out by his origin. He illustrated the Democratic Idea which was in conceivably repugnant to them. That a man who sprung from the people, worked with his hands, actually split rails in boyhood, should rise to the head of a Government which included Southern gentle men, was bitter beyond description. Day after day, through the whole South, the leading journals drew contrasts between the two Presidents. Mr. Lincoln was a” buffoon and a vulgarian;” Mr. Davis “educated, scholarly, refined, a statesman and a gentleman.” The times are changed. As I write, those same Rebel papers, which are not yet extinguished by the fortunes of war, impute the ruin of their cause to Jefferson Davis, and lament that he lacks the rugged steadfastness and clear common sense of Abraham Lincoln!
Rousseau had an interview with the President and Secretaries Cameron and Seward. The weather was very hot, and Cameron sat with his coat off during the conversation. As usual before proceeding to business, Mr. Lincoln had his “little story” to enjoy. He shook hands cordially with his visitor, and said in great glee:
“Rousseau, where did you get that joke about Senator Johnson?”
“The joke, Mr. President was too good to keep; Johnson told it himself.”
It was this: Dr. John M. Johnson, State Senator from Paducah, wrote to Mr. Lincoln a rhetorical document, in the usual style of the Rebels. In behalf of his sovereign State, he entered a solemn and emphatic protest against the planting of cannon at Cairo, declaring that the guns actually pointed in the direction of the sacred soil of Kentucky!
In an exquisitely pithy autograph letter, Mr. Lincoln replied, that if he had known earlier that Cairo, Illinois, was in Dr. Johnson’s Kentucky Senatorial District, he certainly should not have established either the guns or the troops there! Singularly enough—for a keen sense of humor was very rare among our” erring brethren”—Johnson appreciated the jest.
Cameron favored enlistments in Kentucky, with out delay. Mr. Lincoln replied: “Don’t be too hasty; we should act with caution.” Rosseau explained: “The masses in Kentucky are loyal. I can get as many soldiers there as are wanted; but if the Rebels raise troops, while we do not, our young men will go into their army, taking the sympathies of kindred and friends, and may finally cause the State to secede. It is of vital importance that we give loyal direction to the sentiment of our people.”
At the next interview, the President showed him this endorsement on the back of one of his papers:” When Judge Pirtle, James Guthrie, George D. Prentice, Hanvey, the Speed; and the Ballards shall think it proper to raise troops for the United States service in Kentucky, Lovell H. Rousseau is authorized to do so. “How will that do?” he asked. Rousseau thought it would not do at all, and finally, through the assistance of Chase and Cameron, who steadfastly aided him, he gained permission to commence enlisting at once. Afterward upon many battle-fields his two stars were fairly won and worthily worn.
At a late and gloomy period of the war, I again had an interview with the President, which was long and characteristic.
On the 28th of December, 1862, Sherman fought the battle of Chickasaw Bayou, one of our first fruitless attempts to capture Vicksburg. Grant de signed to cooperate by an attack from the rear, but his long supply line extended to Columbus, Kentucky, though he might have established a nearer base at Memphis. Van Dorn cut his communication at Holly Springs, Mississippi, and Grant was compelled to fall back.
Sherman’s attack proved a serious disaster. Our forces were flung upon an almost impregnable bluff, where we lost about 2,500 men, and were then compelled to retreat.
There was an old quarrel between Sherman and the Press, in which, as usual, there was blame upon both sides. Some of the correspondents had treated him unjustly; and he had not learned the quiet patience and faith in the future which Grant exhibited under similar circumstances. At times he manifested much irritation and morbid sensitiveness.
A well-known correspondent, Mr. Thomas W. Knox, was present at the battle, and placed his report of it, duly sealed, and addressed to a private citizen, in the military mail, at Sherman’s headquarters. One “Col.” A. H. Markland of Kentucky, U. S. Postal Agent, on mere surmise about its contents, took the letter from the mail, and permitted it to be opened. He insisted afterward that he did this by Sherman’s express command. Sherman denied giving any such order, but said he was satisfied with Markland’s course.
Markland should have been arrested for robbing the United States mails, which he was sworn to protect. There was no reasonable pretext for asserting that the letter would give information to the enemy; therefore it did not imperil the public interest. If Gen. Sherman deemed it unjust to himself individually, he had his remedy, like any other citizen or soldier, in the courts of the country and the justice of the people.
The purloined dispatch was withheld from the mail, and left for four or five days, lying about Sherman’s headquarters, open to the inspection of several officers. Finally, upon Knox’s written request, is it was returned to him, though a map which it contained was kept-us he rather pungently suggested,
<c03>
probably for the information of the military authorities!
Knox’s letter had treated the generalship of the battle very tenderly. But after this proceeding, he immediately forwarded a second account which expressed his views on the subject in very plain English. Its return in print caused great excitement at headquarters. Knox was arrested, and tried before a military tribunal on these charges:
I. Giving information to the enemy.
II Being a spy.
III. Violating the 57th Article of War, which forbids the writing of letters for publication from the United States Army, without submitting them to the commanding General for approval.
The court martial sat for fifteen days. It acquitted Knox upon the first and second charges. Of course, he was found guilty of the third. After some hesitation between sentencing him to receive a written censure or to leave Grant’s department, the latter was decided upon, and he was banished from the army lines.
When information of this proceeding reached Washington, the members of the press at once united in a memorial to the President, asking him to set aside the sentence, inasmuch as the violated Article of War was altogether obsolete, and the practice of sending newspaper letters, without any official scrutiny, had been universal with the full sanction of the Government, from the outset of the rebellion. It was further represented that Mr. Knox was thoroughly loyal, the most scrupulously careful of all army correspondents, to write nothing which, by any possibility, could give information to the enemy. Col. John W. Forney headed the memorial, and all the journalists in Washington signed it.
One evening, in company with Mr. James M. Winchell of the N. Y. Times, and the Hon. H. P. Bennett, delegate from Colorado, I called upon the President to present the paper.
After Gen. Sigel and Representative John B. Steele had left, he chanced to be quite at liberty. Upon my introduction he remarked:
“ O, yes, I remember you perfectly well; you were out on the prairies with me on that winter day when we almost froze to death; you were then correspondent of the Boston Journal. That German from Leavenworth was also with us—what was his name?”
“ Hatterscheit?” I suggested. “Yes, Hatterscheit! By the way,” (motioning us to seats, and settling down into his chair, with one leg thrown over the arm.)”that reminds me of a little story, which Hatterscheit told me during the trip. He bought a pony of an Indian, who could not speak much English, but who, when the bargain was completed, said: Oats—no! Hay—no! Corn—no!—Cottonwood—yes! very much!” Hatterscheit thought this was mere drunken maundering, but a few nights after, he tied his horse in a stable built of cotton wood logs, fed him with hay and corn, and went quietly to bed. The next morning he found the grain and fodder untouched, but the barn was quite empty, with a great hole in one side, which the pony had gnawed his way through! Then he comprehended the old Indian's fragmentary English.”
This suggested another reminiscence of the same Western trip. Somewhere in Nebraska the party came to a little creek, the Indian name of which signified weeping water. Mr. Lincoln remarked, with a good deal of aptness, that, as laughing water, according to Longfellow, was” Minnehaha,” the name of this rivulet should evidently be” Minneboohoo!”
These inevitable preliminaries ended, we presented the memorial asking the President to interpose in behalf of Mr. Knox. He promptly answered he would do so if Grant coincided. We reminded him that this was improbable, as Sherman and Grant were close personal friends. After a moment’s hesitancy he replied, with courtesy, but with emphasis:
“ I should be glad to serve you or Mr. Knox, or any other loyal journalist. But, just at present, our Generals in the field are more important to the country than any of the rest of us, or all the rest of us. It is my fixed determination to do nothing whatever which can possibly embarrass any one of them. Therefore, I will do cheerfully what I have said, but it is all I can do.”
There was too much irresistible good sense in this to permit any further discussion. The President took up his pen and wrote, reflecting a moment from time to time, the following:
EXECUTIVE MANSION,
WASHINGTON, March 20,1863.
Whom it may concern:
Whereas, It appears to my satisfaction that Thomas W. Knox, a correspondent of the New York Herald, has been, by the sentence of a court-martial, excluded from the military department under command of Maj. Gen. Grant, and also that Gen. Thayer, president of the court martial which rendered the sentence, and Maj. Gen. McClernand, in command of a corps of the department, and many other respectable persons, are of the opinion that Mr. Knox’s offence was technical, rather than wilfully wrong, and that the sentence should be revoked; now, therefore, said sentence is hereby so far revoked as to allow Mr. Knox to return to Gen. Grant’s headquarters, and to remain, if Gen. Grant shall give his express assent, and to again leave the Department, if Gen. Grant shall refuse such assent.
A. LINCOLN.
Reading it over carefully, he handed it to me, and gave a little sigh of relief. General conversation ensued. Despondent and weighed down with his load of care, he sought relief in frank speaking. He said, with great earnestness,” God knows that I want to do what is wise and right, but sometimes it is very difficult to determine.”
He conversed freely of military affairs, but suddenly remarked, “I am talking again! Of course you will remember that I speak to you only as friends; that none of this must be put in print.”
Touching an attack upon Charleston which had long been contemplated, he said that Du Pont had promised some weeks before, if certain supplies were furnished, to make the assault upon a given day. The supplies were promptly forwarded, the day came and went without any intelligence. Some time alter, he sent an officer to Washington, asking for three more iron-clads and a large quantity of deck-plating as indispensable to the preparations.
“ I told the officer to say to Commodore Du Pont,” observed Mr. Lincoln,” that I fear he does not appreciate at all the value of time.”
The Army of the Potomac was next spoken of. The great Fredericksburg disaster was recent, and the public heart was heavy. In regard to General McClellan, the President spoke with discriminating justice:
“I do not, as some do, regard McClellan either as a traitor or an officer without capacity. He sometimes has bad counsellors, but he is loyal, and he has some fine military qualities. I adhered to him after nearly all my Constitutional advisers lost faith in him. But do you want to know when I gave him. up? It was after the battle of Antietam. The Blue Ridge was then between our army and Lee’s. We enjoyed the great advantage over them, which they usually had over us: we had the short line, and they the long one, to the rebel Capital. I directed McClellan peremptorily to move on Richmond, at once. It was eleven days before he crossed his first man over the Potomac; it was eleven days after that before he crossed the last man. Thus, he was twenty-two days in passing the river at a much easier and more practicable ford than that where Lee crossed his entire army between dark one night and daylight the next morning. That was the last grain of sand which broke the camel’s back. I relieved McClellan at once. As for Hooker: I have told him forty times that I fear he may err just as much one way as McClellan does the other—may be as over-daring as McClellan is over-cautious.”
We inquired about the progress of the Vicksburg campaign. Our armies were on a long expedition up the Yazoo river, designing, by digging canals and threading bayous, to get in the rear of the city, and cut off its supplies. Mr. Lincoln said:
“ Of course, men who are in command and on the spot know a great deal more than I do. But immediately in front of Vicksburg, where the river is a mile wide, the rebels plant batteries, which absolutely stop our entire fleets; therefore it does seem to me that upon narrow streams like the Yazoo, Yallabusa and Tallahatchie, not wide enough for a long boat to turn around in, if any of our steamers which go there ever come back, there must be some mistake about it. If the enemy permits them to survive, it must be either through lack of enterprise or lack of sense.”
A few months later, Mr. Lincoln was able to announce to the nation:” The Father of Waters again flows <illegible> to the sea.”
Our interview left no grotesque recollections of the President’s <illegible>, his huge hands and feet, great mouth or angular features. We remembered rather the ineffable tenderness which shone through his
<c04>
gentle eyes, his childlike ingenuousness, his utter integrity, and his absorbing love of country.
Ignorant of etiquette and conventionalities, without the graces of form or of manner, his great reluctance to give pain, his beautiful regard for the feelings of others, made him
“Worthy to bear without reproach
The grand old name of Gentleman.”
Strong without symmetry, humorous without levity, religious without cant—tender, merciful, forgiving, a profound believer in Divine love, an earnest worker for human brotherhood—Abraham Lincoln was perhaps the best contribution which America has made to History.
His origin among human laborers, his native judgment, better than the wisdom of the schools, his perfect integrity, his very ruggedness and irregularities made him fit representative of the young nation which, by and by, as the ripe fruitage of free schools, free presses and free ballots, shall produce a far higher Average Man than the world has yet seen.
No more shall his calm voice above our tumultuous rejoicing sound the wise caution, “Let us be very sober.” No more shall breathe through the passions of the hour his tender pleading that judgment may be tempered with mercy. His work is done. Nothing could have assured and enlarged his posthumous fame like this tragic ending. He goes to a place in History where his peers will be very few. They who murdered him, and would have murdered the Republic, are pilloried in infamy and horror for all coming time.
His memory may be left to the world. Let the stricken wife be borne in sympathy and in love. Let the orphaned sons be adopted as children of the Nation.

AN OCTOGENARIAN ANNIVERSARY.
THE BIRTHDAY OF JOHN PIERPONT.
[From the Washington Chronicle of April 7th.]
There are scenes and seasons in reportorial life to which few pens can do justice; and on such occasions we are prone to wish that all our readers might enjoy with us the experiences, recollections of which will heighten our most joyous hours, and relieve the saddest moments of our life. Among all such privileges thus far vouchsafed to us, a surprise party which transpired at the residence of Mr. C. H. Morse, of this city, last evening, will stand foremost.
The occasion was the natal anniversary of Rev. John Pierpont. The party assembled comprised a few cherished friends of that reverend gentleman, and the incidents were the presentation to him of several beautiful gifts, the reading of a poem from his pen, and of tributes from many of the best minds and noblest hearts of the land, the frequent expressions of grateful appreciation and sallies of kindly humor from” the old man eloquent,” and the reverent regard for his feelings and hearty enjoyment of his pleasurable excitement, manifested by the pains-taking and tasteful preparation which had been made for the occasion, and the graceful manner in which the entire affair was conducted.
Upon entering the parlors of Mr. Morse, we seemed to have been invited to a rare floral exhibition, so numerous and beautiful were the bouquets and flower-baskets scattered throughout the room, all of which we afterwards ascertained were birthday gifts to the guest of the evening. Upon the walls we noted the following inscriptions in letters formed of laurel and other evergreens, and beautifully bordered:” John Pierpont,” “Poet-Prophet,” “Priest and Patriot,” and (a quotation from one of his works)” May a crown, as his reward, be given him.”
Shortly after our arrival, a series of presentations of gifts were made, among which were a beautiful ebony cane, with a silver head, suitably inscribed and neatly carved, a gold watch, a magnificently bound photographic album, containing portraits of some seventy five of his friends, including many of the most distinguished people of New England. 
After these presentations had been made, the following was read by the author, it having been composed without reference to or knowledge of the kindly intentions of his friends, and as a fitting preface to the gems which follow it:

POEM BY THE REV. JOHN PIERPONT.
WRITTEN ON HIS EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.
The thickening mists of fourscore years
In the air all round me swim;
Soft voices reach no more my ears,
And my vision grows more dim.
But the eyes of my mind are, as ever, clear,
And I see, upon Southern plains.
The slave roam where he wills; and I hear
The clank of his broken chains.
In my young manhood, once I saw
A black-looking slave-ship, moored
In Charleston port, under shield of law,
With a cargo of slaves on board—
Of black and naked men,
Under that scorching sky,
With some red baize aprons, now and then,
Hung up in the shrouds to dry.
Thy name, O God, be praised.
That thine ear, that seemed so slow 
To hear the voice that, in prayer, I raised
More than forty years ago,
That the gloomy cloud, that hung, 
With thunder in its breast,
O’er the sultry South, might not be flung
O’er the broad and breezy West;
The prayer, that the sable hands
That lifted the heavy hoe,
In heavier chains, on the lands
Where the rice and the cotton grow,
Might all be raised, ere long,
In hearty thanks to thee,
And the feet then gyved, might keep time to the song,
And the tambourine of the free.
That prayer, that upward went,
Alone and in weakness then,
Hath spread and swelled, till the firmament
Is filled with a loud” Amen.”
For voices, more full and strong,
And the souls of holier men
Have framed the speech, and poured the song
From a more melodious pen.
I need not write their names,
Nor envy them will I;
In their country’s keeping, and in Fame’s,
They will not, cannot die.
By the song, and the speech, and the prayer,
By the spirit of God inspired,
Has the lion Freedom been roused from his lair,
And the hearts of philanthropists fired.
And the iciest statesmen warmed,
And the soldier mounted his guns.
Till Slavery’s battlements all are stormed,
And shaken by Liberty’s sons.
To my prayer, that that gloomy cloud
Might darken no more our day,
Hath Thine ear, O God, at last been bowed,
And in thunder it rolls away.
For the bristling bayonet
Is now in the hand of the thrall,
And the musket’s breach to his shoulder is set,
And his prison houses fall.
And now, on the very ground
Where I saw that slaver’s hell,
The negro walks, as a guard, his round,
By night, and cries,” All’s well!”
On shore, he steps out, a man
From his shed, at his pleasure’s beck;
And, if his old master mutters a ban,
He can tread on the traitor’s neck.
This, thy salvation’s day,
For which thou’st suffered me
For forty years, O God, to pray,
Thou’st spared my life to see.
Now, let Thine angel’s sword
Be sheathed, and carnage cease;
And let Thine aged servant. Lord,
When called, depart in peace.
April 6,1865.
Mr. Morse then proceeded to read to Mr. Pierpont, and his friends assembled, the beautiful tributes of scores of his friends at a distance, sent to Mr. M. in response to his intimations that the surprise party had been projected by a few of his friends. We append a few of <illegible>
To Mr. John Pierpont:
I am most happy to give greeting to Mr. Pierpont upon his eightieth birthday, and cordially hope that the old poet may yet find time to was his Homeric beard once and again in the dews of <illegible>
DONALD G.MITCHELL
Edgewood, March 25, 1865.
<c05>
APRIL 6, 1865.
The Rev. John Pierpont, D. D.:
DEAR SIR: On this day I may venture the guess that you will find yourself remembered by many, to congratulate you on the completion of your fourscore years. You will receive their thanks for your contributions to American poetry, to practical science, and for your stout words and brave deeds in favor of freedom and of moral reforms. I wish to take a humbler theme, and to offer you my thanks for one work in which you did great good to an entire generation. I mean your American First Class Book. I owe to that my first literary tastes and enjoyments, and a few years ago I bought a copy for the purpose of renewing my acquaintance with it.
Although much of our most popular prose and verse has been written within the last thirty years, still the American First Class Book keeps its place, in the judgment of critics, as the best of American collections.
We owe you much for having directed the rising taste of a generation to our best sources, and for being the first to place public school reading and speaking books on a high basis of taste and morals.
Pray, my dear sir, accept my best wishes for your continued life and prosperity, and believe me,
Faithfully yours,
RICHARD H DANA, JR.
WAYLAND, April 6,1865.
Dear and Honored Friend Pierpont:
Eighty years old to-day! And so large a portion of those many years spent in cheering and sustaining the souls of your fellow-men, and guiding them onward in the truth! God bless you! You have inscribed noble records on the tablets of those years. I congratulate you that you have lived so long, and worked so faithfully and well. I congratulate you also that you are drawing near the reward which awaits the tried and true servants of God. You are blessed beyond most men in retaining the faculties of your bright mind so perfectly. Why, your beautiful” Dream” is as full of imagination, and the measure moves as trippingly, as if it had been written at sixteen! Only the solemn refrain speaks of one who realizes the transitory nature of ail sublunary things.
You are blessed, too, in living to see the curse of slavery departing from your country, and a new order of things introduced, which will make her the pioneer of the nations in the path toward universal justice, freedom, and humanity.
Peculiarly are you blessed that, in the prime of your years, you had the will and the power mightily to help onward this great and glorious work.
And you are blest in travelling toward the sunset with a careful and tender mate, who knows how to appreciate you.
In view of all these things, notwithstanding the many severe struggles and disappointments through which you have passed, I cannot but regard you as the supremely favored old youth.
Mr. Child cordially unites with me in best wishes for your welfare and happiness.
Yours, with affectionate respect,
L. MARIA CHILD.
A letter was received from a relative of Miss Hannah F. Gould, the poetess, at Newburyport, Mass., stating that her health, both mentally and physically, is entirely prostrated, and she has not been able to use her pen for nearly three years.
Love, honor, reverence are the meed we owe
To him who, in the press of younger men,
Toiling with head, heart, hand, with tongue and pen,
Treads his firm pathway through the blinding snow.
Singing in cheery tones that long ago
Our fathers heard: not less melodious when
Ten winters lie on threescore years and ten.
And still life’s unchilled fountains overflow;
Though paler seems the faithful watchtower’s light,
In the rich dawn that kindles all the day,
Still in our grateful memory lives the ray
Of the lone flambeau, blazing through the night.
Now while the heavens, in new born splendors bright,
Shine o’er a ransomed people’s opening way.
OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
To John Pierpont, April 3, 1865.
CAMBRIDGE, March 30, 1865. 
DEAR SIR: I send my cordial salutations and best wishes, words of affection, respect, and honor to this true poet and prophet. May he be, like Simarides, who, at the age of eighty, contended for a poetic prize, and won it; and, like him, may he live to be ninety. I remain, dear sir, yours truly,
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW. 
Charles H. Morse, Esq.
To John Pierpont, on his Eightieth Birthday:
Old man, God bless thee!—nay,
That word I cannot say—
Thou art not, and thou never canst be old;
Though eighty years have shed
Their whiteness on thy head,
Thy hair is silvered—but thy heart is gold!
I see in northern skies
Some burning mountain rise,
Its top is covered with perpetual snow;
Yet under that pale sheet
A heart of fire doth beat;
Men hear it throb and tremble down below.
Thou an old man? Not so!
Thou old, my friend? O no!
Not old that sparkling wit—that tireless will;
The touch of time may thin
Thy white locks—but within
The heart is young with love of freedom still.
No, never can there be
Old age nor death for thee.
Priest of the Muses! soldier of the Truth!
Servant of Christ! through Him
Whose light is never dim,
Thou hast the fountain of perpetual youth.
Old friend! that will we say
With grateful hearts to-day—
The long-tried friend of every manly cause—
For truth and right still bold
And buoyant as of old,
And fresh as nature’s old eternal laws!
The winter of life's year
For thee hath naught but cheer,
“Frosty but kindly” is the sparkling sky-
Like many a winter-time
In thy New England clime,
When preternatural Spring seems drawing nigh.
Ah, what a Spring hast thou
Lived to behold, e'en now.
Burst forth in storm and sunshine on the land!
To see Oppression's night
Roll back, and fair and bright
Upon the earth the morn of Justice stand!
Then hail to Liberty!
And hail, old friend, to thee!
And hail the fourscore years thou numberest!
May fivescore yet be thine!
Then, haply, we’ll resign,
With willing hearts, to Heaven its welcome guest.
CHARLES T. BROOKS.
THE EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY OF REV. JOHN PIERPONT, APRIL 6, 1865.
Age sometimes bows. to Genius, shrinks to quench
The heaven-lit flame that on its altar glows,
And, listening spell-bound to its eloquence,
Forgets the natural impulse to destroy:
Poet and sage, thus hath it been with thee.
Time sometimes smiles on dignity of form,
The head upon the shoulders nobly set.
And strangely spares the elastic limb to chain,
Or wreck the argosy of nature’s gifts:
Poet and sage, thus hath it been with thee.
Still onward, every treasure unimpaired,
Keeping the friendship of the winged years,
And easting luminous rays along the track
For future ages, may thy course be found,
Poet and sage!
LYDIA H. SIGOURNET
WASHINGTON, April 2, 1865.
MY DEAR SIR: Let me be counted among your friends who will rejoice in your eightieth birthday. You will then look back upon an extended past; but happily you will also look forward to the grand future of our country, now assured beyond question.
To you, as pioneer and poet, we are all debtors. I gladly seize this occasion to acknowledge the debt. Accept my best, wishes, and believe me, my dear sir, sincerely yours, CHARLES SUMNER.
To the Rev. John Pierpont, on his Eightieth Birthday,
April 6, 1865.
The <illegible> of the Hebrew seers,
Clear-ey’d and hale at eighty years,
From Pisgah saw the hills and plains
Of Canaan, <illegible> brooks and <illegible>.
Our poet, strong in frame and mind,
Leaves eighty well spent years behind,
And forward looks to fields more bright
Than Moses saw from Pisgah’s height.
<c06>
Yet, be our Pierpont’s voice and pen
Long potent with the sons of men;
And late his summons to the shore
Where he shall meet his youth once more.
April, 1865. WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.
To John Pierpont:
Health to thee, Pierpont, tried and honest,
In Freedom’s fight among the soonest,
Who still as Freedom’s minstrel crownest
Her humble lays,
And like some hoary harper tunest
Thy hymns of praise!
Where now are all the “unco good,”
The Canaan-cursing “Brotherhood,”
The mobs they raised, the storms they brewed,
And pulpit thunder?
Sheer sunk like Pharaoh’s multitude;
They’ ve all “gone under!”
And thou, our noblest and our oldest,
Our priest and poet, first and boldest,
Crowned with thy fourscore years, beholdest
Thy country free-
O sight to warm a heart the coldest!
How much more thee!
All blessings from the bounteous Giver
Be thine on either side the river;
And when thy sum of life forever
The angels foot up,
Not vain shall seem thy long endeavor 
All wrong to root up!
JOHN G. WRITTIER
Amesbury, 3d mo., 1865
BOSTON, April 4, 1865.
Rev. John Pierpont:
MY DEAR MR. PIERPONT: I cannot refrain from sending you my congratulation on your approaching birthday. When this reaches you, it will find you among the limited but noble army of the octogenarians, and certainly not one of them has better earned his right to look back with satisfaction on the record of his eighty years. Poet, preacher, patriot, philanthropist, reformer—your course shines with the blended lights of genius, intrepidity, and beneficence, and all honest men must feel honored in honoring you. Mrs. Whipple joins with me in wishing you, on this occasion, many more bright years of health, happiness, and usefulness.
Very sincerely, yours, E. P.WHIPPLE
BOSTON, April 4, 1865.

Rev. John Pierpont:
DEAR AND VENERATED SIR: If I do not err in the date, you will complete eighty years of your earthly pilgrimage on Thursday next, 5th instant. Allow me, therefore, the very great pleasure to congratulate you on having been permitted, by a gracious Providence, to live to so venerable an age, with your faculties yet vigorous, and your heart yet warm and active in the cause of suffering humanity, and therefore in the service of God. May you be enabled to perfect a rounded century in the flesh, still the delight of all who may be socially favored with your acquaintance, and receiving that homage which your personal worth and well-spent life so richly deserve. Let my benediction rest upon you, with the blessings of a great multitude of your friends and admirers.
Your career has been an eventful one, distinguished for independence of thought, boldness of speech, fearlessness of investigation, and an untiring interest in the cause of progress and reform on the broadest scale. You have been the echo of no man, no sect, no party, but have ever diligently sought to know the truth and maintain the right; and for thus asserting your manhood and remembering your accountability, you have been called to suffer reproach, persecution, ostracism, in no small measure, after the manner of those of old, “of whom the world was not worthy.” This treatment you have met bravely, serenely, victoriously, till even your old enemies are at peace with you, and public honor attends your steps. I wish I could be one of the happy circle that will, doubtless, give you joyful welcome on the recurrence of your birthday; but distance and my home engagements forbid.
Glory to God that we have been permitted to see the overthrow of slavery in our land, and the rebellion reeling to the earth! As I write, bells are ringing, and guns firing, and jubilant shouts everywhere heard in the streets, at the tidings of the capture of Petersburg and Richmond.
Through fiery judgment, what a salvation is to be wrought out for our nation! The future is glorious to contemplate, as the past has been sad and humiliating.
With my kind regards to Mrs. Pierpont, I remain, dear sir, your rejoicing friend,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
BOSTON, April 4, 1865.
To Rev. John Pierpont, the Poet of Justice and the Ballot-Box.
My lofty friend, at eighty in your prime,
You make me think of everything sublime;
The arch that smiles at floods and laughs at time,
The tree on Lebanon, above the pine,
That sweetens all the “airs of Palestine,”
Or casting shade on Californian groves,
Looks forth serene where peace unbarriered flows;
Or peak of Himmaleh that cools the plain,
And by its white head keeps the verdure sane,
While warmth of heart, sometimes volcanic, awes
All rebels leagued against good nature’s laws.
I think that saints are diamonds set in God,
When their theology is pretty broad;
And since some bloom of godhead there must be, 
The goddest part of God they are to me.
But ever as the raindrop to its ocean rolls,
So hie they homeward to the soul of souls;
I too, for that who fails must try again,
And he who wastes not matter, wastes not man.
Hence when at last the mortal coil you doff,
To me you never will be further off.
Forgive an ariel proser of threescore
(In prose confessing twelve months more—and one to carry),
In paying homage to a bard of four,
These rhymes. Good manners, I have understood,
As models take the manners of the good.
Your truly ancient friend,
ELIZUR WRIGHT.
TO REV. JOHN PIERPONT,
ON HIS EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY,
Written while the bells were ringing for the capture of Richmond.
Servant of God, well done! Put up thy aword!
Throw off thy golden harness! Take thy rest!
The rest prepared for thee- and cast thyself
Upon the piled up trophies thou hast won:
The bruised and battered shields, the glittering spears,
The flashing helmets, and the lowering crests
That fell before thee in thy day of strength.
A nation greets thee with a trumpet voice,
With rolling thunder and rejoicing prayer,
“Richmond has fallen!” And the shout goes up
With hallelujahs to the King of Kings,
The God of Jacob, and the Lord of Hosts!
“Richmond has fallen!” Let the earth rejoice!
The unrelenting grasp hath done its work;
And now victorious Grant is on the trail
Of the Great Serpent, hurrying to his home.
Measure thy length of days, old man! Behold!
Thy years have been prolonged that thou might’st see
The glory of the Lord; the prophecies
Of the great past fulfilled before thine eyes;
And then “depart in peace,” like him of old.
For thou shalt see the travail of thy soul,
And, like thy master, shalt be satisfied.
For, lo! a people waked to sudden hope,
As with a burst of thunder, all their chains
Dropping from all their limbs in flakes of fire,
Forth from the house of bondage, lo! they come,
Ten thousand times ten thousand! from the caves,
The deserts, and the rocks—the prison house—
With eyes uplifted, and with arms outstretched,
To meet another nation well nigh purged
From her abounding guilt with flame and fire
And yet another! Loosened from the toils
Of our great Adversary, who hath wrought
Upon the baser nature such a change,
That we have lost the image of our God,
Dethroned our reason, and become as brutes,
The very brutes that perish. Lo, they come,
To greet thee, aged servant of the Lord;
The champion of right—untrampled man!
Commissioned from on high; and with a sound
Like anthems on the sea, or like the noise
Of many waters filling earth and sky,
So take thy rest! for now thine eyes have seen
The great salvation thou hast waited for,
Through years of battling strife: two nations freed
From bondage worse than death; not slaves alone,
But masters, both set free. God save the Commenwealth! JOHN NEAL
Portland, April 3, 1865.
Among the communications which were read, and for which we have not space at this time, was a letter signed by over two hundred of the former parishioners of Mr.Pierpont, of Medford and Boston. There were also substantial testimonials to the amount of nearly $400
At the close of the intellectual feast, Mt. <illegible> serenaded the honored guest, after which the host entertained the company hospitably.
