THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERRY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS -Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMOND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. No. 20 BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1862.WHOLE NO. 1638.
Refuge of Oppression.
<C01>
ABOLITION SEDITION AGAIN RAMPANT.
We are told that Satan sometimes makes his appearance in the garb of an angel of light. This explains why the Abolition orators choose religious anniversaries and houses of public worship as the times and places for their seditious conversaziones. Last year, shrinking into their boles like vermin before the storm of popular indignation, the Abolitionists did not dare hold their anniversaries. Since then, however, they have been allowed greater license, have been invited to lecture at the national, and generally speaking, have basked in comparative sunshine, disturbed only by occasional showers of rotten eggs from the good people of Cincinnati and Burlington. Consequently, emboldened by this gleam of fortune, the Jacobin ranters have reappeared in this city, holding high festival in the church of the Puritans.
Dressed in new spring suits-for the Anti-Slavery Societies have been taking up large contributions for contrabands recently-the Abolition "spouting wretches" made their appearance upon the platform. Among the, the Tribune records the presence of Brigadier-General Rufus Saxton, United States Army. What a loyal brigadier could be doing in such company, unless he had a file of soldiers with loaded muskets to aid him in dispersing the assemblage, we are at a loss to know. Let us charitably suppose that General Saxton attended merely form curiosity, or from a desire to learn form the Abolition orators what he ought not to do in South Carolina. At any rate, he made no speech, and probably left early, disgusted with the whole affair, and wondering why he was to be sent South to put down a rebellion, when the Government allowed sedition to disgrace this metropolis.
The church was crowded with a large audience, who went to sleep over the business proceedings of the meeting, and loudly applauded a chance reference to Yorktown, as if a Union victory could be appropriately celebrated in a disunion convention William Lloyd Garrison, remembering the example of the Devil's quoting Scripture," read a chapter of the Bible; and the Reverend Post. of Jersey City, followed in a prayer, which is described as "rather long," and which was probably as effectual as the long prayers of the ancient Pharisees. A report exhibiting a favorable condition of the finances, was next read, and the performances then began in earnest. It is a remarkable feature of these Abolition gatherings that they begin with prayer and a financial statement. and end with hymns and the contribution box.
A letter was read form Gerrit Smith, who said nothing important, but enclosed fifty dollars. The report of the Executive Committee congratulated the Society upon the spread of Abolition, and flung hard names at the Southern rebels, whom the Society had fanatically deluded into treason. A colored individual named Brown, who had once been a slave, then attempted to tell what the slaves thought of emancipation, but failed most dismally, having apparently forgotten what he thought as a slave, and being unable to think very clearly as a freeman. One of Brown's arguments, in favor of emancipation and against colonization, was that if the negroes were idle and worthless, they might just as well remain in the North, because, of course, they could not enter into competition with industrious white men. Has Brown ever heard of a poor-house or a prison? Does he know that industrious white men have to pay taxes to support such places? Is he aware that idle, worthless niggers would fill them? Theodore Tilton, a second-rate Beecher, then passed round the hat, and the Rev. Robert Hatfield of Brooklyn, followed in an attack upon God or the Constitution, whichever authorized and permitted slavery, though we must do him the injustice to say that he rather gave the Constitution the credit of the "infamous wrong." The Abolitionists are very fond of assailing the Constitution, because they think it "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell", and can find in it no sentence which does not make secessionists and Abolitionists equally guilty of treason.
Wendell Phillips, the lion of the occasion, then followed in a speech which savored more of rotten eggs than any of his previous, performances. In a couple of hour's time, he managed to utter enough treason to entitle him to half a dozen hangings. He has always deserved one. He ridiculed the President and his colonization schemes, and declared that Fremont was the virtual dictator of the Republic. He attacked the American Church and the Supreme Court. Having abused everybody in this world, Phillips took up the cause of his dearest friend, and declared that "the Devil was an ass." This is very unkind and ungrateful of Phillips, and we hope that his friend will pay him off for it, sooner or later. If he does not, we shall agree with Phillips, for once, and think that his opinion, of Pluto is perfectly correct. Certainly, Satan cannot be accused of not taking care of his own; for these Abolitionists still survive. We advise the Government to take counsel against them with Parson Brownlow. The parson is a loyal man, and comes form a Slave State. He has, of course, been abused by Dr. Cheever and his troupe. Now, Brownlow advises that Abolitionists and secessionists shall be hung in Pairs. The idea is an excellent one. Let the Government send these ranters to Fort Lafayette a while, to be seasoned, and then string them up with the rebels, like dried haddock, at the end of the war. Thus the country will be saved, and his Satanic Majesty be enabled to settle his accounts with Phillips very speedily.-N.Y. Herald.
THE ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY AGAIN. The Anti-Slavery Society took another pull at the bellows on Wednesday evening. We gave an abstract of the speeches yesterday. Mr. Theodore Tilton, one of the editors of the Independent, and noticeable only for his evident attempts to get a little notoriety by wearing Henry Ward Beecher's old clothes, and adopting Henry Ward Beecher's cast off opinions, made a very silly speech, and distinguished himself by quoting a Latin sentence without understanding its meaning. Wendell Phillips, who is good for any number of speeches daily, and does all the oratory of the Society by the job followed the twenty-fifth rate Beecher in a spicy lecture. Phillips attacked President Lincoln, Secretary Seward, and Andy Johnson, of Tennessee, and wound up by assaulting Parson Brownlow. Phillips had better let Brownlow alone. The Parson is a rough, ungainly, coarse, tough, vulgar, honest, Christian man, whose good, loyal heart redeems his bad language. Phillips is a clever, polished, refined educated, gentlemanly fanatic, whose heart is a black as a negroes he professes to love and whose treason is a abhorrent as his eloquence is attractive. Phillips may have the advantage of Brownlow in manner and elocution; but if the comparison is extended to the hearts, the purposes and the lives of these two men, we think Wendell Phillips will find it very odious.-Ibid
<C02>
The Liberator.
TWENTY-NINTH
ANNUAL MEETING
OF THE
AMEBICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
REPORTED BY JAS.M.W.YERRINTON.
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY was held in the city of New York on Tuesday, May 6th, at the Church of the Puritans, and at the Cooper Institute. The first meeting took place at the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. CHEEVER'S,) commencing at 10 o'clock, A.M. A very large and highly intelligent audience was in attendance, the church being entirely filled, and among them were many who, years ago, enlisted for the war, and have been spared to see the "beginning of the end" for which they have so long and so faithfully labored. On the platform were seated the President of the Society WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, WM. GOODELL, WM. WELLS BROWN, THEODORE TILTON, Rev. Mr. POST, of Jersey City, Rev. R.M. HATFIELD, of Brooklyn, and other well-known friends of the Anti-Slavery cause.
OPENING REMARKS OF MR. GARRISON. 
At the hour above mentioned, the President called the meeting to order, and said:
I congratulate the audience on the day and the occasion on which we are assembled together. I congratulate you upon the tidings which have come to us from Yorktown; but there is to be something more glorious than any retreat of the enemy either from Yorktown or any other part of our country; and that is, the retreat of slavery from our country and the world. (Applause.) I congratulate the American Anti-Slavery Society on being permitted to enjoy the privilege of holding one of its annual meetings in this consecrated house; and had the same generous and Christian spirit been exhibited toward it from the beginning till now, there had never been any controversy of the American Anti-Slavery Society with the churches or the clergy of the land. Our movement is emphatically, radically, thoroughly, a Christian movement, in the primitive meaning of the word. We have endeavored, ever since its organization, to defend the Gospel of Christ as a freedom-loving and freedom-giving Gospel, and to disclaim all assertions as false and blasphemous which would attribute either to God or to Christ the responsibility for the existence or continuance of slavery in our land.
Without further preliminary remarks, I will read a few selections from the Scriptures which seem to me peculiarly applicable to the present state of the country.
Mr. Garrison then read passages of Scripture as follows:-
THE SIN AND GUILT OF THE NATION.
Son of man, say unto her, Thou art the land that is not cleansed, nor rained upon in the day of indignation. There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey; they have devoured souls. Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holy things: they have put no difference between the holy and profane, neither have they shewed difference between the clean and the unclean. Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood, and to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain.
The people of the land have used oppression, and exercised robbery, and have vexed the poor and needy: yea, they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully. Therefore have I poured out my indignation upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way have I recompensed upon their heads, saith the Lord.
THE CAUSE OF THE PRESENT CIVIL WAR.
Thus saith the Lord: Ye have not hearkened unto me, in proclaiming liberty, every one to his brother, and every man to his neighbor: behold, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine.
Thus saith the Lord: A sword, a sword is sharpened, and also furnished. It is sharpened to make a sore slaughter; it is furbished that it may glitter: should we then make mirth? Cry and howl, son of man; for it shall be upon my people: it is made bright, it is wrapped up for the slaughter.
THE SPECIAL PUNISHMENT OF THE SOUTH.
Son of man, set thy face toward the south, and drop thy word toward the south, and prophesy against the forest of the south field; and say to the forest of the south Thus saith the Lord God: Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shall devour every green tree in thee, and every dry try: the flaming flame shall I not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall be burned therein. And all flesh shall see that I the Lord have kindled it: it shall not be quenched. 
Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of the Lord: Thus saith the Lord God: Because thy filthiness was poured out, and thy nakedness discovered through thy whoredoms with thy lovers, and with all the idols of thy abominations, and by the blood of thy children which thou didst give unto them: behold, therefore, I will gather all thy lovers, with whom thou hast taken pleasure, and all them that thou hast loved, with all them that thou hast hated; I will even gather them round about against thee; and will discover thy nakedness unto them, that they may see all thy nakedness; and I will give thee blood in fury and jealousy. And I will also give thee into their hand, and they shall throw down thine eminent place, and shall break down thy high places: they shall strip thee also of thy clothes, and shall take thy fair jewels, and leave thee naked and bare. They shall also bring up a company against thee, and they shall stone thee with stones, and thrust thee through with their swords, and they shall burn thine houses with fire, and execute judgments upon thee.
THE DUTY OF IMMEDIATE EMACIPATION.
Execute judgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go out like .fire, and burn that none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings.
Loose the bands of wickedness, undo the heavy burdens, let the oppressed go free, break every yoke.
THE BLESSED CONSEQUENCES OF EMANCIPATION.
Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily. Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer: thou shalt cry, and he shall say. Here I am. And the Lord shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called; The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in.
<c03>
In accordance with the usages of the Society, an opportunity was given to any one who wished to offer vocal prayer, and Rev. Mr. POST, of Jersey City, came forward, and offered a fervent prayer to the God of the oppressed for his blessing and guidance.
In the absence of the Treasurer of the Society, WM. I. BOWDITCH, Esq., of Boston, his report was read by OLIVER JOHNSON, as follows:-
ANNUAL ACCOUNT 
Of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
DR.
To publication of Standard, for Lecturing
Agents and office expenses, $9,983 85
To balance to new account, 4,550 39
CR. $14,534 24
By balance from old account, $1,086 98
By donations, subscriptions to Standard, and
sale of Tracts, 13,447 26
$14,534 24
(E. E.) May 1st, 1862. WM. L. BOWDITCH.
I have examined the above account, with the vouchers, and find the additions correctly made, and the balance on hand as stated.
OLIVER JOHNSON.
The Report was laid on the table, to be taken up at the business meeting.
The PRESIDENT then said-It was the desire of the Executive Committee, that our friend GERRIT SMITH, of Peterboro', should be here to-day, and be one of the speakers on this occasion; but he has written us a letter, stating that it is not convenient for him to be with us, and expressing his sentiments in regard to the state of the country in brief terms; and I will ask Mr. JOHNSON if he will read the letter to the audience.
Mr., JOHNSON, in compliance with this request, read the letter. [It was published in last week's Liberator.]
Mr. GARRISON then read the Statement of the Executive Committee, as published in the Liberator of last week; the reading of which was listened to with earnest attention, interrupted only by the applause which some of the passages called forth, which was especially marked at the reference to FREMONT.
THE PRESIDENT-There are a great many people at the North who seem to be exceedingly troubled in regard to the disposal of the slaves when they shall be emancipated. What shall be done with them? they anxiously inquire. I am happy to introduce, as the first speaker, one who is abundantly qualified to give a full and complete answer to that question; for I take it that no one is so well qualified to speak of that point as one who has himself been a chattel slave; and that we are to ask the slaves themselves what are their ideas of justice, and what they want at our hands, rather than undertake to dispose of them without any regard to their views or feelings whatever. There are two questions-What shall be done with the slaves if emancipated? and, What shall be done with the slaveholders, whether the slaves are emancipated or not? My friend WM. WELLS BROWN will now, as one formerly a slave, answer those questions.
SPEECH OF WM. WELLS BROWN.
MR. PRESIDENT AND LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: For the last thirty years, the colored people have taken the greatest interest in the agitation of the abolition question, as carried on by this Society. We have watched with hope and fear as impediment after impediment has been thrown in the way, of its progress. Among the many obstacles which have been brought to bear against emancipation, one of the most formidable has been the series of objections urged against it upon what has been supposed to be the slave's want of appreciation of liberty, and his ability to provide for himself in a state of freedom; and now that slavery seems to be near its end, these objections are multiplying, and the cry is heard all over the land, "What shall be done with the slave, if freed?" I propose to use the short time allowed me this morning in examining these phases of the question.
It has been clearly demonstrated, I think, that the enslaved of the South are as capable of self-support as any other class of people in the country. It is well known, that throughout the entire South, a large class of slaves have been for years accustomed to hire their time from their owners. Many of these have paid very high prices for the privilege. Some able mechanics have been known to pay as high as $600 per annum, besides providing themselves with food and clothing; and this class of slaves, by their industry, have taken care of themselves so well, and their appearance has been so respectable, that many of the States have passed laws, prohibiting masters from letting their slaves out to themselves, because, as it was said, it made the slaves dissatisfied to see so many of their fellows well-provided, and accumulating some thing for themselves in the way of pocket-money. The Rev. Dr. Nehemiah Adams, whose antecedents have not been such as-to lead to the suspicion that he favors the free colored men, or the idea of giving to the slaves their liberty, in his "Southside View" unconsciously and unintentionally gives a very valuable statement upon this particular point Dr. Adams says:-
"A slave woman having had $300 stolen from her by a white man, her master was questioned in court as to the probability of her having had so much money The master said that he not unfrequently had borrowed fifty and a hundred dollars from her himself and added that she was always very strict as to hi promised time of payment."
There was a slave woman who had not only kept every agreement with her master-paying him every cent she had promised-but had accumulated $300 toward purchasing her liberty, and it was stolen from her, not by a black man but, as Dr. Adams says, by a white man.
But one of the clearest demonstrations of the ability of the slave to provide for himself in a state of freedom is to be found in the prosperous condition of the large free colored population of the Southern States Maryland has 80,000, Virginia 70,000, and the other slave States have m large number. These free people have all been slaves, or they are the descendants of those who were once slaves; what they have gained has been acquired in spite of the public opinion an laws of the South, in spite of prejudice, and everything. They have acquired a large amount of property; and it is this industry, this sobriety, this intelligence, and this wealth of the free colored people the South, that has created so much prejudice on the
<c04>
part of slaveholders against them. They have felt, that the very presence of a colored man, looking so genteelly and in such a prosperous condition, made the slaves unhappy. and discontented. In the Southern Rights Convention which assembled at Baltimore, June 8th, 1860, a resolution was adopted, calling on the Legislature to pass a law driving the free colored people out of the State. Nearly every speaker, Mr. President, took the ground that the free colored people must he driven out to make the slave's obedience more secure. Judge Mason, in his speech, said, "It is the thrifty and well-to-do free negroes, that are seen by our slaves, that make them dissatisfied." A similar appeal was made to the Legislature of Tennessee. Judge Catron, of the Supreme Court of the United States, in a long and able letter to the Nashville Union, opposed the driving out of the colored people. He said they were among the best mechanics, the best artisans, and the most industrious laborers in the State and that to drive them out would be an injury to the State itself. This is certainly good evidence in their behalf.
The State of Arkansas passed a law driving the free colored people out of the State, and they were driven out, three years ago. The Democratic press howled upon the heels of the free blacks until they had all been expatriated; but after they had been driven out, the Little Rock Gazette-a Democratic paper-made a candid acknowledgment with regard to the character of the free colored people. It said:-
"Most of the exiled free negroes are industrious and respectable. One of them, Henry King, we have known from our boyhood, and take the greatest pleasure in testifying to his good character. The community in which he casts his lot will be blessed with that noblest work of God, an honest man."
Yet these free colored people were driven out of the State, and those who were unable to go, as many of the women and children were, were reduced to slavery, and there they are toiling in chains and slavery to-day.
The New Orleans True Delta opposed the passage of a similar law by the State of Louisiana. Among other things, it said:-
"There are a large free colored population here, correct in their general deportment, honorable in their intercourse with society, and free from reproach so far as the laws are concerned, not surpassed in the inoffensiveness of their lives by any equal number of persons, in any place North or South."
That I consider testimony of real value. I produce this, Mr. Chairman, because there is nothing entitled to greater weight on this point than the testimony of the people of the slave States themselves.
Dr. Nehemiah Adams, whom I have already quoted, also testifies to the good character of the free colored people; but he does it unintentionally; it was not a part of the programme; how it slipped in I cannot tell. Here it is, however, from page 41 of his "Southside View":-
"A prosecuting officer, who had six or eight counties in his district, told me that, during eight years of service, he had made out about two thousand bills of indictment, of which not more than twelve were against colored persons." (Applause.)
Hatred of the free colored people, and abuse of them, have always been popular with the pro-slavery people of this country; yet, an American Senator, from one of the Western States-a man who never lost an opportunity to villify and traduce the colored man, and who, in his last canvass for a seat in the United States Senate, argued that the slaves were better off in slavery than they would be if set free, and declared that the blacks were unable to take care of themselves, while enjoying liberty-died, a short time since, $12,000 in debt to a black man, who was the descendant of a slave. (Applause.) Thus, those who have fattened upon us, often turn round and traduce us. Reputation is, indeed, dear to every nation and race; but to us, the colored people of this country, who have so many obstacles to surmount, it is doubly dear.
"Who steals my purse, steals trash;
'Twas mine, 'tis his and has been slave to thousands;
But he who filches from me my good name,
Robs' me of that which not enriches him,
And make me poor indeed." (Applause.)
In the District of Columbia, since the abolition of slavery, it is found that, according to their numbers, the larger proportion of the property-holders are among the negroes. Figures, though we are told that they very often lie, are sometimes found to tell the truth. The Tammany Hall Young Men's Democratic Committee of the city of New York, on the 13th of March, 18G2, passed the following resolution:-
"Resolved, That we are opposed to emancipating negro slaves, unless on some plan of colonization in order that they may not come in contact with the white man's labor."
Now, Mr. President, this resolution is based upon the supposition that the slaves, if freed, will all flock to the North; and that is a very popularity with the pro-slavery people of the free States, because they know that nothing would be so effective to the accomplishment of their ends as to make the laboring whites of the North believe that they will be overrun by the negroes, if slavery is abolished. Now, I hold to the right of the black man, whether liberated or not, to go where he pleases, to make himself a home in any part of the country he chooses; but I do not believe that, if slavery is abolished, the slaves will flock into the free States. I do not believe it, because I have reason for not believing it. Look at the large free colored population in the slave States! See how odious are the laws they live under! See how cruelly they have been oppressed! Why, the State of Virginia long lad a law on her statute-books, and has now, unless it has been very recently repealed, taxing the free colored people one dollar per head, over and above any other class in the community, by which the State of Virginia put into her treasury, in one year, $50,000, taken from the colored people. Maryland had a similar law. The Gulf States have been still more severe on this class of their population; and yet the free colored people have remained in the Southern States, Why did they not come North? Because they were unwilling to leave tile congenial climate of the sunny South for the snowy hills of the rugged North; and, where you have found ten colored persons coming from the South to the North, nine out of the ten. have been fugitive slaves, flying from the South, because they could not enjoy liberty there; not the free colored people, who had the right to go off if they chose. Now, Mr. President, what has kept the free colored people in the Southern States will prevent the slaves coming here, if slavery is abolished.
<c05>
But we are told that the contrabands are flocking, even now, into Pennsylvania, and the Pennsylvania Legislature has been petitioned, by the working people of Philadelphia and other cities, to pass a law prohibiting their settling in that State. Illinois has already passed such a law. Ohio either has, or is trying to do so. But you must expect that the slave, running away now, will seek to get beyond the Border Slave States. His liberty is in doubt; we have had Generals who have sent slaves back; and, after getting out of his master's hands, his first thought is to get further North, where his liberty is secure. If you were there, and in his position, you would take the same course the contraband takes now. He feels precisely as he did before the commencement of the rebellion; he wants to get out of the way. But if you want to stop the contraband from coming into the free States, if you want to stop the slave's running off from the South, give him his freedom upon the soil. (Loud applause.) The Tammany Hall Committee is opposed to abolition, unless expatriation shall follow it. The first Napoleon was waited upon by a Committee of the old planters of St. Domingo, urging him to send an army to Hayti to reduce the emancipated slaves again to chains. After the Committee had withdrawn, Napoleon turned to Gregoire, and asked him what he thought of the advice. The latter replied: "If those planters should change their color to-night, they would come back tomorrow, and give your Majesty different advice." So it would be, Mr. President, with the Young Men's Democratic Committee of New York.(Applause.)
Now, everything has shown that the slave can be trusted in slavery, except when he can get a chance to use his heels; for the slaveholders themselves have testified to his good character. you know we were told by the slaveholders, just before the breaking out of the rebellion, that if we got into any difficulty with the South, their slaves would take up arms, and fight to a man for them. Mr. Toombs, I believe, threatened that he would arm his slaves, and other men in Congress from the slave States made the same threat. They were going to arm the slaves, and turn them against the North. They said they could be trusted; and many people here at the North really believed that the slave did not want his liberty, would not have it if he could, and that the slave population was a very dangerous element against the North; but at once, Mr. President, on the approach of our soldiers, the slaves are seen, with their bundles and baskets, and hats and coats, and without bundles or baskets, and without hats or coats, rushing to our lines; demonstrating what we have so often said, that all the slave was waiting for was the opportunity to get his liberty. Why should you not have believed this? Why should you have supposed for a moment, that, because a man's color differs a little from yours, he is better contented to remain a slave than you would be, or that he has no inclination, no wish, to escape from the thraldom that holds him so tight? What is it that does not wish to be free?
"Go, let a cage with grates of gold,
And pearly roof, the eagle hold,
Let dainty viands be its fare,
And give the captive tenderest care;
But say, in luxury's limits pent,
Find you the king of birds content?
No, oft he'll sound the startling shriek,
And dash the cage with angry beak:
Precarious freedom's far more dear
Than all the prison's pampering cheer."
As with the eagle, so with man. He loves to look upon the bright day and the stormy night; to gaze upon the broad free ocean, its eternal surging tides, its mountain billows and its foam-crested waves; to tread the steep mountain side; to sail upon the placid river; to wander along the gurgling stream; to truce the sunny slope, the beautiful landscape, the majestic forest, the flowery meadow; to listen to the howling of the winds and the music of the birds. These are the aspirations of man, without regard to country, clime, or color. (Loud applause.)
What shall we do with the slave of the South? "Expatriate him," say the haters of the negro. Expatriate him for what? He has cleared up the swamps of the South, and has put the soil under cultivation; he has built up her towns and cities and villages; he has enriched the North and Europe with his cotton and sugar and rice; and for this, you would drive him out of the country! "What shall be done with the slaves, if they are freed?" You had better ask, "What shall we do with the slaveholders, if the slaves are freed?"(Applause.) The slave has shown himself better fitted to take care of himself than the slaveholder. (Renewed applause.) He is the bone and sinew of the South; he is the producer, while the master is nothing but a consumer, and a very poor consumer at that. (Laughter.) The slave is the producer, and he alone can be relied upon. He has the sinew, the determination, and the will; and if you will take the free colored people of the South as the criterion, take their past history as a sample of what the colored people are capable are doing, every one must be satisfied that the slaves can take care of themselves.
But it is said, "The two races cannot live together in a state of freedom." Why, that is the cry that rung all over England twenty years ago-"If you liberate the slaves of the West Indies, they can't live with the whites in a state of freedom. "Twenty years have shown the contrary. The blacks and the whites live together in Jamaica; they are all prosperous, and the island in a better condition than it ever was before the act of emancipation was passed.
But they tell us, "If the slaves are emancipated, -we won't receive them upon an equality" Why, every man must make equality for himself. No society, no government, can make this equality. I do not expect the slave of the South to jump into equality; all I claim for him is, that he may be allowed to jump into liberty, and let him make equality for himself. (Loud applause.) I have got some white neighbors around me; they are not very intellectual; they don't associate with my family (laughter and applause); but whenever they shall improve themselves, and bring themselves up by their own intellectual and moral worthy I shall not object to their coming into my society. (Renewed merriment) 
Now, Mr. Chairman, this talk about not letting a man come to this place or that, and that we won't do this for him, or won't do that for him, is all idle. The anti-slavery agitators have never demanded that you shall take the colored man, any more than that you shall take the uncultivated, and uncouth white man, and place him in a certain position in society. All I
<c06>
demand for the black man is, that the white people shall take their heels off his neck, and let him have a chance to rise-by his own efforts. (Applause.) One of the first things that I heard when. I arrived in the free States-and it was the strangest thing to me that I heard-was, that the slaves cannot take care of themselves. I came off without any education. Society did not take me up; I took myself up. (Laughter.) I did not ask society to tike me up. All I asked of the white people was, to get out of the way, and give me a chance to come from the South to the North. That was ail I asked, and I .went to work with my own hands. And that is all I demand for my brethren of the South to-day-that they shall have an opportunity to exercise their own physical and mental abilities. Give them that, and I will leave the slaves to take care of themselves, and be satisfied with the result.
Now, Mr. President, I think that the present contest has shown clearly that the fidelity of the black people of this country to the cause of freedom is enough to put to shame every white man in the land who would think of driving us out of the country, provided freedom should be proclaimed. I remember well, when Mr. Lincoln's proclamation went forth, calling for the first 75,000 men, that among the first to respond to that call were the colored men. A meeting was held in Boston, crowded as I never saw a meeting before; meetings were held in Rhode Island and Connecticut, in New York and Philadelphia, and throughout the West, responding to the President's call. Although the colored men in many of the free States were disfranchised, abused, taxed without representation, their children turned out of the schools; nevertheless, they went on, determined to try to discharge their duty to the country, and to save it from, the tyrannical power of the slaveholders of the South. But the cry went forth-"We won't have the niggers; we won't have anything to do with them; we won't fight with them; we won't have them in the army, nor about us." Yet scarcely had you got into conflict with the South, when you were glad to receive the news that contrabands brought. (Applause.) The first telegram announcing any news from the disaffected district commences with-"A contraband just in from Maryland tells us" so much. The last telegram, in to-day's paper, announces that a contraband tells us so much about Jefferson Davis and Mrs. Davis and the little Davises. (Laughter.) The nation is glad to receive the news from the contraband. We have an old law with regard to the mails, that a negro shall not touch the mails at all; and for fifty years the black man has not had the privilege of touching the mails of the United States with his little finger; but we are glad enough now to have the negro bring the mail in his pocket! The first thing asked of a contraband is-"Have you got a newspaper?-what's the news? "And the news is greedily taken in, from the lowest officer or soldier in the army, up to the Secretary of War. They have tried to keep the negro out of the war, but they could not keep him out, and now they drag him in, with his news, and are glad to do so. Gen. Wool says the contrabands have brought the most reliable news. Other Generals say their information can be relied upon. The negro is taken as a pilot to guide the fleet of Gen. Burnside through the inlets of the South. (Applause.) The black man welcomes your armies and your fleets, takes care of your sick, is ready to do anything, from cooking up to shouldering a musket; and yet these would-be patriots and professed lovers of the land talk, about driving the negro out!
Now, what shall you do with the slaveholders? That is the other question, The only recommendation I have to make in regard to that is, that you shall take the slave from the slaveholder, and let the slaveholder go to work and labor for himself, and let him keep out of mischief. (Applause.) If the slaveholders had had the opportunity of laboring for themselves, for the last forty years, we should never have had this rebellion. It is because they have had nothing to do but to drink and walk about and concoct mischief, while the black man was toiling for their support, that this rebellion has taken place.
Mr. President, I must bring my remarks to a close. This nation owes the colored people a great debt. You, the people of New York, owe us a great debt. You have kept us down, helped to degrade us by your odious laws-the fugitive slave enactments and others-you have loved to keep us in chains, while the slaveholders have deprived us of our liberty and everything; and now the time has come for you to do your duty in this matter. You see that this has affected you, as well as it has affected the black man, North and South; and now the world is looking on, expecting that your duty to the negro, to the cause of freedom, will be performed; and the moral sentiment of the world will hold the American people accountable, if this rebellion shall close, and the negro be still left weltering in his blood and chains. There is no mistake about it: the time has come for the nation to discharge its duty to the black man. Now is the time, and I hope the nation will have the moral courage to perform its duty. That the slave will have his liberty, I have not the slightest doubt. These black men in the slave States, whom Jefferson Davis and Beauregard have been teaching the science of arms on the one hand, and the contrabands at Port Royal and Fortress Monroe, to whom your men and women have been teaching the science of letters, on the other hand, have implanted in the black man's bosom in the Southern States that which will ultimately give him his liberty, if you do not give it to him. (Applause.)I am confident that the tree of Liberty has been planted. If it was not planted by this Society, Mr. President, it has been planted by the rebellion of the South, and it is growing-it is growing, and its branches are overshadowing the land; and, in the language of the poet, we may say:
"Our plant is of the cedar,
That knoweth not decay;
Its growth shall bless the mountain,
Till mountains pass away;
Its top shall greet the sunshine,
Its leaves shall drink the rain,
While on its lower branches 
The slave shall hang his chain."
(Loud and prolonged applause.) 
REMARKS OF THEODORE TILTON.
Good friends, we have just this moment come to the most interesting period of the meeting-the taking up of the collection (laughter). I am asked by the President, in the name of the Society, to hold out
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that states where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q. ADAMS
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
he palm of my hand, that you may drop something into it. This society is no beggar, and I make no appeal; only many a good cause goes on better with the wheel of a silver dollar under it. I remember that it was said that once Leigh Richmond looked into the faces of working men, and, disdaining to make an appeal to their liberality, they returned him a collection of pennies that filled a peach basket. Now, if you belong to the working-class of the anti-slavery movement, I hope that when the plates go round, you will send them back so filled; and if you have not a copper to fill up with, you may put in silver and gold (laughter). I will tell you what I propose to do. there is a hat. It is the hat of a good Christian-you can tell it by its broad brim (laughter). This hat covers the head of an old man who has helped over two thousand fugitive slaves from bondage to freedom. (MANY VOICES-"Gives us his name!") friends, your children and grandchildren will have no need to ask his name-FATHER GARRETT, of Wilmington, Delaware (loud applause). Now, all the speech I am going to make is just this-I propose to pass round among the audience father Garrett's hat; and do you see that you fill it as full as Leigh Richmond's basket.
While the hat was passed round, the speaking was continued. the president introducing Rev. ROBERT M. HATFIELD, of Brooklyn, who spoke as follows:
SPEECH OF REV. ROBERT M. HATFIELD.
I am always sorry when a public speaker begins with an apology, and I have none to make; I have one or two words of explanation, only. I came here with no speech, with no preparation, with no expectation of saving anything at this time. I was asked, a year ago, to attend the Anniversary of this Society; no matter why I had not been asked before; no mater whether I should have accepted the invitation if it had come five or seven years ago; I did accept it last year, but after the appointment was made, I had no opportunity of filling it The same friends sent me an invitation, several weeks ago, to be here to-day, and make a speech, and I very positively, and as I thought, reasonably declined to do it; and I will tell you why, sir. I had been for the last year-for full twelve months-so out of tune with many of my anti-slavery friends, that I really feared the, coming here, I should chill your ardor rather than inspire you. I was afraid that I should be a kind of croaker among you, dispiriting those men who ought to march on side by side, full of hope for the victory that, as you tell us, you are about to win. I have not been able to take that hopeful view of affairs, nor do I this morning. Though Yorktown is evacuated; though the general leading our armies declares that he is about to "drive the rebels to the wall," I have not been able to sympathize heartily with those hopeful views that so many of our good anti-slavery friends take of the present position of affairs. I am willing, however, to stand up here, and I am glad of the opportunity, to express my honest and thorough conviction that this trouble that is upon us now is God's direct judgment on this nation for the sin of slavery (applause); and I am here to affirm, sir, that whatever differences we may have on other subjects, or with regard to the treatment of this subject, no reasonable man who has faith in God has any right to be surprised that we are involved in the present disasters and calamities, that threaten to swallow us up. There has been great danger that, in Church and State, among all classes of people, we should forget' that divinely-enunciated truth-"Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." For three-quarters of a century, we have been sowing seed of a certain kind; it has taken root; it has sprung up; the harvest waves before us to-day; and there is no release, there is no escape-the sickle must be thrust in, the grain must be gathered. It is that terrible harvest-a harvest of carnage and blood and desolation-that waves before us to-day.
Now, sir, I have hoped, and do hope, that God, out of this confusion and disorder, out of these scenes of strife and bloodshed, will evolve peace, harmony, justice, beauty, and order. I do not despair of the Republic; but yet my hopes are mingled' with many fears. I have had sad and terrible apprehensions lest there should not be enough of virtue, enough of regard for God and love of humanity, to save the nation, We are on God's threshing floor to-day; we are under the flail. We are in the mortar, and are being pounded; Whether it shall be for our purification and salvation, God alone knows; at least, I have no power to lift the veil, and look in upon the things that are to be in the future. What right have we to be surprised, any of us, at the trouble, at the calamities, that have overtaken us? Have we not been taught, does it not lie at the very foundation of our belief in the existence of God, that He is a God that doeth justice?-that, sitting upon the throne of His glory, He looks down upon the earth, to raise up the down-trodden, to help the poor and the friendless, to save the outcast, and to punish and destroy the oppressor and wrong-doer? And we have been in great danger, as a nation, of lapsing into Atheism; of coming to doubt whether God really lives and rules-whether he sways the sceptre of power over his creatures. Men have come to question whether it is not possible for a nation to sow. to injustice and dishonor and corruption, and yet reap prosperity and permanent well-being; and, sir, though I believe that God's hand has been in the history of our nation-though I believe our ancestors were guided by that hand-though it seems to me that a special providence watched over them, and guided them to the land where they first planted themselves-though I believe that that Providence has been manifested every year of our history, I do believe that it is of so much consequence to the nations of the earth that all men should believe that God is a God of unchanging justice, that "from everlasting to everlasting He is the holy one," that He would sooner this nation were blotted out of existence than that we should be the cause of skepticism among the nations in regard to that truth.
Now, sir, is there any truth more self-evident than this-that the system of American slavery is in all time, and through all changes, "the sum of all villanies"? Has the heart of man conceived of anything more dishonoring to God, more essentially unjust and injurious to man, than the system that transmutes the bodied and souls of millions of human beings into chattels, and declares the they shall be taken, held and adjudged to be personal property, to all intents and purposes whatsoever? We have heard apologies for this system and vindications of it, and pleas drawn from perversions of God's with the view of reconciling the nation to its continued existence, and to its general, to its universal diffusion, and there was imminent danger, as it seemed to some of us, that the nation would accept this state of things, and come to believe that God really connived at iniquity, that He consented that human slavery should be perpetual; and so I say, that though the nation suffer to the last extremity, even though it must perish with the system, there must com an end to this monster abomination 
I do not know much about the questions that are discussed here and elsewhere pertaining to the character of the Constitution-whether it is pro-slavery or anti-slavery. I am not very clear in my convictions, and I have not very great confidence in thy judgment, with regard to questions of the sort; and to tell the honest truth, I do not care much about it, one way or the other. If injustice is in the Constitution, God is against it, and every one of his attributes. (Applause.) Men cannot build any sanctuary for wrong; cannot make any holy of holies for injustice. Call it law, call it the Church, call it the Constitution, call it what you will, where injustice is to be safe, God's hand will search it out, God's hand will bring it down, So, I say, I have not felt any great interest in the discussion of these questions, I have not hand great confidence in my conclusions with regard to them; but, sir, I should despise and loathe myself, I should hate my scoundrel heart to its very centre, if I ever hand a single moment of questioning or hesitancy in regard to the infernal wickedness of slavery. (Loud applause.) The man who has a man's heart, the man who has learned to love his own mother, the man who has a wife and children of his own, and who can look in their faces,
<c02>
and then require thirty seconds to determine whether it is right for somebody else to own and possess them, does not deserve the name of a man, much less of a Christian. (Loud applause.) I do not know, sir, what our government is going-to do with this question. I have great confidence in Uncle Abe-I think he is an honest man. (Applause.) I think he means to go just as fast and far as he can consistently with his views of his obligations-obligations that he has recognized by his oath. I wish he was in the way of going faster. (Applause.) I wish the way might be opened before him to take a little longer strides and be a little quicker in his motions; yet, God bless Uncle Abe!-I believe he is sound in the heart. (Loud applause.) He has done a good many things for which I thank him; and, as far as I can see, there has, been but one sad, almost irreparable mistake in this war. there has been just one fact, sir, that has given me trouble, and has inclined me to sit down alone, and shut my mouth, and keep my tongue still, until I see what God is going to do in this affair, and how it is coming out, I refer to that strange and unfortunate interference with Fremont's proclamation in Missouri (Applause.)
"There is a tide in the affairs of men,
which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune."
Very much in the history of every individual and of every nation depends upon the right improvement of those salient points in their history; and it has seemed to me, almost as distinctly as if God's voice had spoken to us from heaven, that that proclamation of the "pathfinder" was the right thing, and at the right time. (Prolonged applause.) And, sir, if any-thing were wanting to confirm me in this opinion, it would be found in the fact, that, strangely, unaccountably, the people of this country, of almost all classes, responded to that proclamation. I refer to the papers, as the exponents of the popular sentiment. I do not read them all, but some of them I do read. Some of them I can hardly stand. I do not read the NEW York Observer, and I don't know what The observer may have said of Fremont's proclamation. The Herald, too, is rather hard meat for me, but The Herald, I believe, did endorse Fremont's proclamation. there were no party lines, no party distinctions, in the commendation of that proclamation. The Democratic and Republican, the anti-slavery and pro-slavery presses, with strange and almost unaccountable unanimity, said of that proclamation-"It is timely; it is the voice of God to the nation'; and, sir, if it could have been allowed to work its way and bring forth its legitimate results, I cannot resist the conviction that, today, the whole aspect of our national affairs would have been changed. The bud was nipped as it was about unfolding. The stream that was gushing out of the fountain was jammed up, turned back, and turned aside. God forgive the men who made that mistake! I believe the President was conscientious in what he did, but it seems to me the one almost irreparable blunder of the war, and I shall be devoutly thankful to God when anything occurs by which that mistake can be corrected.
I say, I do not know about the result of this war. It seems to me that there is a higher Power who has it under control and under direction. I believe that we are approaching the end of American slavery. I believe that the time hastens, that it draws on apace, when liberty shall be proclaimed to all the inhabitants of this land; and I know that, if we have the wisdom to accept it, to accept it thankfully, and to be workers together with God, beneficent results alone can come to the natin. But, sir, there are things which make a man sad when he hears r reads them. The discussion of the question, "What shall be done with the emancipated slaves?" and the declaration made again and again by men in high position at Washington and elsewhere, that they will have nothing to do with any scheme for emancipation that does not provide for the expatriation of the liberated slaves, is enough to sadden any man. I ask, not in the name of the black man, but in the name of the white man, I ask in the name of a God of justice, what business have you to banish four millions of people from this country? (Applause.) What, I ask, have the slaves of the south or the free colored men of the North ever done, that we should sit down even to the consideration of this question? Where shall we send them, or what shall we do with them? We might as well sit down and consider this question-What shall we do with all the Methodists or Congregationalists in this country? or, What shall we do with all the men who dye their whiskers in this country? or, what shall we do with all the men who have sandy hair in this country, or who wear false teeth? At the very commencement of this matter, at its very inception, we are stopped by the fact, that it is an abominable, a God-insulting and Heaven-defying question of injustice which we are proposing to consider. (Applause.)
Mr. President, there are a great many things about which I am in doubt, but I thank God that among the uncertainties and fluctuations of this world, there are a few things that are sure. I am not so certain about a good many things as I was twenty years ago. I could speak with a great deal more emphasis upon some subjects twenty years ago than I can now. I could preach then with great satisfaction to myself upon some matters that, upon the whole, I do not care about discussing now. But there are a few things that come to be more and more verities to a man the longer he lives, and one of these convictions, to my mind, is, that it is always safe to do right. (Applause.) Sir, it is the right of every colored father, of every colored mother, to own their own children; it is the right of every man, without regard to his color, to have a fair chance in this world, to use the hands, and tongue, and head that God has given him, and make the most of them. It is right that these people who have been trodden under foot and ground under the iron heel of oppression should have that heel taken off, and that we should give to them a brother’s hand and a brother's welcome-that we should do what we can toward removing the burden that has been heaped upon them-that they be permitted to go out with us into the same broad field, to labor under the eye of the Great Master, and receive a reward from Him, even as we do if we are faithful. And, sir, if the nation would come to that conclusion, and would do right, God in His providence will attend to these other matters. What! shall we banish four million of people, needed in the country-needed in every view of the 'subject-most important to the whole nation, every quarter and corner of it! Why, sir, if we seriously undertake to do that, as the Lord God liveth, what we suffer now is but a drop before the pelting storm that is to com down upon this people. As the Lord lives and reigns, if, in addition to all our other sins, this nation shall deliberately proclaim this hard alternative to the bondman, to clank his chains and lie down and smart and bleed under the lash of the task-master, or tear himself away from the land of his birth and consent to be carried to a strange land-if, I say we shall proclaim this alternative, God will adjust this matter between us and our colored friends; and I say again, the fact that such a question can be debated, that it can be considered in the high counsels of the nation, gives me serious apprehension.
But I am keeping you from a treat from which you ought not to be detained, and I am going to stop. I have one thought to which I cling-it is an anchor to me-whether we get news of success or defeat, whether things go prosperously or adversely with us. It is this. Frederick Douglass was once making a speech-and such a speech few men in this country could make-in which he said, "Friends, there is nothing left for us, there is no hope for us, but in our own good right arms, and we must grasp the sword and wield it, and be free, because we determine that we will be. We must show that we deserve liberty by achieving it. There is no other power in heaven or on earth us." There was an old colored woman sitting some where in the audience a quaint old woman, sojourner truth, I have no doubt many of you know her-and when he said that, she lifted up her thin, squeaking voice, and said, "Frederick! is God dead?" (Applause.) God is not dead; and because He is not, because His wisdom is higher
<c03>
than ours, I have faith and hope in Him. (Loud applause.)
THE PRESIDENT-I wish to express the gratification with which I have listened to the speech of our friend who has just sat down-a gratification that has been shared, I am sure, by the entire audience. It is true, as he said, that he was invited to address this meeting, and wrote us a respectful letter declining to do so, on the ground that he did not feel exactly in the right mood, in view of the present state of things in the country. But, being here, he has given us a spontaneous speech, and having done so admirably well without  premeditation, I shall bargain for his coming again, thoroughly prepared; and I know you will particularly desire to hear him on that occasion; what will be done in the dry"? (Applause.)
Mr. GARRISON then gave notice of the other meetings of the Society, for the afternoon and evening, after which he said:-
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: Our friend, Mr. PHILLIPS, has recently been to Washington, as you generally know. He there met which a very honorable and flattering reception; but I hold that the reception he met afterwards, at Cincinnati, was still more honorable and more flattering as a testimony to his fidelity to the cause of human liberty (applause); for he may suspect some slight error of judgment, some degree of partiality, on the part of those who are his friends; but when cut-throats, and ruffians, and all the myrmidons of slavery conspire as one man, come out in mobocratic array, with brickbats and rotten eggs, to put him down and prevent free speech, they give him a crown of glory-no man can desire a brighter one. (Applause.) Wendell Phillips will now address you.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
Mr. PHILLIPS was received with loud and prolonged applause. when quiet was restored, he spoke as follows:-
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I was delighted to hear the remarks of our friend from Brooklyn. I sympathize, to a great extent, with some of his views. But, at the same time, I have not sympathized for the last twelve months, and I cannot now, with his anxiety as to the fate of slavery itself. My faith is firm-no lack on the part of men, no seeming change in the nature of events, can alter it-that the events of the last twelve months have, in the essential sense of the word, abolished the system of slavery in this country. I do not believe that it can survive many years. I do not believe that it is dead to-day, or that it will die tomorrow. I do not mean that it may not give us great trouble yet. What I mean is, that, in a national point of view, five years or ten are nothing. when you stand at the source of the Mississippi, you can anticipate the Gulf. What I believe is this; We have opened in our national history the chapter which is to record the freedom of every man under the stars and stripes. Abraham Lincoln may not wish it; he cannot prevent it; the nation may not will it, but the nation can never prevent it. God has launched us upon an ocean in which the great laws of gravity which govern human affairs must govern our course, no pilot of our own selection. I believe, therefore, that we are not here to discuss to-day, specifically, the abolition. I do not care what men want or wish; the negro is the pebble in the cog-wheel, and the machine cannot go on until you get him out. The problem which God forces on this nation is to eliminate slavery out of its institutions, and, after that, to deal with the dregs which such a system inevitably leaves. My reason for this faith is based upon three or four facts. In the first place, I take note of events from the influence which I see they have on the institutions of the country. For the first time in our history for seventy years, the government, as a corporation, has spoken anti-slavery words and done anti-slavery deeds. It is a momentous alteration in the heart that governs the government. I view them as mile-stones, showing how far the great nation's opinion has travelled. For instance, ever since 1791, we have had a Fugitive Slave bill; we have hand the civil arm of the government pledged to the restoration of fugitives. Daniel Webster said, "It is the cement of the Union; it is the test of the loyalty of the North." To-day the government at Washington, by an article of war, forbids the army to execute the Fugitive Slave bill. The army, for the present, is the government of the United States. Civil law is suspended. The government acts militarily, soldier-wises, no other, for the present; and the government, so acting, exclusively in that function, suspends the fugitive Slave bill. Is not that a significant proof of the state of the public mind? When could that have been achieved before? Then, again, Mr. Lincoln turns to the Border States, and says: "Gentlemen, I am ready to buy; I know the state of the country; if you want to sell your slaves, now is the time to trade; if you wait a year, and the swift current of our political Niagara sweeps the system from beneath you, without compensation, never say I did not give you fair warning." He then goes on to say: "Gentlemen, I am trying cannon to put down this rebellion; one is the abolition of slavery. If I find cannon do not succeed, I shall use other efficient means." In other words: "If you are ready to sell, I am ready to buy; but if you won't sell, I have the right to take." (Applause.) when, since '89, has patriot or statesman ventured such a position? In both. Houses of Congress, the Republican party, holding the majority, profess the creed that government has the right to abolish slavery by confiscation, and they have spent many weeks in deciding-what? Not whether they have the right, but whether they will exercise the right-whether they will use the power. If, ten years ago, if, one year ago, the American people, or the  Abolitionists, could have promised this, that in twelve months the majority, or its leading men should be converted to the doctrine of John Quincy Adams on the war power, would you not have called that progress enough?
Again, look into the Border States. In Missouri and Maryland, the question is opened-sides are beginning to be taken-great parties to be marshalled-whether the State shall abolish the institution or not. what is the signification of that act? you have located the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society in the street through which passed the Fifth Regiment of Massachusetts, and consecrated with its blood on the 19th day of April. (Applause.) You have projected New England, with its anti-slavery discussion, fully into Missouri and Maryland. Is not that progress? Does it not show that the "beginning of the end is come?
But you go a little further, and, for the first time, the dome of the Capitol rests on Liberty, without a chain. (Loud applause.) certainly, when these things happen. men are beginning to recognize the manhood of the negro. But, as if this was not enough to encourage the sublime devotion of nineteen million of people, the two departments of war and the navy say to the slave, of whom the question has hitherto been whether he would work, whether America could afford to recognize him as a drudge, whether we could give him a spade, and let him own it-to him, the departments of war and they navy say to-day-" Take a musket, and own it!" (Applause.) The nation which enrols and arms a black man, touches the point of liberty for every man that shares his color.
My friend (Rev. Mr. HATFIELD) regrets, as I do, the great mistake, I think, made by the government when it neutralized the proclamation of John C. Fremont. Could it have permitted that proclamation to stand, unpledged to it as the Cabinet was, public opinion would have crystalized round it, Mr. Lincoln would have been able to rely confidently on the manifested public opinion which sustained and endorsed that act of the major General, and on the sure ground of such a conclusion, the government could have advanced, in ninety days, directly to universal emancipation. I think it was a great point lost. There have been several points lost. If, when
<c04>
Mr. Jefferson Davis first issued his letters of marque, and endeavored to cover the ocean with privateers, we take yours," the great commercial metropolis of the nation would have said "Amen!" and the country would have followed. The government might then have inaugurated  emancipation. But notwithstanding these mistakes, there is very little loss. This question is so much deeper and higher than men, that our mistakes are but scratches on the surface. My friend mistakes only thus much. Abraham Lincoln simply rules; John C. Fremont governs. (Loud applause.) Judged by the pulses and opinions of the people, the real President of the American mind does not live in the white House; he leads the Mountain Department of Virginia, and history will regard the realities, and not appearances, of the present day. The reality is, that although the votes of '56 omitted Fremont, and although the caucuses of '60 omitted him, the people buried him in their hearts, and reproduced him, when the emergencies of the nation required it, on the prairies of Missouri, and elected him President of the crisis. (Loud applause.) That proclamation was not lost. Oh, no; that is the wrong word. The beautiful rivulet which disappeared in Greece, according to the classic legend, reappeared in Sicily. The proclamation that went down in Missouri, comes up again in the Carolinas, whit Hunter's name at the end. (Prolonged applause.) over the President or through him, the great normal purpose, the blind instinct of the American Samson gropes its way to the upholdings of the foul temple of slavery, and, in the end, it will drag it down to ruin, no matter who says nay. (Applause.)
I believe that the heart of the American people is set on the abolition of slavery; and I believe the heart of the American people will accomplish its purpose-if not through the Administration, then over it, and in due time. I wish it could led; but we must take the nation as we find it. It is wonderful that we find it so well prepared as it is. why, only look! what has produced this effect? Certainly not the Church. AS THEODORE PARKER said, six years ago, to-day, at the Anniversary of this very Society; "If the American Church had dropped through the continent to the other side, forty years ago, the anti-slavery enterprise would have been further ahead than it is now." He spoke the truth. And what was true of the Church was true. of the State. the same indifference, the same hostility, the same contempt, informed the mind of the State as of the Church. I can remember, sixteen years ago, when FRANCIS JACKSON, representing the anti-slavery of Massachusetts, asked Abbott law, rence, the representative of the Eastern section of the State (he was then a candidate for Representative to Congress from that section), "Sir, are you in favor of abolition in the District? and the haughty millionaire would not even condescend to answer the question-so thoroughly contemptible was the anti-slavery enterprise. There is where the State Stood towards us; there is where the church put us. Prejudice against race had locked every heart and mind against the argument of the Abolitionists. They had no appeal but to the simple conscience, the instinctive sense of right of the masses of the people. We have been blamed, again and again, as agitators, because we did no reverence to the established institutions of the country-its wealth, learning, parties, churches-but laid the reins of this momentous enterprise on the necks of the uneducated masses. We had nowhere else to lay them; and God gave us the instrument by which the heart of the masses could be reached. There is an old play called "The Devil is an ass." It is a good motto He always is. when he framed the United States constitution, he put the Fugitive Slave clause into it; and that Fugitive Slave clause, in my apprehension, has been the weightiest and strongest weapon which the Abolitionist has to produce this uprising of 1861, on the part of the people. Let me tell you a story: a girl of seventeen, flying from her own father, who also, by American law, was her master, reached a village in Wisconsin. Standing in its broad street, she said to the first comers, "I appeal to all Christian men-save me!" They were two young men. They listened to her story, dared not keep her in the village, and hurried her to Milwaukee. The father, in pursuit, was so near that they hid the child beneath one of those hogsheads in which we move china. The pursuers passed by her covering half a dozen times, upon the public highway. In an interval, unobserved, the young men conveyed her to the next town; from thence she went to Detroit, and soon sat foot on English soil, and received the protection of Queen Victoria. She sent back a letter to the young men, telling her story. They read it and went with it to a clergyman, and got him to draw up a pledge that they would not vote again, except an abolition ticket. That year, there were two anti-slavery votes cast in that town-the first two ever cast in the State on the anti-slavery issue. The next year, there were <illegible> To-day, Republicanism holds that state in both its hands, and gives its weight in the republican balance in the Senate and House of Representatives. (Applause.) Four years ago, the Supreme court of that State-the child of that little drop of rain-flung itself against Taney, and the supreme court, on the fugitive slave Bill; and the first act of Edward M. Stanton, when he was made Attorney-General under Buchanan, was to take Booth, its victim, out of an United States prison in the State of Wisconsin That is one drop of the sainted influence of the Fugitive Slave bill. (Laughter.) All over the country, it has been the same. Unheeded, unnoticed, this sympathy with man has made its way down into the obscure places of the nation; and when statesmen doubted, when Seward wrote to Dayton, and told him to tell Europe, that this was a political quarrel and not a war, and that it would be over in ninety days, and no man find his position changed by it, the nation felt its way with its right hand to the neck of the slave system, and has not unclasped its fingers yet, and never will, until it strangles the monster. (Loud applause.) 
That is my faith as to slavery. Fellow-citizens, I do not think that the lesson of this hour is what to do with the <illegible> It is a different question-one that holds the slave question in it, but is broader. The question is, with this slave question to decide, in the next fifteen years, is there virtue, intelligence, purpose enough in the North to absorb the barbarism of fifteen States, neutralize it, and survive a united, free, Christian Republic? To-day, those fifteen States are barbarous. I have a letter at home-I mean to read it to-night of to-morrow-from a Bell-Everett voter in Missouri, written ten days ago, to a Bell-Everett mercantile correspondent in Boston, in which he says, "Your armies have driven out the armies of secession from Missouri. You think you have done the work. You have not begun it. Two of my friends were shot a fortnight ago, outside of this town; three of my acquaintances badly wounded. A man entered my store last week, and shot my own clerk, at my desk. I myself, a Union man, dare not leave the streets of the city, for fear of assassination. That is the law of the county." And he says, The question is Can you save the unity of these States?" He means, Can you, Northerners, supply so much virtue, purpose, intelligence, as will absorb this element of barbarism, neutralize it and leave us a nation? That is the question. The dregs of slavery, the state of society which it will leave, can we deal with it, and save the nation? If the news of this morning is all correct-if we have got New or leans, and McClellan has really scattered the secession army-I think the south has ceased to fight for slavery in the old sense; she has ceased to fight for conquest, she now fights for terms. She will keep her army of 200,000 men-she has got so many men in arms, and I do not believe she ever has had over 300,000-she will keep them in arms until the fever months, if possible, and will keep them in arms as long as there is any hope of dictating terms to the Cabinet. while the war goes on, we must keep the whole army we now have, in order to preserve the position of the government; and when the contest is over, when the question is ostensibly settled (of which
<c05>
I will speak in a moment), we must have an army half as large as we have now, as an army, not of conquest, but on occupation. There are six million of men at the South who have hated us for thirty years, and hate us twice as much now, because we have whipped them. Men are asking the question, Can the South fight! I do not think it a question. The question, Can the south fight? answers itself. A State as large as the South, with six million of people, with the yellow fever and typhus for us for its right and left hand, can fight if she will. The single question is, Will she fights? I answer that question in the light of the experience of thirty years. Every Southern pulpit, every Southern political officer, has been the champion of slavery for thirty years. No Northern man could visit the smallest village of the South, and repeat the Declaration of Independence, without being lynched. No book could be sent, there that was not expurgated. No clergyman could preach the most diluted antislavery gospel, that he was not shown the steamer on Monday morning, bound for the North. When Brooks struck Sumner upon the floor of the Senate, the foulest blow known to Christendom for a century, the whole North, the whole world, except the South, cried "Shame!" The whole South said "Amen!" Now, that is the country which has marshalled itself in war against us, and we have whipped it. We have beaten it in pitched battle; we have barred it from communication with the manifestation of its purpose, that Europe, more than half willing, could not stretch out its right of recognition to it; and the hate of thirty years is embittered by the double distilled hate of the conquered victim. What are we to do with six million of such people? There are certain lunatics in the city of New York, and certain other lunatics in Congress, at Washington, who are proposing to the American people to cut their own throats, only they express them selves thus: They say that we should export four million of Unionists from these very States; that the only race which loves us, the only race which we can bind to us with hooks of steel, by only doing the not justice; I would not desecrate the word. Justice! Justice to the negro would be to lay the wealth of the nation at his feet. Justice to the negro would be for the white race to put on sackcloth and ashes, and sit down at his feet, and beg pardon for the sins of six generations. Justice! It is that every white man should yield up every printed page, every college, every mansion, every convenience of civilization, bought by the blood and toil of the negro, and give them to the four million of slaves, using only what they leave. Justice! We do not begin to give the negro justice when we only give him his own right hand. My explanation of compensation is-I compensate the master, because he is helpless, and cannot take care of himself; I let the slave go free, because he can. But the insane proposition is, that we should export the very fulcrum of the lever by which the nation is to be restored-the four million of people who are they only hope that this country ever can be one and indivisible again. My friend, Mr. Brown, said that the negro had come to us, bringing important information. Yes; he has shown in every way that he recognizes the Union as indefeasibly on his side. he has countervailed the blunders and ignorance and insanity of our commanders. Sherman went to South Carolina, Northern bred, filled with the folly that the slave loves his master to death, that he could not be drawn to liberty with cart-ropes, that he would shoot any man who offered it to him; and he bolted his doors with ten locks against the black man, and cried out to then whites: "Dear, beloved brethren!" (Laughter.) Not a white man came near, and twelve thousand negroes burst in his doors. (Applause.) The negro race has shown, from they very commencement of this quarrel, that they saw, with the instinctive sagacity of self-interest-their all at stake-that this quarrel on our part could mean nothing but liberty to them, and that the stars and stripes, although we might not know it, were written all over, by God's own hand, with emancipation, and that the fire of this convulsion would bring the letters out in living light to the conscious knowledge of this generation. (Loud applause.) They saw them, with the eye of faith, on the banner, when it seemed to us to be written only with "Union."
Now, I say, I want these four million of people. I want them as a breakwater, an anchorage, a fulcrum, against the barbarism of the South. I want them as the ballast of the effort to make this one nation. The lesson of the past has been the success of agitation; the success of appealing to the common people to save their own institutions when their statesmen had not faith enough to believe in them. When the members of Buchanan's Cabinet stood face to face with Committees of the House of Representatives, before the 4th of march, 1861, and the Chairman of those Committees threatened them with arrest as traitors; if they had executed their threats and hung them, the slave would have cursed their vigilance, for they would have put off this rebellion fifty years. The blood of Toucey could have saved us this rebellion. thank God, it was not shed! for south Carolina flung down the gauntlet, and when she did it, she swept fifty years from the life of the slave system. That very cannon. fired at Sumter, God's own hand forged into a thunder bolt, and gave it to Abraham Lincoln, saying-"Hurl it against the system!" (loud applause.) But, I say, when those Cabinet officers stood face to face with the investigating Committees, why did not the Committees publish the secrets that had been revealed to them to nineteen million of people? They had not faith to believe that there were virtue and intelligence enough in the American people to stand up against fifteen slave states; and to-day, that same statesmanlike disloyalty to the Democratic ides, that same statesman-like want of faith in the masses, keeps them from pro-claiming the righteousness of abolishing slavery. Washington is full of only one flavor-you must get rid of slavery as a necessity, to save the Union. Do you want to stir up the North? Carry in a pilgrim-age the bones that have been insulted at Manassas. Do you want to concentrate the North? Publish throughout its borders that the South thinks its soldiers "mud-sills," But that is nothing but temper; nothing but the bitterness of sections; nothing but sectional hate, which is not to be relied upon. when that tax-bill comes down like an avalanche on the heads of the American people, there will be two questions about it. The democrats will say, "Put an en to the war, anyhow! Compromise to any extent! Send Davis Minister to St. James's, give Wigfall a principality on the prairies, put Beauregard in McClellan's place (laughter)-anything to save the taxes." That is what the Democrats will say; and if the basis of Northern feeling is only hatred, I do not know how long it will prevail against the pocket. when that tax-bill comes down upon the people, the virtue and anti-slavery purpose of the North will say, Get rid of this weight and burden of blood and money by a radical cure of the war-by making the south like the North; that is, by ridding it of slavery, and giving to it thrift, education, labor." Which way shall that hand turn? That is the question for this society next summer. How will it use the instrument which God gives us? That is the question. shall the virtue of the people recognize the right and wrong, or shall the people, filled with hate, merely, consider whether they will not surrender to Democratic intrigne? It is a dangerous hour that we are approaching. I do not fear much from colonization. I do not think we are in any danger from that. We are none of us, as a nation, fit for the lunatic saylum, and until we are, we never shall colonize four million of workers. we shall much sooner colonize the mouths than the hands. Three hundred and forty seven thousand slaveholders are the mouths; the four million of blacks are the hands; and it would be much cheaper to colonize the mouths than the hands. I believe in Yankee common sense, and therefore I do not fear colonization. Another thing: If the races cannot live together. It will only cost one or two million to colonize the three hundred and forty seven thousand whites-it will cost a great deal more to colonize four million of blacks.
<c06>
Then, there comes the question: Where are they to go? if we cannot bear them, where is the nation that can? if you choose to send them beyond the mountains. somewhere, in a State by themselves, are they to have the right to travel? Will Mr. Garrett Davis build a wall round their State, and never let them look over into Kentucky? I do not beliers in that method. My friend Brown mentioned that telling fact, which ought to close every Democratic mouth, that Stephen A. Douglas died twelve thousand dollars in debt to a negro of the District; But he did not mention the best feature of the fact-that that colored man knew so well how to take care of himself, that he did not lend it to Douglas until he got a mortgage. (Laughter and applause.) The very white mea who edit the papers of the District of Columbia, the very white men who are discussing the question whether the colored people can take care of themselves, are not yet so far able to take care of themselves as to pay the expenses of their own children's education; they filch, they steal, in the shape of taxes, six hundred dollars a year from the pockets of the negroes of the District, in order to pay the expenses of their own schools, and when they have done it they bar the doors of those very schools against the black man's children, and make him sustain at his own expense in dependent schools for his children. ("shame.") And then they sit down and write articles, and print them, declaring that the colored men of the District are not able to take care of themselves, when these very editors would never have got the A,B,C, that enabled them to write the articles, if the colored men had not educated them with their money. (Applause.) 
The devil ought to have a good memory-all liars ought to. The Democratic Young men's committee of this city say they are opposed to emancipation, unless the blacks are expatriated, because, otherwise, they will kill out Northern labor! How comes that, if they will not work? Garrett Davis says, that h you emancipate the slaves of the District, you will have to build a poor-house as large as the capital to hold the paupers. Well, if they are all to be kept in a District poor-house, as big as the Capitol, how are they going to compete with Northern labor! (Applause.) Liars should have good memories. I do not believe that nineteen millions of Northern their brains kindled to a white heart on a great financial problem, can be misled by such chaff as that Why, it is nine hundred years behind the times. Colonize the blacks! The man that should propose to give up railroads because a man was killed on them last year, would be a sane man in comparison with a colonizationist. We have drifted infinitely beyond that problem. We are now engaged in a momentous struggle, whether this nation can save its own institutions. God is demanding an atonement of this generation. We have hand two systems in the midst of us One is the North-taking every child in the cradle, and giving him intellectual education; putting at the side of baby footsteps virtue and knowledge; recognizing the fact that every man's life is more secure, and every man's house more valuable, the more intelligent and industrious his neighbor is. That is the North: its right hand is industry, its left hand is knowledge. Now the South has some four millions of slaves, held by some hundred thousand active men. The slaves are mere machines: the more intelligent, the less valuable; the less intelligent, the more valuable. On the other hand, the South has five millions of poor whites. They must not be allowed to labor, for if they did, as our friend Brown explained to us, it would make the slave proud; they must not be taught, for if they were, it would make the aristocracy <illegible>. A friend from Alabama once said to me-"The men of our Northern Counties are on your side, if you could get at, them. They labor themselves; if they hold slaves, it is but a single one. They have but one room in their houses; the slave sits at the table with them, sleeps with them, works with them. They are Free soil counties. If you could only, get at them, they would be on your side. We don't mean you ever shall. They never hear a speech but what we make they would not know a newspaper from a necromantic trick; their wives cannot read; their children are growing up in ignorance. The poor white trash! The right hand of the aristocracy of slaveholders is four millions of slaves; the left hand is ignorance. These institutions have attempted to collere; they have hand seventy years of trial, and the attempt has failed. Now, the question comes to us in the shape of God's own demand for atonement. This generation which thought it had laid up so much money-it was but to emancipate that race, to educate the other. The railroad had been going sixty miles an hour; we thought all was safe; but the axles are hot, and God stops us in this generation.
As an abolitionist, I know that events are grinding out the freedom of the negro; but the question that troubles me is-into that grave into which very is entering, are freedom and free institutions to drop with it? That question is answered when you tell me how you are to get rid of it. That holds is its circumference the fate of you and me, of our nation, and free institutions. I want you, therefore, to wake up this people to two questions: First, the right that rebellion has given us to crush out slaver and (I am not going to stop with the question whether the negro will work or not) what we shall do with the negro what shall we do without him? is a grater question. What shall we do with him!	I am a graduate of Harvard; my friend here (Mr. TILTON) is a graduate of some other college, I suppose; on every platform, the graduates of colleges will be making speeches this week. Shall any one of us prove that those colleges graduate men able to take care of themselves one whit better than the speech of that graduate of the plantation (WM. WELLS BROWS) proves that his fellow-laborers are able to take care of themselves? (Loud applause.) If any blue eyed Saxon doubter, graduated of a New England college, still cherishes a doubt, I commend to him the list of answering that speech. (Renewed applause), But, beyond that question, the American people are to wake up to an understanding of the right which they now hold in their hands to abolish very. It is a constitutional right. People an greatly. afraid-the New York Herald is greatly afraid-that we are not going according to the constitution. Well, what is the constitution? It ways "No person shall be deprived of life, liberty of property without due process of law." That is, I cannot be hung without a grand jury, a petit jury, and sheriff. That is peace. But, to-day, congress says to Erenk Sigel, "Hang McCulloch!" all in one (laughter.) To-day, Congress says to Gen. Grant, "Take ten thousand lives at Pittsburg!" That is due process of war; that is the war power; the other was the peace power. It is equally constitutional, because it is necessary. Congress says to the government, "You shall put your hand into every mans pocket by making certain pieces of paper legal tender; and if this war continues ten years, you shall take one dollar out of every ten, from every man's pocket." It is a constitutional, because it is necessary. The government says, "Go down to Charleston, and fill the harbor with stones, and make the city a desert-now it with salt if you please"-and I some times wish they would-(applause)-and that is constitutional, because it is the war power. But the New York herald says, If Congress, having shot McCulloch, by due process of war, executed by a Minnie rifle-haring suspended the habeas corpus-having taken every tenth dollar out of every man's pocket-having <illegible> that Charleston harbor with stones, goes on show, and with the sword cuts the supposed cobweb-it is only a supposed cobweb-that binds the negro to his master, that is unconstitutional! In other words, there is no right now, except the right of a man to his negro (laughter and applause.)
But there is another principle-that south care line for it! I have had a great many occasions is my life to thank south Carolina. She initiated the policy of fighting, and that kills slavery, and we are following her lead; I thank her for that. But she has done a better thing than that. She has established
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the principle-she and Virginia -that what the nation seeds and is law, no matter whether it is in the parchment or not. Fellow-citizen, in 1801, Jefferson wanted Louisiana-the mouth of the Mississippi. Mr. Tracy said, You cannot have it-it is unconstitutional" "I know it" said Jefferson, "but I want it." "You cannot get it," said Adams; "it is unconstitutional." "I know that, but I want it"-and be got it; and Illinois and Wisconsin are going down by the way Pittsburg, and Boston joins them by the way of Ship Island, to see whether we shall been it or not (Applause.) Some years after we wanted Florida, and we bought it; Hunter is seeing about that(Renewed applause.) Some years later, the South said she wanted Texas and stole it, by joint resolution and we means to keep it (Applause) That principle of law which the South established, may we not use it for freedom, as she used it for slavery! Again, do you remember the Embargo times, when Congress declared, in time of peace, that no chip should leave New York or Boston-when, bankruptcy covered your city-when grass grew in Wall street-when we turned our cows into State street-when New England was beggared, and nobody said a word about paying her a dollar of compensation -when she sent her first lawyer up to Washington, to ask the Supreme Court said, "Is this constitutional!" and the Supreme Court said, "Yes; anything to save the Union" ;and New England sat down and starved. She commends a drop of the same comfort to Caroline to day. (applause.) she says, "This despotism, which, in 1807, in order to save the Union beggared me and never talked of compensation can it not take your slaves, and pay you for them, in 1862?" Why, somebody asked Gen. Cass, the other day, in Detroit -"General, What may we do to save the Union" "Anything." "May we abolish salver?" "Abolish anything on the surface of the earth to save the nation" (Applause.) I think, when Cass and Adams agree, we have for the "happy medium," (laughter,) and may sail fearlessly on in that constitutional line. I want the American people to recognize the right they have to abolish slavery. I do not care for phrases. I would like to go directly up to the issue, but if you do not like that issue, it does not matter to me. I do not care about words. "Confiscation, "if you like it better. I observe that the cautious, and careful, and amiable, and good natured President, in his message to the Border States, did not speak of the "abolition" of slavery-that is Garrison's phrase; he talked of “abolishment.” Well, it is no matter if he likes that way of spelling it better. (Laughter.) So, if you like a confiscation bill, let it be no. But my programme is this: We have got subjugated-that is, if the news of the day proves true-if the summer answers the winter- if McClellan really means to hurt somebody- if we have got a war and not a quarrel-then we have subjugated the south. Now, what are we going to do with six million of people, hating us hating us terribly? we have got to keep an army of occupation there. We must confiscate-how much? People talk of making the South pay the expenses of the war. You might as well call upon the poor house to pay the expenses of the town. (Laughter) Take away their salves. and they have not enough left to pay the expenses of the war. The question of confiscation, as a mere question of contribution toward paying the expenses of the war, is not worth talking about. One month's expenses of this war is more than you could get from the whole South, until the blacks, the guardians of civilization, make the land worth something. (Applause.) But I want confiscation, for all that. We have a right to it, on the laws against treason; we have a right to it, on all historical and national grounds. We want, it in order to tempt the army to remain in the south as colonists. I want them there to aid the blacks, as the guard and nucleus of free institutions. I do not believe in the whites of the South for the next ten years. I believe that the blacks of the South do not need an apprenticeship half as much as the whites do. (Laughter and applause.) Honestly-I am not saying an epigrammatic thing-the slave is much more fit to be a free laborer than Jefferson Davis is to be the master of tree laborers. The four million of blacks are in less need of apprenticeship to fit them for liberty, than the six million of whites are of an apprenticeship to fit them to live where liberty is granted. That Jamaica has proved, in the history of twenty years. If you are to have a law of apprenticeship, apprentice the whites, not the blacks. Now I go a shade beyond my friend, Mr. Brown; I shirk no difficulty; I ask nothing more for the negro than I ask for the Irishman or the German who comes to our shores. I thank the benevolent men who are laboring at Port Royal-all right!-but the blacks at the South do not need them. They are not objects of charity. They only ask, the nation-"Take your yoke off our neck." They do not ask mercy; they do not ask justice-or only a homeopathic dose-the mere flavor of justice they as their bands- nothing more; and they will accomplish books and education and work. They have done so in the West Indies. The white planters of Jamaica set all the wits they had (it was not much) at work to outwit the black men. The offered them a shilling a day. The blacks said," We are worth one and sixpence." Then the whites passed three laws one was that they should have liberty to turn any man out of a shanty built on their land; the second was, that any man without a house was a vagabond; and the third was that any legal vagabond might be apprenticed by any magistrate to his next neighbor at any price he pleased. Then they thought they had got them. They turned them out of their houses, made them vagabond, under the law, and had them apprenticed as such. But the blacks sent the laws over to the Privy Council, and in ten months they came back with the Queen's disallowance. Then the black men said, "Gentlemen, you tried to cheat us," and they went into then mountains; fifty thousand of them bought an acre apiece, supported themselves, and left the white man to go to his own ruin. When the New York Herald records the bankruptcy of Jamaica and attempts to prove from it that the blacks are not capable of taking care of themselves, it only turns the fact inside out. It proves that the negro knew so well how to take care of himself, that, having been first outraged and then cheated, he would not be treated so again; and thirty years have not improved the white man's behavior sufficiently to win the negro's confidence; and until he does win it, he will be to his fate.
In Barbadoes, the planters acted on a different policy. That said to the blacks-"Here are your wages". The result is Barbadoes exports twice as much as she did before. The soil of Barbadoes will sell to day in the market for one third more than the soil and the negroes together would sell for before emancipation. The white man said to the negro: here is my right hand; help me save the island. Help me-incompetent-never did a stroke of work in life don't know how to do anything-help me" and the negro pledged him his right hand; and Barbadoes is a paradise to day, her harbors are full of ships and her granaries full of wheat. Look at the West Indies! The N.Y. Herald says the experiment in the West Indies is a failure; and this week, that eminently pious, remarkably sagacious and in expressibly sane print, the Observer, (laughter,) say the same things. Let us look at it. The Herald says, that if you go to the West Indies, you will find the black man lying on his back, basking in the sun looking up at the beautiful sky, and but that the island is going back to barbarism. How do they draw that inference! In this way. An American goes to Kingston, sees a man standing idle on the wharf, pulls out his book, an l makes a not; goes up town, and sees another-makes a second note; takes a carriage and rides out to a plantation, sees two more, and makes another note; writes a letter to the Herald-"Bankruptcy!" Suppose I should go to Illinois, and see a dozen men lounging about at the great station houses of the Chicago and Galena Railroad, and note it down; go to the Briggs House, and see a dozen more, and note that; go to Milwaukee and see a dozen more,
<c02>
and note that; come home, and write to the Herald: "Illinois is bankrupt-relapsing into barbarism!" Would not an Illinois man, like Lovejoy, say to me, "Did you see the million of bushels of wheat at Chicago? Do You know that we export twice as much bread-stuff as any other State in the Union If your don't home!" So I am going to judge the West Indies. We have got twenty million of thrifty, industrious, educated Yankees-more brains in our hands than other men have in their heads. Connecticut vexes every drop of water four times over before she lets it fall into the ocean; and when all is done, how much do we export-we thrifty, pains-taking industrious Yankees? Just seven dollars a head. Now Jamaica with 80,000 whites and 300,000 blacks, exports thirteen dollars a head and if you take all the British West Indies - 800,000 blacks and 150,000 whites-they export twice as much now as they did before emancipation. I think if the New York Observer calls that failure-if the negro, lying on his back and basking in the sun, exports twice as much as the Yankee, standing on his feet and that is failure, what will it say us? I shall be glad to know by next weeks Observe, what New England is, if the West Indies are a failure.
The again, how much do they buy? that is another test of the success or failure of nation. You go to one of your Fifth Avenue houses, watch it for twenty years, and if the owner brings to it pictures and plate, velvet and damask, year after year, you say, "He is rich." How much do the West Indies buy? The negro, "basking on his back in the sun," according to the Herald, pays for twice as many manufactured goods from England and the three times as many manufactured goods from America, as he did when he was a slave, driven to unpaid toil by the white man's hand, led by the white man's brain. That is in favor of "basking". (Laughter and applause.)
Is there any man left dull enough to doubt whether the negro with the great motive power of civilization action upon him, will work? Pardon me if I quote William Cobbett-somewhat coarse, but eminently Saxon, and terribly earnest and remarkably full of common sense. In analyzing the civilization of England, Cobbett said, "The basis of al civilization is the stomach." God gave to man the necessity of eating; out of that come colleges, out of the come books, out of that come colleges. Now the negro and has the same necessity eat that all other races have; and to day he holds out his hands to the North, and says "Use me to save your liberty." Those six million of infuriated foes to the Union and to free institutions, we want to hold them long enough to convert them. I want those four million of blacks to help me. I want a compensation-one hundred or three hundred millions-which shall go to the loyal slaveholders, to establish manufactures, the mechanic arts and mines, in the Southern States. I want the loyal slaveholder if such a man can be found, to look into his hand, and see United States bond, and say to himself, "That represent forty salves. If I am good citizen it is above par. If McClellan is allowed to take York town, and Butler to take New Orleans, It is above par. If I fight or am factious it is eighty." He will be a good citizen.(Applause)
What is the bond of Union? Suppose McClellan succeeds, and chains Massachusetts to South Carolina- two angry dogs- that is not a Union. I want a General who loads his cannon with something besides balls. McClellan uses nothing else: Fremont rams them down with idea.(Applause.) That is the difference between the two Generals: one conquers, the other concerts one puts South Carolina under the heel of Massachusetts; and other puts her in her arms-The one makes on half the nation conquered territory; the other makes it sister States; and all we have got to do it to wait until God takes to himself, or lets down, some fifty thousand infuriated slaveholders.(Laughter.) Moses left a generation in the desert, and we shall leave one generation in the desert, and we shall leave one generation in our desert. We shall never get over this difficulty in less than fifteen or twenty years. The war may be over next fall; the fist of January, we may celebrate peace; but the difficulty of making fifteen State sister States will last your day and mine. In order to do it, we have got to keep the negro race as the basis of civilization in that half of the nation. We have got put side by side with it the poor whites, education by the millions that compensation will pour into the South. We have got to proclaim that this Union means nothing but liberty from end to end; that every race under it is to be protected, and every man free (Applause) whether we proclaim it to-day or a dozen years hence does not matter. We are in for the war and this Society's present object is, so to manage the settlement of the slave question, that when the negro rises into liberty, the nation may survive to receive him; otherwise, the remark of your Secretary of the Treasury, when he entered office, was the wisest advice ever given to a nation. He is said to have remarked, "Better far let them go, Keep the homogeneous North by itself, and leave them to work out their problem of civilization before we receive them again." That is statesmanship. The only thing that supersedes it is nineteen million of people proclaiming that they can easier work out that problem, and that, laying the foundation in the liberty of all races, they guarantee to South Carolina a Republication from of government to-day. Until that time never let there be a government in South Caroline at all (Applause). It is the message which congress owes to the people-" There is never to be a government south of the Border States, unless dictated by the Union, until that government is the result and the expression of free institutions." Until then, Me. Sumner's and Mr. Conway's theory is the only safe one Territory, until freedom creates a government in the Carolinas (Applause) 
Now, let me say one word as a citizen, before I sit down as an Abolitionist That is the only method. It is terrible method; if is a momentously perilous method'; whether you or I are to live to see that method tried, and free institutions survive it is a doubtful question. I am by no means certain, as our friends (Rev. Mr. HATFIELD) expressed himself that freedom and the Union will outlive this struggle. The habeas corpus suspended; a despotic government for the next fifteen years; and army of seven hundred thousand men disbanded; ten thousand officers entering the political arena-the professions, law, medicine and the counting-house, filled-where are they to go but into politics? If Hamilton and Aaron Burr had come back, after the Revolution, and found no space for them in the court of Albany, where would they have gone? Could this Government have borne the ambition and popularity and ability of those men and survived it? I doubt it. We just survived. If Burr bad been landless, and without business, with the army behind him, the Constitution of ‘89 might never have seen our day. Ten thousand officers are to some from this army in just that state' a debt of from one to two thousand million of dollars is to rest upon the people. The thousand million of dollars is to rest upon the people. The three great elements that make the curse of republics-military spirit, debt, and despotism-the medicine of States- we have got to endure them for ten or fifteen years, in order to civilize the South. I trust in God we can do it, and yet survive. I trust we have got intelligence and virtue enough in the North to absorb the barbarism of fifteen States, and not be poisoned. But I am not certain; and every than who can shorten the time of peril it is excellent if you lessen it you lesson it five years, it is salvation. Everybody in Washington looks forward to ten years of military despotism. It is medicine; I am anxious to go back to common diet. I am anxiously waiting "Every hour," as Napoleon said, "is an opportunity for misfortune." Every year educates us in despotism. Shorten the time! Summon the slave of the Carolinas to the contest! Give your army emancipation Announce Liberty as the normal law of the Republic at once! (Applause) I do not say it for the negro's sake; his fate is settled. I am now speaking as a citizen. I consider that the negro may fold his arms on the safe land, and watch us as we struggle,
<c03>
in the ocean of difficulty. Slavery is not the question to day; but the questions is, how to get rid of slavery in such a way that we can save the nation. Go out, therefore, every one of you, into your circles! Hold upon the arms of the government! say to Lincoln, Amen to your message to Border States! Go an arrow's fight beyond it, and we shall have a more devout Amen!" Say to the Secretary of war, "God bless you, that you have armed the black at last! Now add to it this proclamation-that to every negro who take up arms on the side of the Republic, we pledge liberty!" (Applause.) Hasten the Government, in order to save it. There is no doubt of events. The fate of the man half-way down Niagara is certain he must go down. We shall annihilate slavery; I am not questioning that. What I want is that the Government shall so act. and act so speedily, as to rid us as soon as possible, of the dangers that the Government shall so act so speedily as the rid us as soon as possible of the dangers that threaten the triumph and unity of the nation. For that purpose send up delegations to Washington to urge the Government forward. Why, I found delegations in every committee room at Washington; Willard's was crowded with delegations; the streets swarmed with delegations anxious to know whether patent medicines, scented soaps, silver spoons, were to be taxed (laughter); anxious to know whether printing paper was to be taxed; but there was not a man-not one-who has gone up Washington to hurry the Cabinet, to uphold and strengthen it, on the great question of the liberty of a race, which holds within its circumference the perpetuation of the nation. Montgomery Blair say the Post-Office follows the flag. Secretary Chase says, Trade follows the flag. The nation listens to hear Lincoln add, LIBERTY follows the flag!
(Loud and prolonged applause.)
The Doxology was the sung, "From all that dwell below the skies," and the meeting adjourned.
BUSINESS MEETINGS
The American Anti-Slavery Society met for the transaction of business at the Lecture-Room of the Church of the Puritans, Fifteenth street, at 3 o'clock P.M., the President of the Society, Wm. LLOYD GARRISON, in the chair.
AARON M. POWELL, of Columbia Co., N.Y., addressed some introductory remarks, arguing the necessity of still adhering to all our old methods of moving and directing the public mind and conscience, and of continuing their use until slavery is at an end. 
The PRESIDENT alluded to the recent resignation of his office as Corresponding Secretary of the Pennsylvania Anti -slavery Society. by J MILLER MCKIM. He spoke of his deep regret at the thought of losing Mr. Mc. Kim from the important post which he has held for upwards of twenty years, and the duties of which he has ever discharged with such faithfulness, wisdom and success. He (the President) must confess he did not understand why Mr. Mc. Kim was now resigning his place and he called upon Mr. Mc. Kim whom he was glad top see with us, to explain more fully his position.
Mr. McKIM in reply, referred to the changed aspects and prospects of the Anti Slavery cause occasioned by the rebellion of Slaves Power against the government and by the war of the maintenance of the union. These changes, the thought, made advisable and even needful a corresponding change in our operations. These and other considerations had led him to think it his duty to change the particular direction of his labors, and hence the resigning of the office 
SAMUEL MAY, Jr. referred to one or two of the his office, and expressed his dissent from them as having no force in the case; and hoped that Mr. McKIM might yet see it to be his duty to resume his place at the Philadelphia Anti-Slavery office.
Mr. McKIM said that by a recent understanding on the matter, no immediate change would be made.
Mr. GARRISON spoke of the relation of the Society to the Port Royal and other Missions for the education of the freedmen. HE regarded these movement with deep interest and respect, but the work is not the Abolition of Slavery. It is a popular work, as compared with ours and we may sagely leave it to the support of the community at large, giving it all the incidental help in our power, nut not making it our special work. He spoke of the need of our holding public meetings, frequent meetings, for the discussion of the very questions now occupying and agitating the public min-questions of Emancipation, Colonization, Confiscation, Etc., Etc.-upon the right settlement of which so much is depending for the future peace and welfare of this country.
OLIVER JOHNSON spoke of one failure of this Society and its friends, viz., to take the necessary means to extent the circulation of the Standard, and other anti-slavery journals.
Mrs. ERNESTINE L. ROSE of New York urged the duty of the Abolitionists to stand firm to their principles and methods of action.
Mr. LASAR, of New York Related some encouraging facts, showing the progress( and in some cases the Supremacy) of anti-slavery principles in the city of New York.
EDWARD GILBERT, of New York, spoke of the distinction between the Anti-slavery Cause proper, and the carious local and occasional operations for the relief and education of the so-called "Contrabands" 
THEODORE TILTON, of New York Replied to some remarks of Mr. Gilbert in regard to the Independent newspaper, and proceeded to point out what he deemed necessary for the extension of the circulation of the Standard.
AARON M POWELL explained, in reply to Mr. Tilton some of the reasons which led him to dissent from Mr. T's conclusions in regard to the increased circulated of the Standard 
On motion, SAMUEL MAY, Jr. and ANNA R POWELL were appointed Assistant Secretaries 
The following Committees were nominated by the Chair, and unanimously confirmed by the society:-
Business Committee-Wm Lloyd Garrison, Thomas Garrett, Wendell Phillips, J. Miller McKim, Parker Pillsbury, Oliver Johnson, Aaron M. Powell, Robert Purvis, Sarah J. Nowell, Lucy Stone.
Committee to Nominate Officers-Edmund Quincy Boston; Joseph Post Island; James M. Aldrich, Fall River, Mass.: Ebenezer D. Draper, Hope dale Mass.; Susan B Anthony, Rochester, N.Y.; Mahlon B. Linton, bucks co., Pa,; Micah pool, Abington, Mass: Lauren Wetmore, Wolcottsville, Conn.; William Wells brown, Cambridge, Mass.; Reuben Tomlinson, Philadelphia.
Finance Committee Susan B. Anthony, E.D. Draper.
Adjourned be following day at 10 A.M.
WEDNESDAY MORNING. The reassembled for business at the Lecture-Room of the Church of the Puritans at 10 o'clock; and was called to order by THOMAS GARRETT, of Delaware, one of the vice president.
The Business Committee was summoned by the committee room.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., as Acting General Agent of the Society, presented a statement of the operations of the Society during the two past years respect to Lecturing local, agencies, tracts, and other publications.
Mrs. ERNESTINE L. ROSS urged the publication in pamphlet form of William Wells Brown's speech made at the public meeting yesterday. She considered it the most important speech of the day-excellent as were the others -and she wished it published and laid upon the desks of members of Congress, and others, who may still be troubled with the absurd idea that the slaves if set free, cannot take care of themselves. Mrs. Rose offered a contribution for the purpose.
The motion was seconded by Mr. Holton 
GEORGE T DOWNING referred to the efforts now making for the colonization of such slaves as may be freed by the war. He denounced all measures and
<c04>
schemes for expatriating men born on the soil, whose rights are here, and whose labor is needed here.
E. S. TYLER, Esq. of New York, President of the New York and Nicaragua Colonization Association, concurred with those who censured the scheme of enforced colonization. He said there was a large region of valuable land in Nicaragua, etc., which now was open to free men and women, both white and colored, on the basis of freedom and the absolute exclusion of slavery; and he invited attention to this project, which offered land of the best quality, at merely nominal rates, to such persons as he had described-there being no better land in the world, he said, for the culture of cotton and the sugar-cane. Mr. T. said that lie himself had been a personal friend and associate of Capt. John Brown in Kansas, and had helped more than a hundred slaves into freedom through that State.
The hour assigned having arrived, the question of the support of THE STANDARD, and of the financial condition of the Society, was taken up.
Mr. MCKIM of Philadelphia spoke generally of the STANDARD's value as a paper, and of its indispensable necessity to the Society and the Anti-Slavery cause.
S.S. FOSTER said he had come to this meeting as the most important meeting of the Society, in his estimation, that had been held for many years. He had thought there were signs of dissolution in the Society, but believed that the Society's work was not any-where near being done, nor likely to be done at present. He urged the support of The STANDARD as essential: but the maintenance of the Lecturing Agencies is, he said, indispensable to THE STANDARD.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr. and E.D.DRAPER spoke to the question of finances, and a generous pecuniary support of the Anti-Slavery Society.
PARKER PILLSBURY, of N. H., spoke of the fact of the Smallness of our numbers as in truth our highest honor. And, though thus small, our number to-day being only the Apostolic company of old as related in the Book of Acts, "about one hundred and twenty," yet shall we be mighty in power, if the true spirit of justice and freedom be in us. He expressed the hope that we should never see slavery abolished "by the War Power," as it "would be no benefit to the slave," and " a curse to the coward who should do it"
Mr. POWELL thought there was another practical matter which should be considered-the continuance of lecturing agents. The expression of the Society should be given to increase every effort we could possibly employ.
J. M. McKIM inquired as to the amount needed to sustain the Society and Standard the current year.
W.L.GARRISON replied, generally, to Mr. McKim's inquiry. He spoke of the probable, almost certain, fact that, for some time to come, our usual contributions from friends in Great Britain would be greatly diminished, if not cut off entirely. Mr. Garrison referred to the fact that so many of our English friends are in doubt as to our present position and course, and cannot see how, having been once disunionists, we are not so now; but who yet, notwithstanding this perplexity of mind, have not withdrawn their kind sympathies, and still manifest their confidence that we, their American associates, will never intelligently consent to any compromise with slavery. He wished, for one, to express his earnest thanks to them for all they had done in the past to aid us in our work.
Mr. Garrison, from the Business Committee, offered the following preamble and resolutions:-
Whereas, by the treasonable revolt of the South against the National Government, for the purpose of establishing a hostile Confederacy, the corner-stone of which is avowedly and truly the eternization of chattel slavery, all the recognized pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution are abrogated, and the whole slave system is placed within the grasp and may be abolished by the government, at any moment it chooses to exercise the power; therefore,
1. Resolved, That the dread responsibility for the further prolongation of this treacherous and bloody system, resting as it now does with absolute completeness on the people and government, the present one great, paramount anti-slavery duty is to hold them to the immediate discharge of that responsibility, by proclaiming liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof; and any other device or proposition, as a substitute for this, should be strongly reprobated as fraught equally with guilt and danger.
2.Resolved, That this Society would earnestly recommend to the friends of impartial liberty, in every part of the North, the holding of public meetings for the purpose of enforcing this duty upon the government, and by this expression of the public sentiment inspire the government with courage to perform this duty without delay.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr, said he thought that Dr. Cheever, last evening, had not quite correctly stated the, demand which we, as Abolitionists, make of the government in regard to the abolition of slavery under the War Power. Dr. Cheever was understood to say, that the proposal was to exalt the military power above the civil, above the constitutional authorities of the land. Not so. We call upon the President and Congress to use the power, the constitutional power now in their hands, to abolish slavery; and to use the Army and Navy as their subordinates, as the servants of the government and people, to do their work; but never exalt the military power above the civil.
Mr. GARRISON said he would not ask any man, from President downward, to do a single act in violation of conscience and duty, even to promote so good a work as to abolish slavery. Two years ago he could not and would not have asked the President officially to abolish, slavery. But now, in the change of circumstances, the President has the power and the right to abolish slavery; and, therefore, we do demand the exercise of it.
Mr. TREADEWELL inquired if anything in this Society's Constitution committed its members to disunion sentiments.
Mr. GARRISON explained that there was no such requirement.
Mr. FOSTER seconded the resolution read by Mr. Garrison; and addressed the meeting in support of his own views of the general subject. He also offered the following:-
Resolved, That, after a careful and impartial surrey of the whole action of the Federal Government, since our last Annual Meeting, we can see no just grounds for any change in our position towards it; for, although from purely selfish motives it has done many acts favorable to the freedom of the slaves, it has in no instance evinced a genuine regard for their rights as citizens, or any disposition to trust them as such; on the contrary, it is still in league with slaveholders, recapturing their fugitives, threatening to suppress slave insurrections; and in all other ways faithfully executing all the pro slavery provisions of the United States Constitution; we therefore earnestly counsel our friends to abstain from giving it their support under the mistaken belief that they are thereby aiding the anti-slavery cause.
The resolutions numbered 1 and 2, with preamble, were adopted.
EDMUND QUINCY, from the Committee on the Nomination of Officers, made a Report, as follows:-
President-WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Mass.
Vice President-Peter Libbey, Maine; Luther Melendy, John M. Hawks, New Hampshire; Jehiel Claflin, Vermont; Edmund Quincy, Andrew Robe-son, Massachusetts; Asa Fairbanks, Rhode Island; James B. Whitcomb, Connecticut; Samuel J. May, Cornelius Bramhall, Amy Post, Pliny Sexton, Lydia Mott, Henry A. Hartt, New York; Lucretia Mott, Robert Purvis, Edward M. Davis, Thomas Whit son, Joseph Moore, Pennsylvania; Rowland Johnson, Alfred Gibbs Campbell, New Jersey; Thomas Garrett, Delaware; Thomas Donaldson, Benjamin Bown, Ohio; William Hearn, William Hopkins, Indiana; Joseph Merritt, Thomas Chandler, Cyrus Fuller, Michigan; Carver Tomlinson, Illinois; Caleb Green, Minnesota; Georgina B. Kirby, California; George W. Benson, Kansas.
Corresponding Secretary-Charles C. Burleigh, Plain field, Ct
Recording Secretary-Wendell Phillips, Boston.
Treasurer-William L Bowditch, Boston.
Executive Committee-William Lloyd Garrison, Edmund Quincy, Maria Weston Chapman, Wendell Phil-lips, Anne Warren Weston, Sydney Howard Gay, Samuel May, Jr., William I. Bowditch, Charles K
<c05>
Whipple, Henry C. Wright, Charles Follen, Edmund Jackson.
On motion, the Report was adopted, and the person named elected by a unanimous vote.
The Business Committee presented the following resolution:-
Resolved, That this Society renews its oft-repeated testimony against every scheme or proposition for the expatriation or colonization of the free colored or slave population of this country, on the ground of their complexion or race.
Adopted unanimously.
The resolution offered by S. S. Foster, for want of time to discuss it, was laid on the table.
The Treasurer's Report, as audited by Oliver Johnson, was accepted.
The Society then unanimously agreed to the following resolution, in memory of their deceased friend and associate, FRANCIS JACKSON:-
Resolved, That the death of our honored and beloved associate, FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston, a member of this Society for a full quarter of a century, and its Treasurer for many years, has left a vacancy in our ranks not to be soon filled. But, while sensible of our great loss, we rejoice to remember that he was so long with us, and to know that, faithful among the first, he was faithful also to the last. We cherish his memory as a most valued treasure, a mighty encouragement, and an assurance of certain triumph. His sincere devotion to the Ami-Slavery Cause, his fearless support of it in dark and perilous times, his kindly sympathy and help for so many of slavery's victims, must ever remain an example and motive to all who knew him; and, being dead, he jet speaketh to us, and for our good cause.
The Society then adjourned, sine die.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, President. 
SAMUEL May, Jr., Assist secretaries
Anna R. Powell , Assist secretaries

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVESY CONVENTION.
The NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION for 1862 will be held in the city of Boston, on WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, May 28th and 29th, in the MELODEON, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., of Wednesday.
The New England Convention, annually held for the past thirty years, (with but a single exception,) has been one of the most effective instrumentalities for arousing the people of this land to a just sense of the great Abomination of Slavery. Its yearly sessions have always been largely attended,-not only all the New England States being represented therein, but usually several of the Western and Middle States also. Never before was it called to meet under such cheering circumstances. The work of the Convention is far from being done, nor can any opponent of slavery safely slacken hand or zeal at this critical hour. But God is now vouchsafing such signs to this nation, such tokens of his power and presence, as should serve mightily to encourage every friend of Freedom, and bring us all to the great crowning labors of the Anti-Slavery cause with redoubled energy and in redoubled numbers.
Let the anti-slavery men and women of New England, then, gather once more in their Annual Convention. Once more let them indicate to the long-slumbering but now awakening land, to a guilty but haply a repenting people, the only Way of Peace, of Safety, and of National Honor. Once more let the words of Justice, and Freedom for all, be echoed from the hills and valleys of New England, until they join the swelling voices of the Centre and the Great West; and the trembling, hoping slave shall hear the glad tidings, proclaiming his deliverance, his redemption, and his acknowledged manhood.
All friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, in every part of the country, are invited to attend.
In behalf of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
EDMUND QUINCY, President. Robert F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec'y.
ANTI-SLAVERY ANNIVERSARY AT NEW YORK. To the numerous friends of the Anti-Slavery cause in various parts of the land, who, unable to give their personal attendance, are all the more desirous to know in what manner the Anti-Slavery anniversary passed off at New York, it gives us peculiar gratification to announce that this anniversary, for the first time since 1834, was unaccompanied by any sign of disapprobation or dissent on the part of any of the numerous throng of hearers. On the contrary, the strongest and most vital utterances were the loudest applauded; and though it is not to be assumed that no dissentients were present, nevertheless, there was manifestly a universally diffused sympathetic feeling, and a thoroughly cooperative and catholic spirit.
The opening session, at the Church of the Puritans, was a crowded one, remarkable for its solid moral worth and general intelligence; and the speeches made on the occasion by William Wells Brown, Rev. R. M. Hatfield, and Wendell Phillips, were admirably adapted to the present state of the times. Our readers can judge of this by perusing these speeches, as reported by Mr. J. M. W. Yerrinton, (who has no peer for accuracy and skill in his phonographic profession,) and printed in preceding columns; and they will also be able to perceive how mendacious and villanous is the report of the proceedings by that preeminently satanic sheet, the New York Herald, as published in the " Refuge of Oppression."
The closing public meeting of the Society was held in the evening, at the Cooper Institute, to a large and highly intelligent audience. The speakers were Rev. Dr. CHEEVER, and Miss ANNA E. DICKINSON Philadelphia. The former Strongly urged upon le Government the duty of proclaiming the abolition f slavery, not merely because it might be done under war power, but as an act of righteousness required by the God of heaven and earth. The speech of Miss Dickinson, on the state of the country and the duty of the hour, was listened to with marked attention, and elicited frequent applause. The proceedings concluded with singing by the Hutchinson family, (John and his two sons,) the audience calling for the "John Brown Song," which was also sung in a stirring manner, nearly all present uniting in the chorus. 
We have a number of communications on file for insertion as soon as we can find room; but we must give precedence to the interesting proceedings to the Anti-Slavery anniversaries at New York, which occupy so large a portion of our present number, and will occupy considerable space in our next. Those who would like to obtain these proceedings complete, in a single paper, can be gratified by procuring a copy of the Anti-Slavery Standard of this week-Saturday, May 7-which will be sent to their post-office address, if they will enclose a three-cent stamp to Oliver Johnson, Editor of the Standard, 48 Beekman Street, New York.
The meeting at Feltonville, next Sunday, as will be seen by the Notice, has a special interest for the members and friends of the Middlesex County Anti-Slavery Society, all of whom, within convenient distance, we hope will be present. The time is one in which to "rejoice with trembling," and the duty of every true Abolitionist to be active and. earnest never seemed more imperative than at this hour. Let the meeting be, in numbers, zeal, and courage, commensurate with the importance of the subject and the crisis.
Victory perches upon the Federal standard in every direction. The evacuation of Yorktown has been quickly followed by the surrender of Norfolk, and the retreat of the rebel army toward Richmond-Gen. McClellan and his forces being in swift pursuit, and within only seventeen miles of the capital- At Norfolk, 200 cannon have been taken, with a large a-mount of store; but the rebels conflagrated an immense amount of property at the Gosport navy yard. They also blew up the iron-clad monster, the Merrimac. The stars and stripes a wave over New Orleans, which k occupied by Maj. Gen. Bauer's forces. The rebels burnt a costly amount of cotton. 
<c06>
PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.-The tenth Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends if will convene at Longwood, Chester County, Pennsylvania, on FIFTH DAY, (Thursday,) the fifth of Sixth month, (June,) 1862.
This annual assemblage is held for religious communion, for mutual interchange of thought and opinion, for the perpetuation of old friendships and the formation of new; in brief, for a festival of two or three days of social, intellectual, and spiritual fellowship and profit. The members of this Religious Society do not hold their membership by virtue of any ecclesiastical vows or, bonds, or of any real or supposed unity of theological belief. Their common faith, if it were written, would be simply and only the essential principle of love to God-a love to be exhibited, not through devotion to creeds and forms, but la lives of purity and beneficence, in the recognition and defence of the equal rights of mankind, in efforts to break the chains of the oppressed, and in a firm resistance to every form o iniquity and wrong.
Such being the spirit and aims of the Progressive Friends, the Slaveholders' Rebellion, its causes and consequences, and the means by which alone it can be effectually put down, will naturally engage no small share of the attention of the Yearly Meeting; and it cannot be doubted that, with an earnestness and solemnity worthy of the crisis, it will seek to persuade the people and the government to avert the calamities of civil war, and open up the only path to permanent peace and prosperity, by "proclaiming liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof." 
To all persons who cherish the spirit and principles above set forth, we extend a cordial invitation to meet and co-operate with the Society.
Oliver Johnson, Isaac Mendenhall,
Joseph A. Dugdale, Sarah Marsh Barnard,
Elizabeth Jackson, Lydia Irish,
Sumner Stebbins, Jennie K. Smith,
William Barnard, Ellen Angier,
Hannah Cox, Aaron Mendenhall,
Dinah Mendenhall, Sallie Howell, 
Josiah Wilson, Samuel B. Underhill,
Ruth Dugdale, Philena Heald,
Annie M. Stambeach, Ellie H. Mendenhall, 
Mary P. Wilson, Eusebius Barnard.
AN ADDRESS will be delivered at the Twelfth Baptist Church, Southac Street, on Tuesday evening, May 20th, by CHARLES H. BRAINARD, Esq. Subject-"The City of Washington before the Rebellion, and since Emancipation. The public are invited. Exercises to commence at 1-4 to 8 o'clock.
After the address, a Social Entertainment will be held in the Vestry.
Tickets 25 cents, to be obtained at the door. The proceeds for a benevolent purpose.
MIDDLESEX COUNTY.
A meeting of the Middlesex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held at FELTONVILLE, on Sunday, May 18, at the usual hours of meeting, through the day and evening. A preliminary meeting will probably be held on Saturday evening, May 17.
It is hoped that the members and friends of the Society, in the neighboring towns, will, so far as possible, be present. The meetings will be held in Lawrence Church.
PARKER PILLSBURY, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., GEORGE W. STACY, and other speakers are engaged to attend.
SAMUEL BARRETT, President.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, will give an Address upon Slavery and the War, in SALEM, on Sunday next, May 18. For particulars, see local papers.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON will speak in PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) on Sunday, May 25, afternoon and evening, upon topics connected with the War, and its influence on Slavery.
MISS DICKINSON will (it is expected) lecture next week in Essex County, as follows:-
Georgetown, Tuesday evening, May 20.
Groveland, Wednesday evening May 21.
Newburyport, Thursday evening May 22.
Newburyport or Friday, evening May23.
THE REJECTED STONE.-The new edition of this book, by Rev. M. D. Conway, is now ready.
Copies may be obtained for gratuitous distribution as low as twenty cents a copy, in cloth, provided ten or more copies are taken at once. Those who wish the book, for this purpose, should apply, in person or by letter, to HENRY G. DENNY, Esq., 42 Court Street, Boston.
The attention of our friends everywhere is earnestly called to this great opportunity of promoting the abolition of United States slavery.
NOTICE.-All communications relating to the business of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and with regard to the Publications and Lecturing Agencies of the American Anti-Slavery Society, should be addressed for the present to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221"Washington St., Boston. 
Many of the best and most recent publications of the American Anti-Slavery Society are for gratuitous distribution. Application for them to be made as above, which should be accompanied with directions how to send hem.
NOTICE.-Members of the American, Pennsylvania, Western, or Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, contributing annually to the funds of either of these Societies, can receive a copy of the last very valuable Report of the American Society, entitled The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year, by sending a request to that effect to Samuel May, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston, and enclosing stamps sufficient to pay the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
REMOVAL-DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN- MARGARET B. BROWN, M. D., and WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., have removed to No. 23, Chauncy Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A. M., to 4 o'clock, P. M. 3m March 28.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M.D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
A GOOD CHANCE
TO LEASE A SMALL FARM FOR ONE, OR A TERM OF YEARS.
A MIDDLE aged or young man, with a small family, with no other capital than a pair of willing bands, frugal and industrious habits, intelligent mined good moral character, somewhat acquainted with agricultural pursuits, will find a rare chance to lease-on the most favorable terms-a small farm, with all the stock and tools, and household furniture, situated in Pepperell, 3-4 mile from the district school, nearly three miles from the post-office, stores, churches, and a flourishing academy, under the management of an accomplished preceptor, four miles from the railway station, and two, hours' ride, by rail, from the city of Boston,-by making immediate application to the subscriber, on the premises. For particulars, inquire of WM. SPARRELL, Architect, No. 9 State Street, or at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston, where ambrotype views of the buildings may be seen.
No person need apply, who cannot furnish satisfactory references as to all the above qualifications, or who uses intoxicating drinks, moderately or immoderately, or is passionately fond of dogs, since the lessor is desirous of making his home with the lessee, and could not tolerate such, nuisances. 
Oak Hall, Pepperell, Mass., May 12.
THE PULPIT AND ROSTRUM.
Three different men-WM. LLOYD GARBISOX of Massachusetts, GARRETT DAVIS, of Kentucky, ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS of Georgia-are represented in the Pulpit and Rostrum, Nos. 26 and 27, (double number, two in one, price 20 cents,) as follows:-
The Abolitionists, and their Relations to the War: A Lecture by William Lloyd Garrison, delivered at the Cooper Institute, New York, January 14,1862.
The War not for Confiscation or Emancipation: A Speech by Hon. Garrett Davis, delivered in the U. S. Senate, January 23,1862.
African Slavery, the Corner-Stone of the Southern Confederacy: A Speech by Hon. Alexander H. Stephen, Vice President of the Confederacy, in which the speaker holds that " African slavery, as it exist among us, is the proper status of the negro in our form of civilization;" and " our new Government (the Southern Confederacy) is "the first in the history of the world based upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth."
E. D. BARKER, PUBLISHER,
135 Grand St., New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
SPRING-TIME.
BY THOMAS MACKELLAR.
The sovereign Sun unbars the icy gates
To let the Spring with all her train come in;
But timidly the bashful maiden waits, 
Or flees affrighted from the stormy din 
And elemental strife. While she both stand
In hesitance, the soft, warm southern breeze
Steals from the isles of lime and orange trees, 
And blithely Spring trips o'er the smiling land. 
Hurrah! the buds grow big;
They burst their swaddling-bands;
The spiral sprout
Is shooting out,
And grass is creeping o'er the meadow-lands. 
Hurrah! ten thousand rills
Are hurrying down the hills;
And, sparkling as they run,
They symbolize the boy
So over-full of joy
His very eyes are scintillating fun.
Hurrah! a fly, a real fly!
With legs so slim and will so strong,
So impudent and sly,
So busily idle all day long;
Where didst thou hide, the freezing winter through?
Hadst thou a cozy cell
Where thou didst dwell 
When the snows fell
And the north winds belw?
ah! have a care, gay chap!
For many a snare, 
In earth and air,
Is hidden in a silken trap.
How genial is the ray
Of this luxurious day,
That vivifies the bosom like a thought
Of other days with happy memories fraught?-
The young-life days that seem
But a delicious dream
That fitted o'er a brain whose vision
Glimpsed upon a scene elysian, 
Too unreal for a world
By manhood into chaos hurl'd.
A tear! why, sure, there's still
A living rill
Beneath the rubbish piled upon the heart,
That bubbles up,
And yields a cup
Of healing for a bosom-smart.
Let's forth, my friend, and wander slow
Over the fields of tender green, 
Where, as we go,
The earlier flowers are seen,
With bluish eyes,
Up-peering to the skies,
Like childhood looking up to God
From bended knees.
How fragrant is the sod,
Where no o'ershading trees
Prevent the blessing of the sun
From coming down,
With odorous plant to crown
The lea that erst was desolate and dun!
Companion mine!
Thou of the musing race!
Seest thou the beams that round us shine
Of HEAVEN'S premeditated grace?
oh! speak'; for thou'rt a master in the speech
That to the soul's remotest depths can reach:
A place there is within thy poet heart
Where heavenly thoughts like holy angels bide;
Thou drawest at times the hiding veil aside,
And from its home thou causest to depart
A living verse to go around, and be
A missioner of good to our humanity:
So speak thou now in this love-moving hour,
When new-born Nature wakes in mystic power.
Ah! silent still! I see! I see!
I find a key
That opes to me
The mystery
of thy deep silence now: I see
the cloud that hangers above thy joy;
Thy memory rests on thine angelic boy
Who held thy hand when on thy evening walk,
And by his little talk
Beguiled thee so
That life without him seemed an utter wo.
Thy lamb is safely gather's in the fold,
The fold eternal, in the better land;
His hand is in the gentle SHEPHERD'S hand,
And by His side he walks, as once of old
He walk'd with thee along this beauteous earth. 
His eye, that glisten'd with a sinless mirth,
Is brighter now: his voice,
Excelling in its sweetness any bell,
Is sweeter now in its harmonies swell,
In that grand hymn wherewith the blest rejoice.
He cannot come to thee; but thou,
When God shalt change thy brow,
And make thy vision dim,
Shalt go to him.
What though we turn to clay-
A spring-time resurrection day,
Remember, shall be his and thine 
And mine,
And every soul's that loves our Lord
In this brief time:
Immortal prime
Is theirs who trust the MASTER'S word.
Let's homeward now: thy face again is bright;
The spring-time shadows soon resolve in light.

WASTED TIME.
Alone in the dark and silent night,
With the heavy thought of a vanished year;
When evil deed come back to sight,
And good with the spectres of the past,
That come with the old year's dying chime,
There gleams one shadow dark and vast,
The shadow of Wasted Time.
The chances of happiness cast away,
The opportunities never sought,
The good resolves that every day
Have died in the impotence of thought:
The slow advances and the backward step 
In the rugged path we have striven to climb;
How they furrow the brow and pale the lip,
When we talk with Wasted Time!
What are we now?- what had we been,
Had we boarded time as the miser's gold,
Striving our coveted meed to win,
Throughn the summer's heat and the winter's cold;
Shrinking from nought that the world could do;
Faring nought but the touch of crime;
Laboring, struggling, all seasons through,
And knowing no Wasted Time?
Who shall recall the vanished years?
Who shall hold back this ebbing tide
That leaves us remorse, and shame, and tears,
And washes away all things beside?
Who shall give us the strength e'en now 
To leave forever this holiday rhyme,
To shake off this sloth from hear and brow,
And battle with Wasted time!
The years that pass come not again, 
The things that die no life renew;
But e'en from the rust of his cankering chain
A golden truth is glimmering through;
That to him who learns from errors past,
And turns away with strength sublime,
And makes each year outdo the last,
There is no Wasted Time.

JOY AND SORROW.
Joy is but a sunny level,
Bliss a flowery plain;
Sorrow is a rugged summit,
Sealed with tears and pain.
To the Flowery meads and valleys,
Balm and peace are given;
Yet the rugged mountain summit
Listh nearer Heaven.
<c02>
SELECTIONS.
WASHINGTON IS FREE.
For the first time in the history of his Government, the Capital stands upon free soil!
After a long and gloomy storm has chilled and dispirited men, how full of gladness and hope is the first faint blue spot that shines in the heaven! That hand's breadth of blue is mightier upon our sprits that all the waste and wilderness of black clouds that fill the whole heavens! It tells us what is be hind the storm. It shows that clods are growing thin, and moving off. That spot of prophetic blue has at last shone through at Washington! The District of Columbia holds no slaves! Emancipation has been effected. The slaves to be set free were few. If there had been but ten, the joy would have been as great. It is the nation that is freed. It is our Government that has been emancipated. This is the first act of legislative emancipation performed in this nation since the Revolutionary impulse ceased, and a reactionary movement for slavery set in! The Congress of the United States are deliberating for the first time since Washington's day on free soil! the foundations of the Capital are no free soil!
The President walks upon free soil as he strolls through the grounds of the White House. The birds will sing sweeter. The grass will grow greener. Flowers will yield a better fragrance. Every Christian man upon this continent should offer one prayer of devout thanksgiving. Men should meet each other with gratulations. Those long separated may well make this event an alter of reconciliation. It is a far higher reason for national thanksgiving than any event in the campaign. Will not the President ask this Christian nation to join in a day of thanksgiving? But we ought not to wait for that. Public meetings should be called in city and village, and citizens, without respect to party or religion, should unite in expressions of patriotism and congratulation over this memorable event!
That terrible code of slave laws lies dead in the District of Columbia! Those dreadful offices which it created are sunk to eternal infamy! Human flesh is not merchantable in the Capital of a Free people! Mothers own their daughters! Men own their wives! Love binds together household inseparably, that yesterday could be put asunder for gold. New songs will rock hundreds of cradles. God is glad for his own poor Let us be glad!
To every just and honorable soul that loves right and hates wrong, we send greeting-Washington is free!
To those long-tried men who have given their lived to the great work of national renovation, and who happily live to see the beginning of national emancipation, we send joyful greetings--Washington is free!
Could our voice go forth out of this sphere to that land of the blessed, where are the beautiful spirits of those who early labored for liberty but died without the sight, we would cry to them, " Gove nobler thanks to God and higher praise! The Capital of the Nations is Free!"-New York Independent.

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The movement of public affairs is so rapid, and such momentous events are constantly transpiring, that it is hardly possible to pause in our thought long enough to realize fully the moral and political triumph involved in the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. Yet it is an event of the greatest beneficence and of the highest significance. It has apparently attracted but little attention. The gratifying vote by which both houses of Congress consummated this just and honorable measure has been duly recorded in the newspapers, and duly read by the people. But is has caused no deep sensation in the public mind. Yet no intelligent and generous American, we take it, can have failed to experience and emotion of patriotic joy that our nation has done so noble a thing, and that our national capital is no longer to be a den of slaveholders. We are no longer to be shamed at home and disgraced abroad by the prosecution of the man traffic under sanction of the national authority. Henceforth thank God, the capital of the "home of the free" is to be free soil!
A year ago, merely to purpose the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia was political heresy. To petition Congress for such an act would have been the height of absurdity. But to-day all parties acquiesce and glory in a deed so honorable to out people. But little is said about it; the nation is to earnestly engaged in the great struggle with slavery in its own interior fastnesses to stop to moralize or rejoice over incidental triumphs. The destruction of slavery in the national capital is observed as a matter of course, and it is because the people are prepared for much more decisive blows at the rebel institution that they manifest so little feeling about this. The people of the country are not wasting all this blood and treasure to accomplish no good. They do not propose to endure the sorrows and horrors of this war, and then permit the rebels to achieve in-the end, by political action or legal sufferance, the very objects which they sought and have failed to accomplish by the bloody sword. The domination of the slave owner in the national councils is at an end, and the people will insist that slavery shall be put where it will no longer vex, disturb and destroy the nation.
Abroad, the effects of the abolition of slavery in the District will be most salutary. This act, connection with the President's Emancipation Message, will dignify and exalt the country, and will draw more closely towards us the sympathies of all liberal minds. The rebel Confederacy will henceforth stand out conspicuously and alone among the nations of the earth as only a Brotherhood of Thieves.-Salem Observer.

EMANCIPATION.
That the question of Emancipation with compensation will enter largely into our next elections, no one can doubt who looks at the course to which political events are and have been tending since the rebellion. Indeed, it will form the main feature, the controlling principle of the party of the Union, throughout the States, and will swallow up all other party questions and creeds in the magnitude of its importance and bearing upon the interests of the country at large.
The question of slavery has, more or less, entered into almost every campaign-national and local-for many years past, but in a somewhat limited or partisan sense. Then, those who dared to advocate emancipation-no matter how hones or conscientions may have been their convictions-were called "Abolitionists," "Union-Splitters," "Fanatics," and other vile names-hunted out from the profile vocabulary of Loco-Focoism; and all manner of evil intentions against the Constitution and peace of the Union were charged upon them; but now a change is visible in the respect. Abolition has ceased to be the scare-crow of politicians. The people have learned from the rebellion to examine a little closer for themselves, and not trust so much to demagogues for their knowledge of political ethics. They have seen that while fanaticism and disunion have been charged upon Northern Statesman and States, treason has been nurtured and cultivated in the South by the slave-driving lords of cottondom, until it has at length culminated in a sanguinary war, which, for ferocity and barrenness if substantial purpose, is without a parallel in the history of the world. They have seen, too, that those who have uniformly been charged with disloyalty, and a disposition to break up the Government, are the true friends and supporters of the union, while those whose office it has been these many years past to cry out, "The Union is dissolved by Northern fanatics," are real and only foes of the peace, happiness, and prosperity of the Republic.
The people have learned to appreciate the real force and meaning of the terms "Abolitionist," "Black Republican," and other mean epithets which have been systematically and persistently heaped upon those who refused to how the knee to slavery, and subserve its ambitions designs upon the liberties of the country. such slang nicknames will no longer serve to cheat honest men out of their votes, but are passed by as meaningless and insulting deceptions, calculated to cover up the real objects of their invertors, and assist them the more readily to slip into power and partake of the luxury of public plunder, which they so well know, from long experience and practice, how to enjoy. Partisan rancor
<c03>
and sectional malevolence are gradually but surely passing away, and a purer current of popular though and investigation has engaged the minds of the people. they begin to realize the fact that slavery, and not abolition, is the perfidious parent of all our national troubles. That it is the forging of chains for human limbs to wear in perpetual bondage, and not the pleadings of liberty in behalf of all her children, which has to-day deluged the land in blood, and desolated a large portion of the country. That it is the dark shadow of a barbarous and cruel age hanging like a sable pall over the hoped and happiness of a large portion of our people in this nineteenth century, instead of the Declarations of American Independence, that now impedes their progress are alive to these facts; they recognize their importance and influence upon the social and political interests of the nation, and therefore are determined to take hold of the slavery question with a resolution and zeal will forever set at rest the disturbing elements of which it is made up.
Men are, to-day, willing to be called abolitionists, who, one year ago, would have felt insulted at even a distant intimation of any such idea. The word has lost its evil spell; and thousands of honest, patriotic, loyal hearts are ready to inscribe EMANCIPATIONS on their banners, and bear in on to triumph through the storm of bullets or the more calm battle of the ballot-box. The time for this has come. The North is ready. The South must be: and in this great moral revolution where will our own State be found? In the ranks of treason? No, no, no! Delaware must and will be on the side of Liberty. She cannot step aside from the path of patriotism; she must not refuse to do her duty; she will not lag behind her sister States in the forward march of human greatness and Christian charity; SHE WILL BE FREE. Free from all taint of disloyalty. Free from any suspicion of complicity with treason or traitors. Free from further legal sanction of that gigantic curse which has so long bound her to sluggish inactivity, and limited her power and influence as a State. And as she emerged from the blackness of the cloud in which all her local interests have so long been buried well nigh in oblivion, she will be free to declare, in all the pride and majesty of her redemption, that henceforth and forever she will give full and entire recognition and scope to those inalienable rights of man, "Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness." Thus will glorious little Delaware be found. No other position in the momentous struggle will become her-Delaware State Journal and Statesman.

A VOICE FROM MISSOURI.
On the 27th of April, 1862, the people of Franklin County, Missouri, gave response to the Emancipation Message of the President, in the following resolutions:-
"The people of Franklin County, Missouri, in mass meeting assembled, appreciating the blessing of Liberty, as we have enjoyed and received them under the Constitution and Government of the United Stated, do resolve:
I. That we will neither vote not give our influence for any man, for any office, who we know or believe is now, or ever has been, in favor of dissolution, nor who has not been at all times of unshaken and outspoken loyalty, nor who has ever hesitated to acknowledge the supremacy of the authority of, and the duty of allegiance to the Federal Government, as paramount to all other authority or allegiance; nor will we submit, until we have exhausted our constitutional and legal means of resistance, to the exercise of civil authority over us by any man who has ever counseled, aided, or abetted the crime of treason against the Constitution and Government of the United States, or resistance to the exercise of lawful authority by the President, or other officers legally invested with authority, under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
II. That the people of Missouri are the sole judges of what local and domestic institution they require for their peace, happiness, and prosperity as a people; and in the exercise of that right, we declare our solemn conviction that negro slavery is destruction of all these blessings. We therefore pledge ourselves to a hearty support of any practical measure for the gradual emancipation and colonization of the slaves now in Missouri, which may be just and fair toward the present loyal owners, and which the law-makers of our State may be able to devise in harmony with the policy of President Lincoln, as announced in his annual and recent Messages to Congress.
III. That the intimate alliance of treason with slavery in Missouri is a sufficient reason for all loyal citizens to oppose the perpetuation of the latter with the same vigor they seek the eradication of the former; and it is a duty we owe ourselves, our posterity, and the cause of free Government, to demand such legal enactments as will place the institution of slavery in Missouri upon a footing that the public mind will rest satisfied of its gradual extinction.
IV. That we will neither vote, nor give our influence, for any man for Governor, or for the Legislature, who is not pledged to the support of a proposition having for its object the erection of a legal barrier to the further immigration of slaves into this State, nor who is not pledged to the support of a practical, just and fair proposition for the emancipation and colonization, outside of the Union, of all the slaves in the State.
V. That the doctrines and policy enunciated by President Lincoln, in his recent and annual messages for the preservation of the Union, meet our hearty and undivided support; and while we deprecate civil war, and desire the smile of peace to illumine out country again, we feel that the "Union must be preserved," and the war should not cease until the national authority is practically re-acknowledged.
VI. That we recommend Samuel T. Glover, Esq., of St. Louis, to the loyal people of the State as a candidate for Governor, and invite them to join with us in soliciting him to become a candidate.
Which were adopted unanimously, amid shouts of approval."
Franklin County, Mo., is situates about twenty miles from the Mississippi and the western boundary of St. Louis and Jefferson Countries. It is on of the largest and most flourishing Countries in the State, and has a population of 18,000 (being an increase of 7,000 since 1850), of whom about one-tenth are salves. At the last Presidential election, one-fourth of the cotes of this County were cast for Mr. Lincoln. Hermann is within its limits. The population is largely composed of Germans. Union, the county town, is 43 miles south-west of St. Louis.
Let Free Speech cross the Border, and Slavery will fall before it like the harvest ripe for the sickle.- New York Tribune.

GEN.CAREY ON HANGING ABOLITIONISTS.
It does not diminish our disgust of this fashionable slang, that even General Carey should endorse it. In his speech, at the Opera House, last Friday night, he said:-
"Brother Brownlow mentioned in his remarks the advantage which would have accrued to the country, had one or two hundred Abolitionists, and equal number of Southern Secession agitators, been hung together, and buried in a common ditch; and I most cordially agree with him. I agree with the freedom of the press and free speech, and believe them to be two of the greatest blessings we enjoy; but I have no sympathy with Wendell Phillips, and I think that when any man stretches our his hand to endeavor to shake the pillar of this sacred fabric of our Government, he should be cut down where he stands. (Immense applause.)"
We do not ask General Carey, or anybody else, to have sympathy with Wendell Phillips. We do not agree with Mr. Phillips's sentiments; but we most heartily abhor the doctrine that a man, pleading for the rights of man, even the rights of a negro, and even though he should state his views strongly, and urge measures which we deem unwise, is to be ranked with Secessionists who have wages a war against the Government, and are hanging and murdering innocent Unionists. The implications that Mr. Phillips ever stretched forth his hand to endeavor to shake the pillars of this sacred fabric, is unjust. He has, indeed, ably and eloquently denounced our subserviency to the Salve Power, and he has specified conditions on which he would see the Union dissolved. We do not ask general Carey to agree that the provocation was sufficient. We do not say that it was; but one whose words of burning eloquence have been heard so often, counselling the setting aside of law and legal redress, when law fails to render protection to individual rights, as General Carey, is the last man to counsel the hanging of men for entertaining and inculcating sentiments not palatable to the masses.
<c04>
How we have seen him thrill audiences, as he bas urged them to hold the health and happiness of their families more sacred than law-to rise above law- to break over law-to shoot liquor sellers and demolish their business houses-and we have said Amen! And shall be now hang Wendell Phillips, because he holds liberty as more sacred than the Constitution? When General Carey shall have given the subject of slavery as much thought as he has the subject of temperance, be will possibly not think that an anti-slavery man is, per se, a felon, deserving to die.
Just now, more than for years past, the slang against Abolitionism is becoming popular. Be it so. We shall not, however, let go our conviction that, however unwise many Abolitionists may have been in their speeches and in their plans, they yet have been of the best and purest men of our times. Nor will we dismiss our hopes that this war may continue, until it shall no longer be considered an elegant spice to a speech to demand that such men as Phillips, and Summer, and Seward, and Beecher shall be hanged, and sent to hell, along with Davis, and Mason, and Yancey, because, forsooth, they have maintained that a soul in ebony was nevertheless a human soul! We are not surprised, though we are grieved, to find our friend Carey following this fashion. His anti-slaveryism has always been of the most conservative type.-Indiana American.

REV. W. G. BROWNLOW.
At a meeting of the Pioneer Association on Saturday evening, Parson Brownlow is reported to have used the following language:-
"If, fifty years ago, we had taken one hundred Southern fire-eaters and one hundred Abolitionists, and hanged them up, and buried them in a common ditch, and sent their souls to hell, we should have had none of this war."
We sympathize with Mr. Brownlow in his sufferings, and we admire the courage with which he has defended himself, and his firm endurance under his bitter trial. For a Union with slavery and for the protection of slavery, he has fought well. But such vulgar blackguardisms as that quoted above, is fit only for the ruffianism of the South; and that such sentiments and such language could be vociferously cheered by a Northern audience, only shows how far we have sunk towards secessionism itself. The sentiment is the same which moved men to mob Mr. Phillips, and the cheer was the echo of the yell of the Opera rioters.
Mr. Brownlow has shown that he has no more conception of the true nature of the American conflict than a babe in the cradle.
Every sneer against an Abolitionist, and every approving shout for such sentiments as Mr. Brownlow uttered, are worth more to Jeff. Davis than men in arms. Secession lives now on just such speeches and cheers as those. The Knights of the Golden Circle would not desire more efficient helpers than just such meetings and speakers.-Free Nation.

A RAMBLE ABOUT ALEXANDRIA.
Washington, D. C., April 16. 1862.
Yesterday I went down into Virginia. Taking the road at King street, we passed through the dirty town-which seems to be as lavish of filth as it is of treason-out into the country, now beginning to look green. Some peach trees were in blossom. But soldiers were everywhere; and as they pay little respect to Virginia vegetation, nature will have little to do here this season except to check itself. It is all secession ground, the soldiers say,- and they don't intend it shall be fruitful. The fences and forests serve for firewood, and the grass for forage. 
Returning, I turned aside to take a look at the infamous old slave pen and jail that for many years has filled a square in the dirty, shabby city of Alexandria. It is now only used as a guard-house. The pen to-day only contained one drunken soldier, who was silently luxuriating upon the unswept brick floor. One wing is being covered in and filled up with small dungeon cells, for refractory persons-a horrid place. It has many marks of violence upon its walls and windows-as though the memory of the outrages committed within them had recoiled upon them. Doors, walls and blinds are broken and defaced, and filth and vermin breed there. It is a horrid place; one wishes to walk on tip-toe through its dingy portals. This morning the Provost guard had captured a large number of nymphs and cyprians, and confined them in the chamber. They appeared at the windows, in great wrath, and addressed the soldiers lying about, as only a depraved woman can-sung secession songs, and did other things not unpleasing to the "boys" neither polite nor patriotic. What an unfathomable depth there is to low vice! Who is accountable for all the frailty there is in the world?
This old slave pen, whose walls are symbolic of most atrocious oppression, now bears upon its ruinous front, in defaced letters, the monolith of "Price, Burch & Co., Dealers in Slaves." But Price, Burch & Co. no longer deal in slaves-like the Bastile, the place has now to render it infamous only the memory of its grinding oppressions. I met here before its walls a gentleman, long resident of the place, who during thirty years had never before entered its portals, though living near enough to hear the wails and shrieks of the former victims. He knew it by history and the fate of those who bought and sold slaves. It had had several owners, whose special fate had the same termination. It was built by Franklin and Armfield, who became rich:-the latter courteous, liberal, and gentlemanly, built him a palace, and fitted up his grounds with all the luxuries and delicacies that could make life desirable, then married a beautiful girl, and thought to be happy. But men who recognized his occupation as a necessity, marked him as infamous. Even in Alexandria, where treason and slavery are as black as ink, the courteous and liberal slave-dealer could not rise above his trade. He was passed by,-his beautiful wife sat lonely in her luxurious halls, until, wearied with her social neglect, she left her home and returned to her father. Her husband continued his business for a while; then, disgusted, sold his place and left the vicinity.
He was succeeded by a man named Bruin-like Armfield, courteous, liberal and intelligent, who strove by these qualities to overcome the corpse-like aversion that hung over the head of the dealer in slaves. But he struggled in vain. Even his benefactions were sometimes refused, and the social ban fell upon him like a heavy cloud. He abandoned the trade, and was glad to seek an obscurity where he could not see, but only feel the odium that hung so darkly over him. What became of "Price, Burch & Co." the record says nothing-but their vile den has lost nothing of its previous reputation by being transmuted into a guard house for Union prisoner! and secession prostitutes.
Leaving my newly found friend, I turned down King street again, towards the Marshall House, now a loyal dirty lager beer saloon, and listened a moment to the explosions of one of the natives. He had applied to the Provost Marshal for license to sell goods; and was informed that it was necessary for him to swear allegiance to Federalism before be could trade legally. This he declined most emphatically. "He'd be d-d if he'd ever swear allegiance to a foreign government. He was a free Virginian, and he'd rot and burn before be would pay tribute to the d-d Lincolnites. He knew the streets were full of Union soldiers, but he wished he had the power to send them all to hell." Long he continued in this strain, refusing to be comforted, even when assured that he would thus draw down upon himself the provisions of the confiscation act.
Such is the blind fanaticism of these dupes of base men. One almost despairs of restoring a Union sentiment, when so near the Capital, and where all the motions of the Government are daily seen and understood, such bitter, implacable hostilities are kept alive.
The passage home, through that fleet of crowded transports, filled my mind with many sad thoughts of the future.-Correspondent of the Independent Democrat.

THE BATTLE OF SHILOH.
PAINFUL SCENES-AS ARMY OF SEXTONS-THE DEAD AND WOUNDED.
On Thursday it was impossible to move without caution, as dead men were lying thickly every where for miles-sometimes a dozen in a space of as many feet. No such scene was ever before witnessed in America. The opponents lay as they bad fallen, often the body of one heaped upon that of the other. Wounded men, mangled hones, crushed bodies, extended so interminably that it was impossible to pass through them, and the visitor would finally be compelled to turn and retrace his steps.
Rains had soaked the ground and covered it with
<c05>
pools of water, and sometimes the wounded could be seen crawling on to the dead, and lying there to keep off from the damp earth. Many bad died in that position, and not a few of the deaths were caused by exposure. Physicians were busy, laboring nobly, but instruments became blunted and useless, and surgeons dropped with fatigue at their posts before a fiftieth part of their work had been done.
Numbers were drowned by being unable to crawl away from the places where they had fallen, and in which the waters rapidly collected. Your city readers can form some idea of the carnage by picturing a walk as far as from St. Louis to the Fair grounds among dead and dying, stretched away out of sight on either side. The woods far beyond our picket guards are being now explored, and hundreds of injured, abandoned by the enemy on their retreat, were brought in. Every house between here and Corinth is a hospital. We visited several of them, and found the floors covered with poor wretches, lying in pools of blood, their arms or legs torn off. Days passed without any nourishment, and in half the cases death had outstripped the physicians, and was coming to their relief. Certainly, a greater scene of wide-spread misery never existed. The first day or two, the air was filled with groans, sobs, and frenzied curses, but now the sufferers are quiet; not from cessation of pain, but mere exhaustion.
We frequently, a little to one side, where first the ambulances, afterwards the dead carts, had failed to find them, came across the bodies of men who had bled to death. Around them the grass was stained with blood, and often their hands were clasped convulsively on a few leaves, with which they had endeavored to stop the life-tide, until growing fainter and fainter, they had given up in despair, and laid back to die. One poor fellow, a boy. who could not have been over fourteen, was lying against a tree, a knife in his hand, with which he had carved the letters, JOHN DAN-. The N was but partially finished, when death had compelled him to give up the gloomy task of writing his own epitaph. The terrible destruction caused by cannon balls was evidenced in the sight of three bodies mangled by the same shot. The latter, a twelve-pounder, had struck a fourth man, while he was evidently in a stooping posture, hitting immediately on the top of the head, and driving the fragments of skull downward into the body, the shot remaining half hidden between the shoulders. I saw in three houses near our outer pickets, and two miles from the battleground, four wounded rebel captains, and thirty or forty privates. Beauregard, as he retreated, bore back with him his wounded, leaving them in houses, barns, and fence-corners by the way. It is thus they were strewn over so great a space. One of the officers was being carried to a wagon as we stopped, and in the height of delirium waved his arm above his head, cheering imaginary companies on to attack.-Correspondence of the St. Louis Republican.

FREE EVENING SCHOOL.
The following report, touching the rise and progress of the free evening school in this city, will, we are sure, be read with interest. That this beneficent public charity has met with so large a measure of success is a matter of gratulation, evincing as it does the general desire that is felt among a large class to obtain the rudiments of an education, of which they have been deprived, in their earlier years, perhaps, by circumstances beyond their control. We trust and believe that the enterprise will be renewed, the coming autumn, under still more encouraging auspices, and that the means of those engaged in the good work will be increased by the donations of the benevolent, and their means of usefulness be thereby extended. Much credit is due to those who originated and have had this matter under their charge, and we trust they will receive that encouragement from our citizens which the work they have undertaken deserves. Their generous and self-sacrificing spirit is worthy of all praise.-Lynn Reporter.

EVENING SCHOOL REPORT.
When, last autumn, the Fraternity Association re- solved upon the establishment of a free evening school, the committee to whom the enterprise was instructed were instructed to render an account of their success to the Fraternity, at the first regular meeting which should be holden after the close of the school. On Monday, the 31st of March, after a prosperous session of six months, the school terminated; and in accordance with our instructions, the accompanying is respectfully submitted. Much herein contained will be familiar to you. having been published in partial reports while the experiment was pending; but the necessity of a complete report compels its repetition.
On Monday, Oct. 7th, 1861, Buffum's Hall, on Broad Street, was opened for the purpose of offering free instruction in reading, writing and arithmetic to that class of persons in the community debarred, either by advanced age or by forced occupation, from attending our public schools. As no test had ever been applied to ascertain the need of such an institution in Lynn, we were at first perplexed about the scale upon which we ought to commence; some fearing we should not attract more than twenty scholars, and the most sanguine not expecting over forty. Taking the mean between the two estimates, we provided tables and seats for thirty, and awaited the result. Following the example of Mr. Barnard, of Boston, we deemed it advisable to charge each pupil an entrance fee of twenty-five cents, in order to exclude the indifferent, and to increase the earnestness and regular attendance of the pupils.
The first evening, sixteen applied, and were admitted,-fourteen girls and two boys. On the next Thursday evening, seven more were admitted, and on the succeeding evening came an increase of sixteen. Every school night our number was augmented, till, on the 14th of November, the fifth week of the school, having admitted one hundred and two scholars, we were obliged reluctantly to turn away many deserving people who sought admittance, With ample accommodations, your committee do, not doubt that the school could have been doubled, and even trebled.
To classify and arrange this assemblage of men and women, differing not less in age than in degrees of advancement, was no easy matter. Fortunately, a sufficient number of teachers bad volunteered their services-some of them already experienced in teaching-and, after a few nights, order was educed from confusion and our pathway smoothed. The interest and appreciation which the pupils evinced lightened the duties of the teachers, and made their task a pleasurable rather than an irksome one, and it was gratifying to see the confidence and friendly feeling which this new relation developed.
Necessarily, out of so large a number, there was a certain proportion of absences, which we found to be about twenty-five per cent., or one-quarter of the entire number each night. This enabled us to receive more pupils than we otherwise could have done; and while there were actually only ac commodations for eighty, we admitted one hundred and sixteen. The statistical statement of the school is as follows:-Total, 116 pupils; 76 females and 40 males. Average age of females, 19 1-4 years; of males, 18 4-11 years. Our oldest pupil was a colored man, 54 years of age; the youngest, 12. There were 85 of Irish birth, 25 Americans. 5 English, and 1 Portuguese. 85 were Catholics and| 31 Protestants. Two were colored men. The average attendance of the scholars was 70, of the teachers, 20. When we take into consideration the ordinary inclemency of the season, and the fact that two-thirds of the pupils were females a commendable degree of zeal is shown. The largest number present at one time was 85: the smallest, 29. This was on February 27th, when one of the severest storms of the winter was raging.
The total expenses of the school amount to $112, 50. The contributions and entrance fees of the scholars exactly equal this outlay, although a two months' gas bill is yet to be settled. The items of the account may be seen by consulting the record-book. The actual running expenses have not exceeded thirty dollars-the main cost being for the furniture of the room, which will be available should another school be established next autumn. Owing to the generosity of Mr. Buffum, our rent cost as nothing.
While the school was in contemplation, your committee were advised, by teachers conversant with schools of this kind, to have separate evenings for the men and the women. Believing, however, that such a distinction would be unnecessary, and, if anything, derogatory to the success of the school, the advice was disregarded, and no distinction of sex was made. The wisdom of this has made itself fully manifest. We are satisfied that the general order has been promoted by this course, and that the influences arising from this association of the men and women have been of benefit.
<c06>
Another pleasing fact was the absence of any manifestation of prejudice against color. Some of us had feared that the feelings of our colored pupils might be hurt by thoughtless actions or remarks of their fellow learners. These fears, we rejoice to say, were groundless; and your committee were unable to distinguish any shade of difference made in their treatment on account of complexion. We regret that adverse circumstances, or flagging zeal, deprived us of both these pupils, two or three months before the school ended, and we hope that next year a larger proportion of their race will feel an ambition to educate and improve themselves.
In concluding this report, the committee would bear witness to the faithful efforts of the teachers who so disinterestedly contributed their time and services to the good work. Patient, self-sacrificing and constant, they showed how interesting and valuable a school may be made when the labors are those of love and friendship. "Surely learning," says old Thomas Fuller "is the greatest <illegible> that can be given." be certain that the recipients of the little learning we have been fortunate enough to bestow will ever remember the gift with gratitude; for it is something permanent and abiding.
Though undertaken by the fraternity, the school has bee sustained by the aid of kind friends in various parts of the town, and regardless of religious associations. Our sincere thanks are due to Mr. JAMES N. BUFFUM, for his liberality in furnishing us, without charge, his excellent ball; to PETER M.NEAL, Esq., for his valuable assistance in the commencement of the school; to AMOS P.TAPLEY, Esq., for his generous and timely donation of money; and to all who have in any way contributed to the success of the enterprise.
WM.L.GARRISON, JR., Committee
HELEN M. IRESON, Committee
JAMES EDWARD OLIVER, Committee
Lynn, Saturday, April 12, 1862.

NORTHERN CITIES OF REFUGE.
PHILADELPHIA, April 23, 1862.
The great cities of the North are fast becoming cities of refuge, into which fugitives from all the multiplied forms which oppression takes in the South are running for safety and repose. Recent events have sent them thronging over the railroads in greater numbers than ever. As blow after has been <illegible> at the rebellion in its remote strongholds, where <illegible> men were hemmed in by a military cordon, or fearful, under the reign of terror, to attempt escaping, the <illegible> which shut them in have been broken down, the avenues for escape have been opened, and to the peaceful, undesolated North they come, squalid and desolate, but even in their desolation praising God at being thus liberated by Union <illegible> from the scene of their intolerable bondage. Fugitives of this description are daily reaching this city, some in so destitute a condition as to make one's heart ache to witness it. Many of them bring families of children, thin and gaunt from famine, and clothed in mean and ragged garments-now they are dependent on charity. They bring nothing but the clothes on their <illegible> and houses have been all abandoned-<illegible> had stripped them of live stock, provisions, crops, and everything by which life was to be sustained. Some of the mothers and daughters of these families are objects of profound sympathy. Whole house holds have found their hungry way to our Soldiers' Refreshment Saloon, to be there publicly fed by charity. They have given me pitiable pictures of the robbery, the outrages, the terrorism under which they have suffered for nearly a year past, and now, thinking God for their escape, they look round from one meal to another, doubting where it is to come from. Such as have friends are taken home and cared for; but many are among total strangers. This new phase of ostracism imposes a new tax on the public sympathies as well as on private purses. But it is promptly and generously mer. If new victories are to liberate other <illegible> to seek refuge hither, the North will have large demands made on its liberality. 
But there are fugitives of a darker complexion, such as, instead of having endured terrorism for but a single year, have cowered under it for a life-time. Then reach out city singly, sometimes in pairs and <illegible> squads, and occasionally in what may be called <illegible> As many as a hundred have arrived in a single week Talk of the destitution of the white fugitives! Some of these black ones reach our borders without shoes, their feet torn and bloody by tramping over <illegible> roads-no hats for some, no shirts for others; emaciated from anxiety and famine, for they had travelled by night, and had no money with which purchase food. Among these, I saw and conversed with the <illegible> of Mason, the author of the Fugitive Slave Law. The capture of Winchester broke sown their prison doors and let them go free, never to be re-enslaved. They were part of a large body of fugitives liberated by the extension of our lines beyond Manassas. But these destitute creatures find quite as many friends as the whites. When they reach the city, they are received into the families of the colored residents, whence they are speedily taken, mostly into the country by farmers who need help. Here, for the first time in their lives, they receive wages. If families are thus separated, it is voluntary. But privation is submitted to with heroic fortitude by these poor victims of oppression-nothing being counted such when beyond reach of the plantation lash. All classes, colors, and ages thus come and go. One women of near a hundred years old was among them. Women bring with them mere babies at the breast. It is a significant fact that as our armies penetrate further South, so do the fugitives arrive from greater distances. This without proclaiming themselves to be liberating armies, they must be practically such-[Corr. N. Y. Tribune.
A FREEDMAN'S FIRST ACT. One the return march of Col. Mix's 3d New York Cavalry from Winchester to Washington, a large number of male contrabands be turned back or molested by the commanding office, Col Mix. They built camp firs and groomed horses for the troops, who in return fed them from their rations. Lieut. Chamberlain, of Rochester, adopted one of them, a fine looking boy of about twenty years, as his servant. One reaching Washington. he gave him money to purchase an extra supper out of camp. The negro went without the supper, and invested the money in a spelling book. He has studied this intently every leisure hour, and although perfectly ignorant of the alphabet one week ago, he is master of his letters.
The Union troops, as they advanced to take possession of Fort Pulaski, after the surrender, sang the "John Brown" song and "The Star-Spangled Banner."
John s. Rock, Esq., a colored lawyer of Boston, delivered his lecture, "A Plea for my Race," in Shiloh Church, last evening. The lecture was both interesting and instructive, and was listened to with deep attention. It was handled in a masterly manner.-Phila. Press, April 1.
A DIAMOND WEDDING. Mr. Asa Raymond ' and wife, of Shutesbury, Franklin county, Mass., respectively ninety-seven and ninety-six years of age, who had been man and wife for the long period of seventy five years, held the "Diamond Wedding" festival recently. We understand the old folks are both in excellent health, and that a large number of their descendants and relatives were present on teh <illegible> occasion. 
DIED-In Duxbury, 1st ult., Mrs. Susuannah Hunt, widow of the late Mr. Thomas Hunt, aged one hundred years and ten months. She was, says the Old Colony Memorial, the mother of nine children. Only three drive her. Her oldest, aged eighty, and her youngest, aged sixty, followed her to the grave. She had thirty-seven grand-children, seventy-four great grand-children, and twelve of the fifth generation. 
NOT BAD. The Boston Advertiser prints the following suggestion furnished by a gentleman abroad, respecting the disposition of the Fort Donelson prisoners: "I propose that they be exchanged for slaves, on the principle of Southern representation, five <illegible> for three slaves, reversing the order of value."
The Senate Committee on the inquiry into the charges of disloyalty against Mr. Stark of <illegible> have made a report, finding those charges proven,

SELECT SCHOOL.
THE suscriber will be pleased to receive a few Young Ladies into her charge for purpose of Instruction in English Braches, Music and French. A Term of Tea Weeks will commence Wednesday, May7, 1862.
For particulars, address ABBIE B. HEYWOOD,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass, April 15, 1862.

THE PROGRESSIVE AGE.
Devoted to all Reforms.
This is a monthly Journal, of eight pages, edited by Brays J. Butts and Harriet N. Greene, his wife, Hopedale, Mass. It commences its fourth volume in May, 1862; and the friends of an unqualifiedly free paper are invited duly to consider its claims on their patronage. Specimen opies sent to any address.
TERMS,-Single copies, 50 cents a year; clubs of twenty names, $5.00
Address B.J.BUTTS & H.N.GREENE. Hopedale, April 16. 2w
