THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE DOLLARAS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our 
Countrymen are all Mankind 
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. No 46. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17,1865.WHOLE NO. 1815.
Selections 
<c01>
THE GOLDEN MOMENT.
The Party of Justice demands a policy of Equal Rights. This demand is based, not only on political expediency, but on a more sacred foundation in brown nature. Nor is this demand specifically for Negro Suffrage, any more than for White Suffrage. But for Equal Suffrage; that is, for suffrage without distinction of color. Moreover, we have not sought is divide out friends as to whether Suffrage should be universal of limited. Our own view on this point has been, and is, that the nation has a right to require that a voter shall read. But the pivot of the present question is, not whether suffrage shall be destructed or unrestricted, but whether it shall be even on equal terms to whites and blacks.
Now, the on e continual rebuff has been, "You have no right to dictate to the rebel Slates what shall be their rule of suffrage." In this view the President of the United States has acquiesced. He has repeatedly said that the question of suffrage must be left to the States. "I have no more right," he remarked to Major Stearns, "to say who shall the voters in South Carolina than in Pennsylvania." But he can urge this view no longer. He has escaped himself from this argument .He has telegraphed from Washington to one rebel State, "Sit in their sackcloth, till you repudiate the rebel debt;" and to another. Lie in your ashes, till you ratify the Constitutional Amendment." Both these majesties are sound, just, and indispensable.
But now comes the troublesome, query. If the President has a right to say to a sovereign State, <illegible>Reject the rebel debt," why has he not the same right to say, "Expunge the black laws"? If he can say, Ratify the Constitutional Amendment," why can he not say, "Accept Equal Suffrage"? The President dares not telegraph to New Jersey an executive order to adopt the Constitutional Amendment. He has no right to do it. But he can telegraph such an order to a rebel State, and has already done it He is powerless to command Ohio to repudiates her State debt. But he can to command a rebel State, and has already done it. He shall not dream of coercing Pennsylvania into Equal Suffrage. But he can so coerce every rebel State.
Our position, then, is this: if the Government an say to the conquered States," Nullify your or-paces of secession, repudiate your rebel debt, abolish slavery, ratify the prohibitory amendment" -if it can say all this, (and it has said all this,) then can also say, in the same breath, and with the same emphasis,
Give the ballot to the blackest soldier of the Republic!"
Now,-as the Government has claimed, and is exercising, the right to fix every other pre-requisite of reconstruction except only Equal Suffrage, why does it not fix this also? Is the occasion not yet hope? When are we to reach the negro, if not how If the present golden opportunity be squandered, shall God make haste to lavish upon us another? A few years ago, slavery existed in the States, and the Federal Government had no right is interfere. Even radical Abolitionists recognized the in competency of Congress to break the slave's chain. War have the right to emancipate. Except for the changed. relations of the slave States by the rebellion, no such Federal authority would have existed. When the rebellious States shall have regained their former status in the Union, the Federal. Government will have no more such authority over them than it now has over New England of the West. Instead of seeing the Government dictating the South, we shall then see the South <illegible> to the Government. If, therefore, we <illegible> to secure justice to the negro now, it will be to late to secure it by-and-by. The Government has eyes to see every needful condition of reconstruction except Equal Suffrage. It sees that every other safeguard must be predetermined now, for the Government will by-and-by lose the power of Composition. Our complaint of the Administration is that its policy-which in every other respect is sufficiently ample, and which in every other respect is intently pursued-excludes only the rights of the negro Wisely the Government says to the South, "We, mean to secure in advance every right of the Union against every possibility of your assault." We ask it to say just as wisely, "We mean to secure the rights of the negro against the same danger." Certainly, if the Government finds it needful to say to the rebel States, "We cannot trust you with the National flag, except you agree in writing, in advance, not to trample it under foot," it is just as needful to say, "Neither can we recommit the negro to your magnanimity without a similar precaution, lest, as even Mr. Beecher fears, ’you grind him to powder.'" If it be safe to trust to the rebels the rights of the negro in the reconstruction, why as it not just as safe to trust to the rebels the rebel debt or the Constitutional Amendment? Full well knows the President that the South, if left to its own will, would not annul the ordinances of secession, would not repudiate the rebel debt, would not accept its share of the national debt, would not abolish slavery, would not ratify the amendment. If therefore, Mr. Johnson cannot trust to the South any of these great pending interests of reconstruction, then, in the name of Justice and Humanity, let him beware how he trusts to such dangerous hands the sacred cause of Equal Rights!
How will the South treat the free negro? Will it sell him at auction? No. Will it sunder his family? No, Will it bunt him ith bloodhounds? No. We answer thus positively, because the President said to the black regiment, "You are henceforth to enjoy your freedom." What, therefore, is the freedom which they are to enjoy? Its sum and substance is (by Presidential) interpretation,) a man's right to work all the week, and to sue for his wages on Saturday night; and as the Raven said, "Only this, and nothing more." This freedom-the same which the Austrian has, and groans under; the same which the Hungarian has, and weeps over; the same which the Pole has, and looks to heaven saying, How long, O God, how long! this is the freedom which the negro is expected to receive with thanks, and to ask for nothing more, because this is enough! Independent.
EENATOR YATES ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
As a Senator of the United States, certainly I could consider no State Government Republican in form which was at variance with the fundamental principles of our republican institutions; which desired the equality of all men before the law; which set aside the principle that governments justly exist by the consent of the governed, and that taxation and representation must go together. If I am wrong, the Government is wrong. And I am here to say that I could approve of no State government whose constitution or bill of rights does not deny, in express words, this right of a State to secede from the Union, and which does not provide that slavery shall be
<c02>
forever abolished and prohibited, so that not even a root, seed, or grease spot shall remain of this sum of all villainies, the accursed system which has been the fountain of all our troubles, and of that fratricidal and bloody war which has desolated the land. (Great cheering.) Again, it should be expressly provided that the leaders of the rebellion, who have held offices, civil or military, under the Confederate Government, should be disfranchised, and forever debarred the right of suffrage, and the right to hold any office of honor or profit under the Government of the United States. (Cheers.) Again, I would confer the right of suffrage upon all loyal men. I will not, by any act of mine, open the portals of the American ballot-box to pardoned rebels, whose hands are stained with reason, and are dripping with the blood of our brave boys, and deny it to the poor colored man who has proven his allegiance to the country by brave and heroic deeds. (Applause.) He has rallied round the flag-he has brought a stalwart arm and a courageous heart to his Government in the hour of its extremity and fearful need; and it would, be the shame of the century and the age, if he is to be disfranchised, and left without a voice to such barbarous legislation as his rebel master would frame for him. (Cheers, and cries of" that's so.") Let me tell politicians that there is no half-way house in this matter, and the negro will surely be allowed the right of suffrage.(Cheers.)The moment the Government decided that his aid was necessary to save the Government, and put arms in his hands, the question was settled, because to bear arms is the highest position of honor, and if he was good enough to fight in the ranks side by side with our brave boys in blue, he is good enough to go to the polls and kill off the vote of a rebel or a copperhead. (Loud cheers.) If they are citizens in war, why not citizens in peace? They vote in many of the free States, and no harm has followed, and no complaint is made; why not in the rebel States, especially as they constitute the principal part of the loyal people of those States? If not permitted to vote, every rebel State will send disloyal men to Congress, ready and plotting to precipitate the nation into internecine war whenever the South, through Northern cooperation, might deem it safe to strike for their independence. Raleigh (N.C.) Journal of Freedom.
SENATOR LANE ON THE PRESIDENTS POLICY.
Senator James Hr Lane, of Kansas, made a speech in Washington on the 20th ult., before the Soldiers’ League, severely criticising the conservative policy of the President. In the course of his remarks, he said:-
SO far as I am concerned, I will be ready to vote to admit back into the Union a State that had, during the war, a fighting loyal population, and none other. When it can be shown as clearly as the noon-day sun, that there is a white,-no, I will not say that,-until it can be shown that there is a loyal voting population, a majority (applause) in a State, and the they have the power in their own hands, and can hold that political power, I will vote to admit them. So far as I am concerned, my patience is utterly exhausted. Thirty years,-long, tiresome years,-have utterly exhausted all my patience, as a Senator of the United States. When any of these States, which have covered the loyal portion of the country with mourning, and every town, and every hamlet, returns to this Union, it must be when the political power is in loyal hands, and can answer to me that they can maintain that political power for all time to come. (Applause.) 
And now, my friends, and you, soldiers, magnanimity is a virtue, but magnanimity, even in the pardoning power, may be" extended too far for the good of the country. I am not disposed to criticise. I am disposed to wait; but I would feel much safer if, instead of newspapers announcing daily the pardoning eighty or a hundred and fifty, that one, two, or three, were hung. (Applause.) I would feel much safer if the pardons were conferred on some men who owned less than $20,000. It is the great landed estates of the South where the disease, that has already paralyzed the country, was seated. No man, in my opinion, should be pardoned until his estate should be reduced to one hundred and sixty acres,-squatter's claim. (Applause.) I am not disposed to criticize- I believe, as firmly as I believe there is a God, that the Democratic party which now applauds Andrew Johnson, will be shortly slandering and vilifying him, as it did a year ago. He, perhaps, is pursuing the proper course to restore the Union. I hope be is right.
How many of these States, soldiers and sailors, had a fighting white basis during the war? Arkansas, Tennessee and Louisiana. These three States- in my opinion, should be admitted into the Union at the next session of Congress, and the others should be held back until, by emigration, we can have the guarantee that they are politically right, and can be kept right forever and ever. Applause.) How long will it take? So far as I am concerned, if it takes a thousand centuries, they should not come in until then." (Applause.)
THE PRESIDENT ON THE SUFFRAGE.
It is a most extraordinary fact, that, even at this late day, the President does not appear to have anything like a cleat comprehension of the suffrage question. He flounders. on it and over it as if it were one of the most astonishing puzzles that ever perplexed and bewildered statesmanship,-a matter to upset even Oedipus, who doubled up the sphinx by resolving its riddle, and compelling it to kill itself, to the great grief of its family, as involving loss of its life insurance, and the forfeiture of its property to the state because of its felo de se. As the President n able man, and an experienced statesman, this failure of his to see that the suffrage question was one of the simplest of things, is as astonishing as it is painful. We say that it was a very simple question, because the President, by his treatment of it, has done much to destroy its simplicity. Had he exercised the rights of a conqueror six months ago, to effect a settlement of this question, it would have been disposed of, and placed out of the list of contested things, before summer bad fairly come upon us. It is too late to say that be had no right to act as a conqueror in effecting the reconstruction of the South, for be has acted as a conqueror towards the States that seceded in several instances, in not one of which was the matter disposed of more important than the future position of our colored brethren. Whence came his right to appoint Provisional Governors in most of those States? From conquest. Whence came his right to dictate to them the abolition of slavery, as a condition precedent to their reconstruction? From conquest. And so we might go on, pointing out that almost every act of his toward those States was the act of a conqueror. Such being the unquestionable fact, why could be not have exercised the conqueror's
<c03>
right and power in one more instance, and have told, the Southrous that colored men must be elevated to citizenship? Had he done so, the Southrous would have acquiesced as readily as they acquiesced in the abolition of slavery, and for the same reason,-because they could not have helped themselves. In April and May, they were prepared to accept any terms that we were prepared to lay before them; but now, because they find the federal government fostering their prejudices on the subject of color, and endorsing their old rebellious twatlle about State rights, they are hardly less demonstrative than they were live years ago, and insist that the old lines between blacks and whites shall remain in full force. What can be more extraordinary than the President's remark, that if he were to interfere in favor of colored suffrage in Southern States, he might hereafter interfere in the same way in Pennsylvania? Has Pennsylvania been in rebellion? Has she made war on the United States? Has she been conquered by the federal forces? Has a large part of her population been loyal, as were the Southern slaves, while the ruling classes were acting as traitors? There is no resemblance between the loyal State of Pennsylvania and the disloyal Slate of South Carolina; and hence what would be very pertinent action toward South Carolina would be very impertinent action if applied to Pennsylvania. Had not South Carolina rebelled, and made war on the Union, and been conquered by the Union's army and navy, the President could not have interfered with her local affairs, save through usurpation. There is no analogy between the positions of the two States. Is the President afraid that he may appoint a Provisional Governor for Pennsylvania, because he appointed a Provisional Governor for South Carolina? If he is not, why should he be alarmed at the possibility that he might have been tempted to interfere in Pennsylvania's affairs, because he has interfered, and that pointedly and effectually, with the affairs of the Palmetto State? But it is useless to discuss the question, which is as plain as the simplest thing in nature, but which has been so muddled by Washington action as to promise us years of dissension and ill-feeling, when it might have been disposed of in ten minutes, and by the writing of ten lines.-Boston Traveller.
A LETTER ON AMERICAN AFFAIRS FROM 
P. A. TAYLOR, MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT.
You ask me what view I take upon the great question of the day in America-Negro Suffrage.
I can only reply that negro suffrage, by which I mean non-exclusion from political rights on the ground of color, appears to me the logical and unavoidable corollary of the struggle of the last four years.
Nay, more, it appears to me a necessity so plain in the interests of the security and progress of the great Republic, as well as for the fulfillment of the simplest behests of justice, that I cannot bring myself to doubt that when the question comes to issue, the American people will be in no danger of coining to any but a righteous solution of this momentous problem.
You know well that through the whole course of your tremendous struggle, I have been a fervent well-wisher to, and believer in, the success of the great cause on which depend so much the future of America and of freedom all over the world. You will remember how, as from time to time success or failure attended upon the arms, and by reflection upon the politics of the North, we hoped or feared; and how we used to speculate upon what particular danger seemed to loom most threateningly upon the horizon. Now we would fear lest the terrible sacrifices of the war might shake the constancy and determination of the North; now we would fear lest the old habit of compromise, the old spirit of faction, might patch up a peace inconsistent alike with honor or security.
But there was one danger which it never did occur to us to tremble before, and which I decline to give way to now (albeit you will perhaps charge me with shutting myself up in a fool's paradise!) and that was, that you should gain a victory so absolute, so glorious, so crushing, as you have done-over foes! abroad as well as foes at home-and should then immediately proceed to throw away its fruits; to forget alike the cause for which you had been fighting and the terrible price you had paid for victory; and in a fit of maudlin fondness should again take to your bosom the serpent which it has cost so much adversity to freeze into harmlessness.
"But we have abolished slavery!" I see some say. Yes, in words, but in how much else? The negro can no longer pass as property from one planter to another on payment of so many dollars; but is he a free agent, or where is the security that he shall become so, or remain so, while you place him tied hand and foot at the disposition of laws made exclusively by those masters who, to their former contempt, now super add hatred and fear of him? What chance of justice is there to the man who is disentitled from giving his evidence in a court of law, and who, at the will of his former masters, may be rendered liable to all the old Black laws? Was a this what you fought so nobly for-to change slavery into say" involuntary servitude"? I cannot believe it. Christian-like, you have passed through the dread Valley of the Shadow of Death. The hideous darkness of the pit is behind you, the mocking bends have whispered their last foul suggestions in your ears, the pure daylight is before you; are you going to turn back, to retrace your steps upon the path over which you passed trembling and in terror, and to tumble at last into the pit of compromise and sin? Once more I refuse to believe it.
Now, forgive me any expressions which may seem to smack of impertinence in a foreigner. I don't feel like a foreigner in discussing your politics; but to me your course seems so clearly marked out and defined, not, God knows, without difficulties-nor without need for strength and courage; still so clear in its aim and direction.
Slavery-the dire and all-sufficient cause of all your woes-is not like an isolated law, whose ill effects are gone when the law is repealed. It is too truly an "Institution" pervading everything, corrupting everything, from the heart and conscience of man to the most trivial external conventionalism. You must destroy its roots, or it will not begin to die. Where are those roots? Down deep in the principles affecting the tenure of land and the remuneration of labor. Do you think Slavery will die while you maintain that distribution of landed property with which it was consistent, and which was its offering? I say again, your course work have seemed to me so clear on the collapse of the" Rebellion: 1. To persons-amnesty. 2. To property-confiscation. 3. To humanity-freedom.
If you think to kill slavery without fulfilling the second condition, you are sanguine; if without the second and third, you are, pardon me, insane.
There is neither mercy nor security in trying to effect these great social revolutions step by step. If the limb has to come off, it is sheer cruelty to cut through the skin one day, the flesh the next, the
<c04>
bone next week, and to postpone tying up the arteries for a month. For the sake of the South itself, you must seen cruel that you may be kind. Is it even certain that the plan of reconstruction without freedom would not bring upon the planters that servile war of which we used to hear so much?
You have taught these negroes that they are men; you have organized and drilled them; you have proved to themselves, and the world, that in courage, discipline and endurance they are equal to the whites History has recorded that they can save the State. Is it not to be feared-I had well nigh said hoped-that when next their roasters lacerate their backs, violate their wives, or ill-treat their little ones, they may say "The lesson you teach us we will execute, and it shall go hard but we will better the instruction?" Among the many glorious and touching pictures that your war has given birth to, and which will long live in the minds of Englishmen, none has ever touched me more than that of the gallant Col. Shaw, buried on the field of his glory amid a hecatomb of his brave and devoted black soldiers. Are you going to give us a companion picture in truest antithesis? and to show to the world the flag of American freedom reversed and buried amid a mighty pyramid of the dishonored corpses of half a million of your best and bravest? No, I do not believe it; but I remain, very sincerely, yours,
P. A. TAYLOR 
M. D. CONWAY, Esq.
FREEDMEN IN LOUISIANA.
We are not aware of having heard before of "J. S. Fullerton, Brevet Brigadier-General and Assistant-Commissioner Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen and Abandoned Lands, State of Louisiana. "We suppose that we shall never have the chance of pleading similar ignorance, for our "Brevet Brigadier-General and Assistant-Commissioner," has found himself in a position where he can command as much attention as he pleases. The reader may well know that Fullerton was placed in his present position because his predecessor did not please that class of pardoned rebels and unrepentant Democrats in Louisiana who are now endeavoring to bring back from Mexico a runaway rebel General named Allen, and who find no titles to distinction more proper than those earned by treason against the United States. Mr. Conway, the former Commissioner, had an idea that the negroes, although merely freedmen, and not exactly citizens, had rights of person and property which the military power should protect. The Louisiana people could not think so. The divine right of nigger-selling had been abolished by Mr. Lincoln's edict, but not the right, equally divine, of nigger-walloping. Here came a clashing. Mr. Con way was the friend of the negro-and he could not be the friend of the rebels. They began to how , and their how has been answered by the appointment of an officer named Fullerton.
Fullerton distinguishes his advent by an address. We presume he consulted his friends about it-the friends who howled over Conway, and had now a man after their heart. We can imagine him reading his address to a knot of unreconstructed Southerners fresh from the Rebel army, who swore appropriate oaths and dispersed the essence of Virginia plug tobacco over the carpets of the St. Charles Hotel as be read his magnificent sentences. Let our readers hearken and hear how pro-slavery Fullerton is. "Slavery," he says to the negroes, "has passed away, and you are now placed on trial." This probably means that if the trial should fail, the negro must go back to slavery. He goes on to say that if the negro cannot in time live without Government aid, he does not "deserve to be free." For-and here we have a touch of the old pro-slavery spirit that must have made the rebels scream with delight;- you must remember that you have no masters now to take care of you in sickness and in old age. "Is this not a most deplorable calamity? No master to soothe and caress the poor negro; to give him hog and hominy; to provide him tenderly with one pair of suntanned shoes every year; to put him in the calaboose if he dares to read; to make his marriage relations like those of swine and sheep, mere breeding of valuable property; to brutalize him for his own good; to degrade him in the interests of civilization; to wallop him in the spirit of Christian kindness! When we pause a moment and dwell upon the past, upon all the merits and beauties of slavery, and see that everything is gone, and that where the lordly master once cracked his whip, the negro now walks free and unconstrained, we feel like mingling our tears with those of the disconsolate Fullerton.
Well, as Slavery is really abolished and there is no way by which Fullerton can possibly restore to the masters the care of the negroes in "sickness and in old age," he proceeds to lecture the freed-men. As the masters cannot take care of the negroes, the negroes must take care of the masters. His first instruction is" that freedom does not mean liberty to be idle. "This is a mistaken notion," says Fullerton. "Idlers and vagrants will not be tolerated." From this remark one would suppose that the industrial interests of Louisiana were to be assumed by Fullerton, and that all idleness and vagrancy would be stopped by this Dogberry in epaulettes. "This is a mistake. Our Dogberry does not find warrant to "comprehend" White vagabonds-but only those who are Black. The White vagrants-men who, according to Harry T. Hays, now member of the Democratic Committee of Louisiana, formerly a General under Lee -are left by the war "as charges upon the charity of the country;" are to be given employment in a National Express Company. Fullerton's authority does not permit him to send from his bureau the begging whites, refugees and unreconstructed Rebels who live on Government. rations; but the negro only If the white man wants work, he either bunts it or starves. If the negro cannot get work in the city, he must return to" the old plantation. "In other words, Fullerton, speaking to the negro in the name of the United States, wearing the nation’s uniform and carrying its sword, draws that sword and says to the negroes of Louisiana: "Although you have been made free - and with freedom you accept its duties and responsibilities - I command you to abandon your freedom; to go back to your old plantations, to the men who have grown rich upon your labor, and who would grow rich again back to your negro masters - your whip and pillory - to your overseer, his hounds and his last Your freedom means freedom to do as he commands. If he treats you badly and breaks contracts, go to the courts and get as much justice as a slaveholding jury and a slaveholding judge can be induced to give to a freed slave. If you do not do as be commands, lo! here I stand with this sharp- pointed sword; for, as I said, having no master to take care of you in sickness, and make you work, I make this sword your master, and you must obey." The President of the United States once said to the negro race that be would be its Moses. What would Moses have done if one of his satraps had under-
<c05>
taken to order the people of Israel back to Egypt?
Having found a man like Fullerton, the Rebels coddle him. A Mobile newspaper finds that he is a gentleman, and unlike that "vile Yankee," Conway. Another newspaper, edited, we are told, by a Rebel General, says that, "We learned on Friday with great pleasure that preparations for a public dinner to Gen. Fullerton are now making by a number of our prominent citizens. By his judicious and conciliatory course the General has won golden opinions among our people, and is highly deserving of the purposed compliment. At if to pander to this feeling, Fullerton writes a letter declining to attend a meeting of compliment to Mr. Conway. He will not go. He is an officer, and must obey" orders and instructions. "He will dine with the Rebels and "wallop their niggers" for them, and see that the freedmen stay on the old plantations; but he cannot go to a grand mass meeting of the colored population" No such associations for this military popinjay, if you please. He is in good rebel company-and the editor who is pleased to dine him is likewise pleased to sing this song in his next column:
“Furl it! for the hands that grasped it.
And the hearts that fondly clasped it,
Cold and dead are lying low;
While around it sounds the mailing.
Of its people in their we,
For, though conquered, they adore it!
Low the dead, cold hands that bore it;
Weep for those who fell before it;
Pardon those who trailed and tore it; 
And, ah! wildly they deplore it,
Now to furl and fold it so."
-N. Y. Tribune.
DISLOYALTY.
The Burlington Sentinel quotes from a speech of Wm. Lloyd Garrison, which he made several years since, and says:
“And yet the Times and Vermonter are ready to cheer such a man, and denounce as a 'snake' and' a miserable copperhead,' those who decline to do so. Verily, these papers must have a strange definition of the word UNION, and of the meaning of DISLOYALTY."
That Mr. Garrison was a disunionist, we shall not pretend to deny, but his disunionism was of a different type from that of South Carolina. In opposition to the views of Gerrit Smith, he held that the Constitution of the United States was a pro-slavery document, that whoever was elected to office under it, in swearing to support it, swore to support an institution which violated all the rights of man, therefore the voter was the partaker of the guilt. He believed that the diabolical fugitive slave bill was in accordance with the Constitution, therefore no man who believed in human rights and wished to do as he would be done by could vote under the Constitution, could support it, and the only way for the people of the North was to peaceably withdraw from a slave-cursed Union. 
But when the war began, Mr. Garrison believed, with nearly all other abolitionists, that slavery must die, so he immediately pulled down his motto," The Union a covenant with death," &c., and went in heartily for the Government, and through the Nation's darkest hour was a devoted Union man, and is now; and yet the Sentinel thinks the Times and the Vermonter must have a strange definition of the word Union and the meaning of Disloyalty.
Jeff. Davis years ago avowed his disunionism, and yet he was subsequently made a Democratic Secretary of War, at which time he had all the guns in Boston Harbor turned on the city. He was petted by Democrats everywhere, while they despised Garrison and Phillips, who advocated a dissolution of the Union for humanity's sake. Davis was honored because he was a disunionist for the sake of the cause of slavery; Garrison and Phillips despised because they were against it. Now let the Sentinel mark. Had Jeff. Davis, as did Wm. Lloyd Garrison, pulled down his treasonable banner at about the time of the commencement of the war, and been as faithful to the Union cause, and visited Vergennes, or been invited here, we should have honored him and squelched every our who undertook to bark at him.
But we are not surprised that the a Sentinel is in such a "muddle" about the definition of the word "Union," and the meaning of "DISLOYALTY. It is out of its place. It is not bad enough to be a rebel like the Argus, nor courageous enough to quit a disloyal party-a party which proclaimed the war a failure after four years' fighting. The Sentinel utters what it should know to be false when it says that the Vermonter is ready to "denounce" as a "snake" and a "miserable copperhead" those who decline to cheer Mr. Garrison. No, sir, we are not ready to do any-thing of the sort. There are many good Unionists who do not feel to cheer him, and was find no fault, for that is their business. Our view is simply this-if a man is invited here to address the Champlain Valley Fair, and a party of citizens, recognizing his eminent services in the cause of humanity, choose to make him an evening call, no one has any right to join that party for the purpose of openly insulting the man they choose to honor. If the Sentinel cannot see the force of this remark, let him come out from his association with secessionists and other unclean birds, and he will soon learn 
what belongs to common decency-Vergennes Vermonter.
OUR COUNTRY-OUR DUTY.
Mr. Montgomery Blair is the Original Jacobs of the notable scheme which would deny all political power or voice to our four millions of black countrymen, and virtually expel them from the country, after having used them to put down their late masters' rebellion. He and his drew President Lincoln into this scheme, and for a short time held him there, to the damage and discredit of both President and people. And now Mr. Blair, after carefully watching and noting recent political developments, including those of our rival State conventions and platforms, comes to New York and throws whatever influence he can exert into the Richmond-Slocum ticket! He does this simply and solely because the success of that ticket will be a triumph of casts-a stunning blow to the cause of equal rights-because it will set the heel of the ex-rebel on the neck of the prostrate negro. Hear him in his Cooper Institute speech, sandwiched between these of Slocum and of John Van Buren, in favor of the election of those worthies and their confederates, as printed verbatim from his own manuscript in the delighted Daily News:
"If the negrose are ever to be free, equal and Independent, they must have a place of refuge set off and secured to them by the common consent of the States of the Union, of all the republics on this continent. Such a land of promise is now held out to them by the Liberal Government of Mexico. It beckons them to the rich region stretching round the Gulf of Mexico from the Rio Grande."
Here are four millions of trained agricultural la-
<co6>
WHOLE NO. 181
borers to be driven out of the country which they have aided to save, in order to propitiate the rebels and copperheads, who say they can't live in a land where negroes are in the law's eye their equals. One race proclaims it can never live at peace with another if both are free; so we are to exile the Unionists in order to retain the rebels. The blacks want nobody exiled-find no difficulty in living in the same community with whites; but the disloyal say they will not live with the loyal; so we are to send the latter away! Is that the proper sequel to Fort Wagner, Port Hudson and Fort Pillow?
Certain rebel chiefs, with portions of their followers, have migrated to Mexico, and been received with distinction by Maximilian & Co. We are glad of it, and heartily trust that they may stay there and do well. But, now that, by Black 
help, we have driven these gentlemen into exile, Mr. Blair proposes that we shall drive the negroes after them, and thus have their fight renewed on the tropical lowlands of Mexico, Well: suppose we do it, and they give our late Rebels, now Mexican Imperialists another drubbing, will they not naturally be driven on to fight for some other country farther South? How many despotisms must they overthrow before they are permitted to rest and have rights? Must they bunt Sterling Price & Co. to Cape Horn?
Mr. Blair is not able sufficiently to degrade the negro without calumniating him. He says:
"It would be a dangerous experiment for the friends of negre equality to leave the issue to be decided by the two colors in the South; for man then two thirds of the slaves stood by the sides of their masters in the late fight."
We appeal to our Union soldiers, of whatever politics, but especially those who have been fugitives from Southern stockades and prison-camps, to brand this libel as it deserves. Say, Union soldiers who fled from Salisbury or Andersonville, or any such den of horrors,-if you ever appealed in vain to negroes for shelter or food or concealment when they had power to aid you? Of the ten thousand such appeals, were ten unsuccessful? When and where did the slaves "stand by their masters," when they had an opportunity to stand instead by you? Hate them, degrade them, enslave them if you will; but rebuke Mr. Blair's unmanly aspersion! You know it is most unjust.- N.Y.Tribune.
A CHANGE AT HARPER'S FERRY.
A letter to the Boston Watchman and Reflector, written from Harper's Ferry, by J.T. Trowbridge, contains these interesting passages:
The first time I visited this scene of the first blood-shed in the great civil war, which although so few dreamed of it, was even then beginning-for John Brown's flaming deed was as a torch flung into the ready-heaped combustibles of the rebellion-while I stood viewing the spot with an interest which must have betrayed itself, a genial old gentleman, coming out of the government repair shop-close by, accosted me. We soon fell into conversation, and he told me the whole story of John Brown at Harper's Ferry.
"So they took the old man," said he, "and hung him; and all the men that did it were plotting treason and murder by the wholesale. They did it in a hurry, because it they delayed, they wouldn't have been able to bang him at all. A strong current of public feeling was turning in the old man's favor. He bad shown himself a perfect here and a Christian; and though we might condemn the deed, we had to admit that his motives were as pure as those of an archangel. Such a sacrifice of himself set many to thinking on the subject who never thought before; many who had to acknowledge in their hearts that slavery was wrong and that old John Brown was right."
"You speak that which you know!" I said, surprised to hear such sentiments proclaimed on the sacred soil of Virginia.
"I speak what I know, for I was here at the time; I have lived in Harper's Ferry fifteen years, and I am a native Southern man. I was born and bred in a slave State, but I never let my love of the institution blind me to everything else. Slavery has been the curse of this country, and she is now beginning to bless the day that she was delivered from it. I could not talk these things here five years ago, but I can talk them now, and mean to talk them, and those people have got to hear them who would have served me as they did old John Brown, if I had dared to say what I thought then."
"Are there many rebels here now?"
"Yes, they are coming back again; but they have to keep very quiet. Secession sentiments are frowned down at Harper's Ferry now."
"Are there many people here who think as you do?"
"Enough to carry the day at the polls. The most of them are coming round to the right views of negro suffrage, too. That is the only justice for the blacks, and it is the only safety for us. The idea of allowing the loyal colored population to be represented by the whites, the most of whom were traitors-of letting a rebel just cut of the Confederate army vote, and telling a colored man just out of the Union army that he has no vote-the idea is so perfectly absurd, that the rebels themselves have to acknowledge it."
With this gentleman, who is foreman of the Government repair shop at the Ferry, I became well acquainted during my stay, and beard him frequently give expression to these and similar opinions. As the views of a native Southern man, I have thought them worth recording.
Montgomery Blair asks at Rochester-
"Isn't the deportation of the negroes practicable? Havn't we sent two millions of people to California to populate the golden shores of the Pacific?"
Nor, sir, we havn't! There was no "deportation" in the case. The "two millions" went to the Pacific coast of their own accord, and, after savings as long as they chose, most of them have returned. Now, if any of our countrymen choose to migrate to Africa, or Mexico, or elsewhere, let them go in welcome; but there must be no crowding them off by injustice and oppression-no "deportation." We don't want the most inveterate Rebels deported-much less loyal, faithful men. We have no honest labor to spare, and no right to thrust our idle villains on other countries. Our country to broad enough for all of us and a good many more. To doable our population is to reduce the burden of our Public Debt one half; to "deport" Four millions of laborers, even at no cost, would be equal to adding Four Millions to the National debt. We can't afford it.
- N.Y Tribune.
Maazini has written a letter to the Pope, in answer to the famous Encyclical. It closes with the following pregnant sentences:-Reconcile yourself with God-with humanity you cannot."
<c06>
PRES LINCON ON NEGRO SUFFAG
<illegible>
PRES. LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
The following is an extract from an unpublished letter from the late President Lincoln, addressed to Gen. Wadsworth, taking strong ground in favor of universal suffrage:-
"You desire to know, in the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission of the South, if universal amnesty should not be accompanied by universal suffrage.
Now, since you know my private inclinations us to what terms should be granted to the South, in the contingency mentioned, I will here add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I can't sec-if universal amnesty is granted-how, under the circumstances, I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage.
How to better the condition of the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serious and careful attention; hence I think I am clear and decided as to what course I shall pursue in the pricrises, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation's guardian of these people who have to heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, where, in assisting to save the life of the republic, they have demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is but the humane protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended."

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
NATIONAL INJUSTICE.
The freedmen upon the sea islands have been industrious, faithful and loyal. They have done better than the most sanguine anticipated, and have forever disposed of the question as to whether the negroes can take care of themselves. Upon the island of Edisto, the present season, 1005 acres have been under cotton cultivation, and about 12 acres devoted to corn and. other articles of consumption; upon Johnson, 92 acres have been under cultivation, mostly rice; Fenwick has had 42 acres improved, and the other islands will exhibit' as fair a result. All of the islands, considering the obstacles that have been in the way, -four-fifths of the laborers having no kind of agricultural implements to labor with,-have produced abundantly. 
Upon the island of Hull, a man named Williams, and three others, have cultivated 36 acres. They commenced without anything, and have toiled early and late living without rations and catching fish by night for subsistence. Their labor has been rewarded, and this is only one instance of many that could be named.
At Port Royal, the freedmen are about starting -if they have not already in operation -a store of their own, upon the system of shares; thus saving to themselves the immense profits of trade which have hitherto gone to Beaufort. The shares are $100 each. At St. Helena, a similar enterprise is on foot, the shares having been placed at $25 each. 
Preparations have also been made for raising a school fund; to devise means for supporting the poor; and to improve the condition of the public roads. 
By instructions from the late President Lincoln, many freedmen took up 20 or 40 acres of land, with the special understanding that they could purchase it at the end of three years, at $1.25 per acre, Gen.. Sherman's special field orders No. 15, dated January 16, 1865, set apart these lands for negroes made free by the acts of war and the proclamation of emancipation, promising that Congress would regulate their titles. Circular No. 13 of Gen. Howard, Commissioner of Freed men and Abandoned Lands, establishes rules and regulations relative to confiscated property in accordance with the orders of President Lincoln and Gen Sherman. Gen. Howard further says that - 
"The pardon of the President will not be understood to extend to the surrender of abandoned or confiscated property which by law has been set apart for refugees and freedmen, or in use for the employment and general welfare of all persons within the lines of national military occupation within said insurrectionary States, formerly held as slaves, who are, or shall become free. (See Act of March, 1865, and act of July, 1864, chap. 225.")
With the exception of the islands of St. Helena, Ladies, Port Royal and Hilton Head, where the Government titles have been made out and are in possession of the freedmen, these lands have been, or are to be turned over to the former proprietors. The freedmen feel that they have been deceived and wrongly treated, not without cause. By such treatment, they lose confidence in the Government, and distrust the actions of every white man who may be laboring honestly for their welfare. With no obstacles in the way, the freedmen will have a hard struggle to get along, but when the Government fails to do them justice and takes from them the land it has pledged in good faith, they will doubtless suffer much.- South Carolina Leader. 
NORTHERN OPINION AND SOUTHERN ACTION. 
Whoever has intently marked the progress of affairs at the South has seen mingled with many most gratifying features, an unwillingness to move forward toward the resumption of positive, vital relations of loyalty with the rest of the Union. There is professed, and probably genuine, acquiescence in the most obvious results of the war, an acceptance of one or two main facts, such as the defeat of the rebellion, the destruction of slavery and the endurance of military government until the seceded States can be civilly re-organized on a new basis. 
All this is well enough for a starting-point, but every rational man sees that it is not sufficient for the re-admission of States so recently in arms against the Union. President Johnson and his Cabinet are united in demanding further requisites. They say the rebel debt must be repudiated, the anti-slavery constitutional amendment must be ratified by the State Legislatures, and they have intimated that at least adequate legal protection must be thrown around the freedmen. But this intimation becomes, with the loyal masses of the North, a solemn and inexorable demand. The man who cannot read that in the recent elections is blind to the plainest signs of the times. And it is high time that the people and politicians of the South understood these facts in their full significance. 
There have been some very unfavorable, symptoms in that quarter of late. There was a hard struggle in the Georgia Convention over the repudiation of the rebel debt, and, notwithstanding the explicit instructions of Secretary Seward and President Johnson, it was carried only by a vote of 133 to 117. In Florida and in Alabama, they seem to have got the idea that it is not necessary to ratify the anti-slavery constitutional amendment. The laws proposed in South Carolina and in Mississippi for the control of the freedmen are oppressive and barbarous in their nature, and, if adopted, would tend directly to the revival of slavery. The election returns coming in from North Carolina indicate the sweeping rejection of those who are termed the” ultra Union" candidates for Congress, and the election of men who cannot take the oath. Such is the bad turn taken of late by the action of the South. It is owing, perhaps, to several causes, but there can be no doubt that it has been powerfully stimulated by the avowed sentiment of the Northern Democratic party that the seceded States should be re-admitted to the Union at once and without any conditions. The success of the Democracy in New York has been confidently anticipated at the South for several weeks back. Had it been realized - had New. Jersey remained Democratic, and other States shown any increase of Democratic strength -there is not a reactionary, defiant movement in the yet secession-tainted States of the South that would not instantly have shown new vigor and danger. 
This fact, then, is always to be impressed upon us till the era of reconstruction is over, viz: that the opinion of the North is to rule the action of the South. If there is recreancy here, there will be a revival of treason there. If, on the contrary, we remain firm in the advancing line of justice and equity, we shall not only reinforce the National administration with powers adequate to every crisis, but we shall surely, though it may be slowly, draw after us the main body of the Southern people, to the untold benefit of white and black. This, then, is the significance of our politics-that every political shot fired here takes effect also in the South; that a double responsibility is upon us which we cannot evade if we would, but of which we ought to feel proud, as investing every local election with national importance.-Journal .
AN IMPORTANT OPINION.
No little indignation has been excited by recent acts of the army paymasters which do gross injustice to the colored soldiers who were formerly slaves. It appears that they acted under a misconstruction of the ,statutes. For the special correspondent of the Journal telegraphs from Washington that Attornoy General Speed, in a yet unpublished opinion upon the rights of colored troops to the bounty granted to volunteers, decides that a slave owes paramount allegiance to the Government; that be  is bound to fight for the Government against the public enemy-against his master, if a rebel; that such service to the Government of itself dissolves the relation of master and slave; that the relation once dissolved can never be restored, and that, independent of any act of Congress, or proclamation of emancipation, the soldier of the loyal army is a free man 
-capable of contracting with the Government for pay and bounty, and, without respect to color, is fully entitled to all the benefits and rewards of the service he performs, and therefore entitled to the hounty offered by Congress to volunteers. This opinion puts slaves of Kentucky, fugitives from the South, and colored soldiers of the free States, within the general provisions of the acts of Congress concerning the volunteers, and enlisted soldiers of the Federal armies. 
SOUTHERN UNIONISM AT A DISCOUNT. The 
advices from the South show that the Union candidates generally are defeated.

<c02>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1865. 
THE LAST QUARTER. 
The Liberator is now on its last quarter, prior to the final close of its publication. It is not only desirable, but necessary, therefore, that those who are indebted to it should promptly remit what is due.; as the expenses of the paper have been greatly increased, and its receipts lessened, during the present year; and as every farthing will be needed-and more -to enable us to complete the volume. 
NATIONAL GOOD FAITH. 
There can no disgrace attach to this Nation now so great as that of breaking faith with the emancipated Slaves. Not Slavery itself, in the height of its power and pretensions, could inflict on us a greater disgrace, perhaps even not so great, as that which will justly attach to the American name and people, if we fail of keeping the national promise to the freed people, in its fullest extent. And, in regard to this, there should be no party distinctions. Whatever ground may exist for differences of opinion as to details, or even as to the general policy of the government, there can be none as to whether the pledges of the country and government to the humblest, poorest, neediest portion of the people should be kept, or violated. The national honor should be as dear to one citizen as to another; and to every good citizen it must be. He can be no friend to the country or its future, who would consent that the government should play false with any portion of the people, most of all with those who are most dependent upon it, and least able to protect themselves. 
The Proclamation of Emancipation of the first of January, 1863, if it meant anything, meant a real and substantial boon and blessing to the millions of slaves whom it declared to be thenceforward free. It was upon no idle and empty words that President Lincoln invoked ”the considerate judgment of mankind, and the gracious favor of Almighty God." It was a solemn promise of FREEDOM, made in the name of all the people of the United States, by their highest Executive officer, to nearly four millions of people and to their children; and this promise, it was further declared, should be ”recognized and maintained by the executive government of the United States, including the military and naval authorities thereof." And it further made known that all these persons (of suitable age, &c.) would be ”received into the armed service of the United States," thus virtually inviting them into that service. Between one and two hundred thousands of them responded to the call of the country, -men who for all practical purposes had never had a country, never been recognized as men, utterly without protection from the laws, and contemptuously passed by on the other side by the churches. The whole body of them received the promised boon of freedom with the most indubitable thankfulness and delight. Whatever it has been in their power to do to show themselves worthy of it, they have done. They have borne the arms of the country with bravery, zeal, and success. They have suffered sickness, maiming, and death, for a country whose only claim on them was its fair promises for the future. In those promises they confided, without hesitation. Others of them have labored for the government, or in private situations have worked industriously, and, where circumstances were favorable, have more than supported themselves and families,-an example which the Southern whites, of high and low degree, would do well to imitate. All, we repeat, or with rare exceptions, have performed diligently their part, trusting the government would do its part. 
But not alone by a sacred obligation to keep its promises is the country bound to stand firmly by the. freed people. The fact that it has forced emancipation upon an unwilling and rebellious master class, and upon prejudiced and envious whites generally, and furthermore, that it has armed these freed slaves and sent them to fight their rebel masters, has, beyond all question, increased and aggravated the dangers of the freed people a hundred fold. Let but these masters get unchecked power into their hands once more, and the unmeasurable malice and spite of the old slaveholder, intensified by his mortification at being” subjugated" by the hated North, and at having been himself the unwitting instrument of pulling down his favorite slave -system, will wreak themselves on the heads of the freed people in a most terrible and pitiless manner. To leave the freed people, in any degree which it is in human power to prevent, in the hands of such enemies, would be the climax of all possible wickedness, meanness, and cruelty. The nation and the world will hold that President and that Administration to a fearful account, at whose doors so great a crime as this shall lie. 
Already much harm has been done,-contrary, we are convinced, to the wish and purpose of the Administration, -by the great and dangerous length to which the policy of conciliation has been carried. That policy, right in itself, and, in the case of any other equal number of men in any civilized country, quite sure to have met with success, has utterly failed to develop any manliness, any generosity, any common humanity, even, among the dominant class of the South. It is said the President did n't expect it of that class. How, indeed, could he? He hoped, however, we are told, that the large class of non-slaveholding whites would joyfully avail themselves of an opportunity to shake from their shoulders a yoke which has borne well nigh as hardly upon them as it did upon the slaves. Fortunate would they have been, had they discerned their opportunity and profited by it. It was such a moment as they may (and assuredly should) have many a long year to wait before they see again. As we have said often before, we have no word of censure upon the President for granting such an opportunity. We think, indeed, his measures should have been more carefully guarded, above all other things, by distinct conditions that the personal, social, and civil rights of THE PEOPLE, without regard to color, should be effectually guaranteed. Had this been done from the beginning, his policy would not have been impeded, and the evils which have ensued would have been strangled in their birth. That it was not done is cause of censure upon the President, as well as of profound regret. One good result, beyond all controversy, has been reached. There has been an absolute laying -bare, to the sight of all men, of the heart of the Southern aristocracy. Full of all subtlety, malice and vengeance it is; instruments of cruelty are in their habitations still. They stand forth, self-convicted, as unworthy of trust. And the nation has no conceivable ground or pretext for trusting them. 
And if the Southern leaders are unworthy to be trusted in the Union again, and the great body of non-slaveholding whites are still too much under the control of old slavery-ideas to be capable of an intelligent self-government, let us beware how we commit the emancipated slaves to their mercies. Every possible consideration and motive and reason point us to the duty of keeping absolute faith with this trusting, patient, loyal race. They have believed our word. Let them have no cause to charge us with fraud. Let neither them nor the world have cause to say, we used them, and flung them aside for our enemies and theirs to torture as they pleased. Let us remember the promises of the Proclamation, and as we hope God will deal with us, our children and our nation, so let us religiously keep those promises to the freedmen. 
There is one special case, where we fear bad faith with the freed people is pending. It is in regard to the hands of the Sea-islands assigned by Gen. Sherman to emancipated slaves, which have been occupied and laboriously tilled by them for some four years, and for which, in numerous instances, if we are not mistaken, they have paid considerable same

<c03>
of money to the Government. The impression prevails with some that these lands are to be taken from the freedmen, now occupying them, and restored to their former owners. We are very reluctant to believe this, and we protect against such action with all the strength of which we are capable. The owners of these estates were the prime leaders of the Rebellion, the rankest haters of the Republic and of the North to be found any where in the Southern country, the chief among the magnates of South Carolina, who so long have plotted the overthrow of our Government Most justly have they forfeited those lands forever. Let not one acre of them be restored to their possession. Never was property so properly and necessarily confiscated. Do not let as be seen to swoop down on such wretches as Wirz alone, deserving as he was of his fate, and restore to their office and possessions again the chief ministers of treason in our land. Above all, let us not dispossess and drive away the present honest and loyal owners,-may we not say, the only honest and loyal owners those fertile lands 
have ever had? In cases where the lands have not been paid for, let a suitable price be fixed on them, and the present occupants have the right of pre-emption. 
So let justice be done, and good faith kept; and the Southern wilderness shall yet blossom as the rose. May our land be saved from the irretrievable dishonor of bad faith with the laboring millions of the South!. . M., JR.
SCHEMES AND OPPORTUNITIES. 
A late letter to the Richmond Republic from its Washington correspondent reveals much in a few words respecting the new-born hopes of Southern men in regard to reconstruction. Its writer notices, as significant, the facts that the platforms of the Republican and Democratic parties in New York were almost identical in principle, and that both pledged their cordial support to the policy of President Johnson; and he thinks that the President's acts, so far, give sufficient assurance that he is the true friend of the Southern people, as they understand friendship.
The correspondent goes on to say that he has seen no evidence that the Clerk of the House of Representatives has declared his intention not to record the names of Southern members. But, he continues,” if he should refuse to record them before the House organizes, I am not at all sure that he will not be compelled to do so immediately thereafter." The hope and expectation of this Southern are that all who can take the oath will be promptly admitted to their seats. And when was an oath an obstruction to such men?
He finds, too, good reason to expect ”magnanimity" from the Republicans of Washington; that is to say, a concession, fraternal to the Southern whites, of power to reestablish oppressive domination over the Southern blacks. If the whites consent (under compulsion) to dispense with slavery, the idea is that they are to be allowed to make what regulations they please, short of slavery, for the control of the blacks as a class. And the white people of various Southern States seem to be so confident of the success of this idea as to be already arranging the details.
The correspondent of the Republic proceeds to say that (while making it a point to talk on this subject) in two days he has seen but a single individual who insisted on the right of suffrage for the freedmen. His friends prefer that all old party cognomens should be dropped, and that a national conservative party should be organized, made up of members of all the old parties,” whose grand object shall be to sustain President Johnson in his great work of reconstructing the South, and restoring her to her former greatness and grandeur."
Yes, it is the old South, the aristocratic, oligarchical South, the domination of the F. F. V's, the subjection of labor to capital, and of the laborer to the capitalist, that these people propose to reestablish. We are constantly hearing of the punishment of negroes in various States, under the old black code, or the introduction of new sets of laws on a basis similar to that, marking out the blacks as the subjects of special legislation, defining acts as criminal in them which are freely allowed to others, allotting heavier punishments to them for the same offence, denying them equal opportunities for education and employment, and in various ways undertaking to restrict them to a position of acknowledged inferiority. This line of policy will be attempted everywhere in the South, and the advocates of it will make indefatigable exertions to obtain its acceptance at Washington.
The question now is-Will the Republican party use the great power now resting in its hands to disappoint those brave colored people who have formed so efficient a portion of our military force, and to provide that Southern reconstruction shall be as free from caste as from slavery? On no other basis than this, the establishment of equal rights throughout that slavery-cursed region, can the Southern States be safely readmitted. If a status half way between slavery and freedom be now assigned by law to the blacks of the South, upon the party in power and upon the man in power will be the sin and the shame. They cannot control Connecticut. Her disgrace must rest upon her own head. But they can control the States that have been in rebellion; they can do justice to the millions of colored people there; and they can manifest a becoming gratitude to the colored soldiers. By their acceptance or rejection of this opportunity they must be judged.-C. K. W.
FIFTH FEATERNITY LECTURE.
The immense throng that at an early hour, filled the Music Hall last Tuesday evening to hear Miss Anna E. Dickinson, proves the continued popularity of that lady. Indeed, she seemed so secure of it herself as to offer no apology for having kept the audience waiting a quarter of an hour beyond the appointed time. This, however, did not prevent her being received with hearty applause, which was many times repeated in the course of the lecture. 
The title of the lecture was ”Home Thrusts." It complained of the training and education which young girls receive in regard to what is called" a settlement in life," and of the representation to them of marriage as the end and aim of life. The boy is educated not for husbandhood but for manhood; the girl is educated not for womanhood but for wifehood. 
The lecturer went on to describe the unsatisfactory condition of two classes of girls, those who have been confined to mere drudgery, and those who have learned only showy accomplishments; and she represented girls' schools as lamentably deficient, both in regard to solid information and mental training.
The welfare of society largely depends on the right education of girls. The culture of a woman should be such that, even if not able to speak so well as her husband, she should at least be able intelligently to say Amen to what he says. 
Miss Dickinson forcibly described the classes of cases in which marriage reveals a fatal uocongeniality between the parties, after a brief acquaintance, the superficiality of which has made it deceptive: also the numerous instances in which pleasant acquaintances are interfered with by gossip about an assumed engagement between the parties. She advised girls not to be frightened into getting married, and seemed to assume as common an unkind pressure of fathers upon daughters to urge the early formation of a matrimonial connection. The father's house, she said, is the daughter's appropriate home at fifty as much as at fifteen, unless she is withdrawn from it by a genuine attraction elsewhere. 
It was well, she thought, that girls who wished to emigrate to the West should have the opportunity provided for them; but work there also should be provided for them; she disliked such a movement merely as a chances of getting married; and she thought there was very little plausibility in the statement that they were to be employed in” teaching school" in the midst of a population of bachelors .
Miss Dickinson represented married women as reduced is a condition of legalized pauperism, compelled to beg money for needful expenses, and at the same

<co4>
time to endure reproaches for extravagance. She spoke of married men as practicing an ostentatious liberality abroad while they were mean at home; and assumed so intimate an acquaintance with the pecuniary relations existing between husbands and wives, as to remind one of a similar assumption of knowledge on the part of Miss Somebody who advertises to give a lecture on ”Marriage not a Lottery." Perhaps it is not. Perhaps it is. Miss Somebody has given us her guess, which may be a correct one; but she cannot know until she tries. 
The lecture closed with a very impressive sketch of the shamefully unequal treatment of male and female offenders by the community, a sin in which women bore a great share. They were too indulgent to their erring brother, too hard upon their erring sister. They should be more ready to condemn in the one case, and to help to reform in the other. It was young women to whom we must look to have bravery and generosity enough to establish a better state of things. 
Miss Dickinson held her audience in fixed and earnest attention throughout the lecture. 
The next Fraternity Lecture will be given, not next week, but on the evening of Tuesday, December 12th, the Music Hall having been pre-engaged for a Fair during the intervening weeks. Due notice will be given of the speaker and subject.-C. K. W. 
PENNSYLVANIA ANTI-SLAVEEY SOCIETY .
A former number of the Liberator contained an abstract of the proceedings at the first session of the Annual Meeting of this Society, lately held. We give now further extracts, copying from the report in last week's Anti-Slavery Standard. Here we have the thought and counsel of the most intelligent and most devoted friends of the Anti-Slavery cause.
Mary Grew, of Philadelphia, said: 
In the short time allotted to us, it is not possible to compute accurately or thoroughly the wonderful revolutions and strange events which have characterized the past few years, or to enumerate all the triumphs resulting to our cause during that period. But here and there, we may put our finger upon some great event or some fulfillment of prophecy, and realize how satisfactory it is to witness the vindication of Justice and the Right. Perhaps one of the most remarkable and thrilling of those events was the announcement of the South Carolina Convention abolishing slavery. In Convention assembled, in the city of Charleston, the South Carolinians have adopted, by a vote of 98 to 8, such language as this:” The slaves in South Carolina, having been de facto emancipated by the action of the United States, neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, (whereof the party shall have been duly convicted,) shall ever be re-established in this State." 
Friends, only think of it, that that same State of South Carolina which, four or five years ago, we looked upon as the stronghold of slavery, should utter words like these, which, as we read them, seem hardly to mean what we always supposed such words did mean. But much else has been done, and I need not recapitulate what must be familiar to you all. For what has been gained to our cause in the great and marvellous change that has been wrought, our hearts are filled with thanksgiving. We give thanks again and again that the little seed which we have sown has produced such wondrous fruit already. And now, as we look upon these mighty changes, as we read proclamations of emancipation, and watch how State after State has come up to the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment declaring the system of slavery abolished; as we read antislavery utterances in Southern newspapers, it is the most natural and easy thing in the world that we should begin to ask ourselves if our work is not done. And here, in the midst of our joy and thanksgiving, comes our temptation and our danger in this, that we who have so long labored and striven in this vineyard of God, against the nation, yet for the nation's good as well as for the slave's-that we should now say, ”Lord, let us depart in peace, for our eyes have seen Thy salvation," and should lay off our armor and be one with the nation, among whom we have been like Ishmaelites for so many years. It is not pleasant to any of us, I imagine, certainly to very few, to be ever striving and struggling against the dominant power in the nation; to be ever in a small minority, unpopular, ostracised and opposed in Church or State, or in any manner. No one in a healthy state of mind seeks controversy for its own sake. Therefore, to the truly conscientious reformer, when the time comes when it seems only just possible that his probation is at an end in, that respect, and that he may with truth to himself and principle, to God and to the cause of humanity, be at one with the nation, then comes the temptation; I think it must come. Now, it becomes a very serious question to every reformer whether he can consistently and in justice to himself join hands with the Church or State and say,” from hence forth there is no controversy between us." That there is danger to the slave and to the cause of liberty in our country, I need scarcely assert; you have heard the proofs of it here to-day. However we may regard the action of the Government, we all know that there is more or less danger to the cause of liberty in this nation, and that everything depends upon how the Government shall be reconstructed and upon what conditions the revolted States shall be allowed to return. It is not pleasant to rebuke one's country, and to stand ever in an attitude of criticism and reproof; yet after all, he is the best friend of his country who watches her danger and warns her of it. It is not always the best friend of a country who promises peace, sweet as that word sounds in all ears. It may be that the cry of peace comes when there is no peace. Now, if we scrutinize carefully the action of the Government, we will see abundant evidences of the fact that much remains to be done to secure the abolition of slavery in the country. We see a very lenient spirit toward the rebels manifested in Washington; we find them restored to citizenship and places of trust. As Abolitionists, we have nothing to do with the pardon of rebels; but we should demand that while rebels are being 
pardoned by our Chief Magistrate in order to render them eligible to the Governorship of States, as in the case of Gen. Humphreys, justice should be done to the emancipated slave. And while we rejoice over such language as I have read to you coming from a South Carolina Convention, we are called upon to look further, to ascertain how she is going to treat those whose liberty is announced and whom the exigencies of the war have made free. Notwithstanding Gov. Perry's declaration that the fact of the abolition of slavery must be accepted, we find him also using this language:” The Radical Republican party at the North are looking with great interest to the action of the Southern States in reference to negro suffrage, and whilst they admit that a man should be able to read and write and have a property qualification in order to vote, yet they contend that there should be no distinction between voters on account of color. They forget that this is a white man's Government, and intended for white men only; and that the Supreme Court of the United States has decided that the negro is not an American citizen, under the Federal Constitution  That each and every State of the Union has the unquestioned right of deciding for herself who shall exercise the right of suffrage, is beyond all dispute. You will settle this grave question as the interest and honor of the State demand." 
It is of no consequence in this connection whether the Supreme Court of the United States has or has not done what he says; it is enough to know that such is the temper and spirit of the people of South Carolina., if their newly-elected Governor properly represents them, that it is folly to think of extending the right of suffrage to the black man. It is not merely the spirit of the Southern people that we have to take into consideration in deciding upon whether the work of anti-slavery societies is ended, and whether the abolition of slavery is so well-nigh completed and the people so nearly regenerated, that we may trust to the community generally that great cause which for thirty years.

<c05>
part we have held as especially our own, but the temper of the whole people of the country. 
New, when we read in what I suppose may be called the principal organ of the Republican party in Philadelphia such languages as this, we may form some idea as to what is the feeling and temper of the better part of the Republican party, if you make the exception of the a few men as so radical in anti-slavery sentiment that the party would hesitate, if not to endorse them, at least to put them forward as their representative men. The editor of the Press, who certainly has a right to speak for that party, says: 
"I have always contended that the most forgiving and least cruel people on this continent are the Abolitionists -the old anti-slavery leaders. Till the rebellion forced on the war, they were the pioneers and the <illegible> of every movement of peace. It was, in fact, horror of inhumanity which created that combination against slavery which, when slavery flew to arms, was so overwhelming, It is, therefore, only resuming a natural state of mind when they proclaim their anxiety for reconciliation with the Southern people. One thing the remains to make the anti-slavery people ready for the completest restoration. viz: The assurance that the freedmen will not be left to the tender mercies of the brutal and savage men who were found among their former masters. It was well said by a great thinker, a few days ago, that unless this assurance was given and clinched by ample legislation and by practical efforts on the part of the late masters, the black population would be simply enjoying a brief interregnum between two degrees of human slavery; one made cruel under what was called law, and the other rendered intolerable because inflicted without law and in the absence of the natural protectors of the freedmen.”
I will not weary you with further extracts you see what to is the idea of the better portion of their party. It is not that of placing the hands of the black man. We were told not long ago at a large public meeting, that we might <illegible> the conscience of the South to take care of the emancipated slaves. But I think the Abolitionists will be slow to put any confidence in the conscience of the South to take care of those black men who recently were their slaves, and who, at a still later period, were fighting against them on the battle-field. We know too much of the temper of the South, as it has exhibited itself during the past thirty years, to believe that we can now trust them. And in view of the evidences that are repeatedly coming up to us from the South, as to how they intend to treat the freedmen, the code of laws already proposed for them, and the statement from Mississippi that the general repudiation of everything looking towards the civilization of the negroes may be expected-in view of these testimonies, I say., we cannot trust the South with the care of the black man. The Freedmen's Bureau and other associations, philanthropic and benevolent, formed for the protection of the black man of the South, will do all they can; but when the Republican party offers us those organizations as the sole means of protection for this emancipated race, who are left at the mercy of their late masters, we, as Abolitionists, say we cannot trust them there; that we cannot now give up our care and guardianship of that people, nor our demand that full and complete liberty shall be given them in such a way that they can hold it. We want no promise kept to the ear and broken to the heart and hope; but, standing to-day as we have ever stood, in the slave's place, it is not enough for us that the cry of” liberty" breaks upon our hearing, or that the Proclamation of Freedom is read to us, signed and sealed by the powers at Washington-we must have, for ourselves, standing as the slave's representatives, security for that freedom. It would be a hard fate, in my opinion., if, after the slave has for a little while been lifted into the light and glory of freedom, he is again, in an evil hour, plunged back into the degradation from which he arose, and which this little glimmering of light has made tenfold more intolerable than before. Friends, when we speak for the slave, we must speak as the slave, and put ourselves, so far as we can do so, in his soul's stead, and stand with him on the Southern plantation, from which the United States armies have driven back his master; we must see those armies gradually receding, and look into the not distant day when State governments shall be recognized, and that to-day partially freed black population shall be left to the tender mercies of the Legislatures of South Carolina, Georgia, and Louisiana. Then let us ask ourselves, as in the olden times we used to ask, how could we wear the slave's chain and bear the slave's agonies? The terrible story of cruelty which we heard read this morning is only one of many tales of horror which for thirty years we have been telling. It is only a legitimate part of that system against which we have fought and struggled. If the Constitutional Amendment be ratified, as I think it will be, there will be an end to chattel slavery, but to nothing short of that. Oppression in every form may be practised upon the colored race under the code of laws which Mississippi proposes to enact. The name of serf, or peasant, or any other that may suit the taste of the South, may be substituted for that of slave, and the black man put under a ban, the curse of which shall be little less than that of slavery. 
The speaker again referred to the unpleasant and most unwelcome duty which devolved upon those who advocated the principles of Abolitionism in keeping before the nation the plain and incontrovertible facts which sustained their argument, and remarked that the black man having learned to carry a musket, and having trusted freedom, was better acquainted with the meaning of liberty. She continued: 
I do not say that it would be in his heart or in his power to rise against the Government that seeks to oppress him; I do not think the consequences would be other than terrible to himself; but I believe that the nation has failed to learn the lesson which the war has taught, if it again tries its hand at oppressing the negro to the utmost limit of its power, and what it 
deems safety to itself. 
Now, my friends, what ought we to do to? We should endeavor to urge the conscience of the nation up to the very highest standard of Right and Justice; we should demand for the slave yet in chains and for the freed-man the protection of the suffrage, not because we, as Anti-Slavery Societies, pretend to say what should be the condition of suffrage in the nation, but that the white man and the black shall be equally represented in the Government. To this work we must continue to address ourselves, by influencing public sentiment, by appeals to Congress, by sustaining, directly’ or indirectly, those men who, next winter, are to fight out this battle in Congress, and who say to us, ”Help us, back us; we need the agitation which you are keeping up." Not only a Senator from Massachusetts sends that message, but one of our Representatives from Pennsylvania says, appealingly, ”Do not dissolve your Societies; stand by those- who stand by them; we want your help behind us." And it seems strange that it should be necessary for us to quote what they have said on that subject 
The speaker, in conclusion, argued from the sentiments of the nation that much yet remained to be done before the rights and interests of the black race could be committed to the hands of the people at large. 
The committee on the nomination of officers then submitted a report, which was read and adopted, as follows: 
President -JAMES MOTT.
Vice Presidents-Thomas Garret., Robert Purvis. 
Corresponding Secretary- Benjamin C  Bacon.
Recording Secretary -Edward M. Davis. 
Treasurer -Sarah Pugh.
Additional Members –Lucretia Mott,. Mary Grew,
Margaret J. BurLeigh, Abby Kimber, Simon Barnard, 
Wm. Still.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, of Rochester, N. Y., was the next speaker. She said something to the more was needed than mere ministering to the physical or even to the educational and industrial wants of the freedmen. That which was most necessary was the establishment, of those fundamental principle of republicanism which would give to that people a perpetual guarantee of their freedom and of individual protection, thereby enabling them to occupy a position in which they would no longer need the aid of Northern asso

<c06>
ciation. To those associations, or to the work connected with them, Abolitionists were not opposed, they only contended that unless the policy of national reconstruction was based upon the true principles of republicanism, there would forever be the need of such associations for the political and spiritual relief of black men. Abolitionists desired to make those associations no longer needful in the country.
The speaker then referred to an incident connected with Quantrell’s raid in Kansas, in which several black men were instrumental in saving the life of a citizen, (an editor of a Republican paper,) after two of his sons had fallen victims to the cruelty of the raiders. The mother of those two boys had narrated to the speaker the heart-rending particulars of the affair, and appreciated the timely warning of the negroes who had saved her husband's life, yet she could not bear the idea of negro equality, or giving them the right to vote. The position in which she stood was this, that while Quantrell and all his raiders – the murderers of her sons-might go to the ballot-box and be admitted to a participation in the affairs of the nation, yet to those friendly negroes who came to her home, and were instrumental in saving her husband's life, she would accord no such privilege. And <illegible> was just the position in which the country <illegible> day. As had been stated by <illegible> between the advocated <illegible> principle principles and that <illegible>
was popular in the <illegible> by the <illegible> spoke and acted 
from the stand <illegible> the slave himself, standing in the place of the Robert Smalls and Robert Suttons of the South, who fully and intelligently appreciated all their rights as freemen and citizens, while politicians 
spoke always with an eye to majorities and the interests of party, church, or whatever interest they might be connected with.
The speaker then presented the claims of the National Anti-Slavery Standard. She stated that at present the number of lecturing agents was small in comparisons with the number of those who had been employed in former years, and that consequently a large share of the work of building up the organ by anti-slavery opinion would necessarily devolve upon Abolitionists generally. In conclusion, she proposed the following resolution:
Resolved, That we learn with profound satisfaction that the National Anti-Slavery Standard is to be placed on a broader basis as to its circulation, and influence than it has ever before enjoyed; and recognizing its great importance as an educating and elevating influence, we will cheerfully aid, in all suitable ways, the enterprise; and especially by earnest and persevering effort we will increase its list of subscribers as largely as possible in every part of the field over which the operations of this Society extended.
WENDELL PHILLIPS then addressed the Society. He said: I want to say a word in regard to that resolution, which may as well be the text of what I have to say to the audience assembled, because in the question of the continuance and extension of anti-slavery effort is included the question why that effort is needed, or what are the circumstances of the country which dictate to anti-slavery men perseverance, and even the increasing of their previous efforts for the protection of liberty in this republic. I would say amen to all that Miss Anthony has asserted in regard to the utility of the journal to which the referred, and I hope for your assistance; but if you feel unwilling to give it, then I think we may be the to do without it. But we would welcome your assistance in placing that journal for sale, as I said this morning, in every news-office in the free States. To do this, we have the means in a large extension of its subscription list, and in circulating ten thousand copies to the Radical men of the loyal States, men known for the last ten years for their interest in and their service to the progressive ideas which have agitated the nation, and resulted finally in a war.
In turning from that precise point, I meet a series of resolutions and amendments thereto, which were proposed this morning, contemplating the question whether and how far the work of Abolitionists is accomplished. I wish to remind every thoughtful man whose life has been connected with this question at all, that it would be very irrational, it would not at all cohere with common sense, to suppose beforehand, without at all looking at the facts, that any single resolution, completed in four or six years, could root out of thirty millions of people an institution like that of slavery and the spirit of hatred out of which it grew. I would defy any man who listens to me to show an instance in the whole history of the world where a battle or a political struggle of four, seven, or ten years has ever had that result. National changes are like the tides. As the Welsh proverb says, ”Every ninth wave runs farther up on the beach." But you do not gain all that. It goes back almost as far as the point from which it started. And so the waters continue to well up, then retreat, the water in fact gaining an inch or a half-inch, and then months elapsing before it gains another inch. So it is in national changes. The enthusiasm of a period of battle carries the whole purpose and constitutional feeling of a nation ten or twenty years, ahead of any spot where it again permanently rests. That is philosophical. It is inevitable. Look at our own Revolution. The institutions based upon the Declaration of Independence did not legitimately grow out of, or, if they did, did not extend to the whole principle embraced by the Declaration. It took our fathers twenty and thirty years in State arrangements to come up to the Declaration of Independence in regard to the white race. In regard to the black race, Tennessee allowed them to vote, as did some other of the States; Rhode Island and other States marshaled them into the army. But the wave that had gone so high during the Revolution retreated. You might have waited twenty years, before any common man would think of a negro being a soldier. We got into the navy in 1812; and in the terrible fight at New Orleans, Andrew Jackson fell back to the Revolutionary precedent- a black soldier. But it has taken up to the present moment to realize for the black man even a degree of the Revolutionary principle laid down on the fourth day of July, 1776. In 1780, De Tocque ville says, ”France made such an effort as no nation ever made before in the world's history to put a gulf between what the nation had been and what the nation ought to be;”;" and after making that statement, be concludes, ”and when the effort was made, the nation was very much what she was before it began; the changes was very slight." Then we come down to 1848, when Lamartine, Victor Hugo, and other leading Frenchmen undertook to model that nation into a Republic-able men, thoroughly in earnest, with the whole nation in their hands. Everybody thought that monarchy had gone out of France forever; one unbroken wave rolled from one end of the country to the other; you could see nothing of old institutions; but in about eighteen months, that apparent deluge subsided, and out of it reappeared the old institutions, and to -day, to every Frenchman's surprise 
the principle of monarchy is stronger in France than 
it was in 1830. Men say that it was a great possibility. It was. Every man thought it was going to be a success; but it turns out that it was only a possibility, and amounted to little or nothing. The only record that remains of that day is the abolition of slavery, which was decreed in the storm;: everything else that they attempted to do has vanished. Well, this is the history of revolutionary periods always, that at the moment a nation believes it has accomplished everything, and then wakes up and finds, as the French proverb has it,” things are stronger than men." The old prejudice, the national character, the inherited laws, the thousand-year-old customs are stronger than any enthusiasm. The nation wakes up hot, molten, rushes into battle, and thinks to <illegible> institutions. It is like a sea-bird dashing its brains out against a light-house; the thing is done, the enthusiasm passes over, and there is the lighthouse.
Now, therefore, in calculating the result of the enthusiasm of four years, the newly-created principle, the deeply-moved virtue (as you may call it) of the
NOVEMBER 17. THE LIBERATOR. 182
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
American nation, we may count that it has gained a great deal. But it would be most unparalleled in history if it achieved everything; no man ought to be disappointed if it does not. And I present these considerations to you before proceeding to speak of the real attitude in which you stand; and I suggest to you that a moment's reflection would have shown any man that it was hardly possible, considering human nature and how strong are institutions planted in commerce, property, prejudice, laws and constitutions, that it was at least difficult to change them entirely. It takes a generation or two. I think that when we come to look at the facts, we shall see that what has been the case with all other nations at such times seems likely, at present, to be very largely the case with ours. This slave power, growing out of the single constitution of slavery, which has ruled the country since 1801-perhaps we might say since 1789 has not lost any of its elements of strength; and we shall see it, if the President's plan succeeds, coming back somewhat crippled, but almost unchanged.
MARY GREW, of Philadelphia, in some brief remarks said that the pulpit and press had manifested remarked signs of imporvement, the newspapers of Philadelphia, the Press in particular, showing a <illegible> degree of improvement in testifying to the <illegible> the colored people in the <illegible> Society, as Abolition.<illegible> up higher. The resolution offered by Mary Grew relating to Wm. LLoyd Garrison was adopted <illegible> as follows:
Resolved That, in view of the fact that the close of the present year is to terminate the existence of The Liberator, we desire to express to our beloved friend. WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, our high appreciation of his editorial labors in the cause of Freedom, to offer him our hearty congratulations that the great work to which in youth he dedicated his life seems so near its glorious accomplishment; and to assure him that our hearts, in sympathy with those of his and <illegible> laborers throughout this country, fervently pray that, in the complete triumph of liberty in America, in the blessed consciousness of a life spent of the service of his fellow-men, and in the peace <illegible> understanding, he may find his <illegible> and everlasting reward.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE BUSHRANGERS. A Yankee's Adventures during his second visit to Australia. By William Thomas, a returned Australian. Author of the <illegible> Adventures, or Life in Australia. Boston: Love and Shepard, successors to Phillips, Sampson and Company. 1865.-pp. 480.
The above is a well-printed and good-looking <illegible> volume, with illustrations This is absolutely all that can be said in its favor. The author undertakes to describe characters and incidents in Australia, but he has shown neither good taste in selecting nor skill in describing them.
"The Right-way” is the title of a new weekly paper, proposing the extension of suffrage to the backs, and bearing the motto- “Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.” It has these two commendable pecularities namely:-
It is not a news paper, but designed to suggest and stimulate thoughtout on the most important topics connected with our national policy, advocating justice and righteousness as the course best adapted to secure public welfare.
Fifty thousand copies of it are to be printed weekly, which are to be sent,free of all charge, and postage paid, to the address of persons in all the States and Territories of the Union.
This enterprise is undertaken by Major George L. Stearns of Boston, who makes the following proposition to those who receive the paper:-
"FIRST.To form a club in your immediate neighborhood for the reception of newspapers and pamphlets containing valuable information on questions of immediate interest.
SECOND. To send to me the names of the club, that I may forward documents on the subjects indicated, to the address of one member of it, or to each one separately, as may be most advisable, which will to all cases be without charge.
THIRD. If you feel disposed to aid the work by a contribution from the club, to send me such money as you can spare for this purpose, not in payment for what you receive, but to enable me to extend its usefulness in other directions, especially at the South, where Major-General Howard has kindly volunteered to distribute it, through the agency of the Freedmen's Bureau.Contributions in aid of this work, sent to me, will be acknowledged each week in the paper."
The first number of this paper, dated Nov. 18th, 1865, is <illegible> specimen of the work proposed, except that it takes a view of the President's policy more favorable than recent developments seem to justify. It is published by William M. Thayer, Agent, <illegible> whom all letters may be addressed,) at 221 Washington St. Boston.
We have had the good fortune to meet with a copy of an excellent little French book, published in Paris during the present year, entitled
"Theodore Parker: his Life and his Works: a Chapter of the History of the Abolition of Slavery in the United States: by Albert Reville.” –pp: 330.
M. Reville is one of the very ablest of those French pastors who teach a reformed theology, nearly or quite resembling that which Theodore Parker taught. Sharing also Mr. Parker's fervent anti-slavery spirit, and his zeal for the promotion of the principles of civil liberty, it was natural that he should wish to make him better known to the French people. The work could not have fallen into better hands.
One of his ten chapters is entitled” The Question of Slavery” another,” The Kidnappers." He describes with earnestness, and very accurately, the immensely important work done by Mr. Parker in relation to this subject, and gives a just description also of his religious character. ”Parker's religion," he says,” may be called Christian Theism. 
"A slight error found in this book may be usefully mentioned, because a similar one is sometimes made here. The religious Society founded by Mr. Parker is not the 28th Congregation of Boston, 25th Congregational Society of Boston."-C. K. AID FOR COLORED ORPHANS.
A circular has been received here, earnestly requesting contributions of provision, and also money to purchase fuel, for the” Memphis Colored Orphan Asylum. "This institution has an average of a hundred children constantly under its care, most of them under six years of age. Its object is to place them in good homes as fast as these can be found, and to provide for their wants as far as possible until that time. They have been able to go forward thus far by the allotment of government rations and a suitable building. With the former they are no longer furnished, and they expect soon to lose the latter. The colored people there are too poor to provide for the institution, and most of the whites, including the city government, look upon it with an unfavorable eye. Yet, if it can be aided from abroad through the coming winter, its five Trustees (who send this Circular) have good hope of its continuance and well doing.
Communications may be addresses to Mrs. S. A.Martha Canfield, Box 76, Memphis, Tenn. Brevet Major-General Cheltain is President of the Board of Trustees. Judge Leonard, of Shelby Co., Tenn., and Generals Smith and Morgan, stationed at Memphis, cordially recommend the petitioners. And Major Reeve, Superintendent of Freedmen in the same city, declares the institution excellent and highly useful. Let those who are able help it promptly and liberally -C. K. W.

<c02>
ELMIRA WATER CURE IN OCTOBER. 1865. 
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON:
One may question whether invalidism is a calamity, when it puts you in such an entirely delightful place for restoration as this Cure. The admirable combination of medical skill in Dr. and Mrs. Gleason is thoroughly seconded by all the sweet influence, of a lovely surrounding of Nature's best harmonies. Other water-cure resorts may be more palatial in architecture; but none” Has royal pleasure-grounds outspread” quite equal to these. If the roof of is low as is your state, what matters it, for here is the friendly blue sky, lofty enough for your canopy.
" And who but he that arched the skies,
And poured the day-spring's living flood,"
could have made the scene that lies before you, a magnificent picture, framed in your plain window-seat? There is no lack of gilding outside, when the golden sunset-light gleams from these reaches of water in the valley below. Canal and creek and river and crystal lake are so disposed amid the meadow lands of the Chemung as to animate the view up to a poet's dream. Vast masses of forest, now gorgeous with October dyes, clothe the opposite mountainous heights, their topmost trees pencilled against the sky all along the horiton, that sweeps for miles in a grand undulating circuit. The whole village of Elmira is seen, at just the right angle and distance to blend its houses and churches of red, white and brown with the yellow and scarlet maples into a compact rich mosaic, set among the hills and green fields. What words can tell all the <illegible> broods with varying beauty over this practised valley prospect for one day!
"Mysteries of color sociality laid
By the grat San in <illegible> light and shade."
Sick or well, here, <illegible> of thanksgiving will be in your heart, if not on your lips, for the mercy and goodness that follow us all the days of our lives.
Pleasant retired paths attract you to the Glen that stretches up through wooded ravines behind the Cure. Tall, old pines tower “proudly eminent" in their evergreens among” the garnet hue of the young oaks” that began their growth with the date of the establishment, thirteen years ago. Mrs. Gleason urges her patients to walk out of doors-if not strong enough to wolk, then sit out of doors-if not able to sit, then lie out of doors, especially these warm, deliciously-aired, health-giving autumn days. Dr. and Mrs. Gleason are full believers in sun-cure. Mrs. G. tells a story of two young German sisters coming to live in Buffalo. One left the sea miserable, thin, pale and sick, the other rosy and stout. She took to factory, or some close, confining in-door work, while the feeble girl was only able to sit at the street corner and sell apples from a fruit stall. The out-door air wrought slowly, day by day, its good effects, till the wan cheeks bloomed. But the other's had laded. She, too, was compelled to the humble open-air employment, and found the same unsought-for restoration. Such is the power of that simple remedy- “Life in the Open Air." Mrs. Gleason gives very sensible lectures to the ladies, which, for plain, practical value, remind you of Florence Nightingale's invaluable Notes on Nursing. No one can pass a season or a month here without being enriched with these common-sense views of healthful ways of living, as as to diet, dress, sleep, rest and exercise in due proportion; and hundreds learn here the best lessons of hygiene. I wish everybody could hear, as we did last week, Dr Gleason lecture on the Relations of Health and Physical Enjoyment, in which he aptly quoted that” a man's skin covers all his possessions.”
The house is overflowing with patients and guests-all kept by the magnetic spirit of Mrs. Gleason and the Doctor in good and kindly humor. Mr. Fitz Hugh Ludlow only declared the truth when he said, “The very air of the place is heavenly." Sunday evening, this gentleman gave us an hour's happiness to be remembered forever-a fine discourse on the “Blessedness of Things," or the divine uses of seeming evil. He touched with delicate thought the high mysteries of being, with masterly power of expression he swept the chords of pathos and of victory, till you were filled with solemn ecstacy as of listening to Beethoven's symphonies. His illustrations were exquisitely suggestive. Our apprenticeship in life may perplex us with coarse, homely details, like that of a young clerk who toils years in ignorance among boxes and bales of some great warehouse of foreign merchandize. One day, as he is approaching his majority, the seniors of the firm take him into their carpeted room remote from the moil in which he has so long lived, and reveal to him the meaning of the cabalistic signs on the outside of the rough boxes, that tell the quality of the stores within-how this G within the diamond mark, means rich silks from China-that other figure, denotes lacker ware from Japan-this letter again betokens box of curious samples-that mark of teas-and so on, till a new world opens to his fancy, and engages his hence forth unflagging interest in the hard, unpromising outward features of his business. So are we heirs of eternity-copartners in all heavenly fellowship, to be led thro' balking care and pain and disappointment, by the rough ways and buffetings of human experience to the summits of glorious revelation, showing our destiny beyond our hope. Not alone thro' the passes of the mighty Rocky Mountains and across the Great Plains of Nabraska and Colorado and the desert of Utah has this poet-souled traveller penetrated, but into realms and Mecca's of the mind, bringing back reports which captivate belief.
We heard Rev. T. K. Beccher, in an uncompromising sermon to his Sunday School, tell them that he did not believe with President Johnson” this was a white man's country." It was the black as much as the white man's  country.  It belonged to all the children of God; and he was going to be like God love black people just as much as he did white people, That very morning he looked over the town, (his cottage is close up here by the Cure,) and saw God's sun ruing and shining upon the houses and gardens of black as fully and warmly as on those of white people.
Two Sundays ago, Mr. Charles Beecher gave here, in his brother's church, such a sermon as makes one grateful and happy all his life after to have heard. True to the Beecher family fame, he preached of Temperance from the text,” I beseech you by the mercies of God that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service." It was a sermon so full of the spirit of godly living-so pure-hearted and ennobling, that I wondered what sort of ” ng paiety," as Theodore Parker called it, those Congregational ministers have to shut him out of their great Council in Boston last June.
SALLIE HOLLEY.
Since Mr. Garrison started on his Western tour, he has lectured to good audiences at Erie and Meadville, Pa., and Warren and Akron, Ohio. On the evening of Wednesday, Nov. 8th, he had a large and enthusiastic meeting at Cleveland. The next evening he lectured at Detroit. To-day (Friday) he is in Chicago for the first time in his life. 
For the convenience of the readers of the Liberator on Mr. Garrison's line of travel, we append a list of his engagements. 
Princeton, III., Monday, Nov.20,
Galesburg,” Tuesday,” 21.
Quiney,” Wednessday,” 22.
Lafayette, Ind., Monday,” 27.
Indianapolis,” Tuesday,” 28.
Richmond,” Wednessday” 29.
Cincinnati, Ohio, Thursday,” 30.
Pittsburg, Pa., Monday, Dec 4.
From Thursday, the 23d, to Monday, the 27th. Mr. Garrison will be at Springfield, III.
Thanksgiving Day in Massachusetts is pointed appointed for Thursday, December 7, the change being made by Gov. Andrew, in accordance with President Johnson's proclamation for a National Thanksgiving on that day.

<c03>
THE PEACE PRiNCIPLE. On the fourth page will be found extracts-as large as our space would allow-from a letter addressed to a clerical defender of war, controverting his positions and arguments, and maintaining the Christian doctrine of peace, forgiveness of enemies, and good will to all men, even the unthankful and the evil. The writer is well known as an excellent man, an earnest abolitionist, and an active worker in various reforms. Let his thought,s have a candid consideration. 
The whole of the long letter from which these extracts are made will shortly be published in pamphlet form.
HON GEORGE THOMPSON. A letter from Mr. Thompson to a friend in this city gives information of his continued good health, and of the prosperous progress of his lecturing tour in the West. He has had good meetings in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana, and is engaged to speak in many places in New York State during the month of December. Those who wish to communicate with him can direct, for the present, to the care of Gerrit Smith, Esq.,Peterboro, N. Y.
VISIT OF A NORTH CAROLINA DELEGATION TO PRESIDENT JOHNSON. 
WASHINGTON NOV 10
To-day the members of the late North Carolina Convention, and other gentlemen of that State, visited the President, when Hon. Mr. Reade, on behalf of the Convention over which he had the honor to preside, presented for his favorable consideration certain of its proceedings, saying, among other things, that the first act of the Convention was to declare the uninterrupted connection of North Carolina with the Union, and that the ordinance of May, 1861, by which she attempted to be severed, was null and void. This was done by a vote nearly approaching unanimity, and thus the first issue in the late war was yielded. The next thing done was to prohibit slavery, and this was by a unanimous vote, and a committee of able lawyers was provided to prepare wholesome laws for the consideration the legislature, and thus the second issue of the war was yielded. 
The Convention having yielded what was involved in the war, and being of the opinion that the State was, and always had been, in the Union, and that our relations had only been disturbed and not destroyed, respectfully asks your Excellency to declare, on the part of the authorities of the United States, as the State has done her part, that our governmental relations have been reconciled. The Convention have in structed the Legislature to provide for the payment of the debts of the State, declared all debts contracted in aid of the rebellion illegal, and prohibited the payment of the same. Mr. Reade said: 
"We have heard that not withstanding the State might yield, and, as she understands it, has yielded, all that was involved in the war, and not withstanding our people were submissive, well-disposed and anxious for fraternal relations, her delegation in Congress would be required to take an oath which few men in the State can take, affirming not merely that they are right now, but that they have never been wrong. The exclusion of her delegation upon any such test as is suggested would be fell by our people universally as such a deep wrong that it would put their strung devotion to the government and their lively hope of a perfect reconciliation to the severest trial.
They can understand the bitterness of strife and aversion to treason, but they will be confounded at the repulsion of offered friendship and avowed loyalty. The Convention therefore respectfully asks Congress to repeal the test oath. I have thought it respectful both to you and to Congress that this request should pass through your hands, with the hope that your Excellency's magnanimity would add to it some reflections that would aid that body." 
After further remarks by Mr. Reade, in which he spoke of the confidence reposed in him by North Carolina, the President responded as follows:
"Hon. Mr. Reade: I receive from you with pleasure a copy of the proceedings of the Convention of North Carolina. I reciprocate cordially the conciliatory spirit in which you have addressed me. The Convention of North Carolina has done much and well toward restoring that State to her proper national relations, but something yet remains to be done to render that restoration immediately practicable. An acceptation of the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery throughout the United States by the Legislature of North Carolina is, in my judgment, practically important to the successful restoration which is so much desired by all. Without answering specifically the question you have proposed to me, it will be sufficient to say that my action must depend upon events, and that Mr. Holden will be again instructed to continue the exercise of his functions as Provisional Governor until he shall have been expressly relieved by orders to that effect.” 
LET US UNDERSTAND.
Among the amendments to the Constitution which the Jeffersonians of eighty years since deemed essential to the security of public liberties and personal rights was the following:
" ART. II. A well regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.”
When our great war closed, it was deemed advisable that the soldiers of the Union should be allowed to retain the arms they had so nobly borne, on condition of the payment by each of what was considered by the Government their cash value. An order was accordingly issued from the War Department proffering to each honorably discharged soldier the privilege of purchasing his weapon on the payment of that sum, (85, we believe) So said, so done; until now, on the representation of the ex-rebels of Louisiana, Gen. Canby has nullified Mr. Stanton's order, directing that the colored soldiers mustered out of service in his department (Louisiana) shall not be allowed to buy their muskets! We presume the Secretary will direct this satrap to mind his eye; but meantime, the black soldiers will be mustered out and dispersed, and the reiteration of the original order will practically amount to nothing.
"The wicked flee when no man pursueth." The negro-haters at the South have set their hearts on having a black insurrection. They may fail; but it will not be for want of diligence and determination. Thus, in the South Carolina House of Assembly, Mr. Leitner, of Kershaw, has moved that the Judiciary Committe do proceed 
" to take into consideration the fact that numerous arms of various descriptions, and ammunition in considerable quantities, are in the possession of the free negroes of South Carolina; and that said Committee be instructed to recommend, if posssible, to this House, the adoption of such measures as will secure the following results:
"First-The rendition of such arms and ammunition as are now in the hands of said free negroes to the proper authorities of the State.
”Second-As will secure the punishment of those persons who, in the future, shall barter or in any wise lurnish arms and ammunition to said free negroes. 
" Third-As will in the future prevent said free negroes from retaining in their possession arms and ammunition, whenever and however obtained."
-It puzzles us to determine why such propositions are not held in reserve till the States lately in revolt shall have been fully reconstructed and their representatives seated in Congress. Then we shall have lots of them: now, they are clearly unseasonable.-Tribune.
LEGISLATION IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
It is very evident that the Legislature is determined to circumscribe the freedom of the colored people in every possible way. The Committee on the Judiciary has been instructed to consider the expediency of such legislation as will put a stop to tree persons of color keeping open shops and other markets of barter, traffic and sale, as tend to collect numbers of negroes, to then manifest violation of good order, thereby breeding idleness and crime, other than such as are necessary and proper. Of course the Committee will decide that  “free persons of color” ought not to exercise so dangerous a privilege as getting a living in their own way, and they will be forbidden to engage in trade Neither will they be allowed to possess firearms for another resolution calls for legislation that will secure-
"First-The rendition of such arms and ammunition as are now in the hands of said tree negroes to the proper authorities of the State.
"Secondly-As will secure the punishment of those persons who, in the future, shall barter or in any wise furnish arms and ammunition to said free negroes.
"Thirdly-As will in the future prevent said free negroes from retaining in their possession arms and ammunition, whenever or however obtained."
Hon. D. L. Wardlawand Armstead Burt, a commission appointed for the purpose,have reported a code for the regulation of labor and the protection and government of the colored population of the State. Their report treats of the domestic relations of persons of color, including those of husband and wife, parent and child, guardian and ward, and master and apprentice, the contracts for service, the regulations of labor on farms, the rights of the employer as between himself and his servant, the causes of discharge of a servant,

<co4>
the rights of the employer as to third persons, the rights of the servant as between himself and employer, the rights of servants as to third persons, the duties and obligations of house servants and others not in hashandry, the forms of contract, the rights and duties of mechanics, artisans and shopkeepers,the eviction of servants, and the regulations for paupers, vagrancy and idleness-Journal.
THE SOUTH NOT TO BE ALLOWED THE PRIVILEGE OF POPULAR ELECTIONS.
This will be the outcry of the Copperhead as they read the report of the interview which occurred yesterday between the President and the North Carolina delegation. And the hostile criticism will be intensified by the copy of the official despatch, instructing Provisional Governor Perry of South Carolina to continue in the discharge of the duties of his office, although the white men of the Palmetto State have just chosen another incumbent of the gubernatorial position. With these announcements of the policy of the administration, comes a semi-offical statement that the United States Government still has 180,000 men in the field-a force abundant to maintain the present condition of affairs in the Confederacy, until a more truly loyal spirit shall be manifested. 
The unconverted rebels of the South are to be governed by magistrates appointed from Washington, so long as they refuse to comply with certain conditions deemed indispensable by the Federal Government! No doubt the Secessionists will regard this as a wanton outrage upon their prerogative of going out of and returning back to the Union whenever their supreme pleasure might dictate. They and their Northern friends will find it inconvenient to remember that by rebellion all civil rights have been forfeited by those who took up arms against the United States, and that these can only be regained by them when granted as a voluntary boon by the national authorities. The right of the South to be governed by rulers of its own selection was lost when Lee and Johnson surrendered. They will be permitted to resume it after sufficient evidence that its exercise will be beneficial to the whole country-Transcript.
EXECUTION OF WIRZ.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 10. 
Capt. Wirz was hung this forenoon between 10 and 11 o'clock. He exhibited the same defiant composure that he has manifested all along.
Wirz was attired in a long robe or shroud of black cambric, and an attempt was made to handcuff his wrists, but his right arm was so swollen that the iron could not be fastened without giving him pain. “I don't want to be cross," said he,” but don't hurt me." The shackles were removed. When summoned to leave the cell, Wirz remarked to Father Boyle, ”I hope this black dress will soon be turned into a white robe. I go willingly." 
On reaching the gallows, he ascended the steps with alacrity and seated himself in a chair placed upon the drop. Father Boyle, from whom he had received.the sacrament, stood at his right hand, holding a small crucifix, and at his left hand stood Father Wigget. 
Major Russell then read, in a clear voice, the long charges and specifications. Wirz listened to the tedious document with attention, nodding assent to some portions and shaking his head negatively when other sections were being read. 
Occasionally, the impatient crowd without would give hideous yells, at which the criminal would betray some uneasiness. Then Father Boyle would display the symbol of redemption, saying,” Faith, hope, charity, repentance will save you." 
At last, the reading of the charges, the specifications, the finding of the Court and the President's approval of the sentance had been completed, and Major Russell, turningtoward the criminal, asked him it he had any remarks to make. He replied in an unconcerned tone that he had no wish to say anything to the public. To the Major he would say that he died innocent. He had but once to die; his hope was in the future. 
Major Russell then shook hands with him, receiving his thanks for courteous treatment. The priest hade him farewell, with words of consolation, and retired. He stood erect upon the drop. The hangman pinioned his arms and feet, adjusted the fatal noose, and put on the black cap. Then commenced unearthly yells from those outside of the prison yard, as if execrating the prepetrator of atrocious cruelties. Major Russell raised his cap- the drop fell- Henry Wirz, with a sudden plunge, was hung by the neck until he was” dead, dead, dead." 
It was seven minutes after the drop fell before the convulsive movements of the body ceased, and the subsequent surgical examination showed that his neck was not broken.
THE NEORO IS GEORGIA.  In a letter from Miledgeville. Georgia, in the Cincinnati Gazette, we find the following passage:
" With regard to the negro, I am both pleased and pained-pained that so many of them still entertain such erroneous ideas as to the nature and responsibilities of freedom; pleased that so large a number, contrary to the predictions and wishes of their enemies as well as the fears and misgivings of their friends, contrary to all that might have been expected from the mental, moral, social and physical degradation to which they were so long reduced, have arisen as if by an inspiration to a proper comprehension of the circumstances of their case, and have, like true men and women, gone steadily and earnestly to work to improve their condition in the only way it can be improved- by honorable and honest toil. 
I conversed in Macon with seven colored men, whom I picked out at random from the crowds passing along the streets. The first was head waiter at a hotel, and was receiving in wages twenty-five dollars per month, having started at ten dollars. The second was an old man, a dray driver, who was getting a dollar a day, and was sending four children to school. The third was a cigar manufacturer, who was receiving twenty dollars a month and board for his labor; he too having commenced at ten dollars. The fourth was a laborer engaged in transporting cotton from the warehouse to the riverside, preparatory to loading in flatboats, and was paid for this one dollar and twenty-five cents per day. The fifth was a lazy fellow, whose worthless appearance would, in nine cases out of ten, prevent him from obtaining work, and whose innate worthlessness would probably induce him to abandon it very shortly after it was obtained. He endeavored to make me believe that he had been at work, and was willing to work, but his whole story was contused and contradictory, and I set him down as a very trifling sort of a boy. The sixth was a restaurant cook, a good-looking young fellow, who seemed as merry as a lark, and chuckled with delight when he told me he ‘got fifteen dollars a month and found.' The seventh was a porter in a wholesale grocery store, received eighty cents a day for his services, and liked his employers' fust rate.' 
Thus, of the seven with whom I talked, six were at work and doing well, while the seventh was so entirely sensible of his duty and obligations that he was ashamed to own that he was idle. Now, I ask any in an, no matter what are his partisan views and prejudices, to look at this statement candidly, and say what more or what better could be expected of these poor creatures, who have been degraded by many years of servitude; who, from the hour of their birth have never been taught the rudest elements of responsibility and self-dependence; who have systematically been deprived of the wages due to toil, and who, in this condition, without money, property or resources, have suddenly been set adrift, and left to make their own way in the world."
REV. DR. BACON ON THE STATE OF THE SOUTH.
Rev. Dr. Leonard Bacon, of New Haven, Conn., who has just returned from a visit to Virginia, gave some of the results of his observation in a sermon on Sunday evening, 5th inst. We take the following interesting extract from the report in the New Haven Paladium: —
"Gen. Terry told me that 2000 rations are daily issued to the suffering white people of Richmond; and I learned from Col. Brown that 200 rations, only, are distributed to the black people! Their number is equal-25,500 of each. Which of these people, I ask you, is it that’cannot take care of themselves'? which that’won't work’? Which is it that is’Lazy’?is’ lazy’? I heard Gov. Wise beseeching the military authorities to restore to him his estate, and drive off the negroes, of which he is so much afraid. He complains that he is impoverished. But I did not see him work. Negroes were at work among the ruins which General Breckinridge made, that the flames might light up his retreat. They were picking the mortar off of the bricks, that they might be again used. But I did not see Gov. Wise at work. 
The religious people of the South are more irreconcilable to their condition than any other class. The ministers especially are obstinate and sullen. They accept the restored Union only as the result of coercion. They yield only because they must. And if the military were withdrawn, they would be more free in prayer than they are now. The nearest they can come to loyalty is the prayer of some of them that, since they could not have what they wanted, they may have grace to be content with what they have got To which I say, Amen!
We cannot co-operate with any of the so-called Christian people of the South. A minister was here a week ago raising money to rebuild his church which Breckiuridge burnt-burnt, not because he was loyal, for he was one of the rankest rebels of that region, and worked in season and out of season for the rebellion. He was a renegade son of Connecticut himself, and for years he has protested to God every Sunday that the Southern States were the innocent objects of invasion, persecution and hate, while he knew that that accursed rebellion was organized against freedom and good or-

<c05>
der, against constitutional authority. abhorred of God, and worthy to be abhorred of man. It is not with such men that we can safely cooperate. Let us work independently until the poor whites and blacks are strong enough and wise enough to protect themselves.”
PRESIDENT JOHNSON TO GOV. PERRY.
WASHINGTON, NOV.10, 1865.
The following is a copy of the telegram addressed to his Excellency, B. F. Perry, Provisional Governor of South Carolina:
"Your letter of the 4th is just now received. While much has been done in South Carolina that is conducive to peace and restoration, the President still thinks that it is impossible to anticipate events. He expects, therefore, that you will continue to exercise the duties heretofore devolved upon you as Provisional Governor of South Carolina until you shall be relieved by his order. He observes with regret that neither the Convention nor the State Legislature have pronounced the debts and obligations contracted in the name of the states to be void.  He equally regrets that the State teems to decline the Congressional Amendment of the Constitution of the United States abolishing slavery. I telegraphed to you yesterday as follows: The President directs me to write to you that an early adoption of the Congressional Amendment of the Constitution of the United States abolishing slavery by the South Carolina Legislature is deemed peculiarly important, and especially desirable with reference to the general situation of the Union. I have now only to say that the President's opinions before expressed remain unchanged W. H. SEWARD.
"THE INDEMNITY QUESTION. The following, the concluding paragraphs of Mr. Adams' letter to Earl Russell on the Indemnity Question, are very keen:-
I likewise receive with great pleasure your lordship's assurances that the efforts by which the Government and Congress of my country have shaken off slavery, ”have the warmest sympathies of the people of these kingdoms." 
If, from painful observation in a service extended through four years, I cannot in candor yield my entire assent to this statement, as applied to a large and too influential portion of Her Majesty's subjects; if it has been my misfortune to observe, in the process of so wonderful a revolution, a degree of coldness and apathy existing in many quarters from which my country men had every reason to expect warm and earnest sympathy; if, throughout this great trial, the severity of which few not well versed in the nature of our institutions could fully comprehend, the voice of encouragement from this side of the water has too often emitted a doubtful sound, I yet indulge the hope that the result arrived at will ultimately correct the hasty and harsh judgements that flowed from lack of faith and confidence in our fidelity to a righteous cause. Of the friendly disposition in this regard of the members of Her Majesty's Government, and especially of your lordship, I have never permitted myself to doubt. And yet, in the midst of the gravest of our difficulties, I cannot forget that even your lordship was pleased, in an officially published dispatch, to visit with the severity of your but too weighty censure the greatest political measure of the late lamented President, that which in fact, opened the only practicable way to the final attainment of the glorious end. Under such circumstances, I pray you not to be surprised if I am compelled not to disguise the belief that with my Government, as among my countrymen at large, there is still left a strong sense of injured feeling, which only time and the hopes of a better understanding in future, held out by the conciliators strain in your lordship's note, are likely to correct Recognizing most fully the justice and propriety of the joint policy marked out in your concluding sentence, I have, &c., 
CHARLES FRASCIS ADAMS.
THE GERMANS IN TEXAS DURING THE WAR.
A letter from Texas to the Cincinnati Gazetter says:
"The Germans of Texas-and there are some fifty thousand of them-were loyal to the Union, almost to a man. Many were torn away by conscription, many had to accept this office or that to escape conscription, or to support their families; but a German secessionist was a curiosity. The Teutonic phlegm was as Todtlben's earthworks to them during the war; a silence more vigorous, an inactivity more masterly, never was known. In a mass, the Germans of Texas held themselves, as far as they possibly could, aloof from the whole thing, and-waited. 
What astonished the Germans of Texas on the restoration of the Government was, that American-born loyalists manifested so little enthusiasm in comparison 
to what they themselves felt, forgetting that theirs was the reaction from a more intense reticence. When the Federal army entered Austin, a man was
discerned high up on the dome of the Capitol, from whose hands the stars and stripes were there given to the breeze. A German! To escape conscription, he had lain for eighteen months in the cellar of his own house, even his nearest neighbors supposing him to be away in the Confederate service. If he did not 
have a right to vary his position by another on the Capitol's highest pinnacle, flag in hand, I do not know who had the right.
Had the case been submitted to me, however, I might have hesitated in favor of another German, who had, for the same excellent reasons, toiled for two years on his little farm, dressed in homespun gown and deep sunbonnet, as his wife's sister, come to stay with her from a distance during the absence of her husband in the Confederate army. Heaven bless the Germans! By their devotion to American liberty, they were really fighting here the battles of oppressed people in their own Fatherland.
'The genuine old Teutonic pluck,'
sung of by the poet, I understand now better than ever before.
MURDER OF COLORED SOLDIERS IN KENTUCKY.
The Louisville Press says Gen. Palmer has intelligence that on last Friday evening, five recently discharged colored soldiers left High Grove, and when they had gone a short distance on the Bloomfield Pike, were confronted by a party of armed men, who immediately began to fire upon them in true guerrilla
fashion. Four of the soldiers were shot down, the fifth making his escape by flight. Three of them were shot dead, and the other one was mortally wounded. The offence of these murdered men was that they had been Union soldiers. The instigation to the crime was, of course, rebel hate.
BAD ADVICE. The Washington correspondent of the Philadelphia Ledger says:
"In certain influential quarters, I hear that all the Southern States have been advised not to repudiate their debt, or pass the Constitutional Amendment; but to send on their Senators and Representatives, and let them take the chances. If allowed to take their seats, well and good; but if not, the parties alluded to as advising the South, assure it that nothing will be lost.  On the contrary, they assert that the non-representation of the States in Congress would be a small loss compared to the consequences that would flow from a consent to all that the President requires as the price of their restoration."
COLORED MEN'S CONVENTION. Poughkeepsie, 
N. Y., 8th. The Convention of colored men adjourned at a late hour Wednesday night. The proceedings throughout were very harmonious and of an instructive 
nature. A State Central Committee was appointed to urge the franchise and other questions affecting the interests of colored Americans.
Previous to the final adjournment of the Convention, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That this Convention is of the opinion that there should be a representation of the colored men in the city of Washington from the different sections, to be there during the session of Congress, supported by the people, whose duty it should be to urge upon the members of Congress, the importance of having the status of the colored American so fixed that his color shall not be a bar to his occupying any position or to the enjoyment of all the rights that appertain to citzenship.
Quite a number of counties were represented, the delegates from which returned to their respective homes to-day.
MEETING AT ROXBURY. A meeting in behalf of the freedmen of the South was held at Institute Hall, Roxbury, on the 10th inst. James Ritchie presided, and introduced James R. Blake as the first speaker. In the course of his remarks, Mr. Blake said that the North should act as jailors and keepers over the South for they were not yet conquered. Rev. James Freeman Clarke, James M. Keith, Rev. Mr. Peck and others followed in a similar strain, urging those present to renewed exertions in behalf of the negro.
A letter recently received from a Union officer in Georgia states that a man has been met with who claims to have shot Col Shaw, of the Mass. 54th (colored) regiment, and who, moreover, declares that Col. Shaw was not buried, as the Charleston papers stated, with the fallen of his regiment, was put into a separate grave between two other Union officers. He details the circumstances of the burial, and says he should have no difficulty in going directly to the grave. The information has been transmitted to Col. Shaw's family.
About 100 colored emigrants sailed from Baltimore for Liberia last Saturday, in a vessel chartered by the Maryland <illegible> society.

<c06>
CLARK'S SCHOOL VISITOR
VOLUME X.
A DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY.
THE VISITOR will <illegible> its tenth volume with the January number, 1866. This is the only Day School periodical published at SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR!
Magazine form, beautifully illustrated. New type, new features; Readings, Music, Speeches, Dialogues, Stories, Puzzles, Enigmas, Rebuses, &c., from the very best writers.
The VISTORS has the largest circulation of any Educational Journal published. Now is the time to form clubs.
The Publisher, in order to reach all parts of the country, will send the VISITOR one year FREE, to one person (who will set as an agent) at any post-office in the United States.
Address, with five cents for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher 
1308 Chestnut Street, philadelphia.
Exchanges copying the above, and sending a marked copy, will receive the “Visitor” for one year.
Nov. 10.
LESSONS IN ORNITHOLOGY.
PARLOR CLASSES.
GRACEANNA LEWIS will give Instruction in the NATURAL HISTORY OF BIRDS, to Schools and Private Classes of Ladies and Gentlemen.
It is not intended, by these Lessons, merely to interest and amuse the learner, but while these objects will be kept in view, efforts will also be made to use the feathered tribes in all their beauty and attractiveness, as a means of affording an insight of the wonderful Order found in every portion of creation.
The familiar Habits of Birds; their Manner of Flight; their Migrations; their Songs; their Guiding Instincts; their Affections; their Nests and Eggs; their plumage, with its exquisite colors and ornamentation; Microscopic Examinations of the Down of the Young, and the General Structure and Classification of Birds, will be treated of, as well as the relations of Physical Causes to the Residences of Birds; their Geographical Distribution, and their importance to Agriculture.
Geology, in its connection with Ornithology, will also be considered; and the position of the Class of Birds in the Progressive Order of Creation, so far as revealed by Modern Science, will be made apparent.
Many of the most beautiful or remarkable Birds of the World will be noticed, and their location in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, designated.
These Lessons will be finely illustrated by numerous Elegant Engravings, and Specimens of the majority of our common Song Birds may be seen by the Class during the continuance of the Courses, while the subject will be further elucidated by Charts prepared for the purpose.
TERMS, for a Course of Six Lessons, $3.00 each.
Liberal deducation made to schools and classes of over fifty persons. Those who desire lessons will address
GRACEANNA LEWIS, 
Care of EDWARD PARRISH.
South-west corner of Eighth and South Sts,,
PHILADELPHIA.
TESTIMONIALS:
The undersigned have great pleasure in recommending the Lectures of Miss Graeeanna Lewis, as in all respects worthy the confidence and encouragement of persons disposed to study Natural History, and especially Ornithology.
JOHN CASSIN,
Vice-president of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and author of” Birds of California and Texas," &c., &c., &c.
T. C. PORTER,
President of Franklin Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa.
ISAAC P. TRIMBLE, M. D.,
Author of” Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees," and Entomologist of the state Agricultural Society of New Jersey, Newark, N. J.
VINCENT BARNARD,
Kennet Square, Chester County, Pennsylavania.
April 10th, 1865.
The undersigned, who have enjoyed the pleasure of Graceanna Lewis's instructions on Ornithology deem it due to her to testify to the interest with which she succeeded in clothing the subject, and the clear and lucid method adopted in her Lectures. We greatly desire that she may find a wide field for her valuable and elevating instructions.
DILLWYN PARRISH, E. H. CLEVELAND,
HELEN LONGSTRETH, MARGAREY J BURLEIGH,
ANN PRESTON, EDWARD PARRISN,
MARTHA KIMBER,CALES S. HALLOWELL,
EDWARD TOWNSEND, EM. DAVIS.
J. G. HUNT, M D., 
Philadelphia, 7th mo., 1865.
Ayer’s Pills.
ARE you sick, feeble and complaining? Are you out of order, with your system deranged and your feelings uncomfortable? These symptoms are often the prelude to serious illness. Some fit of sickness is creeping upon you, and should be averted by a timely use of the right remedy. Take Ayer's Pills, and cleanse out the disordered humors- purity the blood, and let the fluids move on unobstructed in health again. They stimulate the functions of the body into vigorous activity, and purify the system from the obstructions which make disease. A cold settles somewhere in the body, and deranges its natural functions. These, if not relieved, react upon themselves and the surrounding organs, producing general aggravation, suffering and derangement. While in this condition, take Ayer's Pills, and see how directly they restore the natural action of the system, and with it the buoyant feeling of health again. What is true and so apparent is this trivial and common complaint is also true in many of the deep-seated and dangerous distempers. The same purgative effect expels them. Caused by similar obstructions and derangements of the natural functions of the body, they are rapidly, and many of them surely cured by the same means. None who know the virtue of these Pills will neglect to employ them when suffering from the disorders they cure, such as Headache, Foul Stomach, Dysentery, Billious Complaints, Indigestion, Derangement of the Liver, Costivenes, Constipation, Heartburn, Rheumatism, Dropay, Worms and Suppression, when taken in large doses.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them easily, and they are surely the best purgative medicine yet discovered.
AYER'S AGUE CURE,
For the speedy and certain cure of Intermittent Fever, or Chills and Fever, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, Periodical Headache, or Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed, for the whole class of diseases originating in biliary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
This remedy has rarely failed to cure the severest cases of Chills and Fever, and it has this great advantage over other Ague medicines, that it subdues the complaint without injury to the patient. It contains no quinine or other deleterious substance, nor does it produce quinism or any injurious effect whatever. shaking brothers of the army and the West, try it, and you will endorse these assertions.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Oct. 13 2m 
IMPROVEMENT IN
IN Champooing and Hair Dyeing 
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET, to 
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
NO. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
DR. DIO LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
<illegible>, Mass.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eagleswood School, New Jersey, and I. N. CARLESTON, formerly 
of Phillip's Academy, Andover.
Send for Catalogue and <illegible> to Dr. LEWIS.
August 11.
$2000 A YEAR
MADE by any one with $15-<illegible> Tools. No experience necessary. The Presidents, Cashiers and Treasurers of three Banks endorse the circular. Seat free with samples. Address the American <illegible> Tool Works, Springfield Vermont,
October 6. 3m.
Farm for Sale Franklin, Mass.,
CONTAINING thirty-five seres of <illegible> and pasture, including eight <illegible> of wood-land. Also, house,<illegible> some fourteen years ago, with all the modern improvements, range, bath, &c. Also, apple, pear and peach trees, grapes, currants, etc. Further information can be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, No. 221 Washington Street, Boston.
184 THE LIBERATOR. NOVEMBER 17.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
THE LOTUS PLANT.
BY THEODORE TILTON.
A Brahmin on a Lotus pod
Once wrote the holy name of God, 
Then, planting it, he asked in prayer
For some new fruit, unknown and fair.
A slave near by, who bore a load, 
Fell panting on the dusty road;
The Brahmin, praying, straightway ran
And lifted up the fallen man.
The deed scarce done, he stood aghast
At touching one beneath his caste.
"Behold!" he cries, ”I stand unclean;
My hands have clasped the vile and mean."
The Lord beheld his troubled face, 
And wrought a miracle of grace:
The buried seed arose from death,
And bloomed and fruited at his breath;
The stalk held up a leaf of green,
Whereon these mystic words were seen:
"First count men all of equal caste,
And count thyself the least and last."
The Brahmin, with bewildered brain,
Beheld the will of God writ plain.
Transfigured then be stood in light;
The slave was sacred in his sight.
Thereafter in the Brahmin's breast
Abode God's peace-and he was blest.

For the Liberator.
RESPONSE.
The world will thank that Brahmin chief,
Who copyrights that sacred leaf;
And Christian nations well may send
To India's shore for such a friend—
A lotus-planting Brahmin priest-
To preach this gospel of the East.
I have within my mental eye-
And, should you ask, can tell you why—
A glorious people, who have need 
To introduce this heaven-taught creed;
For where this equal gospel goes,
"The desert blossoms as the rose."
"Our God" has taught these four years past
That men are born of equal caste;
On yonder green Palmetto tree 
Jehovah writes, ”All men are free."
On every Southern palm and pine,
On every Northern oak and vine,
On every plant and shrub and flower,
This glorious lesson of the hour,
To fossilize in grass and fern,
That unborn millions yet may learn
That LIBERTY was God's design,
And FREEDOM is a boon divine.
O, Christian, ’tis for you and me
To plant ourselves a ”lotus tree";
And find, as did the prophet chief,
God's will engrained in flower and leaf.
"Since all are free and equal born,
Let none his fellow-creature scorn."
Do this, and there will be no need
To send to India for a creed;
Nor when the pride of caste has ceased,
To ask the prayers of Brahmin priest.
THE NEW YEAR OF JUBILEE.
AIR-Kingdom Coming.
Say, fellers, had you seen de King
Wid the muffstash on his face,
Gwine down de street on Sunday morning,'
Wid a sort ob warlike pace?
A man was smokin' in a ’pottecary shop,
Whar nuffin but drugs war had, 
He showed him a copy ob order number’ leven,
Which made him look bery sad.
Chorus-De man he run, ha! ha!
De King he stay, ho! ho!
He took possession ob de shotticary pop,
An' swared he'd neber go.
He seed a man jes tunin’ a corner,
Wid a pot ob beans an' pork;
He told him to drap dem smokin' wittles,
Coz dat wos Sunday work.
He took de goods, an' he fisticated um,
An’ run up State House hill,
Whar he poured’ em in a great strong coffer,
To help de treasury fill.
Chorus-De Gubner laugh, ha! ha!
De King he crow, ho! ho!
He swared he'd seize ebery bean in de city 
An' make de law a go!
He cotched a barber shabin' a man
Jes after ten o'clock;
He seized de barber an' all his soap, 
An' put ’cm under lock.
De man he went to church dat day,
All ruff whar his whiskers grew-
An' wid him anudder whar de barber stopt
When he'd got only half way through.
Chorus-De barber shabed, ha! ha!
De King he rabed, ho! ho!
He said he'd punch all illegal shabers 
In de place whar dc wool ought to grow.
A chap was selling some Sabbath Gazettes
On a corner in Franklin street;
De King he seized de literature,
An' didn't leab a sheet;
He took dem up to de State House, too, 
Bery much pleased, do doubt;
De boy went home a' weepin' an' wailin',
An' twenty-nine cents out.
Chorus-De King he laugh, ha! ha!
De boy he cry, boo, boo!
"Dat man didn't pay for my Sunday papers,
An' I don't know what to do."
De King is goin' to show de folks 
Who at de laws do mock,
Dat de world stops movin' on Sunday mornin',
At percisely ten o'clock.
But dar is jes' disting about it,
Which mus' go agin his grain,
He can't cheat’m out ob deir brown-bread an' mutton,
'Cordin’ to de wise Judge Maine.
Chorus-De people laugh, ha! ha!
De King he shout, ho! ho!
"I'm bound to had a good fat office,
An' a year ob jubilo!"
Boston Transcript.
SENATOR WILSON'S SILVER WEDDING.
BY MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE.
The ancients had an Age of Gold,
To Silver thence descending,
While yet in baser metal told
The series had its ending.
The golden time bore men divine,
The silver, men heroic;
The brazen did to deeds decline,
Rebuked of sage and stoic.
The mystic trine by Plato east
Was thus reversed from Nature;
The gold was in the unknown Past,
Not in the unknown Future.
Our country knows the Age of Brass, 
Whose wary politician 
Digs in that ore the steps that pass
To recognized position.
But Wilson, from the lowlier base
The silver vantage gaining,
Climbs ever towards the golden grace,
With labor uncomplaining.
Well may the country thrive like him
To whom her heart's beholden,
His Present's Silver never dim,
His Future always Golden!
Boston Commonwealth.

<c02>
Selections.
A VOICE FROM NAZARETM.
A LETTER ADDRESSED TO THE REV. H. D. WALKER,
IN REPLY TO A WAR SERMON PREACHED
BY HIM IN SEPTEMBER, 1864.
BY H. H. BRIGHAM.
"Beware lest any many man deceive you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the traditions of men; after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ."-St.Paul.
REV, H. D. WALKER:-
My Dear Sir:-My regard for a correct development of human conduct, and my love also for truth, as it is in Jesus Christ, as well as my respect for you as an honored townsman  and fellow citizen, constrain  me to address to you a letter of inquiry and admonition, as well as criticism, in relation to the doctrines and positions, assumed by yourself, in your published, discourse upon the sent War, in which we are engaged as a Nation, which appeared in the Abington Standard, of  Sept. 17th, 1864. Although we are strangers personally, I can assure you you are not so to me by reputation. Your labors in the cause of reform, and especially in behalf of freedom and suffering humanity, have long since commanded my highest admiration. My knowledge of you is such that I am confident you will give me a fair hearing, and bestow on my remarks and observations that attention which the subject so justly demands. For myself, I consider it a momentous one, and that it will soon be the great question which will absorb the attention of the Christian world, and cause therein such an agitation as never before took place within its pale.
Believing with Jefferson ”That error of opinion may be tolerated where truth is left free to combat it," and also with the Apostle that we should ”Prove all things and hold fast that which is good," I have attentively examined your argument, and very carefully read and re-read your sermon. I trust I did so with a right spirit, and with a desire to ascertain my duty in relation to this horrible rebellion, and whether it was my duty as a Christian man to encourage others and assist them by word and deed to ”go forward” and take up arms against our brethren of the South; whether, in short, it was a duty devolving upon me to exercise what little influence I might possess in favor of crushing the rebellion by a resort to the sword. My, object in addressing to you this letter is to express to you my thoughts and convictions resulting from this investigation, and thereby place upon record the honest convictions of my mind in regard to War, and the reasons why I cannot take an active part in the war measures of the Government.
I have for the last five and twenty years considered it an honor for any person to be called an uncompromising Abolitionist. I have endeavored so to live and to act as to be worthy of the name. Today I regret not what I have done, or the sacrifices I have made. Indeed, I am doubly repaid. The principles of the Abolitionists are received, and being received, by all classes  Freedom's march is onward, and the day of universal emancipation dawn-eth. The heart of every true man is made to rejoice. To God be all the glory. I rejoice that I have lived to see this day. Truth has triumphed. 
In regard to War, also, I am and have been opposed. I believe it to be diametrically antagonistical to the teachings and example of Jesus Christ, consequently not for the true interests of man. I have therefore taken no part in the present war, in which the nation is engaged. I have not voluntarily done so, either by my money, my influence or my vote. And since the war broke out I have become more convinced of its unlawfulness, in a Christian point of view. I have sought for my duty by seeking wisdom from from God., as well as by reading and investigation. I have desired to know my duty. The result has been that I am more and more satisfied that war and Christianity are incompatible. Your sermon fails to convince me. Yea, on the contrary, I am more than ever persuaded that war is sinful, and that it is my duty not to "go forward" and subjugate the South, by killing, slaying and destroying them. 
I will now proceed to consider your position, as maintained in the discourse referred to, and give you my reasons, why I dissent from it. 
You maintain the rightfulness of war, and especially of the present one in which we are engaged. You justify the nation and the people in taking up arms in deadly conflict against the people of the South Yea, you are urging us on to the field of battle, of blood and of carnage, by all the might of your strength, and the power and influence of your voice. And what is more sad and painful to me, and indeed shocking, is the fact that you make God, Jesus Christ, and pure religion approve and sanction this horrible warfare! You call to your aid a ”Thus saith the Lord," and draw from it conclusions, which make it not only a personal and political duty for us and our sons to ”go forward" to kill, slay and destroy our erring brethren of the South, but a Christian one! 
And how do you maintain this duty of destroying our fellow men, and support of the war? By quoting a command to Joshua, and applying it to us. The text is as follows, viz: ”Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed. For the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest.”-Joshua, i: 9.
The conclusions which you deduce from your text, I dissent from, and not from the text itself. My difficulty is with your application. Whatever God commanded several thousand years ago, to any particular nation or people, may be one thing, but what he commands to us to-day, may be quite another, God commanded Abraham to offer up his son Isaac, does it therefore follow that he commands us of the present generation to offer up our children to be slain in such a manner? God commanded the stoning of certain individuals to death for picking up sticks upon the Sabbath day, does he therefore command us of the nineteenth century to go and do likewise? No less than thirty-four crimes were punishable with death in the writings of Moses. Is it right and best for us to adopt such punishments to-day, and for the same crimes? Nay, even parents were required to execute their own offspring, for the crimes of disobedience; are we consequently required to execute our children for disobedience? The human form was commanded to be battered with stones, cast by the hands of parents and friends, until the poor and mangled body should present no evidence of life. Are such punishments required of us? Are they right now? The mere mention of such acts and developments, as duties and penalties demanded or required of us to-day, not only astounds men but shocks them, and their adoption would be deemed preposterous.
The conclusions, therefore, which you draw from your text are not satisfactory to me, and I consider them invalid, because they are deduced from premises, which the subsequent dealings of God with man declare unto us were not the highest development of moral duties and obligations. And, sir, it is humiliating to me, as well as astonishing, that with the light of the glorious Gospel of Christ for our guide and protection, men will turn from it and seek for duties and obligations from a dispensation declared inferior and imperfect by Jesus Christ and his Apostles. A dispensation itself which looks forward to Christ, and enjoins upon us to hear Him” in all things." 
The correct position for as to take is a course of action based up on the dispensation of the New Covenant. We are to place ourselves upon the plain of Bethlehem, beside the cradle of the great Christian Legislator, and we shall have a correct view of our duties, and an illuminated sky above us. We should stand upon the Rock Christ Jesus, looking back to the ”first Covenant" with  its” worldly sanctuary," and forward to that ”new and living way., which be hath consecrated for us through the veil.”
Christianity, I contend, is the only criterion which we are to appeal to, and by which we are to be governed in our duties and obligations toward God and our fellow men. In Jesus Christ we have not only our duty inculcated, but we have Christ's example to sustain and guide as. 
The point then to decide is, what is the voice of God to us through Jesus Christ? Does that voice approve of war, of carnage and of blood? Does it sanction the war spirit? Or in other words, are Christianity and war compatible?

<c03>
The whole scope and tenor of Christ's teachings, as well as his example, are against war and your position, He commands us not to ”resist evil" with evil, but” “overcome evil with good. "We are commanded to ”love our enemies," to ”bless, and curse not.” The distinguishing characteristic of the Gospel is in its love and care for the guilty, the abandoned, the sinner. It seeks to reclaim, to reform. The more abandoned, the more sinful, the more Christianity seeks to save and restore. Her cry and influence still are ”Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." It was sufficient for the law of Moses that men maintained love towards their neighbors; towards an enemy they were at liberty to indulge rancor and resentment. But Christianity says, ”If ye love them only which love you, what reward have ye? ”And again,” If ye salute your brethren only, what reward have ye; do not even the publicans the same? But I say unto you," says Christ,” Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute yon.” The Gospel enjoins forgiveness, not only seven times, but seventy times seven. And we are distinctly told that unless we forgive one another their trespasses, our Heavenly Father will not forgive us. Christ reminds us, and every true Christian feels the force of the remark, that we have all sinned against God and are justly punishable at his hands; and the only ground of our acceptance with him, and his continued benefactions, is His grace, not our merit; and that we are perpetually entreating him to bless us in spite of our deserts. Therefore be enjoins us to forgive our fellow men their trespasses against us, as we beseech God to forgive us the sins we have committed against him. He requires that we do unto others as we would that God should do unto us.
We have here the voice of God to us through his son, Jesus Christ-that voice which Moses commands us to hear in all things, the voice also of that ”beloved son” which God calls upon us to listen to. I find nothing taught by him that enjoins upon me to” go forward” and destroy my enemies. I find however, a very different course of action inculcated, as my quotations demonstrate. Christ used no sword, but on the contrary forbade their use. He commanded the buying of swords for the express purpose of demonstrating to his disciples that the use of them as weapons of death was incompatible with the principles of his kingdom which he was about to establish upon earth. “Two," said Jesus, ”is enough." How could two swords be enough to arm twelve men for war or self-defence?. This single fact shows that such was not the design of our Savior. He had a more sublime purpose. When Judas gave the traitorous kiss, and the multitude approached to seize Jesus, his disciples demanded, saying,” Lord, shall we smite with the sword." And one of them smote a servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear. Now was the opportunity given for Jesus to demonstrate to his disciples the object he had in view in giving them directions to buy swords. Hear the solemn mandate,” Then said Jesus unto him, put up again thy sword into its place; for all that take the sword shall perish with the sword." So saying, he touched the wounded ear and restored it, suffering himself to be borne away by his enemies without resistance. Thus the sequel proved that he caused the swords to be provided for that occasion (two being enough) for the sole purpose of emphatically, finally, and everlastingly prohibiting the use of the instrument, even by the innocent in self-defence. And ever after this those Apostles, and for a long time the primitive Christians, conscientiously eschewed the use of the sword. History informs us that for two hundred years after Christ not a Christian was to be found in the armies of those times. They considered the use of the sword incompatible with the teachings of their Divine Master, consequently they refused it. Christ had forbidden its use and expressly commanded its return to the scabbard, from which it had been drawn by one of his disciples, and there the early Christians for two centuries suffered it to remain. As a lover of Christianity, and a follower of Jesus, I feel it my duty to follow Christ's instructions, and the example of the primitive Christians, and let the sword remain within its sheath.
If a wisdom which we acknowledge to be unerring has determined and declared that any given conduct is right, and that it is good for man, it appears preposterous and irreverent to argue that another can be better. The Almighty knows our interests, and if he has not directed us in the path which promotes them, the conclusion is inevitable that he has directed us amiss. It would seem to be a position of very simple truth, that it becomes an erring being to regulate his actions by an acquiescent reference to an unerring will. 
Whatever the principles of Christianity require hereafter, they require now. Christianity, with its present principles and obligations, is ultimately to produce universal peace. It becomes, therefore, an absurdity, a simple contradiction to maintain that the principles of Christianity allow of war, when they and they alone, are to eradicate it. If we have no other guarantee of peace, than the principles of the Gospel of Christ, and no other hope for peace than in its diffusion, how can Christianity sanction war? The conclusion that it does not, appears strictly logical. I do not perceive that a demonstration from Euclid can be, clearer. And I think that if we possessed no other evidence of the unlawfulness of war, there is contained in this a proof which prejudice  cannot deny, and which sophistry cannot evade. It is because we violate the principles of Christianity that wars are continued. It is therefore absolutely necessary for us to know by what principles  we are governed. Are we regulating our conduct by the injunctions of Christ, or are we not? I do affectionately, as well as sincerely and earnestly, request you to re-examine this subject, and retract your assertion, which to my mind is so painful and anti-Christian, that Jesus Christ, the Savior of man, calls upon us and demands us,” Go forward" with instruments of death, against our erring brethren of the South. Consider, I earnestly implore you, your high Position as a professed minister of His Gospel, as an Ambassador of Christ, urging men on in his; name, and whom he died to save and reclaim, to destroy and slaughter each other! Remember, also, the capabilities of man for enjoyment and usefulness, and the soul, and its future destiny for happiness or for sorrow, and that the war which you are so eager to foster, and maintain by a thus saith the Lord, is, and has been, destroying mankind by thousands, in our very midst, consigning them to the grave and to eternity in a most horrible and shocking manner, thus suddenly denying to them an opportunity for repentance and reformation; and according to your views in theology, their immortal spirits are to remain forever in sorrow and everlasting shame and contempt! Ponder well, I most earnestly beseech you, your position, ere the golden opportunity shall pass by unimproved. 
Reflect, also, in regard to the custom of offering public prayers to our Father in Heaven for the success of our army, and our enemies at the same time also praying to God to give strength and success to their arms. I confess that to me such a practice appears eminently shocking and profane. The idea of two communities of Christians, separated perhaps by only a creek, at the same time begging their common Father, he who commands us to love one another,’ and especially our enemies, to bless and curse not, to assist them in reciprocal destruction, is an idea of horror of which I know no parallel.“ Lord, assist us to slaughter our enemies" is their prayer. “ Father, forgive them, they know not what they do;" this is the petition of Christ, the prayer of wisdom, and of safety.
When I take into consideration this subject of prayers for the success of armies, made as they are to the Heavenly Father and Creator of us all, and take, also, into account the ferocity of the request, the solemnity of its circumstances, the falsehoods of its representations, the fact that both parties are professing Christians, children of the same God, and that their importunities are simultaneous to their common Lord, I do not think that the world exhibits another example of such irreverent and shocking iniquity. Every pulsation of my heart beats in unison against it. Surely, it is enough that we slaughter one another alone in our pigmy quarrels, without soliciting the Father of the universe to be concerned in them. Well may Pagans and Mahometans reproach us for inconsistency and inhumanity, and refuse to accept of such a Christianity. Oh! what arguments do these developments put into the hands of infidels to be used against Christianity, and its most useful and sublime requirements. Well do they retort, ”be hold how these brethren love one another; and if such conduct, such love, and such developments," say they,” are the results of an acceptance of the Gospel of Christ, we desire not its influence, believing it to be a greater curse to mankind than a blessing." Thus do we cause the way of truth to be evil spoken of; and, as I before observed, we, who should be

<c04>
lights to them that sit in darkness, cause them to love that darkness still.
In our Lord's prayer we are taught to forgive one another as we desire God to forgive us And, in order to give more attention and force to this divine requirement of the Gospel, Christ enjoins it again, and more at length, in the two verses immediately following the close of his prayer ”For if ye forgive men their trespasses," he says, "your Heavenly Father will also forgive you; but if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses."
We are here told by one who cannot lie, and one also who knows our interests, that God will forgive us our sins against him on certain conditions, and those conditions are that we forgive those who trespass against us, but if we do not forgive them he will not forgive us A most solemn thought, serious declaration, and one which we should fully comprehend, and strive earnestly to obey; the acceptance and doing of which is absolutely essential for us, in order that we may receive the divine forgiveness and the full fruition of the Gospel.
But is this duty recorded, this noble characteristic of Christianity, Christian forgiveness, inculcated or acted upon in war, or made in the least possible manner to control the action of men when about to engage in human slaughter?   Indeed, is not a spirit diametrically opposite inculcated and acted upon on the  field of battle. Instead of Christian love and forgiveness being in exercise, we witness there nothing but hatred and revenge; the very worst passions of the human soul in complete mastery. Kill and destroy your enemies, even by thousands if necessary, is the all-pervading spirit.
Mankind have yet to learn one important lesson. They are, however, beginning to learn it. It is this, viz:- That the laws of morals are as much to be regarded and are as binding on Governments as on individuals. People conduct as though this statement was not true. They seem to regard the action of legislative bodies as not amenable to moral duties and obligations. They can do in a corporate capacity about as they please. Now this a fearful mistake. We are addressed by God as individuals, and we are accountable to him as such. And we cannot throw off this individual responsibility in any position we choose to place ourselves. Whatever law applies to us as individuals cannot be disregarded by us in any legislative capacity without serious consequences following. Governments are under the same obligations to obey the truth, the laws of the living God, as individuals.
Loyalty therefore to Governments is not the first duty of man, they being subordinate to the laws of God. “Whether it be right for us" says Paul, ”to hearken unto men more than unto God, judge ye." And whatever consequences of a serious nature may befall us as individuals, for any transgressions of God's laws, will fall equally severe upon us, when his divine law is disregarded by us in any Government capacity. You cannot, make sin, or principles of action which conflict with the laws of our being right and salutary, by any enactment of organic law. War therefore, being a violation of Christian principle and morality, cannot be made right by any legislative authority, any more than you can legislate theft, adultery, slavery, intemperance or murder to be lawful. No act of man, either as an individual or as a legislator, can make wrong right, sin holiness, or change the immutable principles of God's government. Men in all ages have tried it and failed. Our fathers tried it in regard to slavery, and what fearful consequences have been the result. We, their children, know and feel them, by sad experience. They attempted to legislate slavery right, but slavery being in itself wrong, a sin, language fails me to portray the awful consequences of such legislation. And just so far as we are true and faithful to freedom, either as individuals or as a nation, and trample slavery under our feet, do we prosper and receive the divine approbation. We are safe because we do right. We obey the ”higher law," the law of God. Just so far as individuals  and nations are loyal to their divine law, they receive a blessing, and no farther.
And now the American people are legislating that war is right, and loyalty to Government in its maintenance of war an imperative duty. I cannot agree with them in this legislation, any more than I can agree with them in legislating slavery or any other sin to be right. Fidelity to Christ and and the principles of his Kingdom which he is establishing upon the earth, and which I desire to see maintained, demand of me my first attention. If ye love me, said Jesus,” Keep my commandments." I cannot be true and loyal to Christ and at the same time true and loyal to human government as at present based and administered. The right they maintain they have to declare war and destroy the lives of human beings by thousands, and in the most horrible manner is a right, in my opinion, which cannot be maintained and acted upon, without a violation of the Christian religion. Therefore, as I before observed, I have taken no part in the present war, never having justified it, choosing rather to receive that reward which comes from obedience to a conscience void of offence and from the approbation of my God. Joy fills my heart, us well as praise and gratitude to the giver of all good, that I have been preserved from the spirit of the war around me, and from urging onward the people of the North to go South and imbue their hands in their brothers' blood. If they shout ”Glory to God" and sing ”Halleujah" in view of such victories, achieved by such victories, I cannot: I can only say my feelings are far from being thus exultant, but, on the contrary, my heart is pained and depressed, I feel like mourning over the folly and wickedness of those engaged in such horrible deeds, and like praying to my Father in heaven to forgive them, for they know not what they do.
It is necessary for us to know by what principles we are governed. Are we regulated by the, injunctions of Christ, or are we not? If there be any lessons of morality which it is of importance to mankind to learn, and if there, be any which they have not yet learnt, it is the necessity of simply performing the duties of Christianity without reference to consequences. If we could persuade ourselves to do this, we should certainly pass life with greater consistency, and, as I firmly believe, in greater enjoyment and peace. The world has had many examples of such fidelity and confidence. Who have been the Christian martyrs of all ages but men who maintained their fidelity to Christianity through whatever consequences? They were faithful to the Christian creed; we ought to be faithful to the Christian morality; without morality the
profession of a creed is in vain. If no one begins to reform his practice until others have begun before him, reformation will never be begun. If Apostles, or martyrs, or reformers had” accommodated themselves to the existing slate of things," where now, I inquire, would have been Christianity and the great reforms which have so blessed mankind? The business of reformation belongs to him who sees that a reform is required. The world has no other human means of amendment. If we believe that war is not allowed by Christianity, it is our business to oppose it; and if fear or distrust should raise questions on the consequences, apply the words of our Savior, ”What is that to thee? -Follow thou me."
This is the point from which we wander- we do not believe in the providence of God. When this statement is formally made to us, we think, perhaps, that it is not true; but our practice is an evidence of its truth. For if we did believe we should also confide in it, and should be willing to stake upon it the consequences of our obedience. We can talk with sufficient fluency of ”trusting in Providence," but of the application of it to our conduct in life, we know wonderfully little.
Who is it that confides in Providence, and for what does he trust Him? Does his confidence induce him to set aside his own views of interest and safety, and simply to obey precepts which appear inexpedient and unsafe? This is the confidence that is of value, and which we need, but of which we know so little. Those who are ready to sustain the consequences of undeviating obedience are the supporters of whom Christianity stands in need. She wants men who are willing to suffer for her principles.
In conclusion, allow me to say a few words in regard to myself. The instructions of a beloved and Christian mother turned my youthful mind to the important subject of religion. Her memory is blessed and her adomonitions are still vividly before me. In 1834, I united myself with the Baptist church in my native town, it was there I received much religious instruction which I can truly say has been advantageous to me, and for which I shall ever revere and respect them. It was there I received my Savior as my rule of action, and was taught by them to make him true, if by so doing I made every man a liar; to measure and compare 

<c05>
myself by no other standard. In short, to stand up for Christ and his Gospel, whatever may betide, and follow him through evil as well as good report. 
Taking, therefore, the teachings and example of Jesus Christ as my guide and rule of action. I appealed to his Gospel for light and instruction, imploring the Divine assistance to direct me aright. In this I have not been mistaken, but found the promises of the Gospel sure and steadfast, that whosoever seeketh Christ shall find him, and that those who do truly obey him will receive great reward, and an enjoyment which the world cannot give nor take away. In Him there is peace. I trust I can bear testimony to it. 
In the year 1835 and 36 commenced the anti-slavery agitation. I embraced it. I could not do otherwise. Every pulsation of my heart beat in unison against slavery. I soon found not only the nation but the church dealing in the bodies and souls of men. Every breeze from the South brought to the church and people of the North, the sufferings and tears of the poor bondman. But they heeded it not! But I could not remain silent. I introduced their case and the subject of anti-slavery to the consideration of the church. I did feel it my duty to do so, but I soon found the subject disagreeable to them. I was condemned and told that it was a question with which the church had nothing to do! Condemned also as a fanatic and disturber of the peace. Almost every epithet of a disgraceful character, was heaped upon me. I soon found I must desist from the agitation of the subject and assume a pro-slavery position in order to receive their love and co-operation. This I could not do, and be true to myself and the teachings of my Divine Master. I  was now placed in a position, to me a very trying one. I found I must leave them or Christ and the slave. The latter I could not do, consequently the former became a duty. I did not however, leave the church until they passed, a vote that the question of American slavery was one with which they had nothing to do! On the passage of this vote I addressed to them a letter of withdrawal. That letter, to-day, I highly prise. It was published in the Christian Reflector., Dec. 8th,. 1841. The sentiments of this letter will be considered conservative, I feel confident, by nearly every member of the Baptist Church, at So. Abington, at the present time. They are thoroughly baptized with the Gospel of anti-slavery. That they have come, in the Providence of God, and by the force of events, upon that platform of Gospel truth which they formerly rejected, and which has ever been precious to me. The colored man to-day worships in the same house and sits side by side with the most influential and worthy members of the church or society. All is well, but how was their treatment of the colored man formerly? Far different. At the organization of the church, and for several years after, they required of every person who purchased a pew in their house of worship, by the deed given, to pledge themselves to discard there from, not only for the present time, but forever, all colored persons.
To-day how astounding to us are such developments. We can hardly believe them. Bur they were so. So will it be in regard to war. It will be ultimately looked upon in its true light, and its horrible demands and requirements morally resisted; and the military fame of its heroes will be forgotten; while the name of Wilberforce and Clarkson, of Garrison and Phillips, will be revered and loved, through all coming time. Napoleon and Wellington, Grant and Sherman, will be lost sight of, in view of that hearty and generous support, of that admiration which will finally he given to the philanthropists and Christian benefactors of our race.
I have thus, my dear sir, laid before you my views in relation to war, and endeavored to point out what I regarded as injurious! and anti-Christian in your discourse. I have fulfilled a duty which I could not, in justice to my feelings and obligations, refrain from performing. My position, I am well aware, is not in harmony with the multitude, indeed, I stand almost alone. But nevertheless, I must be true to the light that is within me. I should be false not to be so. I dare not do otherwise. God has given the anti-slavery movement a glorious triumph over its enemies, and I feel confident he will, in due time, give the anti-war movement the same happy result. Having God for a leader, and Christian truth upon their side, the noble causes cannot fail; they must prevail.
Yours, for the truth as it is in Jesus Christ 
H. H. BRIGHAM 

THE NEXT CONGRESS. The United States Senate, at the next session, on Monday, Dec. 4, will consist of 38 Unionists and 11 Democrats. It is not known now how many Senators will be in Washington this winter claiming seats from the seceded States, but in no event can there be enough to weigh down the Union strength.
The same also may be said of the House. The Representatives who will take seats of course are politically divided, as follows:-
States. Union. Dem. States. Union. Dem
Maine. 5 00 Kentucky, 4 5
New Hampshire, 3 00 Ohio,17 2
Massachusetts, 10 00Indiana, 8.6
Rhode Island, 2 00 Illinois, 11 3
Connecticut, 4 00 Michigan, 6 00
Vermont, 3 00 Wisconsin, 5 1
New York, 20.11 Minnesota, 2 00
New Jersey, 2 3 Iowa, 2 00
Pennsylvania, 15 9 Missouri, 8 1
Delaware, 00 1 Nevada, 1 00
Maryland, 3 2 California, 3 00
West Virginia, 8 00 Oregon, 1 00
Kansas, 1 00
Total, Unionists, 143; Democrats, 41.
The States whose ”reconstruction" has not yet been recognized and ratified by Congress are entitled, when fully reorganized and recognized, to send Representatives as follows:
Virginia, 8 Tennessee, 8
North Carolina, 7 Arkansas 3 
South Carolina, 4 Louisiana, 8
Georgia, 7 Texas 
Alabama,6  Florida, 1 
Mississippi, 5 Total, 58 
THE ONE THING NEEDFUL. It is not enough that each Southern State, by its Convention, recognizes the destruction of slavery, for that has no operative effect. It is not enough that each abolishes slavery, for that keeps the subject within State control, and the power which destroys may also create anew. The object is to make a clean sweep, an utter and everlasting extermination of the institution everywhere under the folds of the national flag; and that can only be done by the Constitutional Amendment. When that is completed, the only real national curse and source of contention we have ever had will be removed to the dead realms of history, and we shall all-of the North and the South, of the East and the West-dwell together in peace. That will be reached by the ratification of four more State Legislatures. But it is essential that those States now going through the process of reconstruction should all give in their adhesion, because the ratification on their part is a necessary quit-claim of slavery as well as an indispensable guaranty of their repentance and renewed devotion to the Union-Boston Journal. 
COLORED SCHOOLS IN NEW ORLEANS. General Can by; has declined to remit the tax levied in New Orleans by military order for the support of schools for negro children, although petitioned to do so by Gov. Wells and other influential citizens, who doubtless consider the tax a monstrous outrage on ”Southern rights." Gen. Canby informed them that the order was issued by competent authority, at the time to the first occupation of the city, and was rendered necessary by the exigencies of the times. There were in the city forty thousand poor to be provided for, and the colored children, several thousand in number, to educate; and New Orleans was in no condition to undertake this task. The number of the former class has been reduced to some twenty thousand, who are now partially fed by Government, but in the mean time, more than two millions of dollars have been expended by the military authorities. Nearly four hundred thousand of this was expended without authority of law; and should it fail to he be replaced, the officers ordering the issue will be held personally responsible and made pecuniary losers. As this disbursement was made in behalf and for the benefit of the poor of New Orleans, the tax levy must be enforced, and the funds restored.
A VOICE FROM ARKANSAS. Three things are absolutely and indispensably necessary to the establishment of a permanent peace and the safety of our democratic institutions. The extension of suffrage to all loyal men, irrespective of race or color, the destruction of the landed aristocracy in the South by confiscating the lands of leading rebels, and a healthy immigration to the South, of the free-soil and loyal element of the North and other countries. To work for these three objects is the duty of every truly loyal American citizen, and until accomplished, it is useless to talk of admission. Better, far better to remain as we are, as territories and under martial law, than to allow disloyalty again to assume the reins of government and plunge us anew into the vortex of sectional strife, and even bloodshed.-Fort Smith (Ark.) Era.

<c06>
The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age:-
MORRILL'S
PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No. 36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.
Baking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainly; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are” done to a turn."
Broiling;-Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his own language,

"CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler, "which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interror of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in iron heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half of its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economys and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to rooms requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluableblessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night-,mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes' time after lighting the fire,-housekeepers wanting heat, in rooms without flues,-country houses.-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves. 
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the 
MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.

READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS.
[From Messrs. E. D. and G. Draper, Manufactures, Hopedale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent" ”Erovapor Stove" in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaintance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E. D. & G. DRAPER.
Hopedale. Mass., May 6, 1865.

[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass.]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the Erovapor Cooking-Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER., M. D. 
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment, Nos. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORUILL PETROLEUM STOVE Co.: 
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remain yours, truly,
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E, Church, South Readway, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, Mass., May 29,1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE Co.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your ”single burners," and find that for the common purposes of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents. per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and teasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a beater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the ”double burner," but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio 
Corresponding ration. T. C. POTTER.
Pastor of M. E. Church.

[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, June 2, 1865.
O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great ,satisfaction.
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J. P. CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, l86.
MESSRS. MORRILL & Co.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my ”Petroleum Stove." I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves, &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get break fast with it-viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in  June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies.
Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES,
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.]
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point, (32 degrees,) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, &c., S. A. BATTISON.
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N. H.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. Jr.,
WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT.
No. 6 Channing Street, Boston.
WITH every facility for selling Wool to the best advantage,-a good store, situated in the centre of the Boston trade, and an extensive acquaintance with manufacturers,-I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grower than this. It is the headquarters for New England manufacturers; here are their agencies, and here it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCES ARE NOT REQUIRED.
One per cent. per pound, and one per cent. (and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent.) on sales. 
WHEN ADVANCES ARE REQUIRED 
Five per cent. (and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received in store, for three months,-labor, storage, insurance and selling. If required to carry it over three months, additional expenses will be charged. Interest on advances and other disbursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall aim to keep my consignors thoroughly informed; and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to suit the market. Letters, asking information, will be promptly answered. Address P O. Box 1861.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865.
THE RADICAL. 
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON.
