THE LIBERATOR IS PUBLISHED 
—is published— 
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
—AT —
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
Terms—three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one adress for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) , to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at the rate of five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisement inserted on reasonable terms.
The agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsyilvania Ohio and Michigan Anti slavery societies are authorised to recive subscriptios for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDNEED JACKSONS, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 14. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL. 1, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1730.
<c01>
Refuge of oppression.
COPPERHEAD LOYALTY.
The following Resolutions were unanimously adopted, last week, at the Copperhead States Convention, held in Providence, R. I., and also at a Copperhead gathering at the Cooper Institute, New York:
Whereas, A fratricidal war, originating in a disregard of the maxims and threatening the permanent disruption of our Federal Union; and Whereas, The present Administration, by its fatal policy in the conduct of the war. By its infringement on States and individual rights, by a general suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, and substituting military for civil courts; and above all, by employing the army to suppress the freedom of elections and forcing governments of minorities upon the people of the States, has not only protracted the war indefinitely, bringing upon the country interminable taxation and financial ruin, but has created general alarm for the integrity of the States and the liberty of their citizens, all threatened to be swallowed up in a fanatical despotism, the worst of all government; and
Whereas, The country has no guaranty for the Speedy and successful termination of the war under the imbecile and changeable management of the present Administration, through any other means than by a change of men at the coming Presidential Election; therefore,
Resolved, That we earnestly invite all our fellow citizens, of whatever shade of political opinions, and under whatever political organizations, to unite with us in our concerted effort to place at the head of our Government a and in whose wisdom, integrity, and firmness, the country may rely with hope for a speedy suppression of the rebellion, the cessation of bloodshed, and the maintenance of the Union Which our fathers bequeathed to us; a Union of independent States and free people created by the Constitution, and to be maintained only by its observance.
Resolved, That the right of suffrage regulated by the States is the only safeguard for individual liberty, and must be defended at every hazard.
Resolved That the invasion of Mexico by France is a violation of the Monroe doctrine, which would never have been tolerated under a Democratic Administration.
Resolved, that the seeming prosperity in the financial affairs of the country is deceitful and unsound; and that the continuing expansion of our paper currency, and the extravagance and corruption in the expenditures of the Government will bear us, unless wiser counsels soon prevail, into the gulf of national: bankruptcy and anarchy .
Resolved, That we hail with satisfaction the fact that: one or more effort is to be made to rid our State Constitution of its restriction upon suffrage; and 
That we recommend to the Democrats of our State to give to such measures, whenever they shall again be referred to them, a hearty and vigorous support.
Resolved, That we hereby extend our gratitude to the officers and soldiers of the Rhode Island regiments who have sacrificed the endearments of home to perpetuate the institutions of our fathers.
Resolved, That we, the representatives of the Democratic party and of the conservative sentiment of the people of Rhode Island, look with confidence to the Convention to be holden at Chicago on the 4th of July next, to put in nomination men who will adopt a wise, statesmanlike and Constitutional policy of government.

SPIRIT OF THE COPPERHEAD-DEMOCRATIC PRESS.
When Mr. Lincoln took his seat, a majority of the people who submitted to his. rule—without counting the States in rebellion—had opposed his election. They believed it to be a great national calamity. But they submitted. Why? Because he was lawfully elected—and for no other reason. Mark this the North for-had is not been for the respect of the people of the north constitutional provisions—had they not consented to abide by the result of the election, whether they liked it or not—Abraham Lincoln could never have been inaugurated. Well, he took his seat; and those who had opposed his election not only gracefully submitted, but freely offered their blood and treasure to maintain his authority. Because they loved Abraham Lincoln? No! Simply because he was lawfully elected, and by that election they felt bound to abide. But, very soon he found that the provisions of the Constitution were not enough for his purpose. He stands before the country now, not as a constitutional ruler, but as a dictator, with no claim for support or allegiance beyond the sympathy of the people or the bayonets of his soldiery. Let him beware, then how he trusts too much to such a title He has lost the respect and confidence of his people; but they are willing to tolerate him for another year, if he will only allow them the opportunity which the laws of the land guarantee them—to sit in judgment upon his acts, and endorse or condemn, as they see fit, at the polls: next November. But if he persists in interfering with this right—whether, as in the border States, by the direct interference of the military, or by those contemptible practices which he understands so well, of which our late state election affords a beautiful example, it matters not—if he dares to trifle with this— TO YOUR TENTS, O, ISRAEL! Let it be distinetly proclaimed that, if Abraham Lincoln tries to perpetuate his power by any other means than a fair and honest appeal to the people, unfettered and unbribed, the constitutional conservative men WILL SUBMIT NO LONGER. It may be said that this is rebellion. It is not. WE HAVE NO GOVERNMENT. At this day we have only the rotten semblance of our former republican institutions, which exists simply by the sufferance of the people. On the 4th of March, 1865.  THIS WILL CEASE, AND ANY ATTEMPT TO PROLONG IT BEYOND THAT DAY WILL BE DISASTROUS TO THOSE THAT MAKE IT. We must have the Constitutional Government of our fathers, or we will have nothing. This is the temper of the rank and file of the Democratic party, if it is not of the leaders and the fact cannot be too often reiterated in the ears of the throne.—Manchester N. H. Daily Union.
The Portsmouth, N. H. States and Union says:-
“Put McClellan, or any other respectable man having the requisite qualifications, upon a sound Democratic platform, in good faith, and we will devote whatever of energy and ability we possess to his success. BUT WE WILL NEVER SUPPORT THE WAR, or the coercion of sovereign States, by a the Federal Government, under any pretext whatever. It is an OUTRAGE AND AN ABOMINATION which no true Democrat can tolerate for a moment."
Here is another specimen from the same paper of the same date:—
"By the way, we notice that these great so- called Sanitary Fairs, purporting to be for the purpose of procuring aid and comfort for the sick and wounded
<c02>
soldiers, are having an extensive run through the country. The alleged object may be a good one, but in looking over the names of the managers in every instance, we are led to believe that the whole thing is a political trick very much like the Kansas Aid Societies of 1855-56 to raise funds for the Abolitionists to carry on the Presidential election. These managers are leading Administration men, with a liberal sprinkling of those political nondescripts called, for the want of a better name,' War Democrats.’”

RUFFLE SHIRT MOB.
About twenty-eight years ago, the present great W. L. Garrison was mobbed, in the city of Boston, because he was a vile Abolitionist. The mob was composed of the wealthy, and elite of that city, and for this reason it passed into history, as the "ruffle shirt mob.”
Our readers, who are fifty years old will well remember this celebrated occurence. As for ourself, we only know of it by having heard the story told occasionally. We have but little data upon which to give all the minutia attending this remarkable circumstance in the history of New England.
Mr. Garrison, as we recollect the facts, was found by the outraged people of that city, in company with a number of whites and negroes, holding a meeting. The people rushed to the building and surrounded it and demanded the leader. Garrison was terribly frightened, and escaped at the rear of the building and secreted himself in an adjacent carpenter shop, under a work-bench. The infuriated citizens pursued him, and finally found him as he lay covered in shavings, and placed a rope around the neck of the poor frightened creature, and dragged him into the street. A gentleman who was an eye-witness to this part of the .performance, describes the appearance of the trembling culprit as most ludicrous. The rope was placed around his neck by one Cooley, a junior partner of one of the oldest and wealthiest houses of that city. (!!!)
The mayor of the city being apprised of what was going on, hurriedly gathered together a force of twenty-five policemen, and just as the mob was ready -to swing between the heavens and the earth, the present Hon. W. L. Garrison rushed in and rescued him. He was placed in a close carriage, and driven rapidly to the city prison.
Our informant says, that no man ever entered the portals of any house, with greater alacrity than did Garrison the prison door. This was the only refuge that could then save his life, and to this day he must look upon that grim building as his benefactor, and saviour. This was in Boston, and the vengeance of the mob was aimed at the original father of the present party, that is in the habit of mobing and exiling men. who dare to say they love the Constitution and the Union our fathers made. There is food for reflection in the history of the ruffle shirt mob, and we leave the reader to reflect for himself.—Cairo Weekly (Copperhead) Democrat.

1850—1864.
Chancing to take up a fragment of an old copy of the Hartford Courant, of 1850, the first paragraph that met our eyes was the following-printed separately, by itself, to exhibit the monstrous split of the organization to which it refers:— 
"The Anti-Slavery Society have passed resolutions against Longfellow on account of his verses in favor of the Union!” Hartford Courant, Feb. 5, 1850.
To-day the Hartford Courant and these same Anti-Slavery men ARE ACTING TOGETHER! The Courant is for LINCOLN'S renomination, and so is WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, who originated and for twenty years has proclaimed this motto: 
"The Constitution is a covenant with Death, and the Union is a league with Hell!”
These men who passed the resolution against Mr. LONGFELLOW, and who now rejoice in the bloody consummation of their life-long labors for the destruction of the Union, declare with significant and triumphant emphasis that they have not changed! Who has?-Hartford (Copperhead) Times.

THE ABOLITION PARTY.
The abolition party has never done anything to assist in putting down the rebellion. The nine hundred thousand volunteers it promised have never been seen on their way to the seat of war. At every crisis, at every danger, the conservatives have been called upon to rally to the good old cause, and they have never failed to respond. They will not fail now. They will give Grant the same faith, hope, trust and support that they gave to Scott and to McClellan. All that we ask of the Abolitionists is to stand aside, and not to interfere with the work as they have interfered before. We sak them to hold their tongues about the nigger, to practise their miscegenation schemes in private, to drop their Presidential wires, and to get out of the way of the conservative masses. These are very little sacrifices in comparison with those which the conservatives have made and are ready to make, and we hope that they will not be refused. We do not appeal to the patriotism of the abolitionists; for they have none. We appeal to a lower, but to them a more influential motive. Let them look at the recent riots at the West. Do they understand what these portend? They portend civil war at the North; and such a civil war will surely come if we rush into the mad excitement of a Presidential election, before the rebellion is practically put down.
What would be the results of a Northern civil war at this time? Of course it would secure the success of the rebellion. But, besides that, it would result in the hanging of Greeley, Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Beecher, George Thompson and other such men, with- out judge or jury. The Tribune may rant and rave and call us treasonable——"in a new form”— for saying so; but we appeal to the history of the past, and the facts of the present, to justify our predictions. The copperheads are fomenting this civil war of the future, as the abolitionists fomented the civil war now raging. Let Horace Greeley examine the files of the Tribune, and he will find there the weapons, forged by his own hand, which the copperheads are now using against the government. The curses of the Tribune fanatics are coming home to them in the copper head conspiracies. We warn these people now, as we warned them years ago. of the inevitable consequences of their suicidal folly. Again we ask them to pause in their headlong career, and again we show them how to retrieve their errors, although, alas! some of the direful results of those errors are now irretrievable. Let them stop talking about Chase or Lincoln, or anybody else for the next Presidency. Chase has withdrawn. If Lincoln had a particle of sense, he would also withdraw. Let Raymond and , Greeley save their wrath for the rebels, cease abusing McClellan—who is a better man and a better patriot than either of them— and speak of the Northern con servatives respectfully, or not at all; for we are in perilous times, when hasty words are like torches in a powder magazine.—Bennett’s N. Y. Herald.
<c03>
Selections.

BENJAMIN LUNDY.
[FROM Greeley's History of the Rebellion.]
Benjamin Lundy deserves the high honor of ranking as the pioneer of direct and distinctive anti-slavery in America. Many who lived before and cotemporary with him were Abolitionists; but he was the first of our countrymen who devoted his life and all his power exclusively to the cause of the slaves. Born in Sussex County, New Jersey, January 4, 1789, of Quaker parents, whose ancestors for several generations had lived and died in this country, he injured himself, while still a mere boy, by excessive labor on his lather's farm, incurring thereby a partial loss of hearing, from which he never recovered. Slight in frame and below the common height, unassuming in manner and gentle in spirit, he gave to the cause of Emancipation neither wealth, nor eloquence, nor lofty abilities, for he had them not; but his courage, perseverance, and devotion were unsurpassed; and these combined to render him a formidable, though disregarded if not despised, antagonist to our national crime. Leaving his father's farm at nineteen years of age, he wandered westward at Wheeling, Virginia, where, during the next four years, he learned the trade of a saddler, and gained an insight into the cruelties and villanies of slaveholding Wheeling being at the time a great thoroughfare for negro-traders and their prey on their route from Maryland and Virginia to the lower Mississippi. Before he made Wheeling his home, he had spent some time at Mount Pleasant, Ohio, whither he returned after learning his trade, and remained there two years, during which he married a young woman of like spirit to his own. He then, after a long visit to his father in New Jersey, settled at St. Clairsville, Ohio, near Wheeling, and opened a shop, by which in four years he made about three thousand dollars above his expenses, and, with a loving wife and two children, he was happy and contented with his lot as any man need be.
But the impression made on his mind by his experience of slavery in Wheeling could not be shaken off nor resisted. In the year 1815, when twenty-six years of age, he organized an anti-slavery association known as the "Union Humane Society," whereof the first meeting was held at his own house, and consisted of but five or six persons. Within a few months, its numbers were swelled to four or five hundred, and included the best and most prominent citizens of Belmont and the adjacent counties. Lundy wrote an appeal to philanthropists on the subject of slavery, which was first printed on the 4th of January, 1816, being his twenty-seventh birthday. Short and simple as it was, it contained the germ of the entire anti-slavery movement. A weekly journal entitled the Philanthropist was soon started at Mount Pleasant by Charles Osborne; and Lundy, at the editor's invitation, contributed to its columns, mainly by selections. In a few months he was urged by Osborne to join him in the newspaper enterprise, and finally consented to do so, removing to Mount Pleasant. Meantime he made a voyage to St. Louis in a flat-boat to dispose of his stock of saddlery. Arriving at that city in the fall of 1819, when the whole region was convulsed by the Missouri Question, he was impelled to write on the side then unpopular in the journals of the day. His speculation proved unfortunate—the whole west, and, indeed, the whole country, being then involved in a commercial convulsion, with trade stagnant and almost every one bankrupt. He returned to his home on foot during the ensuing winter, having been absent nearly two years, and lost all he was worth.
Meantime, Osborne, tired of his thankless and profitless vocation, had sold out his establishment, and it had been removed to Jonesborough, Tennessee, where his newspaper took the title of the Emancipator. Lundy removed as he had proposed to Mount Pleasant, and then started, in January, 1821, a monthly entitled the Genius of Universal Emancipation. He commenced it with six subscribers, himself ignorant of printing and without materials, having his work done at Steubenville, twenty miles distant; traveling thither frequently on foot, and returning with his edition on his back. Four months later, he had a very considerable subscription list. About this time, Elihu Embree, who bad started the Emancipator in Tennessee, died, and Lundy was urged to go thither, unite the two journals, and print them himself from the materials of the Emancipator. He consented, and made the journey of eight hundred miles, one half on foot and the rest by water. At Jonesborough he learnt the art of printing, and soon issued a weekly newspaper besides the Genius, and a monthly agricultural work. He removed his family a few months later, and East Tennessee was thenceforward his home for nearly three years, during which the Genius of Universal Emancipation was the only distinctively and exclusively anti-slavery periodical issued in the United States, constantly increasing in circulation and influence. And, though often threatened with personal assault, and once shut up in a private room with two ruffians, who undertook to bully him into some concession by a flourish of deadly weapons, he was at no time subject to mob violence or legal prosecution.
In the winter of 1823-4, the American Convention for the Abolition of Slavery was held in Philadelphia; and Lundy made the journey of six hundred miles and back on purpose to attend it. During his tour he decided on transferring his establishment to Baltimore; and in the summer of 1823, knapsack on shoulder, he set out on foot for that city -On the way he delivered, at Deep Creek, North Carolina, his first public address against slavery. He spoke in a beautiful grove, near the Friends' meeting-house at that place, directly after divine worship; and the audience were so well satisfied that they invited him to speak again in their place of worship. Before this second meeting adjourned, an anti-slavery society was formed; and he proceeded to hold fifteen or twenty similar meetings at other places within that State. In one instance, he spoke at a house-raising; in another, at a militia muster. Here an anti-slavery society of fourteen members was there upon formed, with the captain of the militia company for its President. One of his meetings! was held at Raleigh, the capital. Before he had left the State, he had organized twelve or fourteen Abolition Societies. He continued his journey through Virginia, holding several meetings, and organizing societies—of course, not very numerous, nor composed of the most influential persons. It is probable that his Quaker brethren supplied him with introductions from place to place, and that his meetings were held at the points where violent opposition was least likely to be offered.
He reached Baltimore about the first of October, and issued on the 10th, No, 1 of Volume IV. of The Genius, which continued to be well supported, though receiving little encouragement from Baltimore itself. A year afterward, it began to be issued weekly.
<c04>
Lundy visited Hayti in the latter part of 1825, in order to make arrangements there for the reception of a number of slaves, whose masters were willing to emancipate them on condition of their removal from the country in fact, were not allowed by the laws of their respective States to free them other- wise. Being detained longer than he had expected, he was met on his return to Baltimore with tidings of the death of his wife, after giving birth to twins, and hastened to his dwelling to find it entirely deserted, his five children having been distributed among his friends. In that hour of intense affliction, he renewed his solemn vow to devote his entire energies to the cause of the slave, and to efforts designed to awaken his countrymen to a sense of their responsibility and their danger. In 1828 he traveled eastward, lecturing and soliciting subscribers to his Genius, and calling, in New York, on Arthur Tappan, William Goodell, and other anti-slavery men. At Boston he could hear of no Abolitionists, but made the acquaintance, at his boarding-house, of William Lloyd Garrison, a fellow-boarder, whose attention had not previously been drawn to the slavery question, but who readily embraced his views. He visited successively most of the clergymen of Boston, and induced eight of them, belonging to various sects, to meet him. All of them on explanation approved his labors, and subscribed for his periodical; and, in the course of a few days, they aided him to hold an anti-slavery meeting, which was largely attended. At the close of his remarks, several clergymen expressed a general concurrence in his views. He extended his journey to New Hampshire and Maine, lecturing where he could, and obtaining some encouragement. He spoke also in the principal towns of Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut: and on his homeward route, traversed the State of New York, speaking at Poughkeepsie, Albany, Lock port, Utica and Buffalo, reaching Baltimore late in October.
Lundy made at least one other visit to Hayti, to colonize emancipated slaves; was beaten nearly to death in Baltimore by a slave-trader, on whoso conduct he had commented in terms which seemed disrespectful to the profession; was fluttered by the judge’s assurance, when the trader came to be tried for the assault, that he (Lundy) had got nothing more than he deserved. Ho made two long journeys through Texas, to the Mexican departments across the Rio Grande, in quest of a suitable location on which to plant a colony of freed blacks from the United States, but without success. He traveled in good part on toot, observing the strictest economy, and supporting himself by working at saddlery and harness-mending from place to place, as circumstances required. Meantime, he had been compelled to remove his paper from Baltimore to Washington; and finally (in 1836) to Philadelphia, where it was entitled the National Inquirer, and at last merged into the Pennsylvania Freeman. His colonizing enterprise took him to Monclova, Comargo, Monterey, Matamoras, and Victoria, in Mexico, and consumed the better part of several years, closing in 1834. He also made a visit to the settlements in Canada of fugitives from American slavery, to inquire into the welfare of their inhabitants. On the 17th of May, 1838, at the burning by a mob of Pennsylvania Hall—built by Abolitionists, because they could be heard in no other—his little property, consisting mainly of papers, books, clothes, etc., which had been collected in one of the rooms of that Hall, with a view to his migration westward, was totally destroyed. In July, he started for Illinois, where his children then resided, and reached them in the September following. He planted himself at Lowell, in La Salle county, gathered his offspring about him, purchased a printing office, and renewed the issue of his Genius. But in August, 1839, he was attacked by a prevailing fever, of which he died on the 22d of that month, in the 51st year of his age. Thus closed the record of one of the most heroic, devoted, unselfish, courageous lives that have ever lived on this continent.

IN MEMORIAM. 
In the Liberator of last week, we announced the decease at Salem, Ohio, March 4th, of Capt. JAMBS BARNABY, aged 45 years. The last Anti-Slavery Standard contains an excellent and fitting Discourse delivered on the occasion of the funeral, by his worthy friend and untiring fellow-laborer in the cause of the slave, MARIUS R. ROBINSON, in which a just and eloquent tribute is paid to the character and memory of Capt. Barnaby. Of his Anti-Slavery zeal, Mr. R. says:—
I need not tell a Salem audience of his devotion to the cause of. freedom, and to the slave as the representative of that cause. His life is an open volume, clear and legible to all who knew him. He gave to this cause the best years of early manhood, and all the energies of his superior mind and loving, noble heart. From the organization of the Western A. S. Society to his death, except a year or two when he was absent from the State, he was a member of its Executive Committee. Much of the good that the Society accomplished is due to his years of devoted, faithful labor. In this he gave evidence that he was an Abolitionist from principle. He gloried in the name when there were few around him who dared to whisper it, unless it was coupled with the laugh of derision, the hiss of scorn, or the damning prefix "infidel.” He was an Abolitionist for the slave’s sake, because he never could be otherwise than the considerate friend of the wronged and helpless. He was an Abolitionist for the master's sake, because he abhorred the iniquity of slavery, and would save the sinner from his guilt. He was an Abolitionist for religion’s sake, for he loathed the hypocrisy and pitied the moral blindness that could cant of love to God while brutalizing his image in his helpless children. He was an Abolitionist for his country’s sake, for he believed the supreme law of justice could not be violated with impunity by nations, more than by individuals —that no human combination could make crime successful.
Of this truth our nation gives bloody evidence today. In time past it framed iniquity by law. It crushed the poor and needy by statute, and while proclaiming the rights and equality of men in declarations and constitutions, sold the mother and her babe apart on the auction-block. Here was a combination in defiance of justice, more powerful than the world had ever known. The most mighty of nations gave it the support of its power, while the great mass of the churches and ministers, blinded by prejudice, besotted by gain, or cringing for popularity, with solemn countenance and up-lifted hands, blessed the monstrous, bloody crime. But God's laws moved steadily on to their own vindication. Retribution claimed her own of justice. This conspiracy against humanity was scattered into fragments by that very selfishness with which they had thought to sustain and perpetuate it forever. And now the nation, taught by the sacrifice of the millions of treasure she had clutched from the slave, by the blood of thousands of her sons slain in battle —slain by the men whose crime she had pampered
<c05>
and shared—is now, thank God, doing works meet for repentance; slow to learn, but yet learning righteousness. The Church, too is learning, for she no longer blesses the master. She prays for the slave, and sends to the Freedmen her gospel and her alms. Thus is wisdom justified of her children.
Our friend was not only an Abolitionist, but he vindicated the idea in its most radical application. When upon our little abolition streamer those words were inscribed which declare the true policy of freedom-"No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS"-and when this declaration was greeted with the shriek of horror or the howl of rage from all parts of the land, he stepped forward as firmly and calmly to that standard for its defence, as he has now descended to the grave. An act of higher, nobler heroism it was than when, to meet the later exigencies of the strife, he buckled on his sword for the bloody fight. But how signally is truth vindicated! Well may he sleep in peace, his work well done. Well may all the noble self-sacrificed who have fallen in the battle rest content with their glory, now that this motto, upborne by black troops and white, leads our army along the whole line, from Carolina to Mexico. Well may the old Abolitionists who remain gird themselves anew for whatever work is left, when it has come to pass that no man can hope to reach the Presidential chair, except, as the declaration of his future policy, he has engraved upon his forehead, as with the pen of iron and the point of a diamond, "No UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!”
Yes, the inscription for the tomb of our brother, most expressive of the benevolence and heroism of his character, of the purity of his patriotism and the strength of his principles will be, HERE RESTS AN ABOLITIONIST.
"Saw ye not the wheels of fire,
And the steed that cleft the wind?
Saw ye not his soul aspire,
When his mantle dropped behind?
"Ye who caught it as it fell,
Bind that mantle round your breast,
So in you his meekness dwell,
So on you his spirit rest.
"Yet, rejoicing in his lot,
Still shall memory love to weep
O'er the venerable spot
Where his precious relics sleep.”

THE ADDRESS OF THE (REBEL) LEGISLATURE OF VIRGINIA.
The New York Metropolitan Record, "A Catholic Family Paper,” of the most rabid Copperhead type, seditiously says:—
"We recommend to the earnest consideration of those who still suppose the South can be conquered, the eloquent and thrilling address of the General Assembly of Virginia, that grand and gallant commonwealth, the mother of States and of statesmen, the birth-place of Washington, of Lee, and of Jackson. The defiant tone in which it treats of the efforts to enslave the people of the South, and the eloquent language of denunciation in which it refers to the barbarous system of warfare pursued by the minions of the Washington despot, will meet with an echo in the heart of every man who loves justice and hates oppression. We trust in God we shall never see the day on which the glorious old commonwealth will be subdued, and given over to the spoiler and the plunderer; to the Butlers and the Schencks; to the licensed burglar and incendiary, incited and encouraged by "the best Government on the face of the earth.”
As to the freedom and independence of the South we have no apprehensions. Her people can never be conquered, and, if that were possible, Abraham Lincoln is not the man to accomplish that subjugation.
The address of the Virginia Assembly is a proof that the resolution which animated Virginia all through this war is as unbroken as ever; that there is no faltering, no wavering. In the eloquent words of this great document,” VIRGINIA TAKES NO STEP BACKWARD.”
Grand old State, may we never see the day when you shall have to bow beneath the yoke of the oppressor! If that day should ever come, then will the friends of freedom, the lovers of true heroism and manhood, mourn over the sad fate of a great people, who fell while fighting for liberty and independence; fell on the same soil that gave birth to Washington, to one whose name should have been sufficient to save the great commonwealth from the tread of the heartless invader.”
Such is the spirit of a journal that will zealously support McClellan for President. Having decided that the rebels never can and never should be conquered, it wants a man at the head of affairs who it is certain will never conquer them.

GENERAL FREMONT.
It is no secret that General FREMONT and many of his friends think that be has been unfairly treated by the Administration; that his opportunities of military distinction have been systematically baffled; and whatever explanation the General himself might give, it is very sure that his ardent personal friends attribute his treatment to political jealousy. It is the same feeling that the immediate friends of General M'CLELLAN indulge in regard to him, and it is a question which will never be settled to the satisfaction of either side.
We observe that some Union men, who, like the German-American Club of the Seventeenth Ward in this city, are resolved that under no circumstances will they support Mr. LINCOLN’S reelection, are disposed to erect the name of FREMONT as a candidate in any case; and a journal, recently established, attacks the Government with the fury of the most malignant Copperhead writers, and plainly points to FREMONT as its candidate, while the chuckling Copperheads warmly applaud the “FREMONT diversion.”
Now FREMONT has been a charmed name because it stood for unswerving fidelity to Liberty, to the Union; and to suggest that it could be used as a rallying-cry to divide Union men, after they had deliberately decided who was to bear their standard, is insulting both to the General and to his friends. No candidate has any prescriptive right to the nomination. The field is clear; and it is of transcendent importance that the question of fitness shall be thoroughly discussed in every case. That General FREMONT may choose to try the popular confidence in his name, so far as to await the action of the Convention, is very probable. But that a man, who has been so truly respected, and who, when he was at candidate, was so faithfully supported by as earn a body of men as ever voted, will permit his name to be used in any manner whatever as a menace—that he will allow any considerable number of persons to declare either that the national Convention most nominate him or some compromise candidate with his assent, or that he will take the field as an independent candidate, we no more believe than we should believe any other imputation upon his perfect patriotism.—Harper's Weekly.
<c06>
MR. CHASE.
The letter of Mr. CHASE, in which he asks that no further consideration be given to his name as a Presidential candidate, will surprise no one who has watched his patriotic course. The Presidency could not win him a higher honor than that of the masterly management of the national treasury during this war; and it is to the universal conviction of his great fitness for the office he fills, and the doubt where an adequate successor could be found, that much of the reluctance of the popular response to his nomination was to be attributed. Himself an essential part of the Administration which is now upon trial before the country, it could hardly be supposed that he seriously differed from its general policy, or that an Administration of which be should be the head would radically change that policy. While, therefore, he agreed upon the whole, it was certainly wiser to do as he has done.
Whatever honors may yet await him, Mr. CHASE will be known in our history as one of the most eminent of the leaders who early saw and always resisted the mortal peril which menaced the American Union and human civilization from the essential character of the spirit which now seeks its overthrow. Called into a vitally important responsibility in the Government when the struggle began, he has fulfilled it with singular ability. Nor will it be named among the least of his claims to the permanent regard of his countrymen that, in the midst of the great war, he saw so clearly the necessity of devoting every energy and effort to the suppression of the rebellion, that he would not allow any preference of his friends for his personal advantage to perplex the great issue. It would have been his duty to do so, however, and he felt that the public safety was imperiled.
We differ entirely from those who regret his withdrawal upon the ground that every man’s candidacy should remain open until the nomination. We are to deal with facts, and the fact is that the Union candidate will certainly be one of three or four conspicuous gentlemen already indicated. If there were comparative unity of feeling—if, surrendering minor points of difference and criticism, the Union party of the nation could move forward to the election as the Union party of New Hampshire lately did to that of Governor GILMORE, and as that of Connecticut will, on the 4th of April, to that of Governor BUCKINGHAM—would it not be infinitely better for the country and the cause than the ardent debate upon various candidates is likely to be?
It is upon that ground, unquestionably, that Mr. CHASE has withdrawn, and for that reason his course will command the sincerest public approval. —Harper’s—Weekly.

PERPLEXITIES OF THE COPPERHEADS.
Next to the rebels, we know of no class whose dilemmas are more numerous or deplorable than those of the Copperheads. We give a sample.
1. Unless they can pass for Democrats, they have no party, but—
2. If they try to pass for Democrats, the party won’t have them.
3. Unless they can combine with the rebels, neither can succeed, but—
4. If the rebels succeed, they can no longer combine with them.
5. So long as the. Union cause triumphs, they can never rule the country, but—
6. When the Union cause fails, there will be no country to rule.
7. Before fighting, they would seek a disunion peace, but—
8. Before getting a disunion peace, they must fight the Unionists.
9. Peace to them means peace with those who are fighting against the Union, and war with those who are fighting for it, but—
10. They find it costs more “knocks” to fight the country’s friends, that it would to subdue its enemies.—
11. They believe in all the rights of man, especially in his right to own men, but—
12.They oppose "Woman's rights," particularly the right of a black woman to her chastity and her children.
13. They favor the largest liberty, to wit: the liberty of a State to secede in order to promote slavery, but—
14. They oppose insurrection and rebellion, especially the rebellion of the Federal government against the supremacy of the slave States.
15.They sympathize with the conservative efforts of Jefferson Davis to preserve the "Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is,” but—
16. They believe all the acts which Abraham Lincoln has done, can do, or ever may do, to maintain the Union, are unconstitutional and revolutionary usurpations.
17. They would colonize all soldiers of color, but—
18. They do not believe in colonizing the Vallandighams who desert their colon.
colors.
19. They fear abolition lest it may lead to amalgamation, but—
20. They like slavery because it compels amalgamation.
21. They believe that God has made the negro their inferior, but—
22. They fear abolition will make him their superior
23. They know McClellan to be opposed to the war, or they would not nominate him, but—
24. They want him to carry on the war, because he is opposed to its being earned on.
25. They pretend to believe that McClellan made war on the rebels, but—
26. They re publish his official report as a campaign document, to show bow successfully he made war on the Administration.
27. To require rebels to swear to support the Constitution, and laws, before voting, is to infringe the right of suffrage, but—
28. To prevent volunteers who are fighting for the Union from voting is to sustain the right of suffrage.
29. They deny that the civilization of the North is superior to that of the South, but—
30. This involves the admission either that bad as are the rebels, the Copperheads are no better, or else that the Copperheads enjoy no share of Northern civilization.
 31. The above facts tend to show that this is a contest not between States, communities or institutions, but between all the depravity of the human heart, on the one side, and what the secesh organs openly scoff at as “God and humanity," on the other. —Chicago Tribune.
Jefferson, who was a fair-minded man as well as a philosopher, said in his works, vol. 8, page 386, “The opinion that the colored race are inferior in the faculties of reason and imagination must be hazarded with great diffidence.” But our modern Copperheads have none of Jefferson’s difference. They bellow their contempt of law colored race with brazen lungs.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institution, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exits have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institution swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
JOHN BRIGHT.
The London correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette says:
I had the pleasure of a long conversation with John Bright the other day, who holds the most unalterable faith in the near approach of the end of the rebellion. He is also very warm in his desire for Mr. Lincoln's re-election-thinks it would produce a grand effect in England, by convincing the people of the solid purpose of the American people; and quoted the words of a distinguished friend of the Southrons, a member of the House of Commons, that such re-election would be the heaviest blow that the North could inflict on the South. He does not care much for the criticisms on Mr. Lincoln's slowness, though he admits that a change of cabinet should be demanded: for the rest he says, "Mr. Lincoln is like a waiter in a large eating-house, where all the bells are ringing at once; he cannot serve all at once, and so some grumblers are to be expected." It may not have been generally known that it was through the influence of Mr. Bright that young Rubbery, taken among those who were going out on the ship Chapman at San Francisco as privateers, was pardoned. The family lives at Birmingham. One of the daughters was considered hopelessly insane, and had been so several months; but on hearing that Mr. Lincoln had pardoned her brother, she began to recover, and is now nearly well. Mr. Bright was much amused by a letter he had just received from a confederate in London, who, wishing to go to the House of Commons, wrote to him for an order of admission. Mr. Bright sent him the order, and said, "Though I am against this rebellion, I am not against you of the South; on the contrary, it is as much for your sakes as for that of others, that I wish to see your efforts to break up the republic, and your criminal institution, crushed."

TRIBUTE TO GEORGE THOMPSON.
Not many days since, a New York paper made a gratuitous attack upon George Thompson, in which he was represented as having no legitimate claim upon the gratitude of the American people. The Rev. J. H. Rylance, formerly of London, now Rector of St. Paul's, Cleveland, Ohio, thereupon addressed a letter to the editor, from which we will take an extract. After noticing the formation of a society in England, which spent large sums of money in behalf of the American cause, producing thereby a great change in the public opinion of the country, Mr. Rylance says:
"Now, if the American people be disposed to award no higher acknowledgment to these efforts than that they were friendly, to that extent Mr. George Thompson merits their kindliest recognition; for he bore, far beyond all comparison, the lion's share in the work. The inspiration of the occasion made the man young again, and he almost flew throughout England and Scotland to dispel ignorance, to subdue prejudice, to combat malice, that thus he might bring the good-will and sympathy of the British people to the aid of America in the hour of her great need. 
What I wish especially to be observed in this connection is, that he did this not merely because he was an abolitionist; for Mr. Thompson had the sagacity to see, very early in the struggle, that human freedom was only one among the many solemn interests threatened by the rebellion; so that he climbed a higher platform, and lost merely party views and aims in a generous enthusiasm to sustain the American government, not doubting that, in issue of the war, the one great interest for which he had lived and labored would be found redeemed and consecrated by the fierce sacrament of blood.
Had your many readers been witnesses with me of George Thompson's labors-how he sometimes dragged himself from a sick-bed, and cheerfully traveled hundreds of miles to address meetings which no other man could sway with such surpassing eloquence and power, and all this without a cent of reward; had they seen, as I have, vast assemblies rise under his appeals to demand that rebel ram-building should be stopped; then I am sure there would be no lack of honor to the noble man who is amongst us for a time. However this may be, whether the American people evince their esteem for such a man or not, one thing is sure-the rebels and their friends in England dread him more than any other man in Europe; and perhaps this is the higher compliment of the two."
In this connection we copy an extract from Henry Ward Beecher's welcome to Mr. Thompson, as expressed through the Independent:
The eloquent man who, many years ago, came to speak to a free people concerning their freedom-and whose single and constant speech was the same then as now-ought to have been heeded then, as he is applauded now. Had this been so, the orator, instead of having lately helped to save us from a war with England, would have earlier saved us from the war with ourselves. George Thompson, advocating in England in 1864 the cause of the Union, was not more our friend than while advocating in America in 1834 the cause of freedom.
We scorn the littleness of speech which still comes from a few pens and tongues, decrying an Englishman, who opens his mouth in this country, as an intermeddler with our affairs. The cause of liberty is as universal as Human Nature; and no man who serves among her knight-errantry, come from what-ever land or clime he will, is a foreigner or an alien. If liberty in Italy may ask the sympathy of an American for Garibaldi in prison, so liberty in America may ask the eloquence of an Englishman for the negro in chains. John Bright is an Englishman: but if he were to come to this country, would we not give him a hearing? But John Bright has publicly said that British Emancipation owes to George Thompson more than to any other man. American Emancipation owes him something as well. He is part of the salt that gives savor to the proclamation of Abraham Lincoln. To George Thompson, therefore, who comes for the third time to our shores, expecting now to spend the remainder of his days here, we give a hearty welcome-not as an Englishman, nor as to be an American-but as a brave and true man who, proudly claiming both countries, is proudly claimed of both.
Nothing could show more clearly the change of public opinion in this country than the hearty welcome of Mr. George Thompson, from England. He was the best thoroughly hated man in America twenty-five years ago; but his services for our cause in England during the last three years have justly earned for him the sincere good-will with which he is now greeted. His earlier practical acquaintance with this country had taught him in the roughest way the true spirit and power of the insurrection, and he has been able to speak with a force of knowledge that no other Englishman possessed. He has been one of the brave band, among which we honor the names of John Bright, Professor Cairnes, Goldwin Smith, Stuart Mill, Cobden, and the rest, who have as sturdily resisted the opposition of British public opinion as he formerly withstood the stress of our own. Twenty-five years ago, for instance, George Thompson was hunted and mobbed in Boston. This year he has been received in that city by the Governor of the State, with tumults of welcome, and with all the hospitality that the public could offer. And among the pleasant and remarkable events of the evening was the call by the Governor, after all the speeches and the shouting, for three cheers for the Queen of England-the same Governor, who, two years ago, took very strong ground in the same city upon the Trent trouble. It was well and worthily done. The people of this country certainly do not seriously wish any war with England, however intense and bitter the feeling against her in individual cases may be. England and the United States are naturally friends, for this reason, if for no other, that they are the great illustrations and defenders of constitutional liberty in the largest sense. We may and must believe, in this country, that the necessary development of that liberty will gradually modify and eliminate the aristocratic form of government; and they will perhaps suppose that ours must become a strong government.
As the military aspect of our public affairs becomes more composed, it is easy to see that our attention must be concentrated upon internal questions entirely new and practically difficult. We wish, therefore, to be friends, as much as may be, with the whole world. There is really no reason why we should not be, unless the French conquest of Mexico should compel trouble. And to this great consummation of public tranquillity, nothing so directly contributes as the intelligent influence of every citizen. It is easy, but not very wise, to sneer incessantly at John Bull. Certainly, this Easy Chair cries peceari! John can and does sneer at us, as Punch has fully proved. Poor old Punch! Let us hope it may recover some of its
<c02>
old spirit, and turn its laugh upon the enemies and not upon the friends of human progress and popular rights.
It does not follow indeed that we are to embrace every thing English, nor to suppose that her changed attitude toward us is really a change of heart. Nations do not have that kind of relation with each other. We, especially, have never been famous for it. It is a cardinal point of our policy not to have it. If any people strike for liberty or a republic, anywhere in the world, we simply touch our hats, and make a vague general bow. As for actual assistance, material aid, recognition, and the other steps so grateful under such circumstances, they are the very steps that we most carefully do not take. But that is intelligible. The footing of nations is that of acquaintances, not of friends. We are in no danger of cherishing any romantic affection for England, or France, or Russia; but that is no reason why we should defy and distrust them. Perhaps when we are all gone, and the story of our times is more dispassionately told, it will appear that we had given grave reason for the general apathy, or even joy, which attended our extremity. Meanwhile we are very glad of the cordial welcome which Mr. Thompson received, and hope that it may be understood in England as the sign of national amity. Harper's Magazine.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL l, 1864. 
A GREAT LOSS TO THE COUNTRY.
It is a most unexpected as well as a very sad task to announce the death of that stalwart friend of the slave, and indomitable champion of universal liberty, Hon. OWEN LOVEJOY, Member of Congress from the Fifth Illinois District, at Brooklyn, N. Y., on Friday night last. We knew, indeed, that he had been ailing for some time past; but we had neither seen nor received any intimation that he was deemed to be in a critical situation. His departure will take the whole country by surprise, and be deeply deplored by millions.
Ever since the murder of his brother Rev. ELIJAH P. LOVEJOY, at Alton, Illinois, in 1837, for attempting to publish an Anti-Slavery journal in that place, OWEN LOVEJOY has had the mantle of the martyr resting upon him; and he has worn it with a courage and devotion worthy of the sacred cause of impartial and universal freedom. His biography, if written, and if justice be done to his memory, will present a record of moral heroism, physical endurance, and determined purpose in the service of the oppressed, through all kinds of perils and fearful liabilities arising from mobocratic outbreaks and slaveholding devices, worthy to be handed down to posterity.
Of all the Northern Representatives in Congress who, prior to the rebellion, dared to confront the hotspurs of the South in their attempts to vindicate, extend and perpetuate their hellish slave system, and to meet their bluster and bullying in a manly and fearless spirit, no one since the days of John Quincy Adams has been so conspicuous as himself; and no one has been so hated and anathematized by those hot-spurs. It was almost a miracle that he escaped assassination, from session to session.
A few weeks ago, we received the following letter from Mr. Lovejoy, written not for publication but for our private perusal; but, now that he has been summoned to a higher sphere, we deem its publication creditable to his head and heart-especially when he states his determination to move in his place in the House, "if able to be in his seat again," to strike out the proscriptive word "white" as a qualification for voting-and his congratulatory reference to GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., whom he hopes to have the pleasure of seeing in Washington, and introducing him to President Lincoln.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) Feb. 22, 1864.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:-
I write you, although ill health compels me to do it by the hand of another, to express to you my gratification at the position you have taken in reference to Mr. Lincoln. I am satisfied, as the old theologians used to say in regard to the world, that if he is not the best conceivable President, he is the best possible. I have known something of the facts inside during his administration, and I know that he has been just as radical as any of his Cabinet. And although he does not do everything that you or I would like, the question recurs, whether it is likely we can elect a man who would. It is evident that the great mass of Unionists prefer him for reelection; and it seems to me certain that the providence of God, during another term, will grind slavery to powder. I believe  now that the President is up with the average of the House.
You will notice that the House paid the hundred dollars to the master instead of the slave. And you will have noticed, perhaps, also, that Henry Winter Davis has made a report in reference to Arkansas, where he has put in the word "white" as a qualification for voting. It is my purpose, (by the way,) if I am ever able to be in my seat again, to move to amend by striking out the word "white." And, if possible, I mean to bring the House to a vote on it, and let them confront the question, face to face.
Recurring to the President, there are a great many reports concerning him which seem to be reliable and authentic, which, after all, are not so. It was currently reported among the anti-slavery men of Illinois, that the Emancipation Proclamation was extorted from him by the outward pressure, and particularly by the delegation from the Christian Convention that met at Chicago. Now, the fact is this, as I had it from his own lips: He had written the Proclamation in the summer, as early as June, I think,-but will not be certain as to the precise time,-and called his Cabinet together, and informed them that he had written it, and he meant to make it; but wanted to read it to them for any criticism or remarks as to its features or details. After having done so, Mr. Seward suggested whether it would not be well for him to withhold its publication until after we had gained some substantial advantage in the field, as at that time we had met with many reverses, and it might be considered a cry of despair. He told me he thought the suggestion a wise one, and so held on to the Proclamation until after the battle of Antietam.
I mention this as a sample of a great many others.-But I am wandering from my purpose, which was simply to tell you how much pleasure your position gives me.
I am also very glad to see that Mr. Thompson, of England, speaks in friendly terms of the President. It I were acquainted with him, I would write and thank him also; and I hope you will say so to him. I congratulate him and the country on the change which has taken place in relation to slavery since he visited us before, and hope I may have the  pleasure of seeing him in Washington during the session of Congress; and will be glad to introduce him to the President.
I have also to thank you for sending me the Liberator. During the past sessions, when pro-slaveryism was in the ascendant, I used to read your articles to renew and strengthen my faith.
Very truly yours,
OWEN LOVEJOY.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
GEORGE THOMPSON AT WASHINGTON. As we have already announced, Mr. Thompson will address the citizens of Washington on the evening of the 6th inst., by special invitation of leading members of both houses of Congress, as well as of the Lecture Association in that city. For the important services he has rendered our Government since the rebellion broke out, he deserves a handsome and generous reception. The proceeds of his lecture, after defraying expenses, are to be distributed among the destitute families of the District of Columbia soldiers. It is humiliating to see that a motion by Mr. Ashley of Ohio, to grant the hall of the House of Representatives for this laudable purpose has been tabled by a vote of 63 to 40. Surely, this cannot be the final action of the House.
<c03>
GEORGE THOMPSON IN WORCESTER. 
On Monday evening, the 28th ult., Mr. Thompson addressed the citizens of Worcester, in the spacious and elegant Mechanic's Hall. The meeting was called to order by Judge Chapin, who introduced the speaker of the evening in a brief but eloquent address. He said:
Ladies and Gentlemen:-It is now nearly thirty years since the gentleman who is to address us this evening gave to some of us our early lessons upon the question of human slavery. He spoke of the great principles of the Declaration of Independence, and of the true idea of freedom in America, in a manner which touched the souls of many of his hearers. The nation was blind to the poison which was undermining its institutions, and the prophets of the new epoch which was dawning upon the world were either heard with indifference or cast out with violence. Probably this country never witnessed such displays of resistless logic and burning eloquence as characterized the early days of the anti-slavery discussion, when the cool, epigrammatic Emerson was led to exclaim, "Eloquence is dog-cheap at anti-slavery meetings." Among the most marked men of that era was a young and eloquent Englishman, whose soul was filled with an agony of indignation, and whose lips seemed touched with fire as he described the evils of the accursed institution of slavery. He came among us, and, for a short time, Christian men and women could resolve that the spirit and the manner, with which George Thompson discusses the question of slavery commend him to the attention and regard of the American people. They knew not what they did. They realized not the power of the evil which had been so eloquently described. It existed not only upon the Southern plantation, but it permeated Church and State, and shaped the men and measures of a self-styled free republic. It murdered an anti-slavery editor at the West. It mobbed anti-slavery editors and lecturers at the east. It ostracised anti-slavery men and women throughout the land; and it drove one of the noblest Englishmen who ever trod upon our soil, like a felon from our shores. 
Sixteen years passed away, and he renewed his visit. His history and standing have been such that they demonstrated not only that he was in every way worthy of our confidence, but that he was a true and earnest friend to republican institutions. The light, the discussions, and the professions of the Old Bay State had been such as to give promise of a heart-felt and a heart-cheering welcome to the distinguished advocate of the rights of man; but the Fugitive Slave Law had just been passed. Boston and Springfield, in accordance with distinguished dictation, were learning to conquer their prejudices, and they greeted our ong-tried friend with howls which sounded like echoes from the bottomless pit, or from the disgraceful year, 1835. Even then, thank God, the Heart of the Commonwealth beat free, and this home of well-paid labor gave to George Thompson a greeting and a welcome which needed no new acknowledgment of his to convince us that he had not forgotten it.
And now, after the lapse of thirteen years more, he again crosses the broad Atlantic, and finds the hearts of the whole Northern people throbbing with a hearty and earnest and generous welcome. They know in whom they have believed, and they believe that he has never proved false to us. He speaks no new truth; for both at home and abroad, in peace and in war, he has always been true to the cause of free democracy and republican liberty. He comes with the record of a life full of the experience of one who has sought for the right and the true; and there only remains to me the pleasant duty, after the lapse of thirteen years, again to introduce to a Worcester audience our friend now and always, GEORGE THOMPSON of England.
MR. THOMPSON'S SPEECH.
Judge Chapin, Citizens of Worcester, Ladies and Gentlemen:-This is not the first time I have been invited to address an audience in the city of Worcester.
On the 18th of November, 1850, I received a "cordial invitation" to visit this city, and was "assured of a respectful and welcome reception." I came. The assurance was nobly fulfilled. In several crowded and enthusiastic meetings in your City Hall, you triumphantly vindicated the sacred right of free discussion. There was cause; for that right was in peril, and had just been assailed in the capital of the Commonwealth. It is due to the noble people of the city of Worcester that I should state the circumstances under which they invited me to come amongst them, and exercise the right of free speech, more than thirteen years ago, when Massachusetts was called to "conquer her prejudices" in favor of the Higher Law.
In the autumn of 1850-during the parliamentary recess-I came to the United States for the purpose of seeing the friends with whom I had been privileged to labor in the Anti-Slavery cause, and also for the purpose of witnessing the progress which your country had made in wealth and prosperity during the fifteen years that had elapsed since my first visit.
I landed in the city of Boston-in Boston, where the first tones of remonstrance, the first protests against the tyranny of the British parliament, the first shots fired in the cause of American independence were heard. The walls were covered with placards, announcing the arrival in the city of Southern slave-catchers, in hot pursuit of two native-born but colored Americans-a noble man, and a still nobler woman, the wife of that man.
These miscreant man-hunters were acting under the sanction, and were armed with the authority of the United States Government and the laws of Congress. They had at their back the entire naval and military forces of the country. By a law just then passed, you, the people of Massachusetts, were called upon to give up your fellow-citizens to slavery, without the trial granted to a pickpocket, to a doom more terrible than that pronounced upon a murderer.
I turned to the public papers; but, instead of the protests of an outraged and indignant community against so flagitious an insult to the hospitality of the city, the honor of the State, and the rights of humanity, I found only vindications of the execrable Fugitive Slave Law, exhortations to obedience, and the fiercest denunciations of those who refused to bewray the wanderer, and by so doing violate the law of the <illegible>ing God. This was the first exhibition I was called to witness of the dominion of the Slave Power over the free soil and free people of the old Bay State.
Not many days after, I was invited by the friends of international amity to a meeting of welcome in Faneuil Hall. There was a glorious gathering of the virtuous, intelligent and freedom-loving citizens of the State; but the spirit of slavery was there. Two hundred hirelings of the South-the copperheads of that day-succeeded in preventing me from speaking. The papers of the following morning applauded the ruffians; called them "true American patriots" and "friends of the Union".
Soon after this meeting, another but very different audience assembled in Faneuil Hall. It was a meeting to denounce the Abolitionists-a meeting to anathematize the foreigner Thompson-a meeting to uphold the Fugitive Slave Law. It was then and there that, through the lips of the chosen orator of the day, the malediction was pronounced- "Let the anti-slavery agitation be accursed!" It was in these circumstances-when I had been denied a hearing in Boston-when I had been denounced by men highest in social position in your capital city-when I had been misrepresented and maligned by the pro-slavery press of the country-that you invited me here, received me with enthusiasm, and passed, amongst others, the following noble resolution:-
"That it is the natural and legal right of any man on our soil, whether foreigner or native, to examine with the utmost freedom all the institutions and practices of the country-to approve or condemn, support or oppose, all such as his conscience or judgment shall determine-to exercise, unmolested, the liberty of speech on all subjects; and that right will never be questioned or denied, except by tyrants and their minions, or when there is ‘something rotten in Denmark.'"
<c04>
Permit me to say that, highly as I appreciate the invitation which brings me again amongst you, and the cordial welcome now accorded me, I value still more highly the free platform to which you invited me in the year 1850, when the glory of America was obscured and her national character was dishonored by the passage of the Fugitive Slave Bill; and when, instead of coming to you, as I do now, with the acclamations of the Boston Music Hall ringing in my ears, I came to you stunned by the "crowing, whooping, groaning, raving, screaming, cat-calls, railway whistles and demoniacal yells of the miserable myrmidons of the South, who drove me from the "Cradle of Liberty," to find a welcome and a hearing in the "heart of the Commonwealth."
At the time of which I am speaking, it was unutterably appalling to trace the terrible effect of slavery upon the politics, legislation, literature and religion of the United States. Wherever I travelled, I saw forms, ceremonies, professions and creeds in abundance, which, looked at by themselves, might indicate the spirit, the practice, and the love of liberty. But, penetrating beyond what was merely external, the foul spirit of slavery was found to be the pervading, controlling and governing influence.
Well might the colored American-in the year when your invitation brought me last to this city-curse the soil of his birth, and shake its dust for ever from his feet. To all but him, the place of birth was dear. Home! it is the lode-star of the heart; it is the point to which the soul continually gravitates. The sea-boy, lost upon the troubled wave; the warrior, distant on the tented field; the captive, pining in Siberia's mine; the gospel messenger, self-exiled on some heathen shore; all turn their eyes to find the spot they fondly call their "home."
"Encamped by Indian rivers wild,
The soldier, resting on his arms,
In Burns's carol sweet recalls
The scenes that blest him when a child;
And flows and gladdens at the charms
Of Scotia's woods and waterfalls."
And yet, but a few short years ago, there was one forlorn and wretched outcast in the world, who felt no rapture when he thought of home. Nay, more, who linked it in his mind to thoughts of horror and of dread; who shrunk amidst the visions of the night, if fancy bore him to the spot where first he drew his breath; who turned him from the star which shone above the hearth on which his earliest days were cradled, as from some baleful meteor, to follow one whose cold yet friendly ray would guide him where his home was not. That being was the fugitive from American slavery; who, scarred by the branding-iron, lacerated by the lash, mangled by dogs, sought to reach a land where he might be safe from the demon traffickers in human flesh. It was the home-born colored American, driven by foul wrongs and wicked laws to turn his back upon the soil which gave him birth; and when refused an asylum or a resting-place within the States of New England, was forced to seek shelter amidst the solitudes and snows of Canada.
What though he were a friendless and shivering fugitive from his own bright and sunny land of Virginia?
"Yet happier there than if he trod
That beautiful but sod,
Beneath a despot's nod.
O, he would rather houseless roam,
Where Freedom and his God might lead,
Than be the sleekest slave at home
That crouched beneath a tyrant't creed."
O, what a spectacle in the sight of men and angels was slavery in the United States! Slavery in a land purchased by the blood of revolutionary heroes and martyrs! Slavery in a land, the founders of whose independence revolted-not against personal bonds not to deliver their wives and daughters from infamy and pollution; not to save themselves and their posterity from unmitigated and endless thraldom; but being already free, that they might also be able to govern themselves.
But more, and worse than this, it was slavery in a land blessed with Christianity. Who can think, with-out horror, of Slavery and Christianity combined? Christianity, which knows no distinction of race or blood; which teaches the doctrine of universal equality, and the duty of world wide humanity; and Slavery, with its inhuman cruelty and brutal lusts-its worse than inquisitorial tortures-its unspeakable debasement of the intellect-its ruthless sundering of the holiest ties of nature-its forced and uncompensated labor-its chattel despotism, and impious soulmurder!
The dominion of the Slave Power was not confined within the limits of the Slave States where negro slavery prevailed. That Power swayed a sceptre which was universal, and exercised a rule which was all but absolute. It elected the President; it appointed the Embassadors and Consuls, and chose, as interpreters of the Constitution, a majority of slaveholders. It dictated and domineered in every ecclesiastical assembly. The Bible, Tract, Missionary, and Sunday School Societies of the country bowed before it. Prayer meetings, camp meetings, and revival meetings stood in awe of it. It bribed, coaxed or bullied the representatives of the North. It sent home Hoar from South Carolina. It bludgeoned Sumner at his desk in the Senate. It turned "the godlike" Webster into the great apostate. It converted New England into a chase for the hunters of men. It repealed the national compact made when Missouri was brought into the Union. It instigated and encouraged the bloody atrocities in Kansas. It procured the infamous Dred Scott decision. It denied the right of the Free States to elect the man of their choice; and when the popular voice nominated Mr. Lincoln for the Presidential chair, it overthrew the Constitution-shattered the Union-"cried, Havoc! and let slipt he dogs of war." The rest you know; let me turn to a brighter part of the picture of the past.
Some centuries ago, a German monk, in the solitude and seclusion of the cloister, wiped from a neglected book the gathered dust of ages, and, reading in its pages the words which teach the way of life, went forth to declare the truths he had discovered, and to claim for every man the right to possess, to read, and to interpret for himself, the volume of revelation. He was opposed by the priests, the statesmen, and the potentates of the day. Nothing dismayed, he with a lion heart pursued his way-despised the Bulls of the Pope-soared above the thunders of the Vatican; and, ere he died, from the height he had scaled, he looked down upon revolutionized Europe.
More than thirty years ago,
"In a small chamber, friendless and unseen,
Toiled o'er his types one poor, unlearn'd young man;
The place was dark, unfurnitured, and mean;-
Yet there the freedom of a race began!
O, Truth! O, Freedom! how are ye still born
In the rude stable, in the manger nursed!
What humble hands unbar those gates of morn,
Through which the splendors of the New Day burst!"
The humble type-setter in that rude chamber gave to America a newspaper advocating the doctrine of immediate, unconditional and universal emancipation. On the first page of that paper he said,-"I have taken my ground; I am in earnest; I will not equivocate; I will not excuse: I will not retreat a single inch; and I WILL BE HEARD." And heard he has been. The sounds we hear to-day, coming from millions of voices, saying, "Let slavery perish, and the land be redeemed from its curse,"-what are they but the echoes of that one voice which, more than thirty years ago, sounded in the ears of this nation,-"Break every yoke! Let the oppressed go free!" Oh, what a glorious spectacle is that which the poor printer is now permitted to behold! If to Martin Luther it was given to look down on revolutionized Europe, to William Lloyd Garrison is vouchsafed the vision of revolutionized America. To him is granted the fulfilment of the promise- "He that goeth forth weeping, bearing precious seed, shall come again rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him."
I am greatly amused, while I am at the same time disgusted, with the efforts which are being made by some parties to rob the abolitionists-the followers of
<c05>
Mr. Garrison-of the credit of having, by their heroic and self-sacrificing labors for thirty years, contributed to bring about that revolution in public sentiment, of which this meeting is one of the indications. As well might the river, when it is entering the sea, deny its connection with the spring-head where it first bubbled up! As well might the mature fruit-tree of thirty years' growth,-bending under its ripe autumn load,-deny all connection with the sapling from which it sprang! We are, some of us, old enough to remember the struggle between 1830 and 1840 for the right to present petitions to Congress for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. We can remember the nomination of Mr. Birney, by the Third party, in 1840, and the 7,000 votes that were cast for him by those who, at that time, would not fall down and worship the Baal of the South. We can remember the second nomination of Mr. Birney by the "Liberty Party" of 1844, when the 7,000 of 1840 swelled to 60,000. We can remember the nomination of Mr. Van Buren in 1848 by the Free Democracy, when the Abolitionists joined themselves to the Barnburners, who had bolted from the National Democratic Convention. We remember the cry they raised-"No more Slave States!"-"No more Slave Territory!" Congress has no more right to make a slave than to make a king!" This party, refusing to vote for either Taylor or Cass, gave 291,000 votes for Van Buren. We remember the battle of 1852, when Pierce and Scott were in the field, and every anti-slavery man, who could conscientiously vote, rallied round John P. Hale. The banner hoisted on that occasion bore the device-"Free Soil," "Free Speech," "Free Labor," "Free Men." We know, too, what it was that shivered in pieces the Whig party, and the American party, and the Knownothing party, and constructed out of the fragments the great Republican party of 1856, that gave to Fremont 1,300,000 votes, and to Ex-President Fillmore but 800,000. We know, too, who fought the battle, and who won the victory for Mr. Lincoln, and on what principles the battle was fought, and from whom those principles were derived, and by whom they were most effectually proclaimed; and who they are, who, during the last three years, have, like Sergeant Carney, held aloft the flag of freedom, and saved it from touching the ground. Knowing all this, and knowing that the men who, at this very hour, are proclaiming the principles, and making out the policy, by which alone the honor of the nation can be maintained, and the rebellion forever crushed, are the men who have been taught and nurtured in the Anti-Slavery school, it is rather too much for the New York Times to say, that the teaching which preceded the war has had nothing to do in creating the present change in public sentiment. I am free to admit that, but for the lessons given by the South, the North would not have been converted; but to the Abolitionists belongs the credit of having inculcated the principles which the treason and madness of the South have developed.
In the subsequent remarks made by Mr. Thompson, he referred to the state of the public mind in England at the breaking out of the rebellion; to the causes which had operated to retard the expression of the popular sympathy with the Union people of America; to the series of Anti-Slavery measures recommended by Mr. Lincoln, and adopted by the Congress; and concluded by expressing his earnest hope, that another and final proclamation might soon be made-one, decreeing slavery every where abolished, and making the soil of America, through all its extent, sacred to human freedom.
CASE OFA NON-RESISTANT CONSCRIPT. A large portion of our last page is occupied with a statement by Mr. J. Wesley Pratt, of Quincy, relative to his being drafted, the manner of his treatment as a non-resistant, and his final release on his parole of honor. It is, perhaps, unnecessarily minute in its details, and occupies much more space than we can conveniently spare in the always crowded state of our columns; yet it is not without interest and instruction. We have no personal acquaintance with Mr. Pratt; but we honor him for his fidelity to his conscience, in circumstances of severe trial; while we think (aside from the profanity that was used and the bad temper exhibited) there was nothing specially blameworthy on the part of the officers who caused his arrest and punishment, because they were bound, by all the obligations of their position, to see that no "duty" was shirked or neglected. They did but faithfully execute the military code, having no authority to recognize any peculiar conscientious scruples against war on the part of any under their command. Nevertheless, it was a creditable act for the Secretary of War to discharge Mr. Pratt; and we trust the case, thus brought to the attention of the government and people, will lead to a better adjustment of the difficulty Mr. Pratt was very willing to do service among the sick and wounded in the hospital; and, surely, he might properly have been permitted to do so.
COPPERHEAD SEDITION. The mistaken, leniency of the Government is more and more emboldening the organs and declaimers of Copperhead-Democracy to utter the most treasonable sentiments, in a spirit of insolent defiance; and the consequence of thus "scattering firebrands, arrows and death," with impunity, is fraught with immense peril. Let our loyal readers analyze the contents of the "Refuge of Oppression" on our first page, and they will see to what extent this license is indulged. See how maliciously the Administration is arraigned-how the President is charged with being a "dictator," utterly undeserving of sympathy or support-how it is alleged that "we have no government, but only a rotten semblance of our former institutions"-how it is menacingly proclaimed, "we will never support the war, it being an outrage and an abomination which no true Democrat can tolerate for a moment"-and how the various beneficent Sanitary Fairs in behalf of the sick, wounded and dying soldiers are held up as "a political trick to raise funds for the Abolitionists to carry on the Presidential election"! There is nothing that emanates from the Rebel presses more seditious or more diabolical than such utterances.

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. No. IV.
NEW YORK, March 24, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
I know that you will not exact of your correspondent coincidence in your views, especially upon so vexed a question as who shall be our next President. Your late declaration in favor of Mr. Lincoln proceeded, I am sure, from an instinct of disaster in the event of a less popular nomination, rather than from first choice of him among candidates of equal prospects. The assumption, it seems to me, by which you would foreclose discussion, is, that the loyal people of the States are not strong enough, with the aid of the soldiers, to elect any man whom the Baltimore Convention shall name for the Presidency. In this I differ from you. I recognize the discordant elements which will be brought together in the Monumental City, but I have faith that the radical will overcome the conservative, and faith that the people, abiding by the decision, whether for better or worse, will render any effort at division ridiculous by an overwhelming condemnation of it at the polls. The New Hampshire election is proof that we may safely inquire-Is Abraham Lincoln the best man for the next four years?
The Amnesty Proclamation convicts its author of a fatal inability to comprehend the issue of the war. The old material of slavery is employed in reconstructing new States and new society, and we are helpless to prevent it from our tardy perception of the danger, and from substituting acquiescence for remonstrance. The President's policy is a fait accompli, and his successor will find it an evil inheritance. I have already given you testimony of its workings, chiefly from Southern men. In your own paper of the 18th, John G. Fee writes to Mr. Phillips: "I regard the Amnesty Proclamation as all wrong. In our judgment, it was not needed, and is a great error;" and he shows how disappointed treason returns to shield itself under
<c06>
the oath, and to resume its forfeited possessions. Gov. Johnson's replacing the President's oath with one of his own framing alone saved Tennessee, in the late election, from being "boldly turned over to secession rulers, in the face and eyes of a hundred thousand Federal soldiers." Winter Davis is endeavoring to induce Congress, which is not pledged to the Amnesty, to guarantee the re-created States, in truth, a republican form of government. Mr. Beaman, of Michigan, sustains him in thinking the proclamation "inadequate to a safe reconstruction," as well as a usurpation of legislative functions. Unhappily, the President has the start; his plans are already institutions; and we are asked to believe that the maker of the breach will be the best repairer thereof. More than that. Allow that we can endure, pity, or even embrace Mr. Lincoln for a second term, are we ready to accept him with his present incumbrances-Blair, Seward and Bates! What proof is there that these reactionists would be discarded by the new Administration? Because we do not reject the pudding, must we also be obliged to swallow the sauce?
So far as Mr. Chase represented principles, he is yet a candidate for the Presidency, spite of the letter by which his name ceases to be made a premature football. As a measure of the opposition to Mr. Lincoln, it is instructive to compare Mr. Pomeroy's platform, announced in the Senate, with that put forward by the Fremont Club of this city on Saturday last. They agree as to the suppression of the rebellion; the condemnation of the Amnesty; the confiscation of rebel property; the supremacy of the Union over the States; the one-term principle of the Presidency; a liberal system of immigration; and the enforcement of the Monroe doctrine. The Fremont platform takes precedence from this plank-"Absolute equality of all men before the law, without distinction of race or color." Success to him who is ready to walk under this banner!
The genuine Republicans of Louisiana, who are identified with the support of Mr. Flanders, had devised the means of restoring that State on the basis of equality to all men, when, on the 15th of December, they held a convention to choose delegates to the gathering at Louisville in February. At this primary convention, certain colored men presented themselves with credentials, and were admitted by a large vote against feeble opposition,-Mr. Flanders being present and siding with the majority. From this moment calumny began its work; Gov. Banks joined those who sought to defeat the noble schemes of the Free State party, and Mr. Hahn's election was inevitable. The State has now a Governor without a judiciary or legislature. Banks determines the Dasisof apportionment to the Constitutional Convention in April, the number of delegates, and the details of election. Of course, no black thread is introduced into the web of reconstruction. Hahn's speech at his inaugural on the 4th was couched in vague language, Banks's in his usual pompous rhetoric: and in keeping with the latter's shameless assertion that Louisiana was the first State to checkmate slavery by a system of compensated (!) labor, fifty anvils were beaten in unison, as if yet fashioning the fetters by which Louisiana serfs are attached to the soil they may not cultivate as freemen. Judge whether a Governor and a Convention which have been created by the Waltham egoist will be likely to favor immediate emancipation. Appreciate now the irony with which the President turned over the colored petitioners for the right of suffrage to the tender mercies of such a conclave! Sherman has lost Selma and Mobile, but, Banks be praised, New Orleans is safe!
Two important elections have taken place since I last wrote-in Arkansas and in Tennessee. In the former State a free Constitution, prohibiting slavery, has been adopted, and a friendly Governor and legislature elected. This is a good triumph for a community which whilom was reducing to slavery or expatriating its free colored population. The result of the ballot in Tennessee is a decided victory of the anti-slavery element, whose terms of emancipation are immediate and unconditional. Of course, in neither State was suffrage granted to the negro. The Constitutional Convention of Virginia, in session at Alexandria, incorporated on the 10th abolition and prohibition of slavery into the new State Constitution, amid the ringing of bells and the firing of cannon. The motto of the friends of a Convention to make a new Constitution for Maryland is-"Immediate emancipation; No State compensation for slaves; No negro apprenticeships!" The election takes place on the 6th of April. Gov. Bramlette has put himself in a quasi-hostile attitude towards the Government on the question of enrolling the slaves of Kentucky. Is his bark premonitory of a bite? Will the President still consent to cherish the slave-system in his native State? As an offset to the possible return to power of the pro-slavery, treasonable element in the reconstructed States, Congress is commendably ready to prepare the way for the organization of the territories of the West, of course with freedom fundamental. Nevada, Colorado and Nebraska were thus assisted by the House, on condition that their Constitutions should be republican, and not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and the Declaration of Independence. Slavery to be prohibited by an ordinance forever irrevocable without the consent of Congress. This co-ordination of the Declaration and the Constitution is significant of a desire to return to first principles, and promises well for the time when we shall come to construct a new the charter of our government. Colorado meets Congress more than half way by passing, in her territorial Convention, a resolution that the United States Constitution ought to be amended in favor of universal emancipation.
An appeal has been taken from the Executive to the Legislature. The colored citizens of Louisiana referred to the Senate their petition, "praying that those who have borne arms for the Union, and all others who can read the Constitution of the United States, be admitted to the privileges of the elective franchise." The thousand names appended represented fifteen millions of taxable property. Is this the only kind of "representation" that is to be allowed them! Suppose they should imitate our fathers in '76. Mr. Sumner said, in the Senate, in another connection, that "the Hon. John Bell told him he was first chosen into public life by the efforts of free negroes." I find the following in the Times of yesterday:
"The Washington City Councils have appointed a committee to protest against the passage, by Congress, of a Senate bill amendatory of the Registry Law, and providing that every male citizen, without regard to color, who shall have been a resident one year before an election, shall be allowed to exercise the elective franchise."
There is a manifest desire on the part of Congress to give the coup de grace to the institution of slavery. In the House, Rice of Maine, Arnold of Illinois, and Wilson of Iowa,-the last backed by the Judiciary Committee,-are urging the enactment of universal abolition. In the Senate, Mr. Wilson of your State was surprised to find himself too conservative in his proposition to compensate the owners of slave families freed by virtue of the military service of husband or father. The prevailing voice was against compensation; and Mr. Wilson, doubtless gladly, abandoned the point. Some valuable confessions were made by the opponents of the emancipatory clause of his bill as to the existence and validity of the marriage relation among slaves. Mr. Sumner is seeking to abolish the inter-State slave-trade. But this, like the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law, is a waste of energy upon a side issue. No slaves, no trade in slaves; no slaves no fugitives.
The continued atrocities of the rebels towards colored prisoners of war; the hanging of twenty-two white North Carolinians, captured from the Union ranks; the fiendish indignities offered to Dahlgren's body; and the criminal treatment of Kilpatrick's officers, indicate the increasing desperation of our enemies and the proximate close of our protracted controversy. The rebellion is lost, if Grant only holds what we have, provided the Copperheads are defeated at the November election. M. DU PAYS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
PETITION OF THE FREE COLORED CITIZENS OF LOUISIANA
To his Excellency Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, and to the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled.
The undersigned respectfully submit the following:
That they are natives of Louisiana, and citizens of the United States; that they are loyal citizens, sincerely attached to the Country and the Constitution, and ardently desire the maintenance of the national unity, for which they are ready to sacrifice their fortunes and their lives.
That a large portion of them are owners of real estate, and all of them are owners of personal property; that many of them are engaged in the pursuits of commerce and industry, while others are employed as artisans in various trades; that they are all fitted to enjoy the privileges and immunities’ belonging to the condition of citizens of the United States, and among them may be found many of the descendants of those men whom the illustrious Jackson styled "his fellow-citizens" when the called upon them to take up arms to repel the enemies of the country.
Your petitioners further respectfully represent that over and above the right, which, in the language of the Declaration of Independence, they possess to liberty and the pursuit of happiness, they are supported by the opinion of just and loyal men, especially by that of Hon. Edward Bates, Attorney General, in the claim to the right of enjoying the privileges and immunities pertaining to the condition of citizens of the United States; and, to support the legitimacy of this claim, they believe it simply necessary to submit to your Excellency, and to the Honorable Congress, the following considerations, which they beg of you to weigh in the balance of law and justice. Notwithstanding their forefathers served in the army of the United States, in 1814-5, and aided in repelling from the soil of Louisiana a haughty enemy, over-confident of success, yet they and their descendants have ever since, and until the era of the present rebellion, been estranged, and even repulsed—excluded from all franchises, even the smallest, when their brave fathers offered their bosoms to the enemy, to preserve the territorial integrity of the republic. During this period of forty-nine years, they have never ceased to be peaceable citizens, paying their taxes on an assessment of more than fifteen millions of dollars.
At the call of General Banks, they hastened to rally under the banner of Union and Liberty; they have spilled their blood, and are still pouring it out for the maintenance of the Constitution of the United States in a word, they are soldiers of the Union, and they will defend it so long as their hands have strength to hold a musket.
While General Banks was at the siege of Port Hudson, and the city threatened by the enemy, his Excellency, Governor Shepley, called for troops for the defence of the city, and they were foremost in responding to the call, having raised the 1st regiment in the short space of forty-eight hours.
In consideration of this fact, as true and as clear as the sun which lights this great continent—in consideration of the services already performed, and still to be rendered by them to their common country, they humbly beseech your Excellency and Congress to cast your eyes upon a loyal population, awaiting, with confidence and dignity, the proclamation of those inalienable rights which belong to the condition of citizens of the great American Republic.
Theirs is but a feeble voice claiming attention in the midst of the grave questions raised by this terrible conflict; yet confident of the justice which guides the action of the Government, they have no hesitation in speaking what is prompted by their hearts—"We are men; treat us as such."
Mr. President and Honorable members of Congress: The petitioners refer to your wisdom the task of deciding whether they, loyal and devoted men, who are ready to make every sacrifice for the support of the best Government which man has been permitted to create, are to be deprived of the right to assist in establishing a civil government in our beloved State of Louisiana, and also in choosing their Representatives, both for the Legislature of the State and for the Congress of the nation.
Your petitioners aver that they have applied in respectful terms to Brigadier General George F. Shepley, Military Governor of Louisiana, and to Major General N. P. Banks, commanding the Department of the Gulf, praying to be placed upon the registers as voters, to the end that they might participate in the reorganization of civil government in Louisiana, and that their petition has met with no response from those officers, and it is feared that none will be given; and they therefore appeal to the justice of the Representatives of the nation, and ask that all the citizens of Louisiana of African descent, born free before the rebellion, may be, by proper orders, directed to be inscribed on the registers, and admitted to the rights and privileges of electors.
And your petitioners will ever pray.
New Orleans, Jan.5, 1864.
VETERANS OF 1812-14-15.
Maximilian Brulee, First C. Restor,
Lieutenant, A. Remy,
Raymond Gaillard, M Debergue,
F. Scoffie, Francois Pascal,
M. Moreau, B. Bazile,
F. Tervalon, J. Assemad,
P. Bonseigneur, Henry Chevarre,
C. Bonseigneur, J. B. D. Bonseigneur,
J. Bonseigneur, Joseph Frick,
A. Rouzan, D. H. St. Hermann,
B. Martin, D. Foster,
Edward Dupuis, Francois Pleise,
Julien Hamelin, Pierre Monette,
M. Ribaros, A.villard.
SIGNATURES OF LOYAL UNION CITIZENS APPROVING THIS PETITION.
Thomas J. Durant, Anthony Fernandez, President of the Louisiana Association of the Veterans of 1814-1815, war of 1812; Founder of the first Union Association of this city, and its first President, and now President of the Union Republican Association, and member of the General Central Committee for State, of which the Hon. Thomas J. Durant is President.
John F. Collins, Peter Rudolphes, President Union Association,
J. Dawson
Samuel Young,
Charles W. Horner,
James Graham,
A. Commagere,
D. Christie,
James E. Tewell,
William Baker,
Ansel Edwards,
William R. Crane,
Henry Train,
Dr. B. Maas,
E.C. Hyde,
J.A. Noble,
Charles Ogilvie,
Rufus Waples,
H. Mazerat,
William Burt,
Followed by one thousand signatures of the free colored citizens of Louisiana.
MEMORIAL. 
To his Excellency Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, and to the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled:
Your Memorialists respectfully show that they are loyal citizens of Louisiana, of African descent, born free. They have been appointed a Committee by the signers of the accompanying petition, to which this Memorial is supplementary, for the purpose of presenting the said petition, and urging, in person, the—as your Memorialists believe—just claims therein contained.
That your Memorialists desire to present, for your favorable consideration, the following statement and prayer in addition to the accompanying petition—namely:
That, whereas, it may be urged that the United States has no authority to change the laws and Constitution of the State of Louisiana, as to the qualification of voters at State elections. This has already been done by the authority of the United States in respect to white citizens of Louisiana employed in the military and naval service of the United States, as will more clearly appear by what follows.
That the Constitution of Louisiana, title 2, article 12, excludes soldiers, seamen, or marines in the army or navy of the United States from the right of suffrage.
<c02>
That, by General Order No. 24, from Headquarters, Department of the Gulf, Major General N. P. Banks ordered that the citizens who had volunteered for the defence of the country in the army or navy, and who were otherwise qualified voters, should be allowed to vote in the election precincts, in which they might be found on the day of election; thereby enfranchising those who were, by the Constitution and laws of Louisiana, disfranchised.
And your Memorialists further show that the Constitution and laws of Louisiana have been altered by the authority of the United States in other respects, and more particularly, 
That by the proclamation of N. P. Banks, dated New Orleans, January 11, 1864, it was declared that the officers chosen in the election then approaching should constitute the civil government of the State under the Constitution and laws of Louisiana, except so much of the said Constitution and laws as recognize, regulate, or relate to slavery.
And your Memorialists further show that, though in their accompanying petition they have only asked the right of suffrage for those citizens, of Louisiana of African descent born free before the rebellion, yet that justice, and the principles for which they contend, require also the extension of this privilege to those born slaves, with such qualifications as shall affect equally the white and the colored citizen; and that this is required not only by justice, but also by expediency, which demands that full effect should be given to all the Union feeling in the rebel States, in order to secure the permanence of the free institutions and loyal governments, now organized therein.
And your Memorialists pray that the right of suffrage may be extended not only to natives of Louisiana of African descent born free, but also to all others. whether born slave or free, especially those who have vindicated their right to vote by bearing arms, subject only to such qualifications as shall equally affect the white and colored citizens.
And your Memorialists will ever pray.
J. B. ROUDANEZ,
ARNOLD BERTONNEAU,
Delegates of the Free Colored Population of Louisiana.
Washington, March 10, 1864.

CIRCULATE THE EMANCIPATION PETITION. 
THE WOMEN'S NATIONAL LEAGUE have mailed from their office, during the past year, 15,000 petitions; and five hundred more will be despatched during the coming week.
Having sent copies for circulation to subscribers of Anti-Slavery and other liberal papers—to Sanitary, Freedmen and Soldiers’ Aid Societies—they are now mailing them extensively to the clergy of the various denominations.
Will not the Church that, in times past, has been the strong bulwark of slavery, now redeem herself, and make haste to throw her whole power and influence on the side of emancipation, of justice and mercy, and thus end the war and secure a lasting peace? 
Let every clergyman in the land circulate the petition in his congregation; and let woman make this her special work.
With each petition sent out is enclosed the admirable speech of Senator Sumner, made Feb. 9, at the presentation of the first installment of the petition. 
So long as the prayers of the people receive such consideration in the Senate of the United States, the work of petitioning is not beneath the attention of the women of the Republic. 
The second installment of the petitions will be sent to Washington on the 15th of April.
Fill up the petitions, and return them as speedily as possible to Room 20, Cooper Institute, New York.
Form of Petition now sent out by the Women’s League:—
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned, citizens of-believing Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country.
THE PRAYER OF ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND.
In the Senate of the United States, Tuesday, February 9th, 1863.
Mr. SUMNER—Mr. President: I offer a petition which is now lying on the desk before me. It is too bulky for me to take up. I need not add that it is too bulky for any of the pages of this body to carry.
This petition marks a stage of public opinion in the history of slavery, and also in the suppression of the rebellion. As it is short, I will read it:
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, women of the United. States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass at the earliest practicable day an act emancipating all persons, of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States.
There is also a duplicate of this petition signed by “men above the age of eighteen years.”
“It will be perceived that the petition is in rolls. Each roll represents, a State. For instance, here is New York with a list of seventeen thousand seven hundred and six names; Illinois with fifteen thousand three hundred and eighty; and Massachusetts with eleven thousand six hundred and forty one. But I will read the abstract with which I have been furnished:
These several petitions are consolidated into one petition, another illustration of the motto on our coin—E pluribus unum.
This petition is signed by one hundred thousand men and women, who unite in this unparalleled number to support its prayer. They are from all parts of the country and from every condition of life. They are from the sea-board, fanned by the free airs of the ocean, and from the prairies of the West, fanned by the free airs. which fertilize that extensive region. They are from the families of the educated and uneducated, rich and poor, of every profession, business, and calling in life, representing every, sentiment thought, hope, passion, activity, intelligence which in spires, strengthens, and adorns our social system. Here they are, a mighty army, one hundred thousand strong, without arms or banners; the advance-guard of a yet larger army.
But though memorable for their numbers, these petitioners are more memorable still for the prayer in which they unite. They ask nothing less than universal emancipation; and this they ask directly at the hands of Congress. No reason is assigned. The prayer speaks for itself. It is simple, positive. So far as it proceeds from the women of the country, it is naturally a petition, and not an argument. But I need not remind the Senate that there is no reason so strong as the reason of the heart. Do not all great thoughts come from the heart?
It is not for me, on presenting this petition, to assign reasons which the army of petitioners has forborne to assign. But I may not improperly add that, naturally and obviously, they all feel in their hearts, what reason and knowledge confirm, not only that slavery as a unit, and indivisable, is the guilty origin of the rebellion, but that its influence everywhere, even outside the rebel States, has been hostile to the Union, always impairing loyalty, and sometimes, openly menacing the national government. It requires no difficult logic to conclude that such a monster, wherever it shows its head, is a national enemy, to be pursued and destroyed as such, or at least a nuisance to the national cause to be abated as such. The petitioners know well that Congress is the depository of those supreme powers by which rebellion, alike in its root and in its distant offshoots, may be surely crushed, and by which unity and peace may be permanently secured. They know well that the action of Congress may be with the cooperation of the slave masters, or even without the cooperation, under the overruling law of military necessity, or the commanding precept of the Constitution “to guarantee to every State a Republican form of government” Above all, they know well that to save the country from peril, especially to save the national life, there is no power, in the ample arsenal of self-defence, which Congress may not grasp; for to Congress, under the Constitution, belongs the prerogative of the Roman Dictator to see that the Republic receives, no detriment. Therefore to Congress the petitioners now appeal. I ask the reference of the petition to the Select Committee on Slavery and Freedmen.
It was referred, after earnest discussion, as Mr. Sumner proposed.
<c03>
A DAY WITH FATHER HENSON IN CANADA. 
Mr. EDITOR—I presume everybody is acquainted with Father Henson, commonly called “Uncle Tom.” Forty years ago, he located himself with his family in the wilds of Canada. Where he built his cabin, not a dwelling could be seen for miles. His neighbors were the wolf and the fox, together with many varieties of the feathered tribe: in a word, for a great distance he was the only man to be seen. Being formerly a slave, and subject to every form of barbarism practised by slave tyrants, thirty odd years of his life were devoted to hardships of the most grievous kind. His maimed limbs show the quality of the treatment he received while a chattel personal. He was a pioneer in “underground railroad” travel, preferring liberty in the wilderness to slavery in any form. After a few years he bought, with gold, his wife and children, and settled them here to share the fortunes of his efforts in a foreign land. When a sufficient number of the forest, trees yielded to the power of his axe, and he had hewed his way to open fields, there could be seen at harvesting the fruits of his agricultural labors. 
In the year 1851, feeling a desire for the elevation of his people, he commenced an enterprize which has received the attention and support of many good men in the United States and England. Adjoining his own farm, which is located about one mile from the town of Dresden, C. W., he purchased from funds collected by him some three hundred acres of land, situated upon what was called “Bear Creek” but now known as Snyder River, which is navigable for steamers of the largest kinds. Here he erected a saw and grist mill, and built a number of small houses, the largest of which was intended for educational purposes, and is now known as the headquarters of “The British and American Dawn Institution.” On the banks of the river, both sides, may be seen at all times during the boating season, wood and every article of country produce, ready to ship for the market; all the practical evidences of the industry and enterprize of colored men. There are very few locations where better opportunities offer themselves. Here away from the the workings of prejudice, unhealthy influences cannot be brought to bear against the efforts of him who means success; therefore, it only needs a will and a unanimity of purpose on the part of a few enterprizing and intelligent colored men to bring about desirable anticipations. 
From a recent visit at Father Henson's settlement, I found the old man in the enjoyment of a large share of worldly happiness. Himself, having passed, in years, the allotment of three score years and ten, being the worthy head of a large and interesting family of children and grandchildren, took great pride in exhibiting his well-stocked farm. There were horses, and oxen, and cows, and sheep, and pigs, and fowls. There were apples, and produce of almost every kind, buried in pits so as to be secure against the frosts. There were thousands of feet of lumber lying on his lands, and hundreds of cords of wood piled in the passages, awaiting the arrival of purchasers. At the farmhouse, the good lady tried her best to do the agreeable, by way of well-stocked tables and family sociability. One of the prominent members of his family is “old Uncle John” an elder brother, who was ransomed by him from Slavery’s prison-house some three years since, leaving a wife and two sons still in thraldom. 
For about two miles, the inhabitants of this locality are mostly colored people. They appear intelligent and industrious; most of them owning good farms. They have two churches in Dresden, which are well attended. The scattered condition of the inhabitants render it inconvenient for small children punctually to attend school. Away from the neighborhood, there is a district prejudice existing, which prevents, white and colored children from attending the same schools. This is a custom all over Canada (with few exceptions).What is needed in that country is a little of old Massachusetts’ influence and example to place things right. The weather the first of the month was warm, and prospects good for early spring. At some other time I shall say more about Father Henson’s Institution. B. F. R.
Boston, March 22, 1864.

ATTUCKS’ COMMEMORATION.
As announced, this 94th anniversary was observed at the Meionaon, on Monday evening, March 7th, (postponed from the 5th.) The exercises commenced with some remarks from WILLIAM C. NELL, in substance as follows:—
On that auspicious day when the 54th Massachusetts regiment was reviewed by Gov. Andrew, on Boston Common, on their departure for the battlefields of the South, where they have won such universal commendation for all the ennobling characteristics of soldiers, he (Mr. Nell) was honored by Hon. HENRY WILSON with some words complimentary for his humble efforts (of which this commemoration was one) in keeping before the American people the fact that, like Crispus Attucks, on the 5th of March, 1770, the colored Americans, from that hour to the present, had ever proved among loyal men the most loyal—among the brave the bravest. In view of the injustice meted out to them by the American nation, their bearing has been magnanimous beyond any precedent in the world’s annals.
Mr. Nell cited some facts from sketches of the recent battle in Olustee, Florida—alluding prominently to the devotion and heroism of the Massachusetts 54th. He submitted extracts from the New York papers, narrating the signal honors just awarded in that city to the 20th colored regiment; which might be accepted as a partial offset to the copperhead riots of last July.
He censured strongly the parties at Washington, prominent in denying the same pay to colored soldiers in the field that has been awarded to the whites; but he was hopeful that the discussion would end in a fair adjustment, believing as he did that the events of the war are fast educating the nation up to the idea that all men, without distinction of color, should be equals before the law. 
The exercises of Music, vocal and instrumental—the Readings and Declamations, with the Dramatic Scenes by a company of young colored amateurs—gave great satisfaction to the audience, which, in consequence of the unfavorable weather, was limited in number.
THE CONTINENTAL MAGAZINE, for April, opens with an article entitled “Sir Charles Lyell on the Antiquity of Man” a review of Lyell's recent work on the subject “Aenone” the tale of Slave Life in Rome “The Love Lucifer” and “Sketches of American Life and Scenery” are continued, and Mr. Kim- ball's" Was He Successful?” concluded “Great Lakes, to St. Paul” gives the superficial descriptions by a traveller of Cleveland, Detroit, Superior City, Prairie DuChien, and other Western cities. “English and American Taxation” is an article by Robert J. Walker. The other contributions to the present number are “Our Government and the Blacks.” “The Isle of Springs” “Jefferson Davis and Repudiation of Arkansas Bonds,” and the “Development of American Architecture.”
HENRY WARD BEECHER. Henry Ward Beecher preached a sermon, last Sunday evening, on the necessity of civil enactments to put an end to slavery. He earnestly recommended the circulation of the Emancipation Petition in his congregation; and at the close, a collection of about $200 was taken up to forward the work of the Women's National League. A good example, worthy of universal imitation.
It is denied that the lady school teachers at Hilton Head have been misceginating. Nobody believed it to begin with.—Newburyport Herald.
Exactly. The only trouble is that a good many of the Herald's copperhead allies asserted it just as if they did believe it. Of all pro-slavery fabrications, it is the dirtiest and vilest, yet worthy of its origin.
<c04>
DEATH OF OWEN LOVEJOY. 
The Hon. Owen Lovejoy, Member of Congress from the Fifth Illinois District, died in the city of Brooklyn, at half past 11 o'clock on Friday night. He had been indisposed for several months, but was not confined to his bed until the 15th instant. In his last illness he was attended by his wife and daughter, and many sympathizing friends and acquaintances.
This eloquent champion of freedom was born in the town of Albion, Kennebec County, Me., on the 6th of January, 1811, and was therefore fifty-three years of age at the time of his death. His father was a minister and farmer, and young Owen worked upon his father's farm until he was eighteen years of age, when he spent a short time in a neighboring academy, and afterward went to Bowdoin College, where he was at the same time pupil and teacher—paying for his own tuition by teaching others.
He left college in 1835, and emigrated to the town of Alton, in the State of Illinois, where his brother E. P. Lovejoy edited an Anti Slavery newspaper. He remained there until 1837, when his patriotic and noble brother was murdered by a Pro-Slavery mob. He did not leave the town, however, until he had uttered his protest against slavery in a spirited and touching biography of his martyred brother. He then removed to Princeton, where he became the pastor of a Congregational Church, and where he also became distinguished for his uncompromising hostility to “the sum of all villanies.” During his ministry he was frequently arrested, sometimes charged with making incendiary speeches against slavery—sometimes with feeding, clothing, and aiding fugitive slaves. On such occasions he chose to plead his own cause, and when the case closed, it was his custom to announce to the court and the parties assembled where and when he would deliver his next Anti-Slavery address.
In this way he labored in season and out of season—preaching, lecturing, writing, toiling, praying for the abolition of slavery till 1854, when he was elected to the State Legislature of Illinois, where he voted for Abraham Lincoln as his first choice for United States Senator. His talents and influence were recognized by his constituents, and in 1856 he was elected to a seat in the XXX Vth Congress, and has been reelected to the XXXVIth, XXXVIIth, and XXXVIIIth Congresses, winning a national reputation for industry, courage, and eloquence. Among the incidents of his public career, will be remembered the scene in the House in April, 1860, in which Prior, of Virginia, undertook to silence him. Lovejoy was speaking with that electric power which marked his efforts, when he was interrupted by Pryor with threatening gestures, who said he did not wish to hear any more” such trash.” Mr. Lovejoy replied that for six weeks the House had listened to the trash of the Democratic members, and it now was his turn. He was at once warmly and earnestly sustained by the Republican members. Out of the discussion that followed grew the Potter and Pryor challenge. Mr. Lovejoy was a great favorite in the district he represented, and he did a vast deal toward creating and moulding the political opinions of his constituents. He was a brave and truthful man, and his private life was with-out reproach. In person he was stout and muscular, with a large, well-balanced head, a genial face, and magnetic eyes, that sparkled when he was engaged in debate. As a pastor, he was eminently successful. At Princeton, where he settled, he established a church which became one of the most prosperous, influential and wealthy of the churches of the West, Among the members were two brothers of Mr. William Cullen By rant, the poet and editor. On Ms election to Congress he gave up the ministry, and devoted his attention to politics. In his death the country has lost a true patriot, a faithful leader, and an honest man. The funeral of Mr. Lovejoy will take place at Plymouth Church at half-past one to-day. Drs. Storrs, Cheever, and the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher will officiate. As the close of the services, the remains of the deceased will be removed to Princeton, Bureau County, III. Senator Trumbull, now in New York, has telegraphed to Representative Washburne to endeavor to make up a Congressional delegation to follow the remains to their final resting-place. The body of the deceased was examined yesterday, and the physicians decided that he died of Bright's disease of the kidneys. Mrs. and Miss Lovejoy, widow and daughter of the deceased, will accompany the remains to the West.—N. Y. Tribune of Monday.
His dissolution was very calm and peaceful, and his last hours were soothed by the presence of his wife and daughter. His attending physician had left his bedside but a short time previous to his death. His complaint was at first supposed to be a combination of rheumatism and gout, but latterly it was decided to be an affection of the liver. His physicians abandoned the case as a hopeless one several days since, and directed that he should take no more medicine. Since then his wife, who was in attendance upon him, had supplied him with ice, under which treatment he rallied sufficiently to give some hopes of his ultimate recovery. 
Mr. Lovejoy was born in Albion, State of Maine, January 6, 1811, and is consequently in the fifty-fourth year of his age. Mr. Lovejoy took uniform high anti-slavery ground in his public career, preaching it from his pulpit on Sunday, and talking it and working it in to the people on week days. His doctrines began to take root, and eventuated in the establishment of an underground railroad over which many slaves were run across the border, and carried into Canada. Mr. Lovejoy kept the fleetest horses in the country, which were often put upon their mettle in carrying off fugitives to the frontiers of Canada. When accused of being president of the underground railroad, he would say he was only a conductor. In person, Mr. Lovejoy was of commanding presence, tall, portly, weighing in health about 250 pounds. He had a fine open countenance, was full of good cheer, and was thought rather jolly for a minister. On his election to Congress in 1856, he gave up the ministry, and has since devoted his attention to political matters. Mr. Lovejoy was very wealthy, owning one of the finest farms in Illinois.—N. Y. Evening Post.
OWEN LOVEJOY. Owen Lovejoy is dead, and we note the fact with reverence, for the country has lost a sterling patriot, and the grave will close over a brave and honest man. Such men we must deeply regret, because they are precious as they are few, and though we have brighter names than that of Owen Lovejoy, he, at least, in his sphere, did his duty chivalrously. Brother to the first martyr to Northern or anti-slavery liberty, he was one of the first, if not the first, popular representative of the North who threw down the gauntlet to the tyrants of slavery. The world will not call him a fanatic now.—Philadelphia Press. 
FUNERAL OF MR. LOVEJOY. At the funeral of Hon. Owen Lovejoy, at Brooklyn, N. Y., on Monday last, there were addresses by Rev. H. W. Beecher and Rev. Dr. Cheever. The following named gentlemen officiated as pall bearers:—William Cullen Bryant, J. H. Bryant, of Illinois, E. Tappan, Dr. Ritter, Mr. Carpenter, Rev. Mr. Jocelyn, Dr. Dexter Fairbanks, and Mr. Davis, a liberated slave.
In the Senate, at Washington, appropriate eulogies of the deceased were delivered by Messrs. Trumbull, Pomeroy and Sumner; and in the House of Representatives by Messrs. James C. Allen, Stevens, Farnsworth, Pendleton, Pike, Norton, Ashley, Morrill Odell, Davis, of New York, Grinnell and Arnold. The usual resolutions of respect and condolence were passed.
WASHINGTON, March 28. The House appointed a Committee, consisting of Messrs. Farnsworth, of Illinois, Rice of Maine, and Ross, of Illinois, to superintend the removal of the remains of Mr. Lovejoy from Brooklyn, N. Y., to Illinois.
POLITICAL. Leonard Swett, an eminent Illinois lawyer, is spoken of us the probable successor of the deceased Owen Lovejoy.
THE BOUNTY TO COLORED SOLDIERS. Hon. William Whiting, Solicitor of the War Department, has given the following opinion relative to the payment of bounty to free colored volunteers:-
The Act of March 3, 1863, “for enroling and calling out the national forces and for other purposes,” as amended by the Act approved February 24, 1864, provides that “all able-bodied male colored persons, between the ages of twenty and forty-five years, resident in the United States, shall be enrolled, and shall form part of the national forces, and shall be liable to draft.
Section 11th of the Act of 1863 provides that all persons thus enrolled, shall, when called into service, be placed on the same footing in all respects as volunteers for three years or during the war, including advance pay and bounty as now provided by law.
As these Acts now stand, they provide for three classes of colored men: 
1. Colored men who have been enrolled and drafted; these being entitled to the advance pay and bounty as provided for other volunteers.
2. Slaves of loyal masters who shall have been, or shall be, drafted.
3. Slaves of loyal masters who shall volunteer, or have volunteered.
In each case, besides the bounty or compensation paid to the master, the slave is entitled to his freedom.
No provision of bounty or pay is made in this Act for free colored volunteers.
Bills are now before Congress, which, if passed, will provide for the last mentioned class also, bounty and additional pay. WILLIAM WHITING,
Solicitor of the War Department. 
March 5,1864.
STATUE TO HORACE MANN. The statue ordered for the front of the State House in Boston, by the friends of the late Horace Mann, has been executed at Rome, by Miss. Stebbins, a young American artist, and a protege of Charlotte Cushman. It has received very high commendation from commendation from competent critics who have seen it.
<c05>
THE AMNESTY PROCLAMATION
ITS OBJECTS DEFINED.
BY THE PRESIDENT THE UNITED STATES.
A PROCLAMATION.
WASHINGTON, March 26, 1864.
Whereas It has become necessary to define the cases in which insurgent enemies are entitled to the benefits of the Proclamation of the President of the United States, which was made on the 8th day of December, 1863, and the manner in which they shall proceed to avail themselves of those benefits; and whereas the objects of that Proclamation were to suppress the insurrection and to restore the authority of the United States; and whereas the amnesty therein proposed by the President was offered with reference to those objects alone:
Now therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby proclaim and declare that the said Proclamation does not apply to the cases of persons who, at the time when they seek to obtain the benefit thereof by taking the oath thereby prescribed, are in military, naval or civil confinement or custody, or under bonds or on parole of the civil, military or naval authorities, or agents of the United States, as prisoners of war, or persons detained for offences of any kind, either before or after conviction; and that, on the contrary, it does apply only to those persons who, being yet at large and free from any arrest, confinement or duress, shall voluntarily come forward and take the said oath with the purpose of restoring peace and establishing the National authority.
Prisoners excluded from the amnesty offered in the Proclamation may apply to the President for clemency like all other offenders, and their application will receive due consideration.
I do further declare and proclaim, that the oath prescribed in the aforesaid Proclamation of the 8th of December, 1863, may be taken and subscribed before any commissioned officer, civil, military or naval, in the service of the United States, or any civil or military officer of a State or Territory not in insurrection, who by the laws thereof may be qualified for administering oaths.
All officers who receive such oaths are hereby authorized to give such certificates thereon to the persons respectively by whom they are made, and such officers are hereby required to transmit the original records of such oaths, at as early a day as convenient, to the Department of State, where they will be deposited and remain in the archives of the Government. The Secretary of State will keep a registry there of, and will, on application, in proper cases, issue certificates of such records in the customary form of official certificates.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. Done at the city of Washington, the 26th day of March, in the year of our Lord 1864, and of the Independence of the United States the 88th.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President.
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
COLONIZATION EXPLODED.
The failure of the President's scheme of colonization of the Freedmen in Central America, does not surprise those who have given the most thought to the considerations, involved in the enterprise. The colonists have been brought back by the government. Some fifty perished of disease, and all suffered more or less. The cost of the experiment was about $35,000. The Secretary of the Interior gracefully acknowledges the value of the lesson thus learned by experience. He says,
“But little disposition, so far as the Department is concerned, has been manifested by the freedmen of the United States to leave the land of their nativity. I doubt if it be any just cause of regret Time and experience, which have already taught us so much wisdom and produced so many consequent changes, will in the end also solve this question for us.”
We shall hear no more, we trust, of the foolish notion of exporting needed labor from our country. The best thing that government can do for the Freedmen is to give them an opportunity to work, and then to let them alone. Taking care of the negro is the worst thing that can be done for him. He has suffered from too much of that in times past.
CRUELTY TO A SLATE IN RICHMOND. It will be seen by the following that slavery is not dead yet, though some of its victims are almost:
During the session of the Mayor’s Court on Saturday morning, a young German, giving his name as Charles. F. Reese, called officer Kelly out of the court-room, and showing him a small, black negro girl, told him he wanted her taken into custody for stealing his pocket-book.
Seeing from her drooping look that the girl was suffering from some cause, Kelly asked her what was the matter. She told him that she was almost dead; that Reese had beaten her almost to death. On examination, he found that she had been literally cut to pieces with a cowhide from the heels to the top of her head. There was not a square inch of her body which was not bruised and gashed in the most horrible manner, and blood was trickling even from her head. Kelly asked Reese why he had beaten the negro in that manner? Reese said she had stolen his pocket-book, and he was determined to whip her until she confessed what she had done with it; that after whipping her to this extent, she had said she gave it to a free negro, but the free negro had never seen her before, and that he wanted Kelly to whip her again.
Kelly brought both parties before the Mayor, who, having heard the circumstances, committed Reese to jail for future examination, and ordered a physician to be sent for to see the girl. Kelly took the girl to the upper watch-house, and called in a physician, who ordered her to be stimulated and kept comfortable. Up to last evening, though repeatedly dosed with whiskey, she had laid in an almost insensible condition, and had eaten nothing.
The girl is about ten or eleven years of age, and says she belongs to Mrs. Davis.—Richmond Whig 7th. GEN KILPATRICK AT A SLAVE AUCTION. The incident which is given below is reported to have occurred While General Kilpatrick was on his recent raid:—
The command had got to Fredericksburg, and was passing along, when its attention was arrested by a bell, and upon looking in the direction indicated by the sound, they found an auction about to go on They cautiously approached the place, and found five negroes about to be bartered. The auctioneer commenced his sale and said “Who bids?” Where upon Kilpatrick stepped out and said “I bid” The scene can be better imagined than described. Suffice it to say, the “cloud b’hoys” were brought into our lines, and will, I think, ever remember the gallant General who bid for them.
SAN FRANCISCO, March 25. The Union State Convention organized at Sacramento yesterday by the election of William. H. Sears as Chairman, by 45 majority over W. H. Parks, the anti-Conness candidate. The whole vote cast was 257. To-day the Convention unanimously adopted resolutions praising the National Administration, declaring Mr. Lincoln its first choice for next President, and endorsing Messrs, Conness, Higby, Shannon and Cole, of the California delegation in Congress.
A separate resolution in memory of Rev. T. Starr King was adopted by a standing vote, all the members rising from their seats in silence.
The rebel General Forrest has made a bold dash across the State of Kentucky to the Ohio river, attacking and burning a part of the city of Paducah, but getting severely punished in the affair, having, it is reported, 300 killed, and 1,000 wounded. It appears that he then retreated via May field, and although said to be in a crippled condition, he was at last accounts reported marching on Clinton, and Columbus was thought to be threatened. 
Union City, Tennessee, with a force of 400 Federals who occupied it, has also been captured by the rebels. 
In the English House of Commons, Mr. Roebuck has made another violent attack upon the government of the United States, declaring that he would be glad “if American shipping were swept from the seas” Mr. Bright remarked that Roebuck’s speech was unworthy of any member of the House.
Senator McDougall, that crazy war-hawk, has introduced resolves into the Senate, the adoption of which would be a declaration of war against France. They’ll be placed on the table, and should be placed under it,—the place from which they would seem to have proceeded, after dinner—Traveller.
Jeff. Davis has appointed a Fast for the 8th of April. We don’t care how many Fasts he may ordain, so that he shall have no occasion to proclaim a Thanksgiving.—Traveller.
Gen. Rosecrans says that all colored men who fight for their country should be allowed to vote. He is right, and his opinion will soon be universally received.—Ibid. 
FORTRESS MONROE, March 27. The 1st Colored Cavalry, 2d Colored Light Battery, and 10th Colored Infantry, were reviewed at 3 o’clock to-day by Gen. Butler Gen. Cameron and Judges Ellis and Arm- strong of Pennsylvania were present.
Say the Democrats “None but Democrats go to the war.” Say the Democrats further “Soldiers are sent home to vote the Republican ticket.”
An Albany paper declares that the aggregate amount contributed by the Fair in that city to the Sanitary Commission will reach nearly $120,000.
<c06>
OBITUARY.
We sadly record the death of our valued friend, Dr. JAMES L. PETRCE, aged 33 years, son of Cyrus and Ruth Peirce, of Bristol, Bucks Co., Pa.
The attractive qualities which adorned the character of the deceased were appropriately dwelt upon at his funeral; which took place from his father's residence  March 16th; by several speakers, among whom was that truly great woman, Lucretia Mott. The life of Dr. Peirce was emphatically one of duty. Loving truth, he desired its diffusion, untrammelled by the popular religious creeds and dogmas of the sects. His unfettered spirit, in its purity and freedom, exemplified faith in God by deeds. Not by the “logic of events,” but from conviction an Abolitionist; to that conviction ever faithful. Sterling integrity of character, combined with great suavity of manner, secured the esteem and admiration of all classes in the community in which he lived. His life, numbered by years, was short; but,
“We live in deeds, not years; in thought, not breath;
In feelings, not figures on the dial:
We should count time by heart-throbs when they beat
For God, for man, for duty. He most lives,
Who thinks most, feels noblest, acts the best.” T.S.
We are pained to hear of the sudden death of our friend, MORTON PENNOCK, of Kennett Square, Pa. He was in the very prime of life, and respected and beloved by all who knew him. His death is a sad loss, not only to his family and intimate friends, but to the community in which he lived. The stricken widow and her fatherless children will have the warm sympathy of their friends in this trying hour. Anti-Slavery Standard.
GEORGE THOMPSON, OF ENGLAND,
The Orator of Freedom, the distinguished coadjutor of John Bright and Richard Cobden in the defence of American institutions, will, by invitation, deliver an Address in the Academy of Music, Philadelphia, on Monday evening, April 4, at 8 o'clock-the net proceeds to go to the benefit of the Cooper Shop and Union Refreshment Saloons.
Subject: "An Englishman's Plea for Democratic Freedom."
Admission, 25 cents; secured seats, 50 cents; to be had at the Union League; National Union. Club; Supervisory Committee Rooms., No. 1210 Chesnut street; Pugh's, corner of Sixth and Chesnut streets; Anti-Slavery Rooms, Tenth street, above Arch: at the Box Office of the Academy, and at the Refreshment Saloons.
AARON M. POWELL will address meetings at Granville, N. Y., Saturday, April 2.
Middle Granville, Sunday afternoon, April 3.
North Granville, Sunday evening, April 3.
Truthville, Monday evening, April 4.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Rutland, Vt., Friday evening, April 1.
Granville, N. Y. Sunday, April 3, all day and evening.
Easton, N. Y., Sunday, April 10, all day and evening.
Subjects: Compromise—or, What God hath put asunder, let not man put together;—The American Republic—its Origin, Mission and Destiny; —The Rebellion—its Origin, its Objects, and its Results;—Man above his Incidents.

MASON & HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches, In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render is available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such Instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence Such recommendations already have been given to them, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N.Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher’s Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.; such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson., Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston, 7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26—6m

R. BACON,
Real Estate Agency,
No. 36 Washington Street,
ROOM NO. 3, UP STAIRS, BOSTON.
REFERS TO 
Hon. H. WRIGHT, Dr. D. RUSSELL, Messrs. BOWERS & JENKS.
Particular attention given to the purchase, sale and exchange of Farms; also to the sale and letting of Houses and Stores in the city. 3t March 11.
THEODORE PARKER'S MEMOIRS,
JUST PUBLISHED BY
S. R. URBINO,
13 School Street,
FOREIGN BOOK STORE.
BOARDING.
MRS. R. A. SMITH would inform her friends and the public generally, that she has taken house No. 42, Grove Street, Boston; where Board, transient and permanent, may be obtained on reasonable terms. A share of the public patronage is respectfully solicited.
April 1.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
THE WRECK OF RIVERMOUTH
[1657.]
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Rivermouth Rocks are fair to see,
By dawn or sunset shone across,
When the ebb of the sea has left them free
To dry their fringes of gold-green moss:
For there the river comes winding down
From salt sea-meadows and uplands brown,
And waves on the outer rocks afoam
Shout to its waters, "Welcome home!"
And fair are the sunny isles in view
East of the grisly Head of the Boar,
And Agamenticus lifts its blue
Disk of a cloud the woodlands o'er;
And southerly, when the tide is down, 
'Twixt white sea-waves and sand-hills brown,
The beach-birds dance and the gray gulls wheel
Over a floor of burnished steel.
Once, in the old Colonial days,
Two hundred years ago and more,
A boat sailed down through the winding ways
Of Hampton river to that low shore,
Full of a goodly company
Sailing out on the summer sea,
Veering to catch the land-breeze light,
With the Boar to left and the Rocks to right 
In Hampton meadows, where mowers laid
Their scythes to the swaths of salted grass,
"Ah, well-a-day! our hay must be made!"
A young man sighed, who saw them pass.
Loud laughed his fellow to see him stand
Whetting hit scythe with a listless hand,
Hearing a voice in a far-off song,
Watching a white band beckoning long.
"Fie on the witch"! cried a merry girl,
As they rounded the point where Goody Cole
Sat at her door with her wheel atwirl,
A bent and blear-eyed poor old soul.
"Oho!" she muttered, "ye 're brave to day!
But I hear the little waves laugh and say,
'The broth will be cold that waits at home;
For it 's one to go, but another to come!'" "
She 's curst," said the skipper; "speak her fair:
I'm scary always to see her shake
Her wicked head, with its wild gray hair,
And nose like a hawk, and eyes like a snake."
But merrily still, with laugh and shout,
From Hampton river the boat sailed out,
Till the but and the flake on Star teemed nigh,
And they huts the scent of the pines of Rye.
They dropped their line in the lazy tide,
Drawing up haddock and mottled cod;
They saw not the Shadow that walked beside,
They heard not the feet with silence shod.
But thicker and thicker a hot mist grew,
Shot by the lightnings through and through;
And muffled growls, like the growl of a beast,
Ran along the sky from west to east.
Then the skipper looked from the darkening sea
Up to the dimmed and wading sun;
But he spake like a brave man cheerily,
"Yet there is time for our homeward run."
Veering and tacking, they backward wore;
And just at a breath from the woods ashore
Blew out to whisper of danger past,
The wrath of the storm came down at last!
The skipper hauled at the heavy sail:
"God be our help!" he only cried,
As the roaring gale, like the stroke of a flail,
Smote the boat on its starboard side.
The Shoalsmen looked, but saw alone
Dark film of rain-cloud slantwise blown,
Wild rocks lit up by lightning's glare,
The strife and torment of sea and air.
Goody Cole looked out from her door:
The Isles of Shoals were drowned and gone,
Scarcely she saw the Head of the Boar
Toss the foam from tusks of stone.
She clasped her hands with a grip of pain,
The tear on her cheek was not of rain:
"They are lost," she muttered, "boat and crew!
Lord, forgive me! my words were true!
"Suddenly seaward swept the squall;
The low sun smote through cloudy rack;
The Shoals stood clear in the light, and all
The trend of the coast lay hard' and black.
But far and wide at eye could reach,
No life was seen upon ware or beach;
The boat that went out at morning, never
Sailed back again into Hampton river.
O mower, lean on thy bended snath,
Look from the meadows green and low:
The wind of the sea is a waft of death,
The wave are singing a song of woe!
By silent river, by moaning sea,
Long and vain shall thy watching be:
Never again shall the sweet voice call,
Never the white hand rise and fall!
O Rivermouth Rocks, how sad a sight
Ye saw in the light of breaking day!
Dead faces looking up cold and white
From sand and sea-weed where they lay!
The mad old witch-wife wailed and wept,
And cursed the tide as it backward crept:
"Crawl back, crawl back, blue water-snake!
Leave your dead for the hearts that break!"
Solemn it was in that old day
In Hampton town and its log-built church,
Where side by side the coffins lay,
And the mourners stood in aisle and porch.
In the singing-seats young eyes were dim,
The voices faltered that raised the hymn,
And Father Dalton, grave and stern,
Sobbed through his prayer and wept in turn.
But his ancient colleague did not pray,
Because of his sin at fourscore years:
He stood apart, with the iron-gray
Of his strong brows knitted to hid his tears.
And a wretched woman, holding her breath
In the awful pretence of tin and death,
Cowered and shrank, while her neighbors thronged
To look on the dead her shame had wronged.
Apart with them, like them forbid,
Old Goody Cole looked drearily round,
As, two by two, with their facet hid,
The mourners walked to the burying-ground.
She let the staff from her clasped hands fall:
"Lord, forgive us! we're sinner all!"
And the voice of the old man answered her:
"Amen!" said Father Bachiler.
So, as I sat upon Appledore
In the calm of a closing summer day,
And the broken line of Hampton shore
In purple mist of cloudland lay,
The Rivermouth Rocks their story told;
And waves aglow with sunset gold,
Rising and breaking in steady chime,
Beat the rhythm and kept the time.
And the sunset paled, and warmed once more
With a softer, tenderer after-glow;
In the east was moon-rite, with boats off-shore,
And sails in the distance drifting slow.
The beacon glimmered from Portsmouth bar,
The White Isle kindled its great red star;
And life and death in my old-time lay
Mingled in peace like the night and day!
See Norfolk County Records, 1657; New England Historical and Genealogical Register, No. II p. 192. The moral lapse of the first minister of Hampton, at the age of fourscore, is referred to in the third number of the same periodical Goody Cole, the Hampton witch, was twice imprisoned for the alleged practice of her arts.-Atlantic Monthly for April.
PRESS ON
Press on! Press on! Ye sons of light!
Untiring in your holy fight,-
Still treading each temptation down,
And battling for a higher crown.
<c02>
The Liberator.
CASE OF A NON-RESISTANT CONSCRIPT.
QUINCY,(MASS.,)March,16,1864.
FRIEND GARRISON:
The subjoined letter, with the personal narrative of my experience as a Conscript in the hand, of the American Government, is sent to you with the request that it be published, if agreeable. The language of the officer, if simply the substance, without attempting to quote the precise words; although, in many instances, it is correct to the letter.
HEAD QRS 12TH MASS. INF'TRY,
Camp near Kelly's Ford, Dec. 14, 1863. 
To EDWIN M. STANTON, Sec. of War: I have the honor, in compliance with accompanying endorsements in communication relating to John Wesley Pratt, Co. D, 12th Mass. Inf'try, to report as follows:-
The day following, he positively refused to do any duty. I reported his case to my Brigade Commander, and he issued orders to punish him, and make him do his duty. He continued to refuse, and I caused him to be tied to a wagon near my Head Q'r's, telling him that when he consented to do his duty, I would release him; at the same time calling the attention of the Regimental Surgeon to the case, and requesting him to examine the man, and, if the punishment was too severe, or in any way endangering his health, I would release him.
At my request, he consented to do his duty in the Pioneer Corps, and was released. Soon alter, the Regiment moved; he abandoned his gun, equipments, and pioneer tools, and straggled. When he joined his Regiment, he was arrested, and placed under guard. I received a communication from said Pratt, which I forwarded through the regular military channels. Gen. Newton, Comm'd'g Corps, (First.) returned the communication with endorsements, with which I have complied.
The result of Pratt's behavior in the Regiment caused another man in the same company to refuse to do duty. Charges have been preferred against Pratt for uttering treasonable language among the men of his Company-such as, "The South ought to be let alone," or words to that effect. The statement, that he was tied up in the woods among mules is false; neither was he tied so that his feet barely touched the ground. He had the same shelter that the Government furnishes other conscripts.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, 
Your ob't servant,
BENJ. F. COOK,
Major Comm'd'g Reg't.
On the 17th of July, 1863, I was drafted in Taunton. A few days after, I was notified to appear at that place for examination. Arrived at Taunton, I was subjected to the usual examination in such cases, by Dr. Hubbard, the examining Surgeon, who made the following somewhat remarkable statement:-"Well, you don't look like a very well man; but the fact is,"(turning to his assistant,) "we must accept some of these men, or we shan't get any soldiers"; and he pronounced me "sound".
The Provost-Marshal allowed us then to return home, saying, "I won't be hard with any of you, but will allow you time to make up your minds what to do".
Paying no further attention to the matter, I received a letter from Capt. Hall, ordering me to "report immediately, as I had not been discharged from the draft"; which letter reached me about the first of October. I immediately addressed a letter to Capt. Hall, which was as follows:
QUINCY, Oct. 2, 1863.
To Capt. J. W. D. Hall, Provost Marshal 2d District, Taunton, Mass.:
SIR-Up to the breaking out of the present rebellion, I was earnestly for peace. The excitement consequent on the firing on Sumter carried me away in its almost irresistible might, until I found myself advocating the carrying on a war more cruel and relentless than any yet recorded in history. 
Two years have passed away, and no definite result has been reached, save one-the passage of a law which, in its cruel and despotic enactments, commends itself to the Autocrat of Russia and the Sultan of Turkey; unblushingly declaring, in the last half of the nineteenth century, and in the face of all the sublime doctrines of the age, (doctrines enunciated by Him who died on Calvary's cross.) that Peace and Christianity are ideal names. "o shame, where is thy blush? "I repudiate, I denounce such infidelity, such practical atheism. I will obey none of its requirements. In the midst of all this, I am for peace. I loathe, I detest war. I shall neither evade nor obstruct the Government, except in the performance of my duty to Humanity; but 1 cannot fight.
Yours, for Universal Peace,
J. WESLEY PRATT,
Conscript, 2d District. 
J. W. D. HALL, Provost Marshal.
On Friday, October 9th, I was waited on by two officers, White of Weymouth, and French of Quincy-White, as I have since learned, being armed with pistols and handcuff, prepared to take me, "dead or alive, to Taunton".
On learning their business, I asked for one day, in order to finish some work which was begun, but was told by White that he could not comply, as his business would not permit it; but he advised me to go to Taunton with him, and he had no doubt Hall would grant me a furlough for a few days.
Question by White-"What kind of a letter did you write to Hall?"
Answer-"I wrote, in substance, that 'war is opposed to the spirit of Christianity, and I will obey none of the requirements of the conscription act.'" 
White-"I thought you must have written some, thing very aggravating, by the tone of his letter to me".
Hereupon he took from his pocket the letter from Hall, and read-"You can ascertain from Wyman Abercrombie about this man Pratt. I conclude, by his letter to me, that he is either a fanatic, a fool, or a dangerous man."
Reply-"I expect to be called a 'fanatic;' I may be a 'fool;' but my friends and acquaintances can decide whether I am a 'dangerous man.'"
White-"Well, what do you intend to do?"
Reply-"I shall go to Taunton as a prisoner."
White-"Will yon meet me at the depot, in time for the cars?"
To which I answered "Yes"; and after supplying myself with a letter from Abercrombie, recommending me for a furlough, I did so, and went with White to Taunton; he deeming the further assistance of French unnecessary; especially with the implements of war and subjugation which he carried in his pocket.
On arriving in Taunton, I was taken at once to the office of the "Capt."-that worthy giving me a some what reserved greeting-and without any further words, handing my letter to him, to White, for his perusal and criticism. He pronounced it "a very strange letter;" which very sage conclusion was responded to by Hall as follows: "Now, Pratt, what induced you to write such a foolish letter? Explain yourself, sir."
Reply-"It was written from convictions of duty; duty to myself, to freedom, and to humanity."
Hall-"But you say you do not intend to 'evade or obstruct the Government.' Why, this Government, I calculate, is pretty strong: do yon expect you can 'evade or obstruct' it?"
Reply-"Every man's power to do either is just in proportion to his natural or acquired abilities; to that extent I can do so-no further."
Hall-"You say you will obey none of the requirements of the conscription act Why, then, are you here?"
Reply-"I mm here as a prisoner; and a prisoner not in consequence of violating 'law,' bat in obedience to a power which I cannot, if I would, resist."
Hall-"Do you intend to pay three hundred dollars?"
"No, sir."
"To procure a substitute?"
"No, sir."
"What then?"
"Does not my letter explain? 1 am conscientiously opposed to bearing arms; in other words, I am a Non-Resistant."
"Non Resistant? Nonsense!"
He (Hall) then west into the cause of the present strife; describing, in a graphic manner, bow, "for fifty year, it had been the determined purpose of the
<c03>
South to destroy the noblest government which the world ever saw; culminating in the attack on Fort Sumter, and the last act of almost unheard of barbarity, the awful butchery by the bushwackers under Quantrell."
Reply.-"Listen, for a moment, to the great Teacher-'All things whatsoever ye would that men should I do to you, do ye even so unto them. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God.'"
Hall-"Why, sir, Jesus Christ himself would have engaged in this war, had he been living. Besides. he teaches obedience. He says, 'Servants, obey your masters.'"
Reply-"Are you not mistaken? I supposed it to be St. Paul who uttered that."
Hall-"Well, it matters not, as Paul was a believer in Christ."
Reply-"Then we are to consider the language of a devout 'believer' to be as authoritative as that of Christ himself. Is that the point?"
Hall-"I wish you to understand that when you attack a law that 1 am sworn to execute, I shall enforce it if it is in my power; and I think it is. I was determined to make you obey one of 'the requirements of the law by coming here, even if you came in a coffin."
At this stage in our conversation, he was very much excited, pounding the desk with his fist, and raising his voice till it was hoarse with passion.
Reply-"But I should not have 'obeyed' the law if I had come in a coffin, should 1?"
At about this time he opened a drawer, and drew forth a pistol, a six-shooter, all loaded and capped, and said, "If a man comes into this office, and offers any insult or resistance to my authority, I shall not hesitate to use it; but I don't feel like using it on such a man as you."
Reply-"Now, Captain, you are not the Government. Your language and manner would seem to convey the impression to your hearers that you are, in fact, the Government itself; instead of a servant of the Government, charged with certain duties."
Hall-"YES! AND! I INTEND TO DO THEM." 
Beating the desk with his fist, he exclaimed, "Well, Pratt, to morrow you will have to put on a uniform; and, depend upon it, it will be put on if it takes six men to do it."
Reply-"Do not give yourself that trouble, sir; it will take only one man to do it."
I asked him for a furlough, and, after making some inquiry about my object in going home, he replied, "Yes, I will give you a furlough, but you must first take the oath."
Reply-"I shall take no oath, sir."
Hall-"Then you can affirm; it is all the same."
Reply-"I know it is; and for that reason, I shall do neither."
Hall-Now, Mr. Pratt, you will gain nothing by such a course; besides, your friends will think less of you than they would if you do your duty like a man."
Reply-"The warrior, as he rides rough-shod over human hearts, may gain the applause of the multitude. But who wins the approbation of his own soul? THE MAN WHO DARES TO DO RIGHT."
But enough: our conversation lasted two or three hours, and my time as well as memory fails to tell all that was said.'
The morrow came, and at about ten o'clock I was taken to the clothing-room, to be arrayed in the costume of our venerable "Uncle." The officer in charge (Peter Thayer) ordered me to put on the clothes; and on my refusal said, "l have no humbuggin' about this"- while his eyes denoted the fiery tempest within.
"Well, then, put them on yourself-I shall offer no resistance."
"Well, I have no scruples, if you have." He then proceeded to strip me, clothed me in "army blue," and put a knapsack on my back, and marched me back to the office, where I was ordered to sign a receipt for the clothing. Refusing to sign it, as I had had no clothing, I was threatened with severe consequences; and at last my hand was grasped by my "friend," Peter Thayer, in whose right hand was a pen, and he finally succeeded in tracing my name on the paper. I then said, "These gentlemen will bear witness that I signed nothing." Thayer exclaimed, triumphantly, "They will bear witness that I made you do it."
We then started for Long Island, Boston harbor. While in the cars, Mr. Thayer came to me, and said, "I wish to give you a word of advice." I was all attention.
Thayer-"If you attempt to carry out the Course that you have begun, you will be court martialed and shot."
Reply-"Well, let them shoot."
Thayer-"Have you taken the oath?"-"-I refused to do so.”
While on our way from Boston to Long Island, he came to me again, and said, "Do you intend to carry this out as you have begun?"
Reply-"I do, though the consequences be what you predict."
Thayer-"Now it seems to me that, as you are a man of considerable intelligence, the better course for you would be to do your duty manfully, and in a little time you might rise to a position of honor and trust, simply by your abilities; merit does not go unrewarded."
Smiling at the evident "drift" of ray "friend," I replied, "Did you ever know a man to rise to such positions in a calling which his soul abhorred? In deed, is it not impossible?"
Thayer-"There is, perhaps, some truth in that; but I am sorry for your family, as they will lose whatever bounty and State aid will be due them."
To which I made no reply, satisfied that my family would not suffer while the good God presided over the affairs of men as well as nations.
On arriving at the Island, I was taken to Head Q'rs, (Gen. Devens's) where my pockets were searched for pistols, or knives, or other deadly weapons, and I was ordered to divest myself of my vest, (it being a citizen's,) as I should not be allowed to wear it. I entered my protest, as I had been in the habit of wearing it, and I should be liable to take cold without it; but, finding it would be torn from my body if I refused, I gave it to Thayer, who promised to send it to my wife, with the rest of my clothing, from Taunton; which was faithfully done.
I then took up my quarters with 13th Detachment, Mass. Conscripts, on Saturday, October 10th; and, on Monday, 12th, I addressed a letter to Gen. Devens, explaining my position and purposes, and expressing a willingness to do hospital work; but received no reply, nor any intimation in regard to it.
In the forenoon, we were ordered on "drill," without muskets; which consisted merely of marching about the camp, and learning the facings. Thinking to get some reply from Devens, I consented to "drill" once, and once only.
In the afternoon came "drill" again; but refusing, [was arrested, and placed under a corporal and file of men, to be marched to the "Guard-House"; but before we arrived there, our steps were arrested by the countermanding of the order by Gen. Devens; and I was marched back to the tent, to remain "until further orders."
The next day I was taken to the edge of the high bank that bounds the Island, and a spade was given me, and I was ordered to dig a sink of the following dimensions: two feet wide, six feet long, and four feet deep. I vent cheerfully to work, and continued it for nearly the whole day; or until I was told by the corporal that I had done enough. It being very hard digging, after I got through the soil, I asked for a "pick"; but the Lieutenant told me that I was doing well enough without it"
The next day I finished it; the next, I was ordered to fill it up. What prevented them from keeping up the operation till this time has never yet been explained; but perhaps the Government can tell. I
<c04>
was placed on no further "duty" while I remained, on the Island, except some light "fatigue" work., such as sweeping the Company street, and picking up offal that always collects about camp.
On or about the 27th October, I went on board the steamer Forest City, bound for Alexandria; on our way to become a part of the 12th Massachusetts.
One fact, which I forgot to mention. While on the Island, I asked the Lieut.-Comm'd'g Detachment belonging to the 22d Mass, to use his influence to procure me a situation in the hospital as nurse. His reply was, "I cannot use my influence for any one in any such ease; as I am opposed to detailing men for special duty. I have seen the evil of it in the Regiment." What the evil was, he did not condescend to inform me. We had some conversation, but little of which I can now call to mind.
Lieut.-"Why, then, holding such views, do you vote?"
Reply-"I do not vote, sir."
Lieut.- "Ah! you are then a Garrisonian, No Government, no Church, no Bible, no Sabbath, no Christianity."
Reply-"You are mistaken, sir, in your estimate of Mr. Garrison."
Lieut.- "But he don't believe in the Bible."
Reply- "Do you, sir, believe in it as a work of plenary inspiration?"
Lieut.- "Certainly. I must believe in all, or reject the whole. Don't you believe in miracles?"
Reply-"I don't believe a miracle was ever performed."
Lieut.-"Oh, I can't talk with you"-and he turned and left me.
Nothing occurred, worth mentioning here, on our way to Alexandria, except that Sergt. Snow, of the 12th Mass., ordered me on guard one day, and no notice was taken of my refusal to go. We arrived in A. on the Sunday following the Tuesday on which we went on board, after touching at Fortress Monroe. Immediately on our arrival, a detachment of the 164th New York, an Irish Zouave Regiment, met us on the wharf, halted, and commenced loading their guns. Cui bono? We were all, then, a quiet, unarmed "mob," having made no hostile demonstrations. But perhaps they did not know that a member of the Society of Friends" was present. Having performed that extra-cautious feat, they ranged themselves on each side of us, and we were marched to the Soldiers' (un)Rest, where, guarded by Zoo-Zoos with loaded guns, and not allowed to go outside of the building without one or more attending us, we passed the night.
On Monday, Nov. 2d, we were taken to the Arsenal to get our guns; and the Lieut who was charged with the duty of distribution offered me one, which I refused to accept, saying, "I have conscientious scruples against bearing arms."
Lieut.-"Well, the Government does not allow us to exercise any discretion in the matter; so I shall have to strap it on your back."
Reply-" I expect you will do your duty."
Lengthening out the strap, he placed the gun on my back, that the strap came across my neck on the front, while the gun hung suspended at an angle of forty-five degrees. Ho then offered me a "round-about." On my refusing to take it, he merely remarked, "I think you are very foolish," and proceeded to strap it over the gun; and in that way I went back with the others to the Soldiers' Rest. We set our guns up in a pile, and a guard was placed over them till the next day, when we were ordered to put on our roundabouts, and "fall in." The last order I complied with, but I did not put on my roundabout. A Corporal was detailed (one of the guard) to distribute the guns; but I did not take one, and, of course, there was one left. The Captain (Brady) came in soon after, and seeing the gun, inquired who "owned" it. Nobody seeming to claim it, he tried to find the owner by looking up and down the line; but as I was in the rear rank, he did not see me until we commenced marching out of the hall. On seeing me, he exclaimed, "Here is the man that ain't got no gun. Here, take this gun!"
Reply-"I can't do it."
Brady-"What in h-l is the reason you can't take this gun?"
Reply-"Because I am conscientiously opposed to bearing arms."
Brady-"G-d d-n your conscientious scruples! What in h-1 do you suppose I care for your scruples? Here! take this gun!"
Reply-"I will not."
Hereupon he ordered a "halt," and then proceeded to strap it on my back; but the "roundabout" was left behind.
The 12th Mass, was then at Bristow Station, distant some thirty five miles from Alexandria over the Orange and Alexandria railroad. We arrived in the afternoon, and I was attached to Co. D, 12th Mass. Lieut. Bachelder commanding. After pitching my tent, I called on the Lieut, and explained my position; that I was "opposed to war as contrary to the spirit and teachings of Christ, and in violation of the best interests of mankind".
Lieut.-"Well, you had better do your duty; for you will only make trouble for yourself; will get in the guard-house, which is a dirty place, and you will be in the company of deserters; and if you do not change your mode of action, you will be court martialed and shot."
I replied, "Well, let them shoot."
Lieut.-"Oh, I can't argue with a man in such a contest as this, about the claims of Christianity."
The next morning, at 9 o'clock, I was waited on by the Sergeant of the company, and ordered to "turn out" for drill. I answered, "No, I cannot drill."
Sergt-"Why not?"
Reply-"I am conscientiously opposed to bearing arms."
Sergt.-"But you must go on drill, or go to the guard house."
Reply-"Then I shall go to the guard-house."
He reported me to Major Benjamin F. Cook, of Gloucester, Mass., commanding the regiment. I was ordered to appear forthwith at his headquarters.
Major-"Do you refuse to drill this morning?"
Reply-"I do."
Major-"What church do you belong to? and why do you refuse to drill?"
The first of these questions should be written last.
Reply-"Because my conscience will not permit it, and I belong to no church."
Major, to his orderly-"Take him out, and tie him up among the mules."
I was taken out, and tied with my hands behind me to a hind wheel of the regimental wagon, allowing about two feet play room; the Major himself performing the operation, saying, at the same time, "I'll see if you will refuse to do your duty." I remained in this position from 9 o'clock in the morning till 5 in the afternoon, without dinner. I was then released, because the teamster wanted to use the wagon. In regard to being actually "tied up among the mules," I will here state that the mules (four of them) were tied to the front of the wagon, while I was tied to the rear of the same.
While I was so tied, the Major came to see me, and said, "Well, Pratt, are you ready to do your duty now? "Not military duty, sir." "Well, what the d-1 are you here for?" "Because I could not avoid it, honorably." "Why didn't you pay three hundred dollars?" "One reason is, I hadn't it to pay." "Well I want you to understand that you have got to do military duty; I'll have you tried by court martial, or tied op here till you will!" "I would thank you to have me court martialed at once."
The next order was to go on dress parade at sunset. Refusing, no further notice was taken of me except at roll call, till the usual drill-time the next morning, when, refuting again to do "duty" in the matter of drill, I was again summoned before the Major:-
Major-"Do you still refuse to do your duty?"
Ans.-"I do."
Major-"Take him to his tent, and put a knapsack"
<c05>
on his back, and drill him in the facings," addressing a corporal who had previously been detailed for that purpose.
After performing that fest a few minutes, and being advised by the corporal to "submit to a. power that I could not resist," I said. "It is useless to attempt to dissuade me from my Purpose; for I have resolved to die rather than fight" The Major ordered me to take my gun, and drill in the manual of arms. Refusing, he said, "By Christ I'll fix you, so that you'll not refuse again to drill!"
I was. taken to the wagon again, and tied to the same wheel, with my hands behind me, and drawn up between my shoulders till I could bear the weight, of my body only on the fore Part of my feet, my heels not touching the ground; a position in which, first my fingers, and then my hands, and at last, in, about an hour, my arms, became perfectly numb; and the pain was. so great as to cause the sweat to start from every pore in my body.
In about a half hour from the time I was tied up, he (Cook) sent his orderly to inquire if I was ready to do my duty. I answered, "No, I am not." Soon after, the Major came out, and asked me if there was no kind of duty that I was ready to do. I replied that I had never refused to go into the hospital, but had offered to do so; that I had steadily refused to bear arms from the first, on principle; that, refusing to put on the clothes, I was stripped, and the clothes were put on me-refusing to take a gun, it was strapped on my back; that there were several similar cases. awaiting the decision of the War Department, and the number would increase if the drafting continued; all which was news to him, as he said he did not know there was another case of the kind in the country. He then offered to place me on the pioneer corps for the time being, and to use his influence to get me a situation in the hospital, if I would do my duty, He said that the pioneers had no drilling or fighting to do; that there was an order requiring them to carry a gun, bat it was not always enforced. I told him I could not carry a gun, but would try a pioneer's work awhile. On those condition. I was then released, after three hours; the Major coming again, in the meantime, in company with a Colonel of one of the Pennsylvania Regiments, and Lieut. Col. Allen, of the 12th Massachusetts, belonging in South Abington. I had expressed a desire to talk with the Major, he asked me what I had to say.
Reply-"My religion is the religion of Christ.
Allen-"Poh! Jesus Christ is played out.
Penn. Col.-"He (Christ) has got no friends in the army of the Potomac."
I was silent. Indeed, of what avail are words at such a moment? The Surgeon not only did not make an examination of me, but, so far as my best recollection goes, did not visit me at all. Soon after I was released, orders came to pack up, and march. Feeling quite unwell, and unable to carry any load in consequence of a severe attack of lumbago, I went to the Surgeon, and asked him to get my things carried. He replied, "I should be happy to if I could, but do not know as I can. I will see. "Soon after, I went to him again, and he said, "I will see you on the road; I cannot carry your things." Weak and in pain as I was, I sat down on the ground, and waited in hopes that some friendly wagon would assist me; but they left the camp one by one till I was alone; and then, taking up my knapsack, haversack and canteen, (I had no "pioneer tools,") but leaving the gun on the ground, (the accourtrements were left in Alexandria,) I dragged myself along in the direction of the train, stopping to rest at short intervals. I arrived in camp at Catlett's Station at about 11 o'clock in the night, and lay down perfectly exhausted on the wet ground till daylight. I was not arrested for straggling at this time, nor at any subsequent time. Know ye, Major Cook, that you did not do your "duty," inasmuch as it is an offence punishable by court martial to "straggle."
The next day, I addressed a letter to Gen. Baxter, Brigade Commander, of the same general import as my former ones, but received no response. On the following day, as we were about starting again, I went to the Surgeon to get some relief from the incessant pain from which I was suffering, and also to have my load carried. He gave me some medicine, but refused to have my knapsack carried. I started with the company, (the Pioneers,) but soon fell out, and pursued my way as well as I was able in my feeble condition. During this march, occupying three days and two nights to me,-although the regiment arrived at Brandy Station one day in advance of me,-I slept in the open air, with the blue sky above me, and the damp, cold earth beneath me, protected only by a blanket and a piece of tent. I joined the command at Brandy Station, feeling more dead than alive; and as they were about starting again, I applied to the Surgeon to assist me by carrying my things; but he referred the matter to Cook, saying, "I will assist you if the Major says so." I appealed: to the Major, who said, "I told you I would try to get you a place in the hospital, if you would do your duty; and is this doing it? Where is your gun?"
Ans.-"I left it on the ground at Bristow Station.
Cook-"Is this the way you do your duty?"
Ans.-"Did I not tell you that I could not carry a gun? Besides, my health will not admit of it."
Cook-"Well, you must try to get along as fast as you can. I don't mean to show many favors to a man that shirks his duty as you have done."
Ans.-"I have shirked nothing, sir, nor do I mean to."
Finding I could get no assistance, I was finally obliged to attempt to march with the rest. Our course was back again, across the Rappahannock, as far as Bealton, where we arrived the next day; stopping, however, late at night, to camp, after placing the Rappahannock between us and the rebels.
I placed myself under the Surgeon's care at Bealton, expecting to find relief from my sufferings, and after several days' rest, began to feel better. With returning health came a review of myself in the past, and my position at present, and I formed my resolution for the future.
One incident in passing. On the morning after our arrival at Bealton, I called on Lieut. Bachelder, commanding the company, and asked him for a copy of the revised Army Regulations. He said he had none, but asked me what I wished to know, as he could give me any information necessary. I told him I wished to know if officers had a legal right to punish a private severely, by torture, without a trial. "Yes," he replied, "to any extent that is necessary to enforce obedience." "Then military law does not allow a man a trial, except at the option of his. commanding officer? Is that it?" "Yes, God d-n it, we have got something else to do besides court martialing men," he answered.
Reply-"I thought there was at least a show of justice in the army; but if your interpretation is correct, then I am mistaken."
Lieut.-"Who in h-II is it that is defending your wife from rebel invasion, if it is not this same army? We are acting purely on the defensive. It is a case of life and death. What would you do if a madman should come into your house, and attempt to murder your family? Would you not fight? We came here to defend Washington. The rebels would have burnt it long ago, had it not been for this army. G-d d-n it, what kind of government would you have, if you had your way?"
Reply-"In the extreme case that you mention, I know not what I should do; none of us can tell until we are placed in those circumstances. Defending Washington are you? Desolating the whole of Eastern Virginia, turning its fruitful fields into barren wastes, far beyond the line of defence, is like two neighbors, owning farms adjoining, and getting into a contest about the boundary line. They meet on the line, and resolve to submit the matter to a personal conflict; one proving stronger the other causes him (the weaker) to run to the shelter of his castle, his home, his all; but not content with this, the stronger burns. his house, his barn, his fences, and threatens him with the if he does
<c06>
not submit to his demands. I would have a government where all foreign, all intestine differences are settled by arbitration."
My answers caused strongly dissenting replies from several members of the company gathered around us, the Lieutenant saying. "Well, "when you find such a Government as that, the millenium will not be far off. I believe I understand the position of the Government-that it is battling against a horde of despicable though powerful traitors, who are seeking to rend asunder the fairest and institutions the world ever saw; that we are not t family of States, and, therefore, ours is an internecine war, and that it must assert and maintain the majesty of law, or to 'night and silence sink for evermore,"
O, man! hast thou not learned yet that the truth can never die? Crushed it may be; buried beneath the dust and rubbish of ignorance, superstition, bigotry and pride; but from the ashes of past folly and present blindness and infatuation, it will yet rise, <illegible> like, in renewed strength and beauty, to bless and save thy race from misery and crime!
I saw that, by consenting to do "duty," I was assisting directly in the war by taking the place of another; and this, after weighing the matter thoroughly, prompted a letter to Cook, which time and space will not permit me to publish at this time. But now appears the animus Of Cook in his treatment.
After writing the letter, I was thrown into the guard-house, and it was referred to Gen. Newton, who returned it with the following order:
"Ordered, That the private Pratt be remanded again to duty; if he refuses, to be sent to corps Head-quarters in irons."
I refused, and was ironed; but instead of being sent to Corps Headquarters, as was ordered, I was sent to Division Headquarters, by means of which I was kept in the guard-house some six weeks longer; whereas, if the order had been carried out, I should have been sent on to Washington at once, as no prisoners are kept at Gen. Newton's Headquarters, is being commander of the first corps.
Charges were preferred against me for "uttering treasonable language." First, "mutiny and disobedience of orders." But probably finding that could not be proved against me, it was so changed as to make it necessary to lay the matter before the Government, and await the slow process of its complicated machinery. Asking for a speedy trial, I received only evasive answers.
My treatment in the guard-house was the same that is meted out to the worst offenders; handcuffed at night and on the march; going twenty fours and sometimes forty-eight hours without food, except what I was so fortunate as to pick up, which I often did, covered with mud as it often was.
On the 26th of November last, the army moved beyond yond the Rapidan. On starting, I had not even a crumb of bread or a morsel of meat in my haversack; and that was the condition of most of the prisoners, except those who had money to buy before we started; and the sum total of what we got from Government during the next eight days consisted of five crackers, and about two pounds of fresh meat. I picked here and there an acorn, that the squirrels had not seen; I gathered the kernels of corn that the horses had left before us; I picked up bones all covered with dirt, and gnawed them, until weak from hunger and exhaustion, and sick from exposure, I reached Kelly's Ford back again on the Rappahannock. And yet we are told by Cook that he (Pratt) received the same shelter and rations that Government furnished the other conscripts!
At this place (Kelly's Ford) I applied for a trial-once to Cook, and once to the Judge Advocate, (Lieut. Meade)-but got only evasive answers from one, and downright incivility from the other. On the 11th of January, I had orders to "pack up," and report to the Provost Marshal, (Lieut. Mason, 12th Mass. Infantry,) who read to me an order from Secretary Stanton, requiring him to release J. Wesley Pratt, "a member of the Society of Friends," from military duty, on giving my parole of honor to return when called for. I said, there is a mistake there; I am not a member of the Friends' Society, and never pretended to be. Still, waiting that matter, after my explanation, I gave my parole of honor, and came on to Washington; and as I had received no pay, having refused to do so, a friend, Robert Josselyn, of W., very kindly loaned me the necessary sum, for which he has my heartfelt thanks
Allow me to improve the present opportunity to thank those kind friends who assisted my family <illegible> during my absence. To Mr. Draper, of Hopedale, especially, for his timely gift-Alfred H. Love, of Philadelphia-Charles Perry, of Westerly, R. I.-J. P. Blanchard, of Boston-Ezra H. Heywood, of Princeton, the gifted champion of the rights of man, who was indefatigable in his efforts-and last, though not least, Samuel E. Sewall, of Boston, and Gov. Andrew, the peerless chief magistrate of the old Bay State-am I deeply indebted for their influence in procuring my release.
J. WESLEY PRATT.
JAMES REDPATH, Boston, has now ready:
I. THE MORALS OF EPICTETUS. A Poetical Translation. By Ellis Walker. M.A. 25c.
II.SPIRITUAL TORRENTS. By Madame Guyon. 50c; cloth, 75c.
III. ROSE FAMILY: a FAIRY TALE By. L M. Alcott. Illustrated. 25c.
IV. BIOGRAPHY AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE TOUSSAINT LOUVERTURE-"The Negro Napoleans, "The greatest military genius whom the New World has produced up to the present time," "a man whose <w> was more marvelous than any romance." With portrait, autograph and map. $1.25.
V. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By Wendell Phillips. $1.
VI. CROQUET. By Capt. Mayne Reid. 50c.
VII. BOOKS FOR THE CAMP FIRES. No. 1. Picket Duty and Other Tales. By L. M. Alcott. No. Clotelle: a Tale of the South. By a Travels. Voyage to Lillipet. (illustrated.) No. 5. Victor Hugo's Battle of Waterloo. No. Hospital Sketches. By L. M. Alcott. Each of these books contains at least 96 pages, well printed and neatly bound; each is complete in itself, and Price, Ten cents each! They are the cheapest books of value published. "Just the books to read to the soldiers." "Equally adapted to home fires."
Mailed on receipt of price by JAMES REDPATH, Publisher, Boston.
Terms to the Trade, News Dealers and Peddlers.-For the books, $6.50 for 100; per 1000; for the others, one-fourth discount from retail price for one dozen copies; one-third for 25 copies; 40 per cent discount for 100copies, nett, cash with order.
March 25.
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No.1, <illegible> cents; Nos. 1 and 2, twelve cents. No.2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles o the Art. Address
ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
Dec. 1. ly
GAS FISTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situations at Messrs. H. B.<illegible> & co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now proposed to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES.
In the most careful manner. New fixtures furnished had been put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks <illegible>, Gas fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for the <illegible>
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be just as Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s provision store, 132 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & co.
Oct. 30-ly
