THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT—
221 WASHIGNTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMEND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 18. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1734.
Refuge of Oppression
<c01>
MR. GEORGE THOMPSON IN 1834.
From the National Intelligencer
We are requested publish, in explanation of a resolution which to appeared in the proceedings of the House of Representatives on Monday last, the following extracts from a speech of the Hon. Sherrard Clemens, of Virginia, in the House of Representatives of the United States January 22, 1861, at which time the House had under consideration the report of the Select Committee of thirty-three.
EXTRACT FROM THE SPEECH OF MR. CLEMENS.
Mr. Speaker, there is a chapter in the part which our retiring confederates may do well to remember. In 1834, an English Abolitionist, by the name of George Thompson, was sent from Exeter Hall, in England, to enlighten the dead consciences of the American people. About that period, John A. Murrill, of Madison County, Tennessee, had, by means of a secret band, bound with signs and oaths, arranged for a general uprising of the negroes on the 25th of December, 1835. Among other papers found was the following epistle of love from the English emissary, dated March 18, 1834. It was addressed to Murrill:
“DEAR SIR: Your favor of the 4th has come to hand, and its contents have been carefully observed. I think you can count upon the aid you demand with tolerable certainly by the time you name. I approve of your arrangements, and can perceive abundant justification of your views. could the blacks effect a general concert of action, and let loose the arm of destruction upon their masters and their property, so that the judgment of God might be visibly seen and felt, it would reach the flinty heart. We must reach the tyrant in another way. We can prepare the feelings of most of the Northern and Eastern people by lecturing. The dissolution of the Union is the object to be kept steadily in view. War will result, and sacking and pillage and insurrection will follow. Their cities, with all the merchandise, may be destroyed, their banks plundered of specie, their paper discredited, so that thousands of Eastern capitalists would suffer great loss, and would henceforth consider a slave country an unsafe place to make investments."
[We need say to the readers of the Liberator, that this pretended letter from Mr. Thompson to the land-pirate Murrill was a base forgery, made for a hellish purpose by a minion of slavery. Mr. T. did not come to this country till the fall of 1834.]

THE THOMPSON OVATION.
From the Philadelphia Age, March 7.
If proofs were needed of the completeness of the infatuation of the times—of what we may call the earnestness of the delusion—we have it in the conjunction, night before last, at the Academy of Music, of George Thompson, radical, free—thinking, Abolition lecturer, and Mr. Horace Binney, the younger, of whom, in all kindness and personal respect, we say that we should have been less surprised if he had danced a hornpipe. One of the papers announces the attendance of Bishop Potter. We do not know if this be so, or not. We hope it is not; but since the clergy have taken to patriotic ground and lofty tumbling, this would less surprise us than unlooked for freaks on the part of the decorous laity. Mr. Binney, however, was there, introduced the orator, and publishes in the Press a carefully revised copy of his opening speech, Of which, it is no disparagement to say, it is redolent of that solemn, argumentative, paradoxical odor—that setting down, dogmatic style—which Mr. Binney takes by descent.
Never, in his wildest dream, did Mr. George Thompson imagine such an honor as to be taken up, and dangled in the venerable lap of Philadelphia conservatism. When in America before, he consorted stealthily with a small knot of secret fanatics, who took tea together in, secret, and no more dreamed of tasting social aristocracy than he did of seeing the millennium. But to come to Philadelphia, and passing contemptuously or carelessly by such old fashioned friends as Samuel Jt May or Miller McKim, to be carried aloft in the blaze of the Academy of Music, by Mr. Horace Binney, Junior, is really more than his human nature can stand. Especially does Mr. Binney’s patronage impress him. “Let me, "says the grateful orator, “award to the honored Chairman my thanks for his presence here to-night, and let me tell him that neither his name nor that of his honored parent is unknown to me, nor is the name of any of the noble sons of Pennsylvania, who have shed lustre upon her escutcheon. It is satisfactory to see so worthy a son of so noble a sire presiding over that meeting which offers to me so warm a welcome."
We have not the least doubt of it. If Mr. George Thompson, the very insignificant radical orator, can now send home the news that the eminent professional fame, which is conceded to belong to Mr. Binney’s patronymic, has been interleaved with his laurels; if the high Church conservative men in Great Britain can be brought down to the humiliating reality that George Thompson has been made the pet of those whom they have known as the incarnation of all that is orthodox, and conservative, and intellectual in America, what a triumph for Mr. George Thompson! This he has earned. In the concentrated flame of anti-slavery loyalty, the orthodoxy of Mr. Binney and the infidelity of Mr. Thompson have been fused, and the result is a conglomerate, which we hardly know how to describe. Both speeches _the Binney introduction and the Thompson compliment—have reference to but one topic-the Pennsylvania Abolition act of 1780, and on this string they thumb all manner of variations, taking especial care to pass by in silence that this statute was an act of gentle, gradual emancipation, and embodied a recognition of the rights of sojourners to retain their property in slaves, and a positive fugitive slave provision. All this the Binney-Thompson orators ignored. It is no part of the destructive theory to remember such things.
What can be more sad more intensely humiliating, than that a foreign adventurer like this Mr. Thompson, with no social position in his own home, with no right to meddle with our concerns or to lecture our shortcomings—to whose praise or censure we ought to be alike proudly indifferent-should be welcomed and honored here in Philadelphia, and encouraged to come, in our hour of agony, and actually to rejoice in the ruin, and desolation, and misery which, but for him and those like him, never would have occurred? The answer to this question is, we ought to say, an easy one. There is something more sad, more mortifying, something that ought to wound more poignantly the pride of what Mr. Binney, in imitation of others, calls “dear Pennsylvania” in this, that, with this English itinerant, was, by his own consent, yoked, behind the footlights of a theatre, a Christian, a scholar and an American gentleman such as we recognize Mr. Binney to be.
<co2>
Selections
BAD BLOOD.
The generous and even enthusiastic welcome extended to George Thompson, by the eminent men of the country, many of whom have differed with him, produces the exhibition of a vast amount of “bad blood” in the office of the Springfield Republican. The editor of that journal apparently cannot understand that arrogant slave-drivers of the South no longer rule the nation, and he never loses an opportunity to misrepresent the gentleman whose character is a model of virtue and high-mindedness. In an article in Saturday’s Republican, Mr. Thompson is styled a “British Beggar,” as though poverty, especially the poverty of an Englishman, was a crime that knows no parallel in this country. Here is what it’ says:
“George Thompson, the English reformer, makes his present visit to America under heavy ‘bonds to keep the peace’ indeed—the bonds of poverty, openly seeking relief at our hands. His lectures in different cities not having paid him great sums, Gov. Andrew and a few other gentleman in Boston have issued a private circular, begging direct subscriptions to a fund in his behalf. The alleged claim for this is Mr. Thompson’s general philanthropy, and his especial efforts in behalf of the Union cause in England. Mr. Thompson’s necessities must indeed be great, if he will consent to occupy so humiliating a position towards the American people as this. And if memory is not at fault, the papers now begging for contributions for him used to hold it as a damnable disgrace to Mr. Webster that he accepted private contributions from the hands of his friends and countrymen, in order to enable him to continue in the public service."
We were not aware that Mr. Thompson came to this country on an alms-asking mission, nor do we see any reason why he should be so accused because his personal friends considered it eminently fit that they should express their approbation of his life-long services by making him a present of money. There is no parallel between the cause of Mr. Webster’s and Mr. Thompson’s pecuniary condition. Mr. Webster applied himself to law, and his legal reputation secured to him a very large income, sufficient to support any one but a profligate in affluence; and it was the debauchery that Mr. Webster indulged in, that brought him to poverty, and not his public labors. On the other hand, Mr. Thompson has led a temperate and frugal life, devoting nearly his whole time to the abolition of slavery in the British colonies and in the United States, and the amelioration of the condition of the poor working classes of England. To put it in its true light, while at the same time we have great respect for Mr. Webster’s talents, one was a debauchee, and the other a philanthropist. The parties and papers who regarded it a “damnable act” to continue alms-giving to Mr. Webster, are, no doubt, of the same class, if not the same ones, that now favor giving pecuniary aid to Mr. Thompson; but they made no objection to public subscription for Mr. Webster until he became too corrupt (selling himself to the slave-power) to represent Massachusetts in the United States Senate. We presume that Gov. Andrew and others, who recognize a fitness in rewarding disinterested philanthropy, will continue to bestow tokens of their good will upon whom they choose, without asking consent of the Springfield Republican, especially so long as they suppose themselves capable of managing their own affairs.—Northampton Free Press.

RADICALISM
It is amusing to read the doleful diatribes daily inflicted upon the public ear concerning Radicalism. Our able cotemporaries, the St. Louis Republican and the St. Louis Union, deal largely in this lugubrious; business. A contributor to one of the aforesaid journals took us back, the other day, to the earlier ages of this mundane sphere, and solemnly informed us that Cain was a Radical! Coming down the stream of time, we believe he made out that almost all the naughty men who have ever lived have been radicals. Of course, in common with all these radical-phobists, the horrors of the French Revolution were plaintively dwelt upon. This is classic ground with them; and we see that our little country papers, of the Copperhead type, have taken up the doleful strain, so that we can hardly open a rural exchange without finding a solemn leader upon this universal theme. 
Radicalism has completely elbowed Abolitionism off of the track, in the dialect of these fellows. It used to be so that, when they wanted to say the worst thing possible of a man, they called him an Abolitionist. But that is played out; and now the great crime—the universal curse—the everlasting scape-goat is Radicalism. 
Let us ventilate this nonsense a little. To say that a man is a radical man, is to say nothing at all concerning his character, any more than to say that be is an energetic man. Radical is a descriptive term, referring to a man’s mode of thought and action. To denounce Radicalism, as something right or wrong in itself, is as foolish as it would be to denounce perseverance or energy, or any other similar trait of character. Radical means pertaining to the root—going to the foundation—it implies thoroughness, completeness, opposition to half-heartedness. It may apply to a good man or a bad man—to a good object or a bad object. A man may be a radical saint, or a radical villain—a radical anti-slavery man, or a radical pro-slavery man—a radical royalist, or a radical Republican. To say that a man is radical is to say nothing, until you say in what respect he is radical. He may be radically right, or radically wrong.
We go a step further. Every man ought to be right, and radically right. If not, be is liable to be a half-hearted, hesitating, time-serving, hypocritical, trimmer. Every man ought to be honest—and radically so. The man who is not radically honest is but a cheat in disguise. Every man ought to be radically truthful; if not so, he is a mere deceiver. All virtue is radical; for it must go to the root, to the very springs of character, or it is not virtue. The very essence of moral worthiness consists in its radicalism. He who serves God or his fellow-men with half a heart, fails of perfect obedience to the divine command.
So, too, in regard to a man’s political convictions, they ought to be radical ones. If not, he is ready to change with every shift of the popular gale. The man who is not radically loyal, needs only changed circumstances to make him positively disloyal. We have too many men who are loyal, not from a deep, radical conviction of their very souls, but from motives of fear and self-interest.
The appeal to history against radicalism, even in its restricted, political sense, is an unfortunate one. The established institutions and governments of the past have been almost wholly in the interest of despotism. The friends of freedom and progress have been forced to be radical, if they would accomplish anything against the leagued oppressions which have ruled the nations with a rod of iron. Who are the
<c03>
friends of our people to-day in Europe, but the radicals? Garibaldi in Italy, John Bright in England, the radical leaders in France and Germany—all these are our friends. The conservatives of the Old World are all against us. And not only are they against us, but they are against freedom and progress at home. The liberal party of Europe is the radical party. The radicals of England, Bright and Cobden and Thompson and their co-laborers, are made the subjects of the same gentle anathemas there, which are rained upon radicals here. There is the same pointing to the French revolution, the same holy horror of Jacobins, the same indiscriminate denunciation of radicalism in general. 
Let no true friend of freedom be startled by all this outcry of a false conservatism—a conservatism which would preserve nothing but the inalienable rights of traitors and despots against radicals. Our revolutionary ancestors were radicals when they sought to overthrow British despotism. Jefferson and his compeers were radicals, and drew up the most radical political document in the world, in the shape of the immortal Declaration of Independence; and if we regard the great principles of that Declaration as true, and as indeed the only sound basis of Republican liberty, we cannot be too radical in their defence. The truth wants no half-hearted followers, no time-serving disciples—Western Journal of Commerce.

GREELEY VS. LINCOLN.
Horace Greeley (says the Kansas Tribune) is one of the most eccentric men of the age. By no means wanting in practical wisdom and far-reaching discrimination, still be seems to possess a streak of oddity that any one contemplating his peculiar character will feel that the Great Architect never made but one man just like Horace. Greeley. No newspaper journalist in the nineteenth century, perhaps, has exerted a wider and more powerful political influence upon the people of this country than has the editor of the New York Tribune. It will be remembered that Greeley, in the convention that nominated Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency, turned the influence of the convention against Mr. Seward, and in favor of Mr. Lincoln. Now, when the question is being agitated as to Mr. Lincoln’s re-nomination, we find Mr. Greeley opposing this nomination. He finds no fault with the man or the manner of discharging his duties, but alleges that it would be unusual, according to late usage, to return Mr. Lincoln for another term. This is certainly, to say the least, a very flimsy objection. If Mr. Lincoln is the best man for the position, for the next four years, let him be returned by all means. One of our exchanges, commenting upon Mr. Greeley’s position, says:—
“Horace Greeley opposes Mr. Lincoln’s re-election. He admits that Mr. Lincoln has well discharged the responsibilities of his station. He says ‘he has been patriotic, honest and faithful,’ and has ‘done his utmost to serve his country.’ He says the verdict of history in his case will be, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant.’ He admits too that Mr. Lincoln unquestionably is the first choice of a large majority of the loyal men of the nation. And yet he opposes his re-nomination. And why? The professed reason is that custom for the last thirty years does not warrant it! Because the people did not re-elect Van Buren, Polk, Pierce and Buchanan, and Harrison and Taylor were not re-elected because not alive at the end of the first term, Horace Greeley thinks that, therefore, Mr. Lincoln should not be re-elected! It is the weakest plea a ‘philosopher’ was ever known to put forth. Greeley ought to be ashamed of it, and he would be if he were not blinded by an ambition to be to some administration what he cannot be to Mr. Lincoln’s—’the power behind the throne.' That’s what’s the matter."

TWO SCHOOLS OF LINCOLN MEN.
Our Kansas politicians at the present time, as far as the Union Republican party is concerned, may be properly divided into two classes. First, those who are ardent friends of the present Administration. They approve of Mr. Lincoln’s policy as a whole, and honestly believe few men, placed in the trying position in which the President has been placed during the last four years, would have done better for the country than Abraham Lincoln has done. They have faith in the policy adopted, and ardently desire a continuance of that policy until, as they firmly believe, our afflicted country will once more be restored to peace and prosperity. Believing thus, this class of citizens at heart arc not anxious or willing that any experiment be ventured upon, by a change of the Administration. Although it may be conceded a change might be made for the better, so, too, a change, if made, may be for the worse; and under the existing critical condition of our national affairs, the latter change referred to would be endangering our best interests as a free people. With these honest sentiments and convictions, we believe the great majority of the voters of Kansas are decidedly in favor of continuing the present Administration another four years. Is not this the fact as to the majority of the good citizens of our State?
There is, however, a class of our fellow-citizens not in perfect harmony of feeling with the out-and-out Lincoln men we have mentioned. 
From certain considerations best known to themselves, they very much prefer some other man to Mr. Lincoln, as a candidate for the next Presidency. We will not prejudge the honesty of their motives. We have no intention whatever of reproaching any one for not giving ardent support to Mr. Lincoln, as a candidate for the next Presidency. Every citizen of this State, let him be ever so humble, has a right to prefer one candidate above another, and to select his own favorite, and adhere to his chosen candidate. So far from an attempt to cast odium on such a citizen, let him be in ever so small a minority, we would frown upon such an attempt, let it come from what source it may. 
What we do find fault with is, there is now in Kansas a kind of political Jesuitism, which appears outwardly in favor of Mr. Lincoln, by professedly Lincoln men, while these very men are at heart opposed to his re-nomination. Not having the moral courage to come out boldly in favor of the candidate of their choice, and oppose openly and like men the present incumbent, we find these men professing Lincoln, while they are whispering Fremont, Chase, or some other man. They will tell the public the President has their confidence and support, still it may be the convention at Baltimore will nominate some other man than Mr. Lincoln. “True," say they, “the great expression of the people is overwhelming in favor of Mr. Lincoln’s nomination, but the convention to meet in June may not think so. There are other good men.” We denounce such a course as deceptive and wrong. Let us have plain, outspoken, honest and earnest dealing in this Presidential canvass. In the election of delegates to the convention, let us know where the delegate stands. If he has arrived at the age of discretion, and has not made up his mind to vote for delegates firmly pledged to some man named, don’t send him to Topeka to the convention. Let us have a vote in this Representative District by the people, for a man in favor of some particular nominee with backbone and honesty
<c04>
enough to vote for just the men our citizens would vote for were the majority, in propria persona, in that convention. In this way, and in this way alone, will our Representative District have a voice in the convention worth a wish or a thought from independent men. If the majority of our citizens are in favor of John C. Fremont delegates to the National Convention, send an outspoken Fremont delegate to Topeka. If the majority of this District are in favor of Lincoln delegates, let us send a delegate who will vote for Lincoln delegates, although all the powers of darkness attempt to beguile him from so doing. 
Whenever you see a man who supports Abraham Lincoln with ifs and buts, he is an opponent in disguise. That class of men are continually at work to foil the true friends of our worthy President by false issues; in one place, they think he goes too slow—in another, they don’t like his retaining McClellan—in others, they use McClellan’s removal and the Emancipation proclamation. Without courage or honesty to oppose his war measures, they continually find fault. Look at their papers, and they denounce his appointments, and yet frequently use the appointees to defeat his nomination. Wherever it will suit to urge Chase, or Fremont, or Grant, or McClellan, they use their names. All over this State a secret organization is being effected, and against true Lincoln men these everlasting fault-finders are getting up candidates. Their Representatives in the Baltimore Convention are arranged—their state is made up, and it does not contain the name of a Radical Emancipationist or true-hearted Lincoln man. Such men need watching. Let good men be selected—men known for their devotion to Anti-Slavery principles. Kansas is true to the President. Her People believe that the man who has prosecuted this war thus far with a heart devoted to Freedom, should be allowed to close it up; and that rebels should be made to yield lo his rule, until every State stands loyal to the flag of Freedom, and the shackles are stricken from every slave—Kansas Tribune.

AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION.
Extract from an earnest and eloquent speech delivered in the U. S. Senate, March 31, by Hon. DANIEL CLARK., of New Hampshire, on the proposed amendment of the Constitution, forever prohibiting slavery in the United States, and all places under their jurisdiction:—
I propose to show that the great evils of slavery as it now exists in these United States have arisen from this very Constitution. Yes, sir, slavery in the United States owes its giant growth to the Constitution; not that it was created by it. for it existed before, but that it was planted in it, fenced round and protected by it, so that no national power could weed it out short of an amendment, to the Constitution. Sir, this fearful destruction of life, this devastation of homes, this marching and struggling of slaughtering armies, these graves by Manassas and Malvern Hill, by the Rappahannock and Rapidan, by the Chickahominy and Chickamauga, by Cedar and Lookout and South Mountains, at Shiloh and Murfreesboro’, at Vicksburg and Port Hudson, at Wagner and James Island, at Antietam and Gettysburg; these hospitals with their rows of sickened and maimed inmates; these dead-houses, out of which is carted the dead soldier, often unattended, to rest in the soil he gave his life to defend; these " widows' weeds," these “orphans’ tears,” are but the terrible harvest from the immunities, the protection and the culture secured by the Constitution to the accursed institution. And there is another harvest, too, where by the shores, and in the bays, the rivers, and the roadsteads, in the caverns of the “deep blue sea,” lies many a sailor boy cut down by this terrible reaper. 
Mr. President, certain things in the material world cannot exist together in the same place and at the same time. Fire cannot dwell with water. Thrown together, they hiss and sputter until one is extinguished or the other evaporates in steam. So of acids and alkaline salts. They foam and effervesce until one is destroyed or both are neutralized. In the moral and political world there is the same law of antagonisms: vice repels virtue, and virtue abhors vice; innocence precludes guilt, and guilt shuts out the very idea of innocence; government represses anarchy, and anarchy overthrows government; tyranny destroys liberty, while liberty prostrates tyranny; freedom strikes at slavery, and slavery seizes her chains and endeavors to bind them upon freedom. Neither will nor can rest in the presence of the other. Both will struggle, for the mastery until one or the other must succumb; and in the contest they are “like the troubled sea, whose waters cast up mire and dirt."
The framers of the Constitution forgot, or overlooked, or disregarded this law in human affairs. They attempted to form a more perfect Union, and yet in that very bond of Union, they admitted antagonistic forces which have well nigh rent that Union asunder. They established justice upon a foundation apparently stable, but with a material in it so unfitted for the structure, that it has well nigh toppled the whole to destruction. They thought to insure domestic tranquillity by planting together seeds of discord, which have ripened to an awful harvest of civil war and blood. Seeking liberty to themselves and their posterity, but denying it to an inferior and subject race, they have nearly lost it to both.
“Can a man take fire into his bosom, and not be burned?” No more can man admit the idea of human bondage into the charter of a free Government, and not find it in the end a blackened scroll, crumbling to ashes in his grasp.
Sir, Mr. Madison, with scrupulous care, excluded the word “slave” from the Constitution, but by a fatal mistake allowed the thing itself to remain. He chased away the shadow but left the substance, with the same fatuity that would induce a parent to call an asp or a scorpion a pretty bird, and leave it to sting his offspring to death. True it may be and is, that he and his compeers thought, slavery would gradually die out; but they little knew the terrific vitality of the fiend which should so grow and strengthen, that in seventy-five short years of the nation’s life, it should wind itself in and about it with the grasp of an anaconda, and with impious breath claim it as of divine sanction and origin.
Here is the issue clearly made up and up and plainly stated. Slavery says, “I am of God, and eternal and absolute Right.” Liberty cries, “You are of your father the devil, and his works ye do.” Now, can these two warring forces exist together? And did not the framers of the Constitution, when they admitted into the charter of free government the idea of human bondage, put into it an element of unrest, strife, and death? 
Let as consider. Slavery procures its recognition and admission in to the Constitution. It has achieved a great and almost fatal work. It has nestled in the very bosom of the nation’s life. It has secured the nation’s protection. It has allied with its defence the nation’s arm. It has an anchorage from which no political gales can drive it; a fortress where no hostile arm can assault it, and whence it can go forth
<c05>
to secure new triumphs as the nation advances in territorial power. True, her name is not in the Constitution; but; alas! she is there—there in vigor and strength—and in the very first article of that instrument, she provides for her representation in Congress, where her voice and her votes have been of signal potency. She gained at a bound the legislative Hall, and ever since has sat and hissed and writhed about the nation’s limbs. 
True, again, her name was not in the instrument: but her power was there. For years before she had freighted ships from Africa to these shores, laden with human beings, to endure the tortures of the “middle passage,” and if they escaped those to be forever bondmen and bondwomen. She said these men “have no rights which the white man is bound to respect;” and she demanded in that instrument that this inhuman traffic should not be prohibited to her for twenty years and more, and that she might have time, and leisure, and opportunity to fill the land with slaves before any prohibition beyond a nominal tax could be laid upon the trade. Was slavery to die out?? So said, and so I think believed the. fathers; but why, then, this provision for an unlimited supply of victims for twenty years, upon which she could feed and fatten and increase? True, again, her name was not in the instrument. But see, slaves will run away. Man, black or white, does not love bondage; God has made him free, and if chains are put upon him, upon opportunity given he will slip them off and escape. Who shall return him? Shall he be free?  “In nowise,” says the Constitution;  “he shall not thereby ”—that is, by running away to another State—“be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.".” Delivered up? By whom? By the United States, said those who interpreted the law. And thus by this Constitution slavery assumed monstrous functions and powers. She could sit by the seaside, and, reaching her hundred arms across the Atlantic, sweep the wretched coasts of Africa, and draw to herself the miserable beings whom she could seize and fetter. She could then turn inland, and if any of her panting, sweating, bleeding victims escaped from her house of bondage, she could demand the aid of the Government with all its power to return the fugitive to her clutch; and then she could ascend into the halls of legislation to demand new guarantees and to lash with her “scorpion’s tail” all who questioned her right, or spoke of her with other than the most obsequious respect.
Such was slavery in and by the Constitution. Such are now its provisions in regard to her, save that the time for her to carry on her cruel foreign slave trade has expired.
Shall she keep her position?? Or shall she be cast out as a demon, and forever prevented from again entering the halls of justice, the Houses of Congress, or the national domain?
Mr. President, I would amend the Constitution, and banish slavery from the United States, because she has spread herself since the formation of the Constitution over millions of square miles, and among millions of people. She has excluded from that territory free schools and those institutions of learning which are accessible to the poor, and thus kept the people in comparative ignorance. She has degraded labor, and increased poverty and vice. She has reared an aristocracy and trampled down the masses. She has denied oftentimes in those States to citizens of other States, their rights under the Constitution. She has shut up to them the liberty of speech and the press. She has insulted them, imprisoned them, lynched them, expatriated them, murdered them, for no crime but because they testified against her. She has debarred from that territory most of the improvements which mark a free people. She has perverted knowledge. She has opened in parts of it the foreign slave trade, and obstructed the punishment of the kidnapper and the pirate. In other parts, she has degraded the people to the infamous business of raising negroes for sale, and living upon their increase. She has practised concubinage, destroyed the sanctity of marriage, and sundered and broken the domestic ties. She has bound men, women, and children, robbed them, beat them, bruised and mangled them, burned and otherwise murdered them. To their cries she has turned a deaf ear, to their complaints shut the courts, and taken from them the power to testify against their oppressors. She has compelled them to Submit in silence and labor in tears. She has forbidden their instruction, and mocked them with the pretence that she was Christianizing them through suffering. 
She has devised and set up the doctrine of State rights, denying that her people owe allegiance to the national Government, thus weakening their attachment to it and sapping its foundations. 
She has claimed to nullify the acts of Congress, and to yield obedience to those only which she chose to obey. 
She agreed to a division of the national domain by the line of 36 deg. 30 min., abided by it till she had appropriated the part assigned to her, then abrogated it, and filled Kansas with fraud, violence, and blood to secure the residue. 
She stole into Texas, caused it to rebel against Mexico, and then erected it into a slave State in the Union, and made the nation pay the debts of the adventure. 
She made war again on Mexico for more territory; and when California, a part of the territory obtained by the war, asked to be admitted as a free State, she refused her assent until appeased by new compromises. 
She went into the court, and,
“Squat like a toad,"
she whispered into the ear of the Chief Magistrate, that the negro had no ”rights which the white man was bound to respect.” She caused the court to deny him the rights of a citizen, and, breaking down the old land-marks, drive him from the justice-ball a castaway without aid and without hope. Failing to elect a President agreeable to herself, she prepared to revolt. She sent assassins to murder the Chief Magistrate elect on his way to the capital. She emptied the Treasury; she sent away the Army and the Navy; she transferred arms from the North to the Southern arsenals, and stole them when they reached there; she beleaguered and assaulted and captured the fortifications of the United States; she threatened the capital; she burned the bridges to obstruct the arrival of succor; she shot down Union soldiers in the streets of Baltimore; she has set armies in  the field, and she now seeks the nation’s life and the destruction of the Government. To this end she, has waged this war of rebellion three long years, and will continue to wage it until subdued by superior force and arms. 
Mr. President, this rebellion is slavery in arms; and slavery is the ward if not the child of the Constitution. Right well has the guardian discharged the trust. But the creature thus protected and warmed into life has stolen to the bosom of its protector, and aimed its dagger at the life of the Government. Sir, it is time this disastrous relation should cease. Let the letters of guardianship be revoked. Reviewing this history the recounting
<c06>
this catalogue of crimes, let Senators, Mr. President, tell me if slavery should longer be tolerated in our Government. Should it not cease to exist? Should not the Constitution be amended so as to entirely forbid and prohibit it? Nay, sir, can any one for a moment suppose the wise framers of the Constitution would not have provided some means for its extinction, could they have anticipated the hideous proportions it would assume, or the atrocities it would commit, and the destruction it would threaten?
But, sir, I am told that this is not the time for such an amendment of the Constitution. Pray when, sir, will it come? Will it be when the President has issued more and more calls for two or three hundred thousand more men of the country’s bravest and best? Will it be when more fathers and husbands and sons have fallen, and their graves are thicker by the banks of the rivers and streamlets and hill sides? Will it be when there are more scenes like this I hold in my hand—an artist’s picture, a photograph of an actuality—of a quiet spot by the side of a river, with the moon shining upon the water, and a lonely sentinel keeping guard, and here in the open space the head-boards marking the burial-places of many a soldier boy, and an open grave to receive another inmate, and underneath the words, “All quiet on the Potomac”? (Exhibiting a photograph to the Senate.) Will it be when such scenes of quiet are more numerous, not only along the Potomac but by the Rapidan, the Chickahominy, the Stone, the Tennessee, the Cumberland, the Big Black, and the Red? Sir, now, in my judgment, is the time, and the fitting time. Never until now could this amendment have been carried, and now I hope and believe it can.
Slavery’s strongest and safest guarantees were in the Constitution, and its supporters were mad when they cast away and threw off those guarantees. Remaining in the Union, no one would probably have moved for an amendment of the Constitution. Loyal to the Government, hostile armies would not have set free their slaves, nor laws now necessary and expedient have authorized their employment against their masters in arms. 
But now, sir, every free State will gladly, it is hoped and believed, vote for the proposed amendment. Most would rejoice to do it; while numbers of the slave States, aghast at the miseries of secession and the horrors of this cruel civil war, recognizing slavery as the cause of all this disturbance and all these woes, would be among the foremost to sweep it forever away. 
Now, sir, is the time to do it. And not only is now the time, but the necessity and the duty of doing it are upon us. We can have no permanent peace nor restored Union until it is done.
There are those who cry, “The Union as it was and the Constitution as it is!” But I am free and bold to confess that I am for a Union without slavery, and an amended Constitution making it forever impossible. This revolt was to preserve slavery, and we shall fail of our whole duty if we do not remove the inciting cause. To restore this Union with slavery in it, when we have subdued the rebel armies, would be again to build your house on its smoking ruins, when you had not put out the fire which burned it down. 
If the dire calamities now befalling us be the “retributions of Providence upon a stupendous crime,” what mad folly to hug that crime, and seek to avoid its future punishment!  “Let my people go.” But Pharaoh would not let them go; and then came sufferings, and plagues, and the smiting of the first-born. Oh! how many of our first-born have been smitten and. fallen!! Let us be wise, and heed the teaching. There is a Providence in the great events now transpiring. The people see the hand. It points the way. They are filled with hope and faith. They follow the pillar and the cloud, and will struggle and endure. 
I know, Mr. President, that the suppression of the rebellion will necessarily wound and maim slavery. I know that every victory over the rebels is a victory also over the cause of the rebellion, and I know, too, that the arming of the slaves will make the future enslaving of these men and their kindred well nigh impossible; but slavery will still exist, not in much vigor or strength, but in the root and principle. This amendment will dig out the root, and repudiate the principle. 
Mr. President, in a quiet church-yard, near his home, is the grave of a soldier who returned to die. At the head of his grave is a marble slab, and on it these few but expressive words:  “Mustered out.” Let both Houses of Congress, by a two-thirds vote, recommend this amendment abolishing slavery, and let three-fourths of the States, burying slavery by their ratification, come and write its epitaph on the Constitution,
“MUSTERED OUT.”
The soldier was “Mustered out,” we trust, to enlist again in the shining cohorts in advance of earth’s extreme picket line; but let this be “Mustered out” to go, like Judas, to its own place.

SLAVERY MUST PERISH
Extract from a speech delivered in the U. S. Senate, March 28, by Hon. HENRY WILSON, of Massachusetts, in support of the proposition to amend the Constitution so as forever to prohibit slavery in the republic:—
Slavery, Mr. President, should not only be doomed to an ignominious death, to perish utterly from the face of the country, for the treasonable crime of levying war upon the Government, but the safety if not the existence of the nation demands its extermination. The experience of nearly three years of civil war has demonstrated to the full comprehension of every loyal and intelligent man in America, that slavery is the motive-power, the heart and soul and brain of the rebellion. Slavery fills the hearts of the southern people with its sweltered venom, with its dark and malignant hatred of the free States, and with its bitter scorn and contempt for the toiling masses, for the policy that cares for their rights and interests, and for the institutions that improve and elevate them. Slavery instinctively feels that the achieved institutions of twenty million free people, their free speech, free presses, their political, moral, and religious convictions, their permanent interests, all forbid that its policy should continue to control the national Government. Slavery realizes, too, that every enduring element of the Constitution, every permanent principle of national policy and interest, is and must continue to be hostile to the ascendency of its principles and its policy. Slavery, hating, scorning, despising the toiling millions of the Republic, conscious that it cannot longer retain the permanant control of the national Government, consolidates the public opinion of the South against the people and Government, and fires Southern ambition and interest with the idea of a splendid slaveholding empire, sitting on the shores of the Mexican Gulf, and extending its imperial sway over Cuba, Mexico, and Central America. 
Sir, slavery not only fires the Southern heart, brain and soul, and nerves the Southern arm in
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, but the Commander of the Army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile, or foreign that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, in every way in which it can be interfered with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, Congress has power to carry on the war, and must carry it on, according to the laws of war; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and martial power takes the place of them. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
council-hall and on the battle-field with its malignant hate and bitter scorn of Yankee laborers and Yankee institutions, its lofty contempt for the principles and policy of freedom, its haughty defiance of the authority of the national Government, and its gorgeous visions of the future power of the Southern Confederacy, commending the commerce of the world by its tropical productions and its million slaves, but it uses the bones and sinews of more than three millions of the bondmen of rebel masters in support of the rebellion. These slaves of rebel masters sow and reap, plant and gather the harvests that support rebel masters and feed rebel armies. By their ceaseless, unpaid toil, these millions of bondmen enable their traitorous masters and the poor white men of the rebel States to leave their fields and shops, and rush to the battle-field to shed the blood of our loyal countrymen, of our neighbors and friends and brothers and sons. These bondmen throw up fortifications, dig trenches and rifle-pits, make roads and bridges, fell forests and build barracks, drive teams, and relieve in many ways the toil of rebel soldiers, thus making more efficient the rebel armies. It is as clear as the track of the sun across the heavens that these slaves of rebel masters are as efficient instruments for the overthrow of the Republic, and the establishment of the rebel empire, as are rebel soldiers in camp or battle-field. The spade and the hoe of the slaves of rebels support the rifle and bayonet of rebel soldiers. Slavery is not only the motive power, the heart and soul of the rebellion, but it is the arm also. Therefore the preservation of the life of the country, and the lives of our brave soldiers battling for national existence, as well as the just punishment of conspiracy and treason, demands that the loyal men of the Republic shall swear by Him who liveth evermore that slavery in America shall die.
Not only the punishment of its appalling crimes, not only the lives of our countrymen and the preservation of the life of the nation, demand the utter extermination of slavery, but the future repose of the country also demands it. Slavery has poisoned the very fountains of existence in the South; it has entered into the blood and bone and marrow and soul of our Southern countrymen. It has filled their bosoms with bitter, fierce, unreasoning hate toward their countrymen of the North, and the institutions, the Government, and the flag of their country. So long as slavery shall live, it will infuse its deadly poison into the Southern brain, heart and soul. Then let slavery die a felon’s death, and sink into a traitor’s grave, amid the curses of a loyal nation. Then, when slavery shall sleep the sleep that knows no waking, in the grave of dishonor and infamy, reason will assume its mild sway again over our now maddened, poisoned, and intoxicated countrymen of the South. Take the maddening cup from the trembling hand of the drunkard, who, in his wild delirium, hates the mother that bore him, the wife of his? bosom, and the children of his love, and that drunkard will be a man again, and love, cherish and protect the mother, wife, and children he smote down in his madness. Smite down slavery, strike the fetters from the limbs of its hapless victims, and slave masters will become loyal again, ready to pour out their blood for the country they now hate, and the country they now assail. They will recur to the recollections of the early days of the Republic with gratitude and patriotic pride; they will look forward with undoubting confidence in the future of their country. Their hearts will again throb with kindly regard for their countrymen of the North, and they will hail once more the beneficent institutions of a united country, The old flag, under which the men of the North and of the South fought and bled, side by side, on land and wave, will again gleam with brighter lustre and more radiant beauty.
Sir, would we, then, punish the foul conspirator, the lawless traitor, the giant criminal that organized this conspiracy, inaugurated this civil war, and murdered our sons; would we preserve our country one and indivisible; would we secure for our countrymen. our institutions, our country, and our Government future repose and affection, let us crush out and utterly exterminate slavery in America. Surely the needs of the country, the pressing exigencies of passing events, teach this as our first and highest duty. Surely the far-seeing intelligence of loyal patriotism is rising to the full comprehension of this duty to an endangered country, to present and future ages. Surely the Congress of the United States and the Chief Magistrate of the Republic should come to the realization of this transcendent duty.
But, sir, the crowning act in this series of acts for the restriction and extinction of slavery in America is this proposed amendment to the Constitution, prohibiting the existence of slavery forevermore in the Republic of the United States. If this amendment shall be incorporated by the will of the nation into the Constitution of the United States, it will obliterate the last lingering vestiges of the slave system; its chattelizing, degrading, and bloody codes; its dark, malignant, barbarizing spirit; all it was and is, everything connected with it or pertaining to if. From the face of the nation it has scarred with moral desolation, from the bosom of the country it has reddened with the blood and strewn with the graves of patriotism. The incorporation of this amendment into the organic law of the discarded slave system, and the returning of the despotism of the slave-master’ domination.
Then, sir, when this amendment to the Constitution shall be consummated, the shackles will fall from the limbs of the harmless bondmen, and the lash drop from the weary hand of the taskmaster. Then the sharp cry of the agonizing hearts of severed families will cease to vex the weary ear of the nation, and to pierce the ear of Him whose judgments are now avenging the wrongs of centuries. Then the slave mart, pen, and auction-block, with their clanking fetters for human limbs, will disappear from the land they have brutalized, and the school-house will raise to enlighten the darkened intellect of a race imbruted by long years of enforced ignorance. Then the sacred rights of human nature, the hallowed family relations of husband and wife, parent and child, will be protected by the guardian spirit of that law which makes sacred alike the proud homes and lowly cabins of freedom. Then the scarred earth, blighted by the sweat and tears of bondage, will bloom again under the quickening culture of rewarded toil. Then the wronged victim of the slave system, the poor white man, the sand-hiller, the clayeater of the wasted fields of Carolina, impoverished, debased, dishonored by the system that makes toil a badge of disgrace, and the instruction of the brain and soul of man a crime, will lift his abashed forehead to the skies, and begin to run the race of improvement, progress and elevation. Then the nation, “regenerated and disenthralled by the genius of universal emancipation,” will run the career of development, power and glory, quickened, animated and guided by the spirit of the Christian democracy that “ pulls not the highest down, but lifts the lowest up.”
Our country is now floating on the stormy waves of civil war. Darkness lowers and tempests threaten. The waves are rising and foaming and breaking around us and over us with ingulfing fury. But amid the thick gloom, the star of duty casts its clear radiance over the dark and troubled waters, making luminous our pathway. Our duty is as plain to the clear vision of intelligent patriotism as though it were written in letters of light on the bending arches of the skies. That duty is, with every conception of the brain, every throb of the heart, every aspiration of the soul, by thought, by word and by deed to feel, to think, to speak, to act so as to obliterate the last vestiges of slavery in America, subjugate rebel slavemasters to the authority of the nation, hold up the weary arm of our struggling Government, crowd with heroic manhood the ranks of our armies that are bearing the destinies of the country on the points of their glittering bayonets, and thus forever blasts the last hope of the rebel chiefs. Then the waning star of the rebellion will go down in eternal night, and the star of peace ascend the heavens, casting its mild radiance over fields now darkened by the storms of this fratricidal war. Then, when “the war drums throb no longer and the battle-flags are furled,” our absent sons, with the laurels of victory on their brows, will come back to gladden our households, and fill the vacant chairs around our hearthstones. Then the stars of united America, now obscured, will reappear, radiant with splendor on the forehead of the skies, to illumine the pathway and gladden the heart of struggling humanity.
We very much regret that we cannot find room for the whole of this admirable speech, but the pressure of important and interesting matter upon our columns is overwhelming.
<c02>
NO MORE SLAVE-HUNTING.
In the U. S. Senate on the 7th ultimo, Mr. Sumner submitted an elaborate report from the Select Committee on Slavery and the treatment of Freedmen, to whom were referred sundry petitions asking for the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850; and, also, asking for the repeal of all acts for the rendition of fugitive slaves. In its spirit and purpose, and the general treatment of the subject, it is worthy of the highest commendation. We regard that portion of it, however, which attempts to prove that Article IV. Section 2 does not and was not intended to apply to fugitive slaves as fallacious, and contradicted by the uniform action of the nation in regard to it from the adoption of the Constitution to the present hour. It can do nothing towards effecting the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law to attempt, by any interpretation however ingenious, to turn back the current of history and of popular feeling for seventy years. The “covenant with death” was made, and the “agreement with hell” ratified; and therefore our present terrible visitation a. s a nation.
The following extract from Mr. Sumner's Report is touchingly expressed:—

THE FUGITIVE SLAVE ACT.
And, first, as to its consequences. In the history of the African race these can never be forgotten.; Since the first authorization of the slave trade, nothing so terrible had fallen upon this unhappy people, whether we contemplate its cruelty to individuals or the wide-spread proscription which it launched against all who were "guilty of a skin not colored as our own.”
It is sad to know of suffering anywhere, even by a single lowly person. But our feelings are enhanced when individual sorrows are multiplied, and the blow descends upon a whole race. History, too, takes up the grief. The Jews expelled from Spain by merciless decrees; the Huguenots driven from France by the revocation of the edict of Nantes; our own Puritan fathers compelled to exile for religious freedom; all these receive a gushing sympathy, and we detest the tyrants. These were persecutions for religion in days of religious bigotry and darkness. But an American Congress, in this age of Christian light, not in the fanaticism of Slavery, did an act which can find companionship only with these enormities of the past. The fugitive slave act carried distress and terror to every person of African blood in the free States. All were fluttered, as the arbitrary edict commenced its swoop over the land. The very rumor that a slave-hunter was in town so shook the nerves of a sensitive freeman, on whom was the ban of color, that he died. To large numbers this act was a decree of instantaneous expulsion from the Republic, under the penalties of Slavery to them and their heirs forever. Stung with despair, as many as 6,000 Christian men and women, meritorious persons—a larger band than that of the escaping Puritans—precipitately fled from homes which they had established, opportunities of useful ness which they had found, and the regard of fellow-citizens, until at last, in an unwelcome northern climate, beneath the British flag, with glad voices of freedom on their lips, though with the yearnings of exile in their hearts, they were happy in swelling the chant, “God save the Queen.”
But such an injustice cannot be restrained in its influence. Wherever it shows itself, it is an extension of Slavery, with all the wrong, violence, and brutality which are the natural outgrowth of Slavery. The free States became little better than a huge outlying plantation, quivering under the lash of the overseer; or, rather, they were, a diversified hunting ground for the flying bondman, resounding always with the "halloo" of the huntsman. There seemed to be no rest. The chase was hardly finished at Boston before it broke out at Philadelphia. Syracuse, or Buffalo, and then again raged furiously over the prairies of the west. Not a case occurred which did not shock the conscience of the country, and sting it with anger. The records of the time attest the accuracy of this statement. Perhaps there is no instance in history where human passion showed itself in grander forms of expression, or where eloquence lent all her gifts more completely to the demands of liberty, than the speech of an eminent character now dead and buried in a foreign land, denouncing the capture of Thomas Simms, at Boston, and invoking the judgment of God and man upon the agents in this wickedness. The great effort cannot be forgotten in the history of humanity. But every case pleaded with an eloquence of its own, until, at last, one of those tragedies occurred which darken the heavens, and cry out with a voice that will be heard. It was the voice of a mother standing over her murdered child. Margaret Garner had escaped from Slavery with three children, but she was overtaken at Cincinnati. Unwilling to see her offspring returned to the shambles of the south, this unhappy person, described in the testimony as “ a womanly, amiable, affectionate mother," determined to save them in the only way within her power. With a butcher knife, coolly and deliberately, she took the life of one of the children, described as “almost white, and a little girl of rare beauty," and attempted, without success, 'to take the life of the other two. To the preacher who interrogated her, she exclaimed:” The child was my own, given me of God to do the best a mother could in its behalf. I have done the best I could; I would have done more and better for the rest; I knew it was better for them to go home to God than back to slavery." But she was restrained in her purpose. The fugitive slave act triumphed; and after the determination of sundry questions of jurisdiction, this devoted historic mother, with the two children that remained to her, and the dead body of the little one just emancipated, was escorted by a national guard of armed men to the doom of Slavery. But her case did not end with this revolting sacrifice. So long as the human heart is moved by human suffering, the story of this mother will be read with alternate anger and grief, while it is studied as a perpetual witness to the slaveholding tyranny which then ruled the Republic with execrable exactions, destined at last to break out in war, as the sacrifice of Virginia by her father is a perpetual witness to the decemviral tyranny which ruled Rome.
But liberty is always priceless. There are other instances less known, in which kindred wrong has been done. Every case was a tragedy—under the forms of law. Worse than poisoned bowl or dagger was the certificate of a commissioner—who was allowed, without interruption, to continue his dreadful trade. Even since the rebellion for Slavery has been raging in blood, the pretension of returning slaves to their masters has not been abandoned. The piety of Abraham, who offered up Isaac as a sacrifice to Jehovah, has been imitated, and the country has continued to offer up its fugitive slaves as a sacrifice to Slavery. It is reported, on good authority, that among the slaves thus offered up was one who, by his communications to the government, had been the means of saving upwards of one hundred thousand dollars. And here in Washington, since the beneficent act of emancipation, even in sight of the flag floating from the national Capitol, the fugitive slave act has been made a scourge and a terror to innocent men and women.
If all these pains and sorrows had redounded in any respect to the honor of the country, or had contributed in any respect to the strength of the Union, then we might confess, perhaps, that something at least had been gained. But, alas! there has been nothing but unmixed evil. The country has suffered in its good name, while foreign nations have pointed with scorn to a republic which could sanction such indecencies. Not a case occurred which was not greedily chronicled in Europe, and circulated there by the enemies of liberal institutions. Even since the rebellion began, in the name of Slavery, the existence of this odious enactment unrepealed on our statute-book has been quoted abroad to show that the supporters of the Union are as little deserving of sympathy as the rebel slavemongers. But from the enforcement of this enactment the Union has suffered; for not a slave was thrust back into bondage without weakening those patriotic sympathies, north and south, which are its best support. The natural irritation of the north as it beheld all the safeguards of freedom overthrown, and Slavery triumphant in its very streets, was encountered by a savage exultation in the south, which seemed to dance about its victims. Each instance was the occasion of new exasperations on both sides, which were skillfully employed by wicked conspirators ”to fire the southern heart.”
The Report concludes in the following words:-"Unhappily, the statute must always remain in the pages of our history. But every day of delay in its repeal is hurtful to the national cause, and to the national name. Would you put down the rebellion? Would you uphold the constitution from outrage! Would you extinguish slavery? Above all would you follow the Constitution and establish justice? Then repeal this statute at once.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1864.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The General Agent of the Liberator would very kindly and respectfully remind delinquent subscribers, that its terms, as printed in every number, stipulate “payment in advance”;-that a lapse of six months, or even three months, is not an observance of these terms; and that when a whole year has expired, and another quarter been added thereto, without payment, it is obvious that very great indulgence to delinquents has been allowed, and that they will show themselves to be utterly unreasonable if they take any offence, or make any complaint, at the immediate discontinuance of their papers. This, therefore, is to apprise all such as are owing from January 1, 1863, to the present time, that unless their bills are paid by the 1st of May ensuing, (this will be giving them a credit of sixteen months.) their names will be stricken from our subscription list. And yet that list is too small not to render it quite necessary that it should be much increased, rather than curtailed of a single subscriber. The Liberator has derived no benefit whatever from the wonderful change which it (among other instrumentalities) has wrought in public sentiment, adverse to slavery; and with the constantly increasing expenses of publication, we shall deeply regret to be compelled to cut off any one who is now receiving it.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent. 
Boston, April 6, 1864.

THIRTY-FIRST ANNIVERSARY
OF THE 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERYSLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirty-First Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Rev. Dr. Cheever's.) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 10th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
The Society will hold another public meeting on WEDNESDAY evening, May 11th, in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half-past 7o’clock. The names of the speakers will be announced hereafter.
The business meetings of the Society will be held in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, on Tuesday evening, at half-past 7, and on Wednesday forenoon, at 10, A. M.
Cheering as it is to know that the Government stands irrevocably pledged to the liberation of more than three-fourths of the slave population of the United States, by the Proclamation of Emancipation of January 1, 1863—that the remaining portion of the slave system in the Border States is rapidly dissolving by the enlistment and consequent freedom of such slaves within their limits as are capable of bearing arms in the service of the country, and by a growing conviction that it is useless to attempt any longer to resist the mighty tide of Anti-slavery sentiment which is hourly deepening and widening in every especially in the aforesaid States—and that the experiment of emancipation, under the war power, and at every possible disadvantage in the midst of an unparalleled national convulsion, is thus far eminently successful—there still remains much to be done by the Abolitionists, in the way of labor and testimony, to secure full and complete justice for the colored race, both at the hands of the Government and with reference to the reconstruction of society on the basis of political equality in the rebellious States. Let the approaching anniversary, therefore, be well attended by the tried men and women whose purpose it still is to continue the great moral struggle until before the Constitution and the laws all are made free, and complexional distinctions are unknown.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries. 
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

SUBSCRIPTION TESTIMONIAL TO GEOEGE THOMPSON.
It will be seen by the following Circular, signed by the Governor of the State, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and other eminent citizens, that it is proposed to raise a Subscription Testimonial, to be presented to GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., in grateful recognition of the eminent service he has rendered the whole country, since the rebellion broke out, by his indefatigable efforts in England to defeat the plots of rebel sympathizers and emissaries, and preserve amicable relations between the two countries. The proposition is highly creditable to all parties; and if carried out, as it should be, and we trust will be, on a handsome and generous scale, it will prove of international interest and value—increasing the number of our trans-Atlantic friends, and cheering them by a substantial proof of the liberty-loving purpose of those who are upholding the Government and its flag.
It is not intended to appropriate the money that may be raised to the buying of a service of plate, or anything of the kind; but it is to be invested in the best possible manner for the benefit of Mr. Thompson in his advancing years, and of his family, by the responsible Trustees whose names are given—(than whom three better men cannot be found in the Commonwealth)— and who will be happy to receive whatever donations, from the smallest to the largest sums, (the more that participate, the better,) those who approve the object may feel disposed to give.
[CIRCULAR.]
At a period when the North seemed to have bu few friends in England,—when the efforts of secessionists and those in their interest threatened to disturb the peace of the two countries, GEORGE THOMPSON devoted himself to the noble work of dispelling the delusion caused by misrepresentation and falsehood, and of convincing the liberal and the laboring classes of Europe that our cause is identified with their own.
He travelled through England, addressing large and respectable audiences, placing facts before the people, and explaining the real nature of the issue between the North and the South.
Without fee or reward he has labored to prevent misunderstanding between the nations, and has thus contributed to preserve the peace of the world.
It has been said of him that “he never turned his back on a good cause, or put his hand to a bad one.”
As a recognition of these valuable services, it is proposed that a fund be raised and placed in the hands of John M. Forbes, Samuel E. Sewall, and John H. Stephenson, as Trustees, to be by them appropriated, at their discretion, for a testimonial worthy the man and the cause.
Subscriptions for the above object may be sent to JOHN M. FORBES, 36 City Exchange; SAMUEL E. SEW ALL, 46 Washington Street; or JOHN H. STEPHENSON, 12 Arch Street
JOHN A. ANDREW, F. W. BIRD,
OEL HAYDEN, WILLIAM B. ROGERS,
J. E. FIELD, GEORGE S. HALE,
ALEX. U. BULLOCK. S. G. WARD,
ERASTUS HOPKINS.
Boston, Feb. 26, 1864,
If any loyal man needs a fresh inducement to respond to this appeal, in the most liberal manner, he will find it in the dastardly article from the Springfield Republican, “headed "A BRITISH BEGGAR AMONG US," upon which the Northampton Free Press comments in a spirited manner. The insinuation of the Republican, that this testimonial is of Mr. Thompson's seeking, is not only utterly base as toward that noble friend of our country, but it is a flagrant insult to GOV. Andrew and every other signer of that most honorable proposition. This is a fresh outbreak of that old pro-slavery malignity which marked the course of the Republican during Mr. Thompson's former visits to this country, and which he so thoroughly exposed in his lecture at Springfield a few weeks since. Such persistent personal spite is unworthy of any one claiming to be a decent and respectable man.
<c04>
LETTER TO GOV. ANDREW.
His Excellency Gov. ANDREW kindly sends us the following gratifying letter from Manchester, England, for publication in the Liberator.
41 JOHN DALTON ST., MANCHESTER, March 31st, 1864.
To his Excellency Governor ANDREW, Massachusetts:
DEAR AND HONORED SIR—I have the pleasure and honor of enclosing a copy of a Resolution unanimously and most cordially adopted at a meeting of citizens of Manchester, held in Union Chambers, Dickenson St., on the 27th inst., on which occasion, in pursuance of a public announcement, I read the noble and eloquent speeches delivered at the GEORGE THOMPSON RECEPTION MEETING in the Music Hall, Boston, on the 23d ult.
In the performance of this pleasing duty, yon will perhaps hardly permit me to say that the generous and beautiful sentiments so eloquently uttered by yourself and the other distinguished American patriots at the Reception Meeting were listened to with the utmost attention and delight by all who were present at the meeting in Union Chambers.
It may now be truly said, that Boston has atoned for her persecution of the prophets of Freedom in 1834; and that Massachusetts has purged from her historic record the dark stains of a pro-slavery dispensation.
Our friend GEORGE THOMPSON, personally and as a brave and worthy representative of the best feelings of the English nation towards your great people, well deserves the honorable and magnanimous reception accorded him by the "Old Bay State." His name and fame will ever live enshrined in the hearts of millions who love freedom, and long for the elevation of the down-trodden and oppressed of all nations. It was mainly, as testified the other day by Mr. BRIGHT, by the ardent, eloquent, courageous, persevering and irresistible advocacy of GEORGE THOMPSON among the people of this country, that that great act of justice, mercy and magnanimity of the British nation was accomplished, by which 800,000 negro chattels, in our West India Colonies, were manumitted; and by a moral, legal, bloodless, social revolution were lifted into the rights and immunities of recognized manhood, freedom and citizenship.
It was Mr. Thompson's tireless energy, his sublime self-devotion, his invincible arguments, his commanding oratory, his soul-subduing eloquence, that did more than any other man, or perhaps than all others, to inform and inspire, to organize and concentrate that great public sentiment in favor of Total and Immediate Emancipation, that not only made emancipation possible, but that rendered it impossible for the Parliament or Government any longer to refuse the great boon of liberty to our oppressed and degraded fellow-subjects, who were groaning under the slave-driver's whip.
I will not intrude further upon your Excellency's precious time, except to say, in conclusion, that there are millions of my countrymen who feel as I do towards your brave, patriotic and generous people; and we pray night and day, in faith and hope, that you will not only restore your glorious Union, but that you will "rebuild the Temple of Liberty on foundations as ever’ lasting as the law God fitted to withstand the shocks and the decays of time.”
Quoting your own beautiful words at the Music Hall meeting referred to-" We hail the coming day when England and America, America and England,—both in peace,—vieing with each other in offices of mutual good will, shall pursue in concord their grand careers of beneficence and glory, their peoples both happy, prosperous, free, and honored of all nations.”
With profound regard and enduring esteem, in the blessed cause of universal freedom, peace and good will, I have the honor to remain,
Your humble and obedient servant,
(Signed)
THOMAS H. BARKER.
Copy of Resolve adopted by a meeting held in Union Chambers, Dickenson Street, Manchester, (old England,) March 27, 1864:—
Moved by Mr. Thos. H. Barker—seconded by Mr. W. Goodwin:
That this meeting has been greatly delighted by the report of the handsome, generous and magnanimous Reception accorded to GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., by the people of Massachusetts, and begs to tender to His Excellency, Governor ANDREW, and through him to the citizens of the "Old Bay State," a most cordial expression of esteem, good will and brotherhood, feeling assured that the great cause of Human Freedom is safe in the hands of a people so intelligent, liberty-loving and patriotic; and praying that their great nation may soon be able to put down slavery, with the infamous Slaveholders' Rebellion, so that their glorious Union may be restored and consolidated on the enduring basis of universal justice, liberty and equality.
(Signed)
JAMES E. NELSON, Chairman.

ADDRESS OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ. AT THE UNION LEAGUE.
This gentleman made a patriotic address on Monday evening, April 11th, at the League Rooms, Philadelphia. He was introduced to the League by Mr. Horace Binney, Jr., one of the Vice Presidents, who spoke as follows:-
MR. BINNEY'S REMARKS.
We are honored this evening, gentlemen, by the presence of the distinguished gentleman to whom a much larger body, on this night week, in the Academy of Music, gave a more ample though a not more cordial reception. He comes to us to night on his return from Washington, where he received the high and just compliment of an audience in the Capitol, where the Senators and Representatives of the United States listened to him, the Vice President presiding, and our excellent President being himself among the auditors. (Applause.)
It cannot but have given pleasure to the friends of Mr. Thompson to see how completely he disposed of the charge of unfriendliness to the Union, which prejudiced ignorance has made against him. We have never believed that at any time he has done or said anything inconsistent with a true and sincere attachment to the Union: such attachment as an upright and intelligent Englishman might be expected to feel. (Cheers.)
It is not as an Abolitionist, but as a friend of the Union which this League is devoted to maintain and perpetuate, as a once distinguished member of the British Parliament, (applause,) that we invite him here tonight. He has learned the purposes for which our League was formed, and he approves of them heartily. As a member of the Reform Club of England, he may be able to give us some of the counsels of his experience as to the best mode of making our own organization yet more effective than it has already been.
We have everything to encourage us in what we have already done. We have more work yet to do. We have a great end before us, and we have selected our means with entire unanimity. Among them is the nomination for reelection of our honest and able President, Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.) I have the honor to introduce to you the Hon. George Thompson. (Loud applause.)
MR. THOMPSON'S ADDRESS.
Mr. Thompson said:—Gentlemen, I am scarcely prepared for so sudden and formal an introduction to the notice of the members of the Philadelphia Union League. I am, nevertheless, rejoiced to be among you, and beg to assure you that I cordially sympathize with the object which binds you together—an object which must be dear to the heart of every loyal and patriotic American. May you live to see that object fully accomplished, and your Union, which traitor hands have sought to destroy, not only restored, but strengthened and purified, and henceforth established upon principles which will not only obtain for it the love of all good men, but extort the admiration and respect even of those who do not believe in your theory, of government (Applause.)
<c05>
Mr. Thompson having given an account of the origin and objects of the Reform Club in London, and of the various political purposes to which its organization had been applied, and after expressing his hope that the Union League might soon possess a building of its own, worthy of its numbers, respectability and influence, proceeded to say—
I have been amused with the comments of one of your city journals upon the late splendid gathering in your Academy of Music. The paper to which I allude is sorely afflicted that I, George Thompson, the adventurer—a man without social position in my own country-should have been “dandled in the lap of the aristocracy of Philadelphia." The Copperhead commentator upon the late reception meeting thinks it probable I shall write to England, and boast of the honors that have been heaped upon me. That I appreciate those honors, I will not deny; but I trust I value them, chiefly, a indications of the glorious change which, during the last three years, has been wrought in the popular sentiment of this country. When I shall write home, I thank God there will be that to write about which it will be far more interesting to my countrymen to know than anything I could tell them about myself. I may write and tell them of the Volunteer Refreshment Saloon of this city. (Cheers.) That the soldiers of no government on the face of the earth are so tenderly cared for as those who have volunteered to fight the battles of the Union and the Constitution, since the breaking out of the present unhallowed slaveholders’ rebellion. (Applause.) That the United States may point with justifiable pride to her military service as showing a greater advance in civilization and the humanities of life, in the course of this unhappy civil war, than any other nation. (Applause.) That though the purposes of your government towards the nation’s volunteer defenders have been so considerate and generous, and its plans for the most part so complete and thorough, yet, nevertheless, private exertions of a wholly unexampled kind have been made to supply whatever deficiencies might arise from oversight, mistake or inexperience in the government departments. These things I will not fail to tell my countrymen. (Applause.) I will tell them that, when in the opening of that bloody drama which was inaugurated by the man-stealing despots of the South, multitudes of troops arrived in this city on their way to save your Capital from falling into the hands of traitors—entered it weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, and found no provision made for their rest or refreshment, the warm-hearted and benevolent citizens of Philadelphia rallied to their relief-organized a Union Volunteer Refreshment Committee—commenced their work of patriotic and Christian charity in a boat-shop and rigger's loft, and extended their plans and operations until their main Refreshment Saloon covered a lot of ground 95 by 150 feet, and they could accommodate 1,200 men at one time, at well-spread tables, besides furnishing them at the same time with the most ample materials for washing, bathing, and writing letters to the anxious friends they had left behind them. (Applause.) I will tell my countrymen that by these means you, in one year, received, entertained, and supplied the necessities of three hundred thousand of the brave and devoted men who rushed from the scenes of their peaceful industry to save the nation from falling a prey to the diabolical arts of a slaveholding oligarchy. (Applause.) I will tell my countrymen that you have now two of these noble institutions. That they have altogether administered to the wants of more than 700,000 men, at a cost of $55,000 in cash and $25,000 in stores; all voluntarily contributed. That in connection with these Saloons, 14,000 soldiers, returning through this city from the field of battle, have had their wounds dressed; and that in the hospitals attached to these Saloons, 7,500 have been nursed for periods varying from one week to six months. That temporary quarters have been procured for 45,000 men. That these Saloons can now cook victuals for 25,000 men a day; that they can dine 1,750 at one time, and can prepare 250 lbs. of coffee at one boiling. These facts, I think, will interest my countrymen, and I will take care that they shall know them. (Loud applause.) They shall know, too, that all the labors performed in connection with these noble establishments are purely labors of love. That as the money by which these Saloons are supported is freely given, so also are the incessant toils without which they could not be made effective. That those who officiate in these works of mercy are all unpaid—giving their time and toil, by night and by day, in all seasons, without fee or hope of reward, even in the way of having their names and their deeds publicly mentioned. (Applause.) Nor are these good deeds confined to the city of Philadelphia. No, my countrymen shall be informed that in every loyal city, and town, and village in this country, the same zeal, the same disinterestedness, and the same liberality are displayed, in cooperation with the government, for the benefit of the soldiers of the national army; for the benefit of those whom the proclamation has made free; and for the benefit of all who have in any way suffered from the rebellion, and need succor at the hands of their fellow-citizens. They shall know that, apart, altogether from the care, the providence, and the liberality of the General Government, the contributions from States, counties and towns, for the aid and relief of soldiers and their families, have amounted to upwards of one hundred and eighty-seven million dollars; that the contributions for the care and comfort of soldiers, by associations and individuals, have amounted to more than twenty-four million dollars; that the contributions to sufferers abroad have been above three hundred and eighty thousand dollars; and that the contributions towards the relief of freed negroes—sufferers by the riot of July last, in the city of New York— and for the relief of white refugees, were about six hundred and forty thousand dollars; making a grand total of upward, TWO HUNDRED AND TWELVE MILLION DOLLARS, Or FORTY-TWO MILLION AND A HALF of sterling money. All this, as I have said, independent wholly of the government expenditure, and equally independent of contributions or supplies in ten thousand other forms, for the service and benefit of soldiers in the army, by the relatives of those soldiers scattered over the country. Independent, too, of a variety of educational, benevolent, and religious organizations, originated and sustained to meet the exigencies growing out of the war. Such efforts as these are quite unparalleled in the history of nations; indeed, a limited reading of military annals does not allow me to recall any instance in which the same thing has been so much as attempted. In England, during the Crimean war, and in Germany, during the struggle against Napoleon, both men and women did a great deal in contributing to the comfort, and relief of their armies. It is, in fact, impossible that war should rage in any nation without exciting the sympathies of the people to a greater or less extent. But nowhere have such spontaneous and systematic exertions been made, or such grand results accomplished, as in' the United States.
The reason is obvious; not that you are any more kind-hearted and charitable as individuals than the people of other nations, but that the free democratic institutions under which you live give you a more vital and heartfelt interest in whatever concerns the national welfare. Every man here is a part of the nation, directly involved in the good and evil that are done. His condition is prospered or retarded by the changes in the general condition. He is, consequently, more ready to use his private fortune in furtherance of the public fortune than men are elsewhere. Your armies, moreover, partaking of the popular forms of the government, are not composed of mercenaries or regular soldiers who adopt the military life as a trade or profession, but of volunteers. The soldiers stand in the nearest relations to you; they are your sons, brothers, husbands, friends; and you would feel for them more deeply than you would feel for the members of a mere standing army.
These, and a multitude of other facts, wholly unknown, or but partially known to my countrymen, it will be my duty and delight to make public. (Applause.)
<c06>
To conceal them, or not to do my best to promulgate them, would be to act with the basest ingratitude towards a noble people, and to suppress what all the world should know, that they may imitate your example and respect example and respect your virtues.
Gentlemen, since I was entertained a week ago in your city, in a way that has so much stirred the bile of one of your journals, I have visited Washington— been heard in your Capitol—have been received with frankness and cordiality by your excellent President, and welcomed to the hospitalities of the District of Columbia. The hated, persecuted, outlawed abolition incendiary of 1834 has, in 1864, been permitted, in the Hall of Representatives of the United States, to express, without condition and without reservation, his views in relation to the great questions which are now agitating and convulsing, reconstituting and regenerating your nation. These honors do not so much minister to my personal vanity as inspire me, with devout gratitude to the Supreme Disposer, alike of the destinies of nations and of individuals, who has been pleased in his wrath to remember mercy, and is causing the calamities of war to work out your purification from the foul stain of slavery, and your exaltation to a higher position amongst the empires of the earth. Be it yours to cooperate with Him in His great design. "In the day of adversity, consider"; put away the evil thing that has produced this sanguinary war—which has placed your Union in peril—and which, even now, is struggling to gain its former ascendency. Put it away forever, and let Liberty and Union be “"one and inseparable, now and forever!” (Loud applause.)
Mr. Thompson, after his address, was entertained at supper by a select party of the members of the Union League Club.

GEORGE THOMPSON'S FIRST LECTURE IN A SLAVE STATE.
On Friday evening, April 8th, Mr. Thompson, on his return from Washington, delivered a lecture before a numerous, highly intelligent, and deeply interested audience, assembled in the large hall of "The Institute," in the city of Wilmington, Delaware, one of the slave States of the original thirteen States of the American Union. Mr. Thompson was accompanied to the platform by the Rev. William Aikman, a respected and popular Presbyterian minister in the city; by the venerable Thomas Garrett, so widely known as the undaunted champion of the fugitive slave, and Oliver Johnson, Esq., Editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard. The lecturer was hailed on his appearance with applause.
Mr. Gattett informed the assembly that, prior to the introduction of Mr. Thompson by a citizen of the State, his friend, Oliver Johnson, would furnish some particulars relative to the public career of the gentleman who had been invited to address them.
Mr. Johnson briefly narrated the circumstances under which Mr. Thompson had paid his two former visits to the United States—referred, also, to that gentleman's labors for the abolition of British Colonial slavery, and concluded with a graphic description of Mr. Thompson's reception at Washington, of which he (Mr. Johnson) had been a witness.
The Rev. Mr. Aikman, in a speech of much animation—in the course of which he expressed an earnest hope that Delaware would soon take her place among the free States of the Union—gave the lecturer a most hearty introduction to the audience.
Mr. Thompson, on presenting himself, was warmly greeted. He said that his feelings, on rising to speak for the first time in a State where slavery actually existed, and was still sanctioned and protected by law, were of a very peculiar character. But the fact itself was full of encouragement and promise. The community that would tolerate George Thompson in the unreserved and uncompromising expression of his views of slavery, would not long tolerate that evil in their midst. It could not be that the State of Delaware could long remain a slave State while the chains slavery were falling all around her. The District of Columbia was free from slavery. Maryland was about to hold a Convention to make that State a free State. Missouri would, ere long, be a free State. Western Virginia was a free State. Even in Louisiana and Arkansas, there were movements in favor of the abolition of slavery. The President's Proclamation had made free upwards of three million of slaves, and the air was full of sounds of the death-knell of the ”peculiar institution." Delaware, therefore, must make haste to open the prison doors and let the oppressed go free. In the day that she did so, the era of her real prosperity would begin.
Mr. Thomson proceeded to describe the state of public opinion in Great Britain, in relation to American affairs, and the earnest wishes entertained by the friends of liberty and humanity there, for the entire extinction of the system of slavery on this continent.
Throughout the whole of the lecture, the closest attention was given to the remarks of the speaker, who was frequently interrupted by expressions of approval, and sat down amidst general applause.
On the motion of Mr. Thomas Clarkson Taylor, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:—
Resolved, That we welcome George Thompson among us, and would assure him of our heartfelt admiration of his life-long labors in the advocacy of universal and impartial liberty:— that his disinterested services in the cause of our country, during the last three years—by the employment of his pen, the uplifting of his eloquent voice, his organization of the public sentiment of the masses of his countrymen, and by his uniform efforts to promote peace and good will between the two nations—merit and receive our warmest thanks:—that his unwearied exertions in England and other countries to ameliorate the condition of the poor, the down-trodden, the oppressed and the unrepresented entitle him to the respect and commendation of all who love republican institutions, and who desire to see mankind governed without respect to creed, color, or place of birth.

LETTER FROM THOMAS EVANS.
LAWRENCE, (Mass.) April 25, 1864.
WILLIAM L. GARRISON:
KIND SIR—I was much surprised to find in your valuable newspaper of last week a notice of my humble labors, whilst in England, in behalf of the cause of human freedom, and the maintenance of the American Union. My motive for speaking against the rebellion in the South was because I am of the opinion that slavery robs labor of its true dignity; and being a workingman, I thought it foolish to talk about recognizing the South, when her object was and is to continue the system of slavery. Surely, a man must be very ignorant of moral law, if he sanctions the system of buying and selling human beings. Whatever may be said about the men of the North, there is no mistake about the character of the rebels in the South. They are bad; nay, so wicked that I hope their awful intentions will be wholly frustrated by the noble sons of freedom in the North. If my health were good, I would willingly put my shoulder to the wheel, and help to put down this rebellion. Such not being the case, I must do what I can by speaking a word now and then in behalf of human freedom. I feel certain I shall never be found giving the rebels a good word; for their works are evil, and their designs cruelly oppressive.
I beg to say I am not working at the Pemberton Mills, but at the Atlantic Mills. Please correct this mistake.
I should be glad to speak in any place upon the Temperance question to workingmen. My present situation is anything but a good one.
I am yours, faithfully,
THOMAS EVANS,
Late of Manchester, England.
Mr. EVANS ought to be employed,—advantageously to himself as well as to others,—by some reliable company aiming to secure a large immigration from the old world; for he is well-known to the working people of England, and can exert a salutary influence upon their minds. Give him a chance to be heard upon the Temperance question among the laboring people here.—[Ed. Lib.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
NEW PUBLICATIONS. 
PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, at its Third Decade, held in the city of Philadelphia, Dec.34 and 4th, 1863. With an Appendix, and a Catalogue of Anti-Slavery Publications in America, from 1750 to 1863. New York: Office of the Society, 48 Beekman Street. 1864.
Those who attended the celebration, the proceedings of which are faithfully recorded in this pamphlet of 175 octavo pages, will be sure to obtain copies of the work, as far as practicable-appreciating, as they will, its quickening spirit and thrilling interest; while those who were not present will do well to purchase it as of historic value, furnishing as it does a retrospective view of the great struggle for the abolition of slavery in the United States-a struggle which, it is hoped and believed, is shortly to be crowned with complete triumph, every fetter broken, every bondman set free, the land redeemed from ocean to ocean. This pamphlet contains speeches by Wm. H. Forness, J. Miller McKim, Samuel J. May, Samuel May, Jr., Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Henry Ward Beecher Theodore Tilton, Oliver Johnson, Charles Burleigh, Aaron M. Powell, Stephen S. Foster, James N. Buffum, Andrew T. Foss, Col. Wagner, John Jolliffe, Esq., Hon. Henry Wilson, Frederick Douglass, Lucertia Mott, Mary Grew, Lucy Stone, Susan B. Anthony, Frances D. Gage, &c. There are interesting and suggestive letters from Charles Sumner, B. Gratz Brown, Arthur Tappan, John G. Whittier, John Jay, David Thurston, Simeon S. Jocelyn, Charles G. Ames, George William Curtis, George E. Baker, Jesse Stedman, Theodore D. and Angelina G. Weld, Sarath Grimke, Jehiel Claflin, Joshua Coffin, &c. &c. The Catalogue of Anti-Slavery Publications, though far from being complete, will hereafter be convenient and useful for reference and research. Price 50 cents. Those who would procure copies must apply soon. Copies for sale at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington Street, Boston; and at the Anti-Slavery office, 48 Beekman Street, New York.
THE NATION’S SIN AND PUNISHMENT; or, The Hand of God visible in the overthrow of Slavery. By a Chaplain of the U.S. Army, who has been, thirty years, a resident of the Slave States. New York: M. Doolady, 49 Walker Street. 1864.
This volume is a choice specimen of American piety, popularly speaking. It is characterized by moral incoherency, and is as illogical as it is sentimental and superficial. Who its author is, he does not choose to tell, nor do we know, nor is it of any consequence, except that he is not, as he repeatedly and truly declares, an Abolitionist. By his own admission, he received a Northern birth and education, but has spent the last thirty-two years of his life in the slave States. He therefore thinks himself, as he ought to be, “competent, from his own personal knowledge, to give correctly the characteristics of slavery and of slaveholders.” During that long period, though thus familiar with the woes and horrors of that impious system, ‘he does not pretend that he regarded it as sinful, or at any time testified against its upholders. Facile, obsequious, acquiescent, he made no issue with those who consigned to beastly servitude a helpless and unfortunate race, but did what he could to strengthen their hands by denouncing the Abolitionists as incendiaries, fanatics and infidels. Even at this late hour, while claiming to have been “always an anti-slavery man,” (as if that were not always to be an Abolitionist!) he deems it safe and popular to brand as false and schismatical the doctrine that slavery is malum in se; and he proceeds to argue, through a long chapter, that the promulgation of that doctrine has brought upon the land all its present calamities! To say that slavery was wrong in itself was to “draw a line through the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, excommunicating in a body all slaveholding Christians, with whom fraternal and Christian communion had been maintained ever since there has been a church on earth.” And then, having proved it a Christian and an apostolic prerogative to hold slaves, he suddenly turns about, and devotes the remainder of his work to demonstrating the inherent sinfulness of slavery, for which complicated iniquity a righteous God is pouring out the vials of his retribution upon our guilty land!
A YOUTH’S HISTORY OF THE REBELLION, from the Bombardment of Fort Sumter to the Capture of Roanoke Island. By WILLIAM M. THAYER, Author of the “Pioneer Boy,” &c. Fifth Thousand. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co., 245 Washington Street. 1864.
Mr. Thayer has done an excellent work in the way of compressing a great variety of information respecting the rebellion into a comparatively brief compass, for the rising generation. It will be read by old and young with absorbing interest. All the principle events of the war are given in the form of a dialogue, and related in a graphic manner. No wonder it is obtaining so ready a sale. It is divided as follows:-1. The First Gun. 2. Why the Rebels made War. 3. The Rebel Government. 4. The New President. 5. Plan to capture Washington. 6. Armies Mustering. 7. Gen. Lyon in Missouri. 8. Gen. Butler at Fortress Monroe. 9. Gen. McClellan in Western  Virginia  10. Battle of Bull Run. 11. The New Commander 12. Gen. Fremont in Missouri. 13. The <illegible> Expedition. 14. Federal Disaster at Ball’s Bla<illegible> 15. Expedition to Port Royal. 16. The Burnside Expedition. Under each of these may be found many thrilling incidents or interesting particulars, covering the whole scope of the terrible struggle to the time designated. The author apprises his youthful readers that “this rebellion is going to change things very much in this country; doing away with slavery, and working many other reforms. On this account you will have to know all about it, in order to be intelligent citizens of the republic.” He thinks this is just the time for him to write this story, when everything is fresh in our minds, and the actors are yet living to tell the thousand little personal anecdotes and adventures which make the life and spirit of the narrative. In this he judges wisely.
This notice should have preceded the following statement respecting it in our last number, which, being appended by mistake to a notice of the work entitled “THE AMERICAN CONFLICT,” by Horace Greeley must have been a puzzle to some of our readers:-
The publishers desire attention to be called to the following points:-
I. The especial aim of the History, to interest and instruct the young. 
II. The adaptability of the work to general family <illegible> containing as it does the substance of the more <illegible> Histories, at about one-fourth the price.
III. The entire historical correctness of the work; the materials having been drawn from the most authentic sources.
IV. The special pains which have been taken to preserve the stirring facts and incidents of personal experience, which give vivacity and spirit to the narrative.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for May, 1864. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.
The present number will be found quite up to the usually high standard of the Atlantic. It opens with it agreeable traveling sketch by Bayard Taylor, entitled” A Cruise on Lake Ladoga.” Ik Marvel’s and Mrs. Stowe’s continued papers are both as racy and interesting as ever. Mr. J. P. Palfrey shows how the New England Colonists threw off the tyranny of Sir Edward Andros. Arthur Gilman gives a readable account of “The Gold Fields of Nova Scotia.” “Life in the Sea Islands” is a sketch sent from South Carolina by a young lady of African blood. “California as a <illegible> gives a very interesting exhibit of the present condition and future promise of wine-making in that State. Harriet Prescott begins a new story under the name of “Rim.” An article on “The Presidential Election” concedes the inevitable success of Mr. Lincoln. The feature of the poetry of the number is a contribution by Robert Browning.
<c02>
THE APPOINTED PATH OF NATIONS.
Abstract of a Sermon preached at the Melodeon, Sunday, April 24, 1864, by Rev. Samuel Johnson of Lynn, from the text-“First be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.” 
What is it to be unreconciled to our brother? It is to postpone the welfare of others to our own. Even our own interior culture is not to be sought through a sacrifice of the rights of our fellow-men.
Without a key to make it intelligible, history is a mass of confusion. Human affairs seem largely composed of the success of bad men, and of evil purposes. But suppose it shall appear that the triumph of evil is the necessary result of not being reconciled to our brother!
In every age the oppressed class rules the future by shaping the present. The ancients fabled that the convulsions of Mount Aetna were caused by the struggles of a monstrous giant, Enceladus, who was bound beneath it. The oppressed class is always the Enceladus of human society. 
Tyranny of caste and tyranny of routine-or, more briefly, tyranny-prevented the noble lessons of Buddha and Zoroaster from bearing fruit, though the essence of Christianity was taught by them centuries before Christ.
In Greece, taste and the love of beauty were cultivated at the expense of justice, and Greece died. In Rome, brutality was organized into a system, and Borne died.
Jesus, the prophet of self-renunciation, though seemingly for altime defeated, has in reality conquered, and his idea is coming more and more to rule in the lives of men.
The Roman Church tyrannized over the poor, and it is falling. The Reformation bound itself to dogma, and its sects became persecutors. It also is losing its power. We are learning two great lessons; that men cannot all think alike, and that nobleness, not happiness, is the main purpose of life.
Not only is tyranny evanescent, but those forms of liberty that are not thoroughly impartial must prove equally so.
The struggles of France for liberty, though often repeated, were unfruitful, because they were selfish. That people did not regard justice. They were not reconciled to their brother. English liberty, though further advanced, is now in danger of destructive revolutions. There the interests of classes yet take precedence of the rights of the people.
We thought our independence in America a finality. We forgot the claims of woman. We forgot the slave. We seem almost to have lost the capacity to discern what freedom is. It is by the slave, through the evils directly caused by his oppression, that God is now directly scourging our self-conceit.
We have our liberty yet to win, and this can come only by doing justice. The President has done his work only by compulsion, and only imperfectly. He wished to balance emancipation by colonization. The Administration meanly refuses equal rights to colored soldiers. It withholds from them not only honorable dealing, but common honesty. It keeps no faith with the negro. Is it strange that we get no peace? Do we deserve it? Assuredly we shall have no peace till these wrongs are righted.
True, it is difficult to settle this dilemma. But it was not difficult to have avoided it. The sin of our Government and of our people is, that they took no thought or care to avoid it 
Who is to blame? The War Department, Congress, or the President? Whoever is to blame, the nation suffers. New difficulties are now rising to complicate our affairs, and the President’s unhappy Amnesty Proclamation has occasioned these. That document offers favor and premium to rebellion. Mr. Hahn, the new Governor of Louisiana, is the mere creature of military power. He has no Legislature at his back. The colored people are denied not only their rights as soldiers, but their right of citizenship. The President refuses to grant them this right until the giving of it can be shown to be a military necessity. Banks’s policy in Louisiana is not merely slow, it is retrogressive. To consign a whole race of men to a continuance of oppression for the supposed advantage of the dominant power is to violate the most sacred duties to our brother. Prosperity cannot come to us from such a course.
The question of Emancipation, important as it is, is second to that of Reconstruction. The Senate and the House of Representatives have shamefully neglected and shamefully violated the duties devolving upon them in relation to it. Tried by the test of sins committed against light, perhaps the House is the most guilty one that has held office since the beginning of this Government.
As long as the President and Congress are not ready to do justice, they are not upon the track of peace. In fact, the work before us cannot be done by such a President and such a Congress as we now have. However important union may be, fear of division must not tie our lips from protesting against oppression.
God has commanded for the negro, first, that he be emancipated; next, that he be armed; now, that he be protected and assisted. If our critical situation as a nation demands a sacrifice, let Barabbas the robber, no longer Jesus the just, be sacrificed.
First be reconciled to our brother, the negro. This is our great present duty. But one thing is wanting to us. But that one thing is the thing-Justice.-C. K. W. 

HELP FOR THE FREEDMEN. 
ST. LOUIS, (MO.,) April 12, 1864.
Editor of the Liberator:-I take up my pen here in this great city of the West, to call the especial attention of your readers to the fact, that in the great Sanitary Fair arrangements for the “Valley of the Mississippi,” there is a new feature, and one that ought not to be forgotten by the friends of freedom, wherever the news shall reach them.
This new feature is the department set apart for the benefit of the freedmen. It should not have been forgotten at any of the great Fairs of the East or West. But it has been; and I rejoice that St. Louis shall have the honor of inaugurating this holiest of holy charities.
There are, doubtless, thousands of persons among the so styled Abolitionists, who, while they have given liberally to the “Sanitary Commission,” have still left in reserve funds for the Freedmen. Shall not the friends here have full and ample encouragement for their generous enterprise? Remember, Missouri is a slave State; yet reserved to slavery by the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation. Remember, too, that her Convention voted gradual emancipation; and then remember the brave hearts of her radical friends of freedom, who are asking all the world to aid them in! helping the suffering ones, whom the thieves of the past have robbed, and left bleeding and wounded by the wayside.
I write without consultation with any of the leaders of this movement, knowing that they will be glad to receive any contribution that may be sent for this purpose. I only wish the friends of the slave across the big waters could know in season, to respond to the call.
Every report that comes from the Mississippi is laden with the suffering and destitution of those just released from bondage. The calls are imperative. Let me pray you, On, dear friends! You have liberally answered calls in times past. Weary not in well-doing; but join with the friends of the West in this most Christian charity. All goods sent for the Freedmen’s department must be so marked, and they will be carefully appropriated as designed. My address will be ST. LOUIS, (Mo.) Box 2117, for the next six weeks, where I shall be happy to do any business for the Freedmen that Eastern friends may choose to confide to my care.
FRANCES D. GAGE.
All honor to St Louis! We trust this statement and appeal of Mrs. Gage will be promptly and liberally responded to.]-Ed. Lib.
<c03>
GENERAL BANKS-COLORED SOLDIERS AND FREEDMEN.
On Thursday evening, April 14th, an address was delivered by FREDERICK DOUGLASS, at the Twelfth Baptist Church in this city, which created unusual interest, and in particular when he criticised the Government for its treatment of colored soldiers, and the policy pursued by Gen. Banks towards the Freedmen of Louisiana, which policy Mr. Douglass believed reflected the purpose of the administration at Washington, and was virtually setting aside the provisions of the Emancipation Proclamation.
From this stand-point the audience were justly aroused to a hearty protest against Gen. Bank’s course-their instincts as well as the facts prominent in the history of the British West India Islands and of St Domingo, warranting an apprehension that this management may produce incalculable mischief, satisfying nobody but Southern slaveholders and Northern copperheads. In view of the fact that the victims of this mismanagement in Louisiana, and of a similar ruling in Natchez, Mississippi, by Federal officers in authority there, have been pronounced free, why should they not be left to “the pursuit of happiness,” untrammelled by the overseership of Gen. Banks’s or any other officials?
Unfortunately, Gen. Banks represents a large class of white Americans, who entertain no idea of justice to the colored man, only as it may promote their own ambitious designs; as is too plainly evinced by Congress legislating short pay to colored soldiers-a measure which, though protested against by a minority, has yet to arouse the people to that sense of its injustice, which, if practised upon white instead of black soldiers, would shake the continent. 
That colored man, who, smarting under indignities peculiar to the Northern States in this “Free Republic,” remarked “that when a colored man received justice in the United States, it was by chance, and not intent,” was deemed more caustic than correct. But let white Americans reflect on the position as though occupied by themselves, and we know what verdict would be recorded.
At last, there seems to be a purpose in Congress to award fair play to black soldiers; whether impelled to it by the popular indignation against the massacre at Fort Pillow, or the common sense and manly protest of Gen. Butler, we know not. But let us welcome the justice, tardy though it be. 
It is well to know what are the sentiments entertained by colored soldiers on this subject. I therefore subjoin a few extracts from recent correspondence:-
“We have not yet received any money, as I suppose you know, and some of the men are getting down-hearted. I don’t think they drill half as well as they can; they don’t seem to care whether they drill or not. But when there is any chance of a fight, they all go in as if they had all their rights, and if it were to be their last fight. I think they like the excitement, which seems to dispel their thoughts of their suffering wives and children at home; some of whom have been compelled to find refuge in the alms-house, in consequence of not receiving their pay from government.”
“One of our men is soon to be tried before a court martial. I think it would be well to go before the court, and prove that we were enlisted under the law of 1861; and that as the Government has refused to pay us, argue from these premises that the court has no jurisdiction in the case.”
Quite contrary to the expectations of some, this horrible massacre at Fort Pillow has given an impulse to enlisting; and in many localities South, colored men manifest an eagerness for the chance to avenge their slaughtered brethren. For while the Government, hitherto, has been dealing so tenderly with the rebels,-as if slaveholder, gentleman and Christian were synonymous terms,-colored men know them to be enemies of God and man; and patriotism and loyalty fire their souls and nerve their arms to rid the Union of their presence. 
It is cheering to notice, in a portion of the press, these outrages against colored soldiers vehemently denounced, and the full measure of justice urgently demanded. 
It may yet follow, as in the case of the New York copperhead riots, that this massacre will materially contribute to a repentant feeling throughout the nation towards the long persecuted colored American.
Was it not Montesquieu who said, “It is impossible to allow the negroes are men, because if we allow them to be men, it will begin to be believed that we are not Christians”? The experience thus far gleaned by the war is rich in confirmation, that these men, women and children who have so long toiled under the American slave-driver’s lash are, as a class, the Christians par excellence.
Read the testimony of our friend J. G. Dodge, who has favored me with a communication from Graham Plantation, Hilton Head, S. C.:-
“My position here, as Superintendent of Plantations, is quite an agreeable one, and I have enjoyed the winter months very much; although quite removed from the society of all white associates, and dependant mainly for social gratifications on the freed people of this locality, with whom alone I am in daily intercourse. 
My experience on this island has but confirmed me in the conviction which I have long entertained, that the negroes, as a class, are possessed of kindly impulses, and a generous disposition beyond that of any other body of people with whom we are in contact. This community of ignorant and degraded ones, with whom I am associated, are constantly teaching me lessons of practical Christianity by their disposition to forget injuries, grant favors, and “do good to those who despitefully use them and persecute them,” more impressive than I have found in other fields of influence and instruction. 
Surely, surely, better days are in store for the negro; else justice will not be done.”
Accompanying this was the copy of a petition from a large number of the women at Hilton Head, above the age of eighteen years, recently freed from slavery, asking Congress to pass a bill for the immediate emancipation of all persons held to involuntary servitude in the United States. In this connection, allow me to refer your readers to a letter to Mrs. L. M. Child, in the Standard of April 10th, from Harriet and Louise Jacobs, detailing facts in their mission as teachers to the freedmen at Alexandria, Va.; and also a communication from the gifted Charlotte L. Forten, teacher at St. Helena Island, South Carolina, published in the Atlantic Monthly for May; and they  will find abundant evidence, both from the devotion of these intelligent and benevolent ladies identified with the freedmen by their complexion, and the grateful recipients of their ministrations, that this people excel in manly and womanly traits, and in all the Christian graces, rude and uncultivated though many individuals among them may be.
I see through the smoke and confusion incidental to this National struggle between Right and Wrong; the nominally free colored men elevated to citizenship, the slave becoming a free man, the country redeemed from the domination of tyrants; and I would invoke all to work while the day lasts.
“Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait.” 
Boston, April 25, 1864. W. C. N.
FELTONVILLE. This large and flourishing village in Marlborough has forwarded a petition to Congress, asking for the immediate Abolition of Slavery and an Amendment of the Constitution forever prohibiting it in future, signed by five hundred and seventy-four persons. This is doing well; and the gentleman who was mainly instrumental in circulating it, informs us that if circumstances had allowed him to devote more time to it, it would have been easy to obtain one thousand names in Feltonville alone. This is an indication of the overwhelming sentiment of the people on this subject. We are quite sure that it is only their confidence (not misplaced, we hope) that the President and Congress are entirely ready to adopt and enact these great and indispensable provisions, which prevents their sending similar petitions from every town and village of the North. M.
The negro troops are to take an important part in the coating campaign under Gen. Grant.
<c04>
GEORGE THOMPSON IN PHILADELPHIA.
AN IMPRESSIVE AND ENTHUSIASTIC SCENE.
[Correspondence Cincinnati Gazette,]
PHILADELPHIA, April 5. 1864.
Happening here on Sunday, and observing a poster announcing George Thompson, “the friend of America,” for a lecture at the Academy of Music, on Monday evening, it did not take me long to arrive at the conclusion that I would make it convenient to attend.  I desired to see and hear this celebrated man; also, and perhaps more, did I wish to ascertain what sort of a reception the people of this once conservative city would extend to the great English Abolitionist.
The admission fee was fixed at twenty-five cents, with an additional charge of the same for reserved seats. This was calculated to test the earnestness of those who should attend. In any leading city  you can readily fill the largest hall with curiosity gazers, when a distinguished man like George Thompson is to be seen, provided admission is free; but “ticket, sir!” sung out at the entrance, sifts the audience, and keeps out many of those whose only object is to gratify idle curiosity. But this did not prevent the hall from being filled. The hour for the lecture was 8 o’clock. As early as 7 o’clock, people began to crowd the streets leading to the Academy, and every car came filled with passengers. By 8 o’clock nearly every seat was occupied, and the splendid building, when the full volume of light burst upon the audience, presented an appearance at once brilliant and impressive-impressive because it showed the world to be moving, the waves of a mighty revolution in public sentiment to be rolling on, and that in this progress Philadelphia, once so intensely conservative, was in the ranks. This beginning was accepted by a stranger as a good, one, and it caused me to await with increased interest further developments; for it is not to be denied that I now regarded the audience with more interest than the speaker. The eloquence of George Thompson, be it ever so great, would amount to nothing-would be painful indeed rather than useful, if at this day his sentiments should prove unacceptable to a Philadelphia audience.
THE FIRST DEMONSTRATION.
Some minutes before 8 o’clock, martial music proceeded from behind the stage. Soon thereafter the officers of colored regiments marched in with drums beating and flags flying. An outburst of applause greeted them. It is not long since it would have been dangerous for colored troops, or the officers of colored troops, or any one who should favor this arm of the service, anywhere, or in any way, to make a display of themselves in Philadelphia. Now they are enthusiastically received, as they march on the stage of the Academy of Music, by a vast audience. This is another favorable sign. I begin to think Philadelphia is herself again -that the spirit of 76 is revived, and that Independence Hall is, after all, about in the right place.
GEORGE THOMPSON.
No sooner were the parties referred to seated, and as the echo of the cheers in the audience was dying out, than there was another burst. The English 
Abolitionist had entered. All eyes were now centred upon him. A fine specimen of an English gentleman, patriot, statesman and scholar, was before the audience. Mr. Thompson is fully six feet high, stands erect, with the exception that his head, when he is not speaking, is slightly bowed, seemingly from the effect of infirmities inseparable from old age. His hair is white; his face closely shaven, in true English style; his features prominent; and his intellectual developments excellent. Without knowing him, you would set him down at once as a man of mark. He is seated.
THE INTRODUCTION. 
Horace Binney, Jr., steps forward to introduce the speaker. He is applauded. This name most of the readers of the Gazette will recognize as that of a family long identified in America with the cause of Abolitionism. Hence his reception is significant. But he makes a mistake. And it is not an uncommon one either. Instead of merely introducing Mr. Thompson, the man the audience were impatient to hear, he proceeded to read a speech. His hearers displayed a great deal of patience, and exhibited marked good breeding, for quietly they listened to him as he read from pages of the early legislation of the State of Pennsylvania, on the slavery question. The only interruption up to this time was a call from some chap in a back seat, for “three cheers for New Jersey.” He was treated with silent contempt. Mr. Binney had now been speaking fifteen minutes. There were murmurs running through the audience, indicating dissatisfaction. The speaker did not seem to heed them. He was manifestly disposed not to take the hint Perhaps he could not “see it.” Five minutes more, and the murmur grew into a storm which drowned the voice of Mr. Binney, and was interspersed with loud calls for “Thompson.” And now was witnessed the singular spectacle of the gentleman who was being introduced rising from his seat, stepping forward, and in the most polite manner possible asking the audience, as a personal favor, to hear the introduction through. This had the desired effect. Mr. Binney finished his speech.
THE SPEECH OF THE EVENING.
George Thompson now came forward. Placing his manuscript upon his hat, which rested upon a neat marble-top table, behind which he stood, he proceeded to read. It was at once discovered that he was an accomplished scholar and a polished speaker. He articulated perfectly, and his voice, clear and full, was everywhere in the house distinctly heard; his lowest utterances and highest notes being alike clear and distinct. The manner was fine, but the matter at the outset was not so acceptable. He proceeded to recite the history of anti-slavery movements in America. This was old to most of his hearers, but he made the common mistake of supposing that which lay nearest his own heart would interest his hearers. Soon, however, he warmed up, and taking off his glasses, folding his arms and swelling to his full height, he would indulge in a passage of rare beauty and eloquence. 
While these sentences were being uttered, the great audience was enchained. So great was the silence, the people seemed not to breathe. But at its conclusion the pent up feelings gave way, and for two minutes the house was fairly tilled with storms of applause. And here let me remark, the most radical utterances were those which elicited the loudest applause. Neither was there, throughout, the slightest indication of dissent. I now concluded that this audience was at least radical. But there remained to be developed other evidences, as will appear, which showed that this meeting represented the sentiments of Philadelphia.
Thus far Mr. Thompson had not referred directly to his former experiences in America. It seemed as if he meant to pass this over, but near the close of his lecture he drew himself up, folded his arms, and stepping back, said: 
“It was said when I first came here, that my pockets were lined with British gold; that I was the friend of the despots of Europe; that I came to disturb your Union, and to overthrow your institutions; and no professions of friendship I might have made could have materially altered that opinion. But I waited for the time when, by something better than words, I might testify how sincerely I loved this country and its people. The hour came. It was the hour of your trial and your agony; when you were wounded in the house of your friends; when your sisters, whom you had spoiled by kindness, raised their heel against you; then, when you were in conflict among yourselves, and when all that was precious to you was endangered; when your national life was in jeopardy; when you had enemies not only at home but abroad, and even in the free isles of Britain-that was the hour I chose to demonstrate to you that when I spoke to you the truth, it was not because I loved you less, but because I hated slavery more. [Applause.] Would to God I could defend you against the misrepresentation and calumnies of your enemies! I am not here to make any apology for such acts on the part of my countrymen as have justly pained you, perhaps deeply offended you. Forgive them for the sake of those who have sought to aid you; but do not hate England because in that country there have been those who seek alike to clog the wheels of the car of Liberty here, and to deadlock them at home. They are of the same party with which we have been contending for thirty years. They opposed us when we were laboring for Catholic emancipation; for representative reform; for the abolition of colonial slavery, and the taxes on bread.”
The audience was now fairly unchained. They clapped and shouted; hats and handkerchiefs waved, and a boisterous applause, indicating unbounded enthusiasm, drowned the voice of the speaker fur for some minutes. Verily Mr. Thompson made another point: “When this rebellion commenced,” he remarked, “you were fighting for political Union. This was its first stage; but now you are contending for universal emancipation.” Union and freedom, responded the audience, not in words, but actions, which could not be expressed in words. Mr. Thompson concluded.
SEVERE FIGHTING. Advices from Grand Ecore, Red River, announce that a desperate battle was fought at the Sabine Cross Road on the 8th inst., between the forces under Gen. Banks and those under Generals’ Magruder, Holmes, Taylor and Kirby Smith. The fighting occupied two days-the first day resulting adversely to the Federal arms, though the enemy’s loss was heavy. The second fight was at Pleasant Hill, where the enemy was disastrously routed- his loss being two to our one. It is said that, at a single artillery and infantry discharge on our side, one thousand of the rebels were killed and wounded-Among their loss were Gens. Morton and Parsons. Gen. Banks had two horses killed under him. He was obliged to fall back thirty or forty miles for reinforcements and supplies. The details of the fight are thrilling. It was an exhausting struggle to both sides -particularly to the enemy, who was in strong force, and confident of an easy victory. 
<c05>
DECEASE OF GEORGE S.FLINT, ESQ.
DIED-In Rutland, (Mass.) April 9, GEORGE S. FLINT, Esq., aged 76.
It is never too late to speak a tree word of a true man. Mr. F. was fortunate in the possession o of a well-developed, vigorous body, and a mind inhabiting it, active earnest, inquisitive, always seeking after the true and the right, and always following it when found, or thought to be found, with an unwavering determination. He was ardent in his social affections; kind, generous, dignified in his family relations; and overflowing with hospitality to all who came within the circle of his influence.
He was one of the first movers in the Temperance Reform in his vicinity, and was one of the strongest and most consistent champions it had. When he felt a cause to be true and   just, he did not hesitate to move in it, although for a time he might be obliged to more alone.
So, also, in the Anti-Slavery movement, he was the first among the first in this vicinity. The pioneer apostles who went forth to preach the gospel of Anti- Slavery always found his house open for their reception, and his heart ready to receive the truth of their mission. From the first to the last, he was a sincere, earnest, consistent and efficient working Abolitionist. He lived to see the beginning of the end; and the freedmen of today are indebted, in part,-no one can say how much,-to his life and to his influence upon the little public around him, for the freedom which they now enjoy, and the anticipations for the future in which they indulge.
Thus much let me be permitted to say of my departed friend.
Dorchester, April 25, 1864. I. S. S.
MR. GARRISON-You will be pained to hear of the decease of our venerable friend George S. Flint, of Rutland, who entered the Future Life Saturday evening, April 9th, aged 76 years. How much his dear family and a wide circle of friends lose, yon, whom he loved and followed so long, well understand. One of those men we reverence human nature more for having known; with him, to see the right was to embrace it, and he could look upon no wrong without impatience to destroy it. A subscriber to the Liberator for more than thirty years, he took a religious interest in its principles from the start; and his party which he represented in the Legislature, a church dear to him as life, a good name his townsmen delighted to honor, his pecuniary means,-all of this world to him, he promptly laid on the altar of a despised cause. Yet feeling that “the slave will be saved, but in such a manner that no flesh shall glory in His presence,” he would not tolerate praise for having done his duty, and, after many years of social martyrdom, such as every one who breaks with ecclesiastical despotism in a Puritan community must experience, he said to me, with beautiful modesty, “I hare tried to do something for the slave, but he has done far more for me.”
Not waiting for the majority to approve before allowing the right to prevail through him, hating all shams, his rebuke of a pro-slavery church was emphatic and consistent to the last. Still, so much respect did his character command, that when his brethren undertook to censure him for leaving the church, his minister, in an honest moment, admonished them to be lenient: for, (said he,) “after all, Esquire Flint may be right”; and the people, tardily following his lead, now confess that Esquire Flint was right. War, Woman’s Wrongs, False Theology, Intemperance, all the great evils which afflict society and trouble God, found in this plain farmer a resolute, active and intelligent opponent. Repeatedly the honored President of the Worcester North Anti-Slavery Society, we can ill afford to lose so efficient a worker in this quarter;-and his bereaved family, what shall console, save the noble life they were so long privileged to share, now all the more present in the absence of its visible form, and the “Well-done” of the Overruler welcoming the dear husband and father to his joyous reward?
Princeton, April 25, 1864. E. H. H.
MR. FLINT deserves all of panegyric that can be bestowed upon his character and memory. His was truly the mountain majesty of worth.”-[ED. LIB. 

YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS. 
The Twelfth Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Progressive Friends will be held at LONG WOOD, (near Hamorton,) Chester County, Pa., beginning at 10 o’clock, A. M., on Fifth-day, the 2d of 6th month, and continuing, probably, for three days.
This Society demands assent to no system of doctrines, acknowledges no priesthood, prescribes no form of worship; but, cherishing the utmost liberty of religious opinion, inquiry and speculation, seeks its bond of Union in a common love of God as the Universal Father, a common regard for mankind as one Brotherhood, common aspirations for moral and religious excellence, and common labors to redeem the world from ignorance, superstition and sin, and introduce the era. of universal righteousness and peace. Welcoming and cherishing whatever of truth was spoken or recorded in the past, it nevertheless looks continually for fresh revelations of the Divine will, and rejoices in the assurance that it is the privilege of the pure in heart, not less now than in former ages, to hold communion with God, and to be guided by the teachings of his Holy Spirit. The time of its public assemblies is devoted, not to sectarian propagandism, nor to unprofitable strife and debate in regard to modes of faith and worship, but to the discovery and adoption of the measures best adapted to promote the welfare of the human family; to the application of the principles of justice and freedom to individuals, communities and nations; to the promulgation of testimonies against every system of oppression and wrong; to the cultivation of those sentiments, aspirations, yearnings and hopes which proclaim the soul of man immortal as his Maker; and to that exalted fellowship one with another which is the fruit of mutual toils and sacrifices in the cause of our common humanity.
All who feel attracted towards a Religious Society founded upon the principles, devoted to the objects, and animated by the spirit above described, are heartily invited to meet with us, and take part in our deliberations. 
OLIVER JOHNSON,
MARY ANN FULTON,
THEODORE D. WELD
ALICE ELIZA HAMBLETON, 
ALFRED H. LOVE,
SARAH M.BARNARD, 
THOMAS HAMBLETON,
ALLEN AGNEEW,
JENNIE K. SMITH,
HANNAH COX,
ANNIE STEMBACH,
DINAH MENDENHALL,
SUSANNA P. CHAMBERS,
RACHEL WILSON.
Communications for the meeting may be addressed to OLIVER JOHNSON, 48 Beekman street, New York, till the 30th of May; after that, to Hamorton, Chester Co., Pa.
Among those who are confidently expected to attend the meeting, and who will do so unless prevented by causes not foreseen, are George Thompson of England, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, and THEODORE TILTON.
Longwood is about thirty miles west of Philadelphia, from which place it is reached by the ears of the Philadelphia and Baltimore Central Railroad, which runs each way twice a day. The Progressive Friends are hospitable to strangers.
LORING MOODY, Agent of the New England Educational Commission for Freedmen, will lecture in New Hampshire as follows:-
Exeter, Wednesday, May 4.
South Newmarket, Thursday, May 5.
Newmarket, Friday, May 6.
Dover, Sunday, May 8.
And in Maine-
Saco, Tuesday, May 10
Yarmouth, Thursday, May 12.
Auburn, Sunday, May 15.
Winthrop, Wednesday, May 18.
Kendall's Mills, Thursday, May 19.
Bangor, Sunday, May 22.
PARKER PILLSBURY will deliver a lecture in Davis’s Hall, Plymouth, on Sunday evening next, at half-past 7 o’clock.  Subject: The Mystery of the War.
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak in
Lowell, Sunday, May 1.
AARON M. POWELL will address meeting at 
Canastota, N.Y. Sunday, May 1.
Whitesboro, N.Y. Monday, May 2.
Bion, N.Y. Tuesday, 3.
St. Johnsville, N.Y. Wednesday, May 4.
LIBERTY FOR ALL.-Wm. Wells Brown will speak on the above subject as follows:-
At Manville, R., I., Saturday, April 30.
Cumberland Hill, R., I., Sunday, May 1.
<c06>
ANNIVERSARY
Of THE
WOMEN’S LOYAL NATIONAL LEAGUE.
The Anniversary of the Women’s National League will be held in New York, Thursday, May 12th, at the church of the Puritans, at 10 o’clock, A. M.
Representatives from auxiliary Leagues, and all women who believe in a democratic form of government, are invited to attend.
The work of the hour is not alone to put down the rebels in arms, but TO EDUCATE THIRTY MILLIONS OF PEOPLE INTO THE IDEA OF A TRUE REPUBLIC. Hence, every influence and power that both men and women can bring to bear will be needed in the reconstruction of the nation on the basis of justice and equality.
As the educators of future statesmen, heroes and martyrs, it is the duty of women to inform themselves on all questions of national life, that they may infuse into, the politics of the nation a purer morality and religion.
This Revolution has thrown on woman new responsibilities, and awakened in her new powers and aspirations, no longer to be expended, as now, in mere surface work, but to be developed into a broader, deeper and higher range of thought and action than has of late been realized.
The nation’s destiny now trembles in the balance, and waits the electric word that shall rouse the women of the Republic to make themselves a POWER FOR FREEDOM in the coming Presidential campaign.
That all our sacrifices of wealth and ease and home, and the blood of our first-born, may not have been in vain, let us-earnest and heroic through suffering-now make haste to pronounce the doom of slavery, and ring the death-knell of caste and class throughout the land.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR, Secretaries.
Editors, please copy.
G. JULIAN HARNEY, (from Great Britain,) late editor of The Jersey Independent, Isle of Jersey, is desirous of hearing from old personal or political friends, citizens, or residents, of the United States. Address G. JULIAN HARNEY, Office of The Commonwealth, Boston, Mass.
The Post-Office address of Theodore D. Weld, Angelina G. Weld, and Sarah M. Grimke will hereafter be Fairmount, (Mass.) instead of West Newton.
TO LET, for the Summer season, one of the most desirable residences in Lynn, situated on Sagamore Hill, free from dust, mosquitoes and other annoyances, and within three minutes' walk of the Beach. The house will be let with or without the furniture. Rent reasonable for the times.
Inquire of J. BAILEY, on the premises. 
DIED-In Duxbury, 20th inst., Charles Latham, aged 59 years and 8 months. 
In Cincinnati, March 11, Mr. John Liverpool, aged 63.
In Rochester, N. Y., March 13, Hannah, wife of J. P. Morris, aged 50. 
In this city, March 27, Mrs. Betsey, widow of the late Peter Gray, aged 71 years and 10 months.

SUNSHINE: 
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR LECTURE ON HEALTH. By Mrs. DALL, Author of “Woman’s Labor,” “Woman under the Law,” &c. 16mo; paper, 35 cents. 
Sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
ALSO,
DR. BARTOL’S SERMON COMMEMORATIVE OF REV. T. STARR KING. 15 cents.
THE PHONIC PRIMER AND READER. A Rational Method of Teaching Reading by the Sounds of the Letters, without altering the Orthography. By Rev. J. C. zachos. 38 cents.
WALKER, WISE & CO., 
BOSTON. 
April 8-1w
THE RED SEA FREEDMEN,
A STIRRING Sermon for the times; unsectarian, untrammeled and progressive, bearing upon the activities of the Church and the prosperities of the Nation. By Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of “Clark’s School Visitor,” and Junior Pastor of the Church of the New Testament, Philadelphia.
A handsome pamphlet. Price 10 cent. $1 a dozen. Buy it, read it, and send it to a soldier. Address
J. W. DAUGHADAY, 
1308 Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
April 15. 3t
MASON & HAMLIN’S 
CABINET ORGANS. 
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN 
AT a very moderate cost- $85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusivesively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music. 
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
“Among those who have preferred written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N.Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel; of Mr. Beecher’s Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, & c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country. 
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston,
7 Mercer Street, New York
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26-6m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
ANGLO-SAXON WHITTLING SONG. 
"Your Yankee is always to be found with an old jackknife, and when he has nothing else to do, is eternally whittling."-Growling old Traveller.
In the olden times of England, the days of Norman pride, The mail-clad chieftain buckled on his broadsword at his side,
And, mounted on his trusty steed, from land to land he strayed.
And ever as he wandered on he whittled with his blade.
Oh, those dreamy days of whittling!
He was out in search of monsters-of giants grim and tall;
He was hunting up the griffins-the dragons great and small;
He broke through the oaken doors of many a castle gate, 
And what he whittled when within, 'tis needless to relate.
Oh, those foolish days of whittling!
But, when the pomp of feudal pride, like a dream, had passed away,
And everywhere the knightly steel was rusting to decay,
The common people drew their blades in quite another cause,
And in the place of giants grim, they whittled up the laws.
Oh, those stern old days of whittling!
They whittled down the royal throne, with all its ancient might, 
And many a tough old cavalier was whittled out of sight:
They whittled off the king's head, and set it on the wall;
They whittled out a commonwealth, but it could not last at all.
Oh, those fiery days of whittling!
They came across the stormy deep, a stern and iron hand,
 A solemn look on every face, their hatchets in their hand;
They whittled down the forest oak, the chestnut and the pine,
And planted in the wilderness the rose-tree and the vine.
Oh, those fearful days of whittling!
They made themselves a clearing, and housed their little freight, 
And put their Sunday coats on, and whittled out a State:
They cut it round so perfectly, they whittled it so "true,"
That it still stands in beauty, for all the world to view.
Oh, those grand old days of whittling!
When England sent her hirelings, with cannon, gun and blade, 
To break and batter down the State which these good men had made, 
The people seized for weapons whatever came to hand, 
And whittled these intruders back, and drove them from the land.
Oh, the heroic days of whittling!
In men of Saxon blood it stays-this love of whittling-still,
And something must be whittled to pacify the will; 
When the old wars were over, and peace came back again, 
They took to whittling mountains, and filling vale and glen.
Oh, those days of peaceful whittling!
They whittled out the railroad path, through hill and rock and sand,
And sent their snorting engines in thunder through the land;
Sails whitened all the harbors; the mountain valleys stirred,
And the hum and roar of labor through all the land were heard.
Oh, those busy days of whittling!
But there long had dwelt among us a gaunt and hideous wrong,
Set round with ancient guarantees, with legal ramparts strong;
With look and tone defiant, it feared not God or man,
But snatched on every side for power to work its wicked plan,
All ripe and dry for whittling.
Of old this wrong was humble, asking with piteous cry,
This only, to be left alone, in its own time to die;
But fed by this first yielding, bolder and bolder grown,
Shameless before the nations now, it reared its bloody throne.
The time draws nigh for whittling.
"Pride goes before destruction," the wise man said of old;
"whom the gods seek to ruin, they first make mad" and bold;
In the frenzy of its madness this Wrong forgot its place,
Came out with the noise of gongs to fright our Yankee whittling race.
God gave this chance for whittling.
And now, my trusty Saxons, who come from near and far,
Remember who your fathers were, and set your teeth for war:
"Sword of the Lord and Gideon!" be still your battle-cry,
And strike as Sampson struck of old, smite Slavery, hip and thigh!
Now is your time for whittling!
And when the land shall rest again from all this noise and strife,
And Peace her olive-branch shall wave o'er this broad realm of life, 
Fair as the sun our nation before the world shall stand,
Freedom on all her banners, freedom throughout the land.
Oh, these grand rewards of whittling!
-Congregationalist.

THE RETURN OF SPRING.
BY S. G. W.BENJAMIN.
Now genial days once more prevail,
The skies assume a softer blue,
The forests doff their icy mail,
And waiting stand, as if they knew 
The near approach of festive Spring,
And heard her heralds' trumpets ring.
Come, gentle spirit, laughing Spring,
O, hasten with thy magic wand!
To every heart new gladness bring, 
And spread rejoicing through the land!
Forsake awhile the bowers of Faery,
And come, for we expectant tarry.
Bring verdure for the mountain bleak,
Give fire unto the fading eye,
New health unto the wasting cheek,
Soft moonlights in a purple sky,
And tune the voices of the streams
With music from the land of dreams.
And let the lark thy footsteps follow,
The mellow blackbird and the thrush,
The wood-dove and the chattering swallow,
That hovers in the twilight's hush
Round mossy gables of the farm,
When all the air is faint with balm.
Broider the hills with columbines,
And deck the fields with daisies white;
Festoon the brooks with leafy vines,
Through which shall play the emerald light;
And bring meek violets for the brave,
To deck the patriot soldier's grave.
We bid the winds attune thy praise
With wild wierd music evermore, 
Where birches shake their quivering sprays
Beside the lakelet's silver shore,
Or where the pine its crest uproars,
And waves away the passing years.

SPRING.
Spring's glorious skies and breathings bland!
Come they while war is in the land?
Or have man's storms but Winter's sway,
And with its tempests rolled away?
The sun breaks forth: its quickening ray,
Like April's, warms the lengthening day;
Its power shall soon be felt on earth,
And unto grass and flowers give birth.
The streams shall leap and frolic free,
The violet greet the early bee,
The rose will lift its drooping head
From off its cool and mossy bed.
Oh, welcome Spring! thy smile can cheer
The soul in seasons dark and drear;
Thy wakening winds new life impart,
That lifts the burden from the heart!
<c02>
The Liberator.
HANNAH THURSTON.
A few weeks since, we heard a woman, cultivated, refined-herself the mother of many children, as well as the provident wife-speaking of this book. She was addressing a public audience-not on the vexed question of womanly rights, but pleading for her country with her country's sons. She turned aside for a moment, and in a few words of vigorous Saxon told her opinion of the man, who held up to foreign eyes this mutilated and distorted picture of his native land; held it up in the moment of her weakness when, had it been just and true, he should hare hidden it, with the whole length and breadth of a loyal heart. Before the echo of her words had died away, there came across the ocean a refrain-"Here, in England, Bayard Taylor's book is having a great success; people think it a telling sketch of American manners."
Until this moment, we had never thought the dilettanti hand, which we once saw dropping from the cushion of a lecturer's desk, sparkling with rings, and scented with perfume, could write anything that it would be necessary we should read. Now we began to think there might be a duty in the case-we got the book and read it, forcibly reminded, meanwhile, of Humboldt's remark, when some American recalled the flippant traveller to his mind. "Bayard Taylor? Did I ever meet him? Ah, yes; the man who had gone so far, and seen so little!" We have been lately told that the anecdote is not true but it so precisely expresses the character of this book, that we feel justified in quoting it.
In America, the absurdities and misrepresentations of this book can do no possible harm; but abroad they may perpetuate prejudices, and strengthen timeworn errors. Our chief business with it is with its hero and heroine, and their relation to the great discussion in regard to womanly rights. But that business cannot be followed till the way is cleared, and the town of Ptolemy is shown to be, not a common country town, where oxen low and dogs bark-where fishes bite and birds fly-where honest men follow the plough, and honest women the dairy-where society groups itself respectfully about its natural centres of culture and refinement-but a menagerie, into which this travelling showman has gathered all the odd specimens of Western and Yankee life he has been privileged to encounter, and labelled them from one 'habitat,' to save his scientific reputation or his personal convenience. The literary value of this book makes its weakness the more unpardonable. The man who tried to draw Maxwell Woodbury can draw, if he will, a strong and manly picture. The pencil which sketched so truly and tenderly the married life of Guglielma Thurston, may yet give to our walls some of their finest decorations; the hand that touched in the courtship of Bute and Carrie Dilworth, may write a novel, which, without meddling with the reforms whose significance the writer cannot see, should charm many a weary hour, and paint the dusky city room with vivid landscapes of country hillside and woodland walk. Bayard Taylor's poetic appreciation of nature is greater than his knowledge of American society. In a somewhat wide experience of rustic sewing circles, we have never seen the unfortunate spinster who compensated herself for the "lost instinct of maternity," by providing woolen dresses and embroidered jackets for the tropical wants of a spiritual child at Jutnapore. Nor did we ever meet a Hamilton Bue, who carried the interests of a "Saratoga Mutual" into his first courteous greetings, and balanced them by the wedges of "molasses cake" his wife dispensed with "black-mitted" hands. Why has not the unfaltering, generous flow of money, which this war has called forth, saved Mr. Bayard Taylor the mortification of sketching this sordid picture? Mrs. Waldo, escaping from the funeral to which only her sense of duty had carried her, and vulgarly throwing her slipper after the newly wedded pair-Mr. Grindle, lecturing his host on strong drink and tobacco at Lakeside-belong to a phase of society, into which there was no need to introduce a gentleman. The precise connection between bonnet ribbons and revivals is also beyond our grasp. 
The author's conceptions of reform are of a very limited nature. "Think of my wife taking the stump against Mrs. Blackford, and me and him doing the washing and cooking" said the Hon. Zeno Harder; and this sentence seems to comprise the whole amount of Bayard Taylor's information in regard to what is called "The Woman's Movement." If any such sect as the Cimmerians ever existed, who dress their minister in hair cloth, and baptize after the "precise manner of the Savior" we have fortunately escaped their acquaintance. Mr. Merrifield, when he opened the Woman's Rights Meeting, presents a picture of incapacity invented to throw ridicule on the Reform. In America, men are trained to public speaking, and the smallest village will offer a suitable person for a presiding officer. If our author has encountered an exception, he should have been truthful enough to label him properly. All sensible persons must share Woodbury's disgust at Mr. Dyce, but, if candid, they will pause to ask whether the whole body of Spiritualists, with Swedenborg and William Howitt at their head, are supposed to be fairly represented by this "free-love mejum." Under what particular "reform" it is, that Mrs. Merrifield claims "more than her equal share" in the management of the household, we are not told. The odium of the insinuation falls on poor Hannah's theories, where it belongs as little as Wendell Phillips at Mr. Whitlow's tea-table.
But the object of this book is to set before the world an answer to the questions raised at the "Woman's Convention" and Bayard Taylor's practised pen has found it easy to throw a glamor about the whole matter which may deceive the superficial. Neither Hannah Thurston nor Maxwell Woodbury has a consistent, well-developed character. Woodbury is simply an impossible man, and his brightest sayings are only bright because the simple Quaker, touched by a refinement and courtesy Mr. Taylor's Ptolemaic menagerie had not hitherto afforded her, forgot to answer them.
"Can one be too much in earnest?" she asks, timidly; and our modern Bayard replies, "Certainly, you would not pull a pink with the same serious application of strength that you would wind a bucket out of a well? "Hannah, absorbed in a new emotion, feels herself answered; otherwise, she would have said simply, "The cases are not analogous. I would pluck the flower as sincerely as I would draw the bucket." When Dyce says, "A man would as lief be thought wicked as chaste," we are glad to see Woodbury fly at his throat. But we have heard one of Bayard Taylor's personal friends defend the position stated by Dyce; and does the existing state of morals among the young men of New York admit of one much higher? However that may be, women, like the Quaker preacher, do not intend to fall to man's level in this respect, but to lift him to their own perception of parity which has no sex. Mr. Woodbury assumes that no woman ever sang the heroic story of Joan of Arc. Has he forgotten Mrs. Browning, our own dearer, sweeter, Maria Lowell, and the Princess of France, who chanted her national lyric in "obedient stone"? A little more cultivation, Mr. Bayard! Even the Calcutta newspapers might have told you something of Lydia Maria Child, had you cared to listen. You are welcome to scoff at the Standard, now that an anti-slavery President is safely housed at Washington.
In the character of Hannah Thurston, as a woman, there are quite as many inconsistencies. No pure and noble woman, such as she is meant to be, ever trusted her hearts' secret to a Seth Wattles, nor listened with admiration to an Abiram Stokes. It is generally conceded that a man should know something of the windmill he fights, but Mr. Taylor has not thought this necessary. His memories of old aunt Denison, in "noble self-abnegation, made her seem to him more queenly than Mary Wolstonecraft and Madame de Stael." We are led to infer that this noble self-
<c03>
abnegation was practiced after the usual fashion of the wife and mother. Mary Wolstonecraft, at the age of seventeen, took upon herself the duties of a fretful mother and an inefficient father. The oldest of a large family of children, she established one after the other in business; and when she married Imlay, at Paris, refused to have the legal papers executed, because it would throw into the power of her husband's creditors the income she earned by her pen, and which she provided for her unnatural father until his dying day. Madame de Stael was her father's amanuensis t fourteen. Ambition and conscious power, even them, stirred the pen which was to write "Germany" and "Corinne," But it annoyed her father to find her writing; probably his conscience was touched, when his financial reports called her from these rare flights of fancy. She taught herself in silence to write standing, that she might turn from her desk at the first sound of an approaching footstep, and seem to be awaiting him in idleness. Where was the deficiency of self-abnegation? Could good aunt Denison have surpassed it' Ah, carpet knight, you must watch your words! We women know more of each other than you know of us; and you need not shudder at the thought of our standing beside the dissecting table, when so many of those we love are coming back from the Potomac, maimed, halt, and blind; or while young girls, rejected as nurses, and thrown back and forth, like shuttlecocks, by .red tape officials, have gone in their own strength to the side of hospital transports, and with the quick tact an emergency brings, proved themselves to be worth more than the surgeons. 
There is something that repels every modest woman in a man's attempt to delineate the first dawnings of love in a woman's heart. Even the author of " Hard Gash " disgusts us with the pretty flutters into which he throws Miss Julia Dodd; and Bayard Taylor is no less coarse because he talks about a " woman's yearning for the tender ties which follow marriage." Oh, men! when will you open your eyes, and look at the women given you for helpmates? Women are very different from what you think. Love approaches them, and stays with them, through the sentiments. They hardly know passion of itself; and when they yield to it, it is because sentiment and religion have hallowed the yielding, and, therefore, in all doubtful positions they remain purer than you can. Self-abnegation is the crown of their love, self-indulgence the seal set on yours. "There is no woman," says our author's plain-spoken Mrs. Blake, "but yearns for a roan's breast to lay her bend on." Doubted; but if it were true, is there any man who does not yearn for a woman's calm support? And why should this flimsy statement move the very soul of Hannah Thurston? And what has the fact to do with either a man's or woman's work in the world? Love is divine, but it is not a vocation, and will not earn daily bread. 
As a statement of the position taken by women's rights women, this novel is absurdly defective. That an author should dare to deal with the subject without touching the question of the unpaid labor which lies, at its very base, without turning one regretful glance towards the 7,850 ruined women that in 1852 were walking the streets of New York, is preposterous. Ah, Mr. Bayard Taylor, it was pleasant, doubtless, riding through the attar fields at Guznapore; but you have entered quite a different path, and the work that awaits you here cannot be done with a gloved hand. Had Hannah Thurston ever understood the work on which she entered, she would not have turned from it because you offered her a home in your heart. Nor would the first stirring of her unborn child beneath her bosom have chilled the courage of her womanly nature. Oh, no! nerved by the thought that this child might prove a girl, she would have pleaded all the more for those in bonds as bound with them; and happy, beloved, and sheltered herself, she could not have rested without doing her very utmost for the wretched, the unloved, the exposed. We are told that those who sympathized with Bemis did no perceive the defect "in his basis"; and we are led to infer that this defect was an omission to state the "inherent differences in the destiny of the sexes." What are the differences of these destinies? A man is to be a father and husband-a "good provider," as the service tells us. A woman-a mother, a wife and housekeeper. Are these duties to absorb every moment of life? May the man never be a politician no a merchant, the woman an artist or a lecturer! Hundreds of spotless living examples cry shame on the weak statement, while every Irish washerwoman in the land shows the possibility of combining the hardest work with her physiological necessities, Hannah Thurston tells us that the right to vote is a small matter-she contended for the right to labor, and be paid. Mr. Taylor was smoking his beloved hookah, and did not hear the woman rightly. What she said was, " I contend for the price of my labor, because the terrible social evils, lying black at the heart of every great city, have roused public attention, and there is some chance of my getting it; but if I could get my citizenship recognized, I should have no need to plead for anything: my vote, my influence, in the community, would command all I want." Hannah Thurston says farther, that it is humiliating fur a woman to collect evidence as to her "equal intelligence We should think so! Again we smell the smoke from the hookah. Every woman knows that she the superior of her Irish coachman, yet her superior intelligence cannot command a higher price for he labor, or the recognition of her citizenship. At the very moment, the United States Congress is voting female clerks to the different departments on the condition of half pay, as if a woman could eat or wear lees than a man! He, alas! must be provided with " hookahs and smoky Islay " at the public expense" The moral distinctions of sex " which Hannah Thurs ton does not touch, would upset her whole argument Mr. Taylor thinks. Will he tell us what they are We women mean to see the time when men shall live, as women for the most part do live, unselfishly and purely. Moral distinctions suit the empire of the crescent-not that of the cross. Our young Quaker is represented as prejudiced against all men. If so, it must be upon her own responsibility, not upon that of the "Woman's Movement." Many are the men whom that has occasion to love and honor.
Poor Hannah's conversion to the old faith is a very ridiculous affair. Mrs. Blake upsets her "deep-rooted convictions of years " by vague talk about " yearnings," and an assertion that women " have never yet done the hard work of the world, and never will We should like to carry this carpet knight to the Bombay Ghauts, where he can see 7000 women carrying, under a tropical sun which no European can bear, burdens of earth and stone, to fill the valleys for the railroad which the English government is building; or to Holland, where, in the same wonderful year which the Cimmerians and Mr. Dyce made memorable in Ptolemy, women wearing leathern breast-plates, were harnessed like cattle to the canal boats. "Ambition" is the motive which has led Hannah Thurston away from household cares. The author knows, we suppose, for he made her. Fortunately for us, his creative power is limited. Most of us have been moved by a Divine compassion for sin which can not be forsaken, and suffering which could not be relieved. "I esteem both affection and intellect in woman," says Woodbury, "but the affection must preponderate." He need not have troubled himself to make the demand. The mischief is, that in ever; "strong-minded" woman, the affections do preponderate, and claim their own so strongly as very frequently to destroy the equilibrium of her life. Self renunciation and a stern self-discipline are what he hungry heart requires. "There can be no difficult in determining the rights of the sexes when they truly appreciate each other." Woodbury goes on, "The trust which those who marry feel, should be too complete to admit of a question of rights." Indeed! Does Mr. Taylor consider this a new theory of marriage; or is he aware that, from God's first day to his last, this is the poetic dream which beguiles human souls- God's richest gift when realized, life's deepest curse hen forfeited? Will he be kind enough to take his Tribune, and look at the record? What is to be done
<c04>
with those men and women, before the Superior Courts for divorce, before the Police Courts for assault and battery, who can take counsel no longer of each other's complete trust, but seek it at the hard hand of the law? If Hannah Thurston is happy at Lakeside, let her remember them, and go down to "Tumblety Hall" with a new power of a new love, to plead that society will protect those less fortunate than herself. Ah, Bayard Taylor! has the world, taught you so little? Can we be happy, and our sisters miserable? If life open with the fairest auspices, may not sickness, death, insanity, a thousand accidents, block its fair outlook? "It is," as Mrs. Stanton said, "very pleasant to lean, but when we have nothing on which to lean, we mast needs stand or fall. Linked to noble fathers, husbands, and brothers, we need no man from India to tell us we are thrice blessed; but the multitude of women who must ever be their own heads, hearts and hands, can draw but small inspiration from the honied lips of Maxwell Woodbury."
Hannah Thurston calls herself "disloyal to humanity," when she yields to her suitor's love. Where is the "woman's rights woman" who was ever guilty of such an absurdity? Happy wives and mothers stand on that platform, not to check marriage, but to make it a more sacred refuge for all. A weak and girlish pleader might indeed be silenced by her own happiness; not so those who have seen life shattered at the "Five Points" or beaten back by the waves of the "Black Sea" in Boston. Nor are the advocates of the reform so ignorant as Mr. Taylor would have us think. It is quite possible that Margaret Fuller had read Montaigne before she wrote the "Nineteenth Century"; and some of us have heard of a Hindu "Lilivati," whose traces lay very near the story of Maxwell's lovely Sacontala. In short, all that our author has to say upon the subject which sustains his novel, is contained in the sentence-"He had full confidence that, under whatever conditions of liberty, the female sex would instinctively find its true place." Let him print this on placards, and post it all over the land, as his last word; but let him never insult the genuine workers in this field by holding up the pure, refined, gifted but ignorant and inexperienced Hannah Thurston as a sample of the women among whom we find Lucretia Mott, Anna Jameson, and Elizabeth Stanton. When our experiment is tried, it will not convulse the world. It moves so quietly that Bayard Taylor does not seem to know that women are voting as well as speaking in Canada and Sweden; and that in Dublin, scarce a month ago, the Town Commissioners restored to women the old right of voting for town officers. A WOMAN FOR WOMEN. 
Boston, March, 1864. 

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK No. VI.
NEW YORK, April 21, 1864. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The chief important events of the past fortnight have centred at the capital of the nation-each one a sign of the times. Foremost and most significant of these, in an historic point of view, was the advent of GEORGE THOMPSON, and his cordial reception in the House of Representatives by the President,-and by the various Secretaries. Had the orator stood dumb before his expectant auditors, he would have found an excuse in the flood of recollections sufficient to overwhelm a man whose experience embraces such antagonistic relations to public opinion in this country. But his tongue was not tied. His sense of the marvellous change wrought not in thirty years, but in three, and a feeling of deep gratitude for the honor done to the Anti-Slavery cause in his person, inspired him to his finest eloquence. His public words and his private conversation were productive of a highly favorable impression upon all who came in contact with him, from Mr. Lincoln downwards.
The vote of the Senate on the 8th inst. marks an epoch in the new birth of the Republic. That body, by a vote of 38 to 6, gave their sanction to an amendment of the Constitution forever prohibitory of slavery. Of the opposition, but one represented a free State, and his personal character is such that it must be accounted fortunate he did not ally himself with the patriotic majority. Yet how strange are the in consistencies of well-meaning men not grounded on principle, or who act in the direction of principles which they do not fully comprehend! The greater includes the less, you would think; but here are Doolittle, and Foster, and Harris, and Sherman, and Trumbull-every one of whom voted to eradicate the rendition clause from the Constitution-joining with the Copperheads to amend Mr. Sumner's bill for the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Laws, so that the statute of 1793 may remain intact! Wisconsin, whose record has been so honorable on this very question, in times past, ought to repent in sackcloth and ashes for returning her present Senator-first on the list of fossils enumerated-to his place for another six years. Sherman disgraces Ohio, but Trumbull and "Egypt" are in admirable accord. 
In the face of this humiliating spectacle, and considering that the amendment of the Constitution is likely to suffer a defeat in the House, it becomes me to retract a former intimation that Senator Sumner was "wasting his energy" on the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law. The character of the present Congress warns us unmistakably that Freedom cannot have too many irons in the fire, nor count an effort for a partial victory idle or misspent. Let Mr. Sumner go on.
What I just now remarked about the lack of a thorough understanding of professed principles on the part of our leading politicians, finds a remarkable illustration in the case of the bill to organize Montana. This bill originated in the House, came up to the Senate, and was sent back with an amendment from Mr. Wilkinson, of Minnesota, which struck from it the word "white," disqualifying colored men from becoming citizens. The House Committee on Territories recommended the adoption of the amendment, but without success, and a Committee of Conference was appointed, which likewise reported in favor of justice. This time the House, with some bluster, instructs the Committee "to agree to no report which authorizes to vote any other than 'free white male citizens,' and those who have declared their intention to become such." The style of this dictation not being agreeable, the Senate, which, with Mr. Fessenden at its head, seemed disposed on the original score to recede, holds fast. The House then asks for a free Committee of Conference, and, as the matter stands, the Senate is still debating whether to agree or no. Some points in the discussion are of interest and of unappreciated importance. Remember that these Republicans, who, at Chicago, threw away almost every plank but the single issue of no slavery in the Territories, are now, as Senators, urging the nation to incorporate the logic and spirit of slavery into the institutions of a nascent State:-
Mr. DOOLITTLE (Un., Wis.) thought the question for which the Senate contended was an abstract one. There was not now, nor would there be, any number of negroes in Montana, and we were legislating against an emergency which would never occur in the history of the Territory. 
Mr. HALE (Un., N. H.) denied that the principle of the Senate's amendment was a mere abstraction. It was establishing the precedent of freedom for the Territory for all time to come. The bill without the Senate's amendment would allow the inhabitants of the young Territory to be educated in the barbarous ideas of slavery, which had done so much injury in times past.
Mr. TRUMBULL, (Un., III.) thought the tendency of the amendment was to alienate Union men, and help the rebellion. The bill defined the rights of suffrage, and the very first Legislature that met would dispose of the question for itself. A great deal has been said about negro equality, and about the equality of all men, and women, too, before the law; and it had been said that it mattered not whether the means by which this was secured were Constitutional or not. This Government could not be saved unless we saved it under the Constitution.
This was on the 19th of April-ominous date! On the 20th-
Mr. WILKINSON (Un., Minn.) replied to the remarks of Mr. Trumbull (Un., III.) yesterday. He said the 
<c05>
Senator had sneered at the proposition, which was calculated to destroy the harmony of the people of the North. We had now in our army 200,000, more or less, brave black men, fighting as earnestly for the suppression of the rebellion as any of the men sent from Illinois. And yet the Senator wants a discrimination made against this class in a bill to define the qualifications of voters in Montana. He (Wilkinson) was opposed any longer to the pro-slavery influences which had so long prevailed in the councils of the nation, and seemed now to be attempted to be conciliated by some of the Republican members. We are fighting against the very element which has so long exercised an evil power' and influence in this country. He did not know whether negroes would vote in Montana, or not. His amendment to the House bill, as adopted by the Senate, did not relate to who should vote in Montana, but as to the point that Congress should no longer legislate in the interests of slavery. The sooner Congress meets the issue before it, the better.
Mr. HENDRICKS (Dem., Ind.) said that while in some of the Eastern States negroes were allowed the right of suffrage, in the Northwest the sentiment has been clearly expressed that they should not be allowed to vote. When the negro is allowed to vote in Montana, he should be allowed to vote in all the States. 
Mr. DOOLITTLE (Un., Wis.) had no objection to this Committee of Conference. He was in favor of that portion of the amendment of the Senator from Minnesota, prohibiting foreigners from voting previous to the declaration of their intention to become citizens; but on the great question discussed here as to whether negroes shall be allowed to vote in the Territories or the District of Columbia, he thought it unwise, because it would divide the loyal people of this country. 
All honor to Mr. Wilkinson and Mr. Hale, for their clear-sighted adherence to the Republican idea! Such men are needed to assure us that judgment has not fled to brutish beasts.
The action of the House in the case of Mr. Kitchen, who claimed a seat as representative of the Seventh District of Virginia, is worthy of notice. The Committee on Elections reported adversely, on the ground that the territory represented was still open to the debate of arms, and that an election there was impossible. The House, however, declared him entitled to his place. 
A thorough discussion of the movement to expel Mr. Long from the House cannot be entered upon at this point of my letter. I have no more doubt of the right of expulsion in his case, than if the culprit had been Jeff. Davis himself. Mr. Harris far outstripped Mr. Long in coming to his rescue, and when it was discovered that the Maryland traitor could only be censured, of course all hope of ejecting the original offender was abandoned.
The President's speech at Baltimore was thoroughly characteristic. "The world," he said, "had long been in want of a correct definition of the word freedom. While all professed to advocate freedom, there was in the minds of many a very opposite view of what liberty was." Mr. Lincoln's idea of its meaning is, unhappily, not in doubt. For the black man, liberty excludes the lash and includes disfranchisement. The unparalleled atrocity at Fort Pillow stirred the President to an allusion to it, and to a promise of retaliation. But he must needs confess to his listeners that he was really at a loss to know where to strike, and could they help him? Neal Dow says the rebels want anybody but Lincoln for the next President. But it seems to me there is at least one prominent candidate for the office, who, having contemplated the contingency of retaliation for a whole year, and announced his intention to meet it, would not be found wringing his hands at the very pinch, or in want of proper subjects for retributive justice. And I, for one, am in favor of gratifying the rebels by making the change of Commander-in-Chief.
Gen. Butler has just exhibited his determination not to tolerate prejudice against color in his department, at least so far as it manifests itself in insults or abuse.-Parson Brownlow, who has long since ceased to talk of balancing traitors with Abolitionists on the gallows-tree, has at length declared himself in favor of emancipation.-Judge Barnard, of this city, is holding Mr. Greeley to a charge of contempt for a disparaging article in the Tribune. The return should have been made-"Impossible! the Court is beneath contempt!" M. DU PAYS.

THE. FORT PILLOW MASSACRE.
The St. Louis Democrat gives detailed accounts of the horrible affair in Fort Pillow, from which we gather the following clear statement of the forces engaged, and the dreadful scenes which followed the capture-for it was not a surrender: 
THE ATTACK. 
The rebels, under Forrest, appeared and drove in the pickets about sunrise on Tuesday morning. The garrison of the fort consisted of about two hundred of the Thirteenth Tennessee Volunteers and four hundred negro artillery, all under command of Major Booth; the gunboat No. 7 was also in the river. The rebels first attacked the two outer forts, and in several attempts to charge were repulsed. They were constantly reinforced, and extended their lines to the river on both sides of the fort. The garrison in the two outer forts were at length overpowered by superior numbers, and about noon evacuated them, and retired to the fort on the river. Here the fight was maintained with great obstinacy, and continued till about 4 P. M. 
The approach to the fort from the rear is over a gentle declivity, cleared and fully exposed to a raking fire from two sides of the fort. About 30 yards from the fort is a deep ravine, running all along the front, and so steep at the bottom as to be hidden from the fort and not commanded by its guns. The rebels charged with great boldness down the declivity, and faced, without blenching, a murderous fire from the guns and small arms of the fort, and crowded into the ravine, where they were sheltered from the fire by the steep bank which had been thus left by some unaccountable neglect or ignorance. Here the rebels organized for a final charge upon the fort, after sending a flag of truce with a demand for surrender, which was refused. The approach from the ravine was up through a deep, narrow gully, and the steep embankments of the fort.
THE CAPTURE. 
The last charge was made about four P. M. by the whole rebel force, and was successful after a most desperate and gallant defence. The rebel army was estimated at from two thousand to four thousand, and succeeded by mere force of numbers. The gunboat had not been idle, but guided by signals from the fort, poured upon the rebels a constant stream of shot and shell. She fired two hundred and sixty shells, and, as testified to by those who could see, with marvellous precision and with fatal effect. Major Booth, who was killed near the close of the fight, conducted the defence with great coolness, skill and gallantry. His last signal to the boat was, "We are hard pressed, and shall be overpowered." He refused to surrender, however, and fought to the last. By the uniform and voluntary testimony of the rebel officers, as well as the survivors of the fight, the negro artillery regiment fought with the bravery and! coolness of veterans, and served the guns with skill and precision. They did not falter or flinch until at the last charge, when it was evident they would be overpowered, they broke and fled towards the river; and here commenced the most barbarous and cruel outrages that ever the fiendishness of rebels has perpetrated during the war. 
THE REBEL ATROCITIES-NEGRO TROOPS MURDERED.
After the rebels were in undisputed possession of the fort and the survivors had surrendered, they commenced an indiscriminate butchery of all the Federal soldiery. The colored soldiers threw down their guns, and raised their arms in token of surrender, but not the least attention was paid to it. They continued to shoot down all they found. A number of them, finding no quarter was given, ran over the bluff to the river, and tried to conceal themselves under the bank and in the bushes, were pursued by the rebel savages, and implored them to spare their lives. Their appeals were made in vain, and they were all shot down in cold blood, and in full sight of the gunboat. The rebels chased and shot them down as they would hogs. 
I passed up the bank of the river, and counted fifty dead strewed along. One had crawled into a hollow log, and was killed in it; another had got over the bank in the river, and got on to a board that run out into the water. He lay on it on his face, with his feet in the water. He laid there when exposed stark and stiff. Several had tried to side in crevices made by the falling bank, and could not be seen without difficulty, but they were singled out and killed. 
<c06>
From the best information I could get, the white soldiers were, to a very considerable extent, treated in the same way. One of the 13th Tennessee-D. W. Harrison-informs me that after the surrender he was below the bluff, and one of the rebels presented a pistol to shoot him. He told him he had surrendered, and requested him not to fire. He spared him, and directed him to go up the bluff to the fort. Harrison asked him to go before him to go before him, or he would be shot by others, but he told him to go along. He started, and had not proceeded far before he met a rebel who presented his pistol. Harrison begged him not to fire, but paying no attention to his request, he fired and shot him through the shoulder, and another shot him in the leg. He fell, and while he lay unable to move, another came along and was about to fire again, when Harrison told him he was about to fire again, when Garrison told him he was badly wounded twice, and implored him not to fire. He asked Harrison if he had any money. He said he had a little money and a watch. The rebel took from him his watch and 90 dollars in money, and left him. Harrison is probably fatally wounded.
Several such cases have been related to me, and I think, to a great extent, the whites and negroes were indiscriminately murdered. The rebel Tenneseeans have about the same bitterness against Tennesseeans in the federal army, as against the negroes. And General Chalmers stated publicly, while on the Platte Valley, that though he did not encourage or countenance his men in shooting down negro captives, yet that it was right and justifiable.
Gen. Forrest is represented to have been badly wounded. Dr. Fitch, surgeon of the fort, was taken prisoner, and through the influence of some rebel surgeons was released on his parole, and came up with us. He confirms, from his own personal observation, the butchery of our soldiers by the rebels. He informed me that after the fort was taken, the soldiers ran down the bluff to the river, throwing away their arms, holding up their hands, and crying out that they surrendered, but the rebels continued to fire on them from the bluff without the least regard to their cries. Dr. Fitch says he saw twenty white soldiers paraded in line on the bank of the river, and when in line the rebels fired upon and killed all but one, who ran to the river, and hid under a; log, and in that condition was fired at a number of times, and wounded. He says Major Bradford also ran down to the river, and, after he told them he had surrendered, more than fifty shots were fired at him.
All of the officers of the negro regiment, and most of the Federal officers, of the fort, were either killed or wounded. Among the killed known are Adjutant Aiel, Capt. Bradford of Co. A, Capt. Porter of Co. B, Lieut. Barr of Co. D, and Lieut Wilson of Co. C-all of 13th Tenn. Adj't Deming was mortally wounded. Some seven of the white wounded died after they were brought on board the steamer Platte City, and two of the colored.

APOLOGY FOR MASSACRE.
MR. EDITOR :-I have not known the occasion when such a sensation of disgust has been excited in the minds of loyal men and women as at reading the pitiful apology put forth by the Boston Courier in behalf of the miscreants engaged in the Fort Pillow massacre. What must be the animus of the man, who, instead of experiencing a thrill of holy indignation and righteous wrath at the dastardly massacre, and giving expression to those feelings in fitting words, seeks to extenuate it, to find precedents for it, and to quibble for it, so that such deeds of horror may be made all the more easy for the perpetrators in the future?
What but the malice of the very father of lies could have prompted that assumed parallel between the spirit of the slaughter at Fort Pillow, and of a telegraphic despatch addressed by President Lincoln to Gen. McClellan, Sept. 18, 1862, and containing the words, "Destroy the rebel army if possible." It is not easy, says the candid Courier, to see how the two are "to be distinguished in spirit." The words of Lear might furnish the fitting reply to such pretended perversity of vision:
"Get thee glass eyes;
And, like a scurvy politician, seem
To see the things thou dost not!"
"Destroy the rebel army." As if any man in his senses would infer from those words that the writer meant massacre every man of the rebel army, surrendered prisoners, wounded men, dying men, and all! And yet the Courier affects to put this construction on the expression! It does not see how it is "distinguished"! Why, the very etymology of the word destroy gives the lie to the despicable pretence. The Latin de-struo, from which our word destroy proceeds, simply means to unbuild, to pull or tear down-simply to disorganize. There is no justification whatever for the Courier's forced, preposterous analogy.
Under such interpretations, when we might speak in favor of destroying an organization or a party, we should be supposed to advocate the brutal murder of every man belonging to it! What but that judicial blindness, but which evil seems always to blast the moral vision of its champions, could induce a writer thus to pervert a harmless, justifiable, and etymologically accurate expression, and labor to make it subserve the cause of such infernalism as that which held high jubilee the other day at Fort Pillow?-striving to make it appear that our humane, tender hearted President was in spirit equally guilty with those cowardly butchers!
The massacre at Fort Pillow was the legitimate out-cropping of that imperious, barbarous, remorseless spirit, born, bred and ingrained by slavery-a spirit that holds cheap every human life that comes in conflict with its own high will-a spirit that regards the larger part of the human race as created to forego all comforts, all culture, all rights of manhood or of womanhood, in order that the few may lazily lord it over the many-a spirit that aggravates and foments the prejudices of caste and color among the low whites, in order that these last may be the more easily led to their own undoing and deeper degradation.
Such was the spirit that hounded on the rebel soldiers to the killing of wounded and unresisting men at Fort Pillow. Such was the spirit that prompted the rebel General Buford to threaten with "no quarter" the negro troops at Columbus, Ky. To attribute such barbarities to the usuages of war, in this age of the world, is to utter what is notoriously false. Only when slavery shall be uprooted and trodden out forever will the spirit, capable of such excesses, be driven back to its satanic birth-place by our advancing civilization. It is such Northern utterances as those of the Courier that are now hampering and delaying the good work. How long will honest men encourage them by their support?-Boston Journal. A CITIZEN.
THE FORT PILLOW MASSACRE Additional evidence confirmatory of the horrible deeds of butchery at Fort Pillow comes to us daily. The last piece of testimony is that of an eye-witness who writes as follows to the Springfield (III.) State Journal:
"Blue uniforms to the number of forty were counted, shrouding the dead bodies of the slain martyrs. In all positions they lay-many were lying head downward on the bank at the edge of the water, having been driven back ward to the river, and then shot or stabbed till they fell. About three hundred blacks had been driven into the river, and drowned.
The following morning, the shooting of negroes was resumed, and many who had escaped the night before were discovered, and met their fate.
Some of the sabre gashes were frightful. Eyes were shot out, heads laid open till the brains oozed out, and many were shot through both lungs. Most of the wounds were in the bowels and lungs, and some of the men had from five to nine wounds. The legs of one man were both crushed, and one boy, not yet fifteen, had both legs and his back broken. Scarcely and had less than two or three severe wounds.
There is no doubt that the murderers intended every one should die. Nearly all the wounded could talk when first brought on board, and they all told the same story. There was no contradictions in their statements, and every one assured me he was unwounded when he gave himself up a prisoner. The hospital was fired, and the sick and wounded burned without mercy, and one sick man brought on the boat, who had escaped, told me himself that the rebels came to his tent, and deliberately set fire to it."
This massacre was, no doubt, designed to intimidate our people in regard to employing colored soldiers, or allowing mixed garrisons formed of whites and blacks, but it will fall short of its purpose. In stead of that, it will bind still closer together the loyal hearts; it will add vigor to our policy, and the law of retribution to our military code.-Hamilton Republican.
