THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLILSHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING.
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, VIZ:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 7 BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1580.
REFUGE OF OPPERSSION.
<c01>
From the New York Journal of Commerce.
UNWELCOME PRAISE
The approval by the Anti-Slavery Conception recently held at Albany, at which the Garrisons and the other original and pure-blooded Abolitionists figured as usual, of Mr. Seward’s doctrine of <illegible> between the slave and the free States, Seems to trouble the friends of the New York Senator, and to create the apprehension that such an accession to Sewardism will be dangerous to the prospects of that gentleman in the Presidential struggle. Possibly Such may be the case; but has Mr. Seward any right to complain? Garrison, Phillips, Quincy, and their comrades, have been urging on for years the very ‘conflict and antagonism’ which in his Rochester speech was made a part of the platform of sward, and it is they who have a right to find fault that he is stealing their thunder, rather than he or his friends to find fault with his new associates. If a man voluntarily enters a company whose leading spirits are of known bad repute, he certainly has no right to ask them to leave the premises, lest their presence should damage his reputation.
Bid as the Abolitionists are, and dangerous as their doctrines must be regarded, the leaders in the movement are entitled to the credit of consistency, for they have stuck by a bad cause with a tenacity which proves their earnestness and sincerity. They have denounced slavery and slaveholders with all the <illegible>m and bitterness of which the language is capable; they have denounced political parties and Christien churches for refusing to adopt their creed, and generally have pursued an aggressive course against everybody who failed to see the question of slavery in the same light as themselves. Their conduct and their action have been uniform, however wrong and <illegible>directed. 
The Seward men, acting the part of wary politicians, have trod carefully, and at a considerable distance in the wake of these pioneers in the ‘conflict,’ availing themselves of the benefits, but taking care to evade the responsibilities of the aggression upon slavery where it exists. leaving the Anti-Slavery men proper to bear the ignominy, while they appropriated the advantages to be gleaned from the anti-slavery movement. Lately, however, the mutations of politics have rendered a forward movement, in the judgment of Mr. Seward, necessary, and hence the bold avowals made in his Rochester speech; <illegible> which have secured for him the public endorsement and approval of the Garrison and Fred. Dauglass branch of the opposition, as expressed by their resolutions at the Albany Convention. In the language of the report transmitted to us from Albany,—
‘The resolutions go on to quote the language of Wm. H. Seward, respecting an irrepressible conflict between the free and slave States, and found on that I resolution declaring that any party is unworthy of confidence, no matter what its professions may be it is refuses to attack the institution of slavery itself.
‘The resolutions were debated at length by Messrs. Powell, Garrison, Pillsbury and others, and finally adopted’.
So that the language of Senator Seward ‘respecting an irrepressible conflict between the free and have States,’ has the sanction and approval of the Anti-Slavery Society, whose members, we are left to conclude, will cheerfully render their support to that gentleman as a candidate for the Presidency, Could be, as now seems highly probable, be nominated for that office.
Upon the principle that ‘birds of a feather flock together,’ this harmonious meeting on a common platform, of Seward and Garrison, is most natural, and we may add desirable. Animated by common platform, of Seward and Garrison, is most natural, and we may add desirable. Animated by common subjects, and having in view similar purposes, it is better that they should act together, and stand before the county as members of the same political organization, working for the same destiny—an irrepressible conflict’ between different sections of the Union.
In this connection we may appropriately refer to the statement of the Philadelphia Inquirer, through its Washington correspondent, that large editions of seward’s Rochester speech are being printed, and <illegible> broadcast over the country; upon which the Tribune of this city pertinently asks, ‘if it was made merely to head Gerrit Smith, and elect Mr. Morgan in New York, why issue it in such numbers from Washington?” The answer to this is, that it was not made’ merely to head Gerrit Smith,’ but primarily and mainly to raise a Presidential issue, which should place Mr. Seward in an attitude to receive the support, in the nominating Convention, of the anti-slaver sentiment in the Opposition, and preclude the possibility of his being beaten in the Convention by Crittenden, Fillmore, Bell, or say other of the more national aspirants for Presidential honors. It was made, at the time selected, to operate upon the New York election, so as to concentrate the Gerrit Smith and the entire antislavery vote upon Morgan, and thus place the Sward party in power in this State, as a means of getting control of a National Convention. The card worked well, and Seward now has every prospect of a triumph over all competition for the Opposition nomination. But we submit that his friends should not rudely repulse the genuine Abolitionists, who are delighted at finding so prominent a statesman on their own platform, and who could not resist the impulse to give expression to that gratification, in their late gathering at Albany.
ILOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS & Co. The Abolitionists, pure and simple, are a people of most extraordinary perseverance. For a quarter of a centary have they assembled three or four times a year, to pronounce the Union ‘a covenant with death and’ an agreement with hell.’ Regarding the government of their country in this unfavorable light, they feel bound to pledge themselves to its speedy overthrow.
The latest assemblage of these amiable creatures took place on Tuesday, at the city of Albany. It was styled ‘The New York State Anti-Slavery Convention;’ why, it is not very easy to say. Its moving spirits proceeded from Massachusetts. Emerging from Boston and its vicinity, a dozen or two, headed by GARRISON and PHILLIPS, went up to Al<illegible>, and for the hundredth time preached disunion. True, the audience was small; but the speakers were <illegible>.Twenty years’ practice in vituperation has made them accomplished. They have no rivals in the art of emphatic denunciation. The vials of their <illegible> are bitterer than gall.
Usually the Abolitionists are compelled to content themselves at their periodical gatherings with the repetition of former objurgations, But occasionally they manage to weave into the thread of their <illegible>some reference to passing events, or some <illegible> of sympathy with the deeds and words of <illegible>. A feature of this kind was made to give interest to the Albany proceedings, Mr. Seward’s <illegible> Speech being pressed into the service of <illegible> and Disunion with a degree of zest and <illegible> which shows how highly they would <illegible> any aid from that influential public man.—New York Times.
<c02>
SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
The Springfield Republican, referring to the numerous petitions now before the Legislature of Massachusetts, asking that body to put an end to slave-hunting in the Commonwealth, blows ‘hot and cold ‘ in the following facile manner:—
We doubt whether those who started the petition can tell what sort of legal enactments they want on the subject, and certainly the majority of thorn that sign it have never considered that question at all. The authors of the petition—half a dozen amiable philanthropists in Boston—aim only at the general agitation of the slavery question by it, without any view to practical results, and most of those that sign it do so only from their dislike to slavery and to negro-hunting, and from the feeling which every genuine Massachusetts man and woman entertains that it is a mean and despicable business. The sentiment is manly and Christian, and those who do at sympathize with it have no proper home in this latitude, wherever they may have bean born. But there is absolutely nothing more that the Massachusetts legislature can do in the matter. Our personal liberty law was meant to go up to the very verge of constitutional power in obstructing the hunting of runaway slaves upon our soil, and it does. There can be nothing further, unless we would pit the State against the general government, and resist the United States officers by actual violence. Those who sign these petitions do not desire open war with the general government on this question, There is nothing to be gained practically by any new legislation upon it. There is no slave-hunting in Massachusetts, and will not be. The business is too risky and costs too much. The slaveholders understand this, and act accordingly. Why then should we vex ourselves and waste our strength upon fictitious issues? Why, especially, should there be an effort to pat the State into a position which will be represented as treasonable, and which will go far towards neutralizing our moral influence on the subject? Great vital issues are continually being pressed upon us by the slave power, and all our strength and skill are required to meet them, and thwart the constantly recurring aggressions. It is worse than folly to waste our energy on unreal issues at home, when all our efforts are required in the great national conflict. There has been altogether too much of this folly in Massachusetts heretofore, for a State so well fitted by its intelligence, and early historical discipline for practical wisdom. But this petition is neither evidence of the unwisedom nor the anti-slavery fanaticism of our people, as it will be represented, but only of the thoughtlessness, the easy compliance and the good nature with which petitions for all sorts of purposes are signed.
This is not a very gross fault, to be sure, but it leads to this misconstruction of public sentiment, and it in may mislead the legislature; at least, it uses up their time, which is an expensive article to the tax-payers, and it should therefore be abated. If nobody would sign a petition, except upon individual conviction that the thing asked is necessary and proper, petitions would came to have significance, and the right of petition would be in use as well in theory, sacred. Now it means very little.

LEGISLATURE OF OHIO.
Report of the Committee on Federal Relations, on Sundry Petitions of Citizens of the Counties of 
Ashland and Columbiana, Ohio.
The standing Committee on Federal Relations, to Whom were referred the petitions of various residents of Ashland and Columbiana counties, asking the Legislature ‘to enact that no person, who has been held as a slave, shall he delivered up by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owe ‘service or labor’ to such claim that by the laws of any one of the Slave States of this Union ‘—would respectfully report:
That upon a reference to the Constitution of the United States, they find, in the last paragraph of section 2d, in article IV. of that ever-to-be revered instrument of compact, an express and unmistakable provision, directing that persons, held to service and labor in one State, under the laws thereof, and escaping into another, ‘shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.’ They find, secondly, that it has been regarded by the most eminent statesmen and ablest jurists of our land, as the bounden duty of the Congress of the United States, to enact all laws which may be necessary to carry into effect each and every provision of the Constitution; and that, in the opinion of many, this duty extends also to the Legislatures of the different States, so far as is necessary within their respective sovereign ties. They find, further, that Congress has passed what is called the Fugitive Slave Law to give efficacy to the above constitutional provision, and that the Supreme Court of the United states have, without a dissenting voice, decided that law to be constitutional and proper.
Art. VI. of the Constitution further declares that all laws, made in pursuance thereof, shall be the supreme law—the laws of any State to the contrary no withstanding. This taken in connection with the opinion of our master jurists, Chancellors Kent and Story, that the decisions of the Supreme Court upon the constitutional question mast stand as a part of that instrument itself until they are reversed, leads your committee to the conclusion that the ‘rendition of fugitives from labor’ is as solemn and certain an obligation as any imposed upon the States by the sacred compact of their Union.
Therefore, as the Senators and Representatives in this Legislature assembled, have each and all taken a solemn oath to support the Constitution of the United States, such an enactment as some of the residents of Ashland and Columbiana counties demand, can never be made without a palpable violation of that obligation.
Your committee, then, must deplore the offering of such petitions as indications of an unhealthy and rebellious public sentiment, and recommend, in future, that all such petitions be laid upon the table, without comment. They would, however, as a response to the present memorials, respectfully recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio, That while the right of petition, upon all subjects not. inconsistent with propriety and public morals, is sacred and inalienable, yet we, as the Representatives of the loyal sentiment of the people of Ohio, declare ourselves forever opposed to every description of sectional and unconstitutional legislation, and respectfully deprecate in future all memorials praying for such enactments. (1)
HUNTER BROOKE,
J. W. McFERRAN,
J. W. PAINE,
HENRY MORSE,
J. MILTON WILLIAMS
(1) This cunningly worded resolution (which is designed to legalize and permit slave-hunting on the soil of Ohio, though the term is not used, and also to browbeat those who petition for a law against it,) was adopted by the House of Representatives by the following vote:—Yeas 60, nays 17!!!
<c03>
SELECTIONS.
SLAVE-HUNTING IN OHIO.
A Committee of the Legislature of Ohio, consisting of Messrs. Hunter Brooke, J. W. McFerran, J. W. Paine, Henry Morse, and J. Milton Williams, having reported adversely to the petitions before that body, asking for the suppression of slave-hunting in Ohio, Dr. A. BROOKE, in the last number of the Anti-Slavry Bugle, addresses this kidnapping Committee in the following pungent style:
From the tenor of your report it would appear that not only your committee, but the Legislature which endorsed it, entertain an erroneous conception of the relation you sustain to your constituents. They send you to Columbus as their servants, and hired you to do their bidding. Instead of attending to your duty as such, you assume to be their masters, and lecture them, in reports like this upon constitutions and compacts, as if they ware not as competent to understant these subjects as yourselves. You characterize the expression of their will as ‘indications of unhealthy and rebellious public sentiment,’ and presume to recommend and that ‘their petitions be laid upon the table, without further comment,’ in future. A precious specimen, this, of Democracy and Republicanism, is it not? Humble and servile slaves, yourselves, politically, to the oligarchy which rules the nation, with no conception of a higher sense of self-respect in others than a just self-appreciation enables you to possess, it is natural enough you should desire to be, and therefore ape, the part of masters towards all who you suppose will submit to your domination. If the people really are prepared to endure it, they will deserve to be plunged into the deepest pit into which official insolence can sink them.
Since you have assumed the office of expounders of the Constitution, however, and to be judges of what is healthy public sentiment, there are several questions, both ethical and political, on which the people might profitably be made acquainted with your opinion. You have well styled the Federal Constitution a compact, although with expletives prefixed which were quite misplaced. As a matter either of policy or morality, is one party to a compact bound to fulfil its conditions, when the other openly and perseveringly refuses to do it? It can hardly have escaped your observation, that the first paragraph of the vary section and article of the Constitution from which you quote, as an imperative requisition on Ohio to surrender fugitive slaves, is continually, deliberately and defiantly violated by the people and the States at whose demand you would fling away the sovereignty of our State upon our own soil. That paragraph reads thus: ‘The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States.’ What binding influence to prevent wholesome legislation in Ohio resides in a compact, though sworn to by a thousand oaths, which the very parties demanding of us the surrender of fugitive slaves have entered into, and yet in various particulars refuse to obey? You know there is not any, and therefore your pretence that there is, by the intelligent can only be esteemed as hypocrisy. At this point, other important questions present. If you understand your oath to support the Constitution, to require of you to support or acquiesce in the Fugitive Slave Law, what right have you to take it? Does obedience to the civil, by an act which in itself is a violation of the moral law, justify and sanctify the dead? When you sink your obligitions and responsibilities as men in what you understand to be requirements upon you as citizens, is not the problem worthy of attempted solution —when the devil gets the citizen, what will become of the man?
There is no one so drunken by party spirit, so degraded in morals, as not to know that an obligition to refuse to assist himself, were he a fugitive slave, but rather to give him up, would be a wrong agreement, more righteously broken than kept. And knowing this, it seems as if he ought to be able to perceive that every attempt to excuse such a wrong done to another is a transparent lie, by which no one should be deceived.
Suppose the petitions, upon which you animadvert, are ‘indications of a rebellious public sentiment,’ can you imagine the rebels of 1776 left no legitimate posterity? ‘Tis true that too many who claim such descent appear to be bastards; but perhaps their parentage, correctly traced, would lead back to the tories of the same era. But, by ignoring our petitions, you may chance to develop the existence of a larger number of the true breed than has been calculated upon.
What reason exists why Ohio, with a population equalling in number the free people of the thirteen colonies at the time of the Declaration of Independence, and exceeding those colonies in all the elements of political power, should not demand, and establish for herself, the right to a complete sovereignty over every individual found upon her soil?
What power is there to prevent it, or foe to menace if she did it? On such an issue, the general government dare not lift a finger against her. In evidence of this, witness the Champaign county affair, from which the administration backed down, and dare not even venture a civil process in the courts. Witness glorious little Wisconsin, for four years defying her to enforce the Fugitive Slave Law on her soil. The slave owners, who are in reality the government, understand well, that the attempt to coerce a State which may take a stand for liberty into the support of slavery, will bring their whole ‘institution’ down about their ears, and they dare not risk the experiment. The people of Ohio, at least in many sections of the State, are ready for the issue. But, while they are misrepresented officially by assumed leaders, who, to accomplish their own selfish and party purposes , will consent to any meanness or wickedness demanded of them by those who dispense power and patronage, they have small opportunity to manifest their real sentiments. The South, or slave owning States, no more than the general government, dare oppose such issue when we make it, and for the same reason. The only weapon they would venture upon would be their usual bluster.
Messieurs of the committee, if it be possible for you to form a true estimate of the rights of man, and of the duty of the legislator to protect the humblest individual in the complete exercise of these rights, may we not hope you will seize the occasion of a further presentation of these petitions to make a new report, and, rising to the position of true manhood, give us one which will accord with the intelligence and dignity of the people you claim to represent?
Yours, with due respect,
A. BROOKE.
MARLBORO, Jan. 31, 1859.
At the Anniversary Meeting of Garrison & Co.’s Anti-Slavery Society, in Boston, on Wednesday last, subscriptions to the amount of $4,000 were received for the cause,—which is so much money thrown away.—N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
The Journal of Comment is incompetent to testify in a case like this.
<c04>
From the Utica ‘Central Independent.’
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Wendell Phillips is the Patrick Henry of New England. If he has less natural eloquence, less thrilling pathos, than the orator of the Revolution, he has more polish and as much power of origination. He is a ripe scholar, a lawyer of no ordinary calibre, and a reformer of the most radical school. He is the pet speaker of the East. He has great power of perception, sincere sympathy for the oppressed, and wonderful command over the stores of varied knowledge treasured up in his retentive memory. He has the ‘gifts that universities cannot bestow’—the current coin that cannot be counterfeited, —‘the prophet’s vision—the poet’s fancy—the light of genius.’ He is at home on the mountain top; and when he soars skyward, he is not lost among the clouds. He has all the sagacity of the man of business, united with the enthusiasm of the Utopian; and seems to be equally related to Maia the Eloquent, and Jupiter the Thunderer. He admires the eternal, the infinite, the heaven-like, the God-approximating in the nature of man, whatever may be the color of the envelop that contains these attributes.
Mr. Phillips’s speeches have in them the breath of life; hence they live long to swell the bosom and mike the heart throb. ‘He does not go to the lamp of the old schools to light his torch, but dips it into the sun, which accounts for its gorgeous effulgence.’ He is something a metaphysician, but is too much absorbed in the work of revolutionizing public sentiment, to devote his attention to subtle research and profound analysis. He makes but little preparation, and always speaks extemporaneously; consequently, some of his addresses are like a beautiful damsel in dishabille. Then his quotations are ringlets rolled up in paper, and the main part of the lecture like a loose gown, which now and then reveals a neck of pearl, and a voluptuous bust of snowy whiteness and beautiful proportions. He is often brilliant, never tedious. Sometimes his scholarship is seen conspicuously, but it is never pompously displayed.
It is a rich treat to hear Wendell Phillips speak to a large and appreciative audience. Let the reader fancy he is at a mass meeting in some forest temple. The sun shines as though delighted with the gathering; the sky-birds perch in silence on the neighboring trees, as though they were astonished at the proceedings; a song makes the welkin ring. The chairman announces the name of a favorite speaker. A genteel man steps gracefully upon the platform. He is neatly, not foppishly, dressed. A pleasant smile illuminates his noble face. He leaps, at a single bound, into the middle of the subject. He reasons, and his logic is on fire; he describes, and the subject is daguerreotyped on the retina of memory; he quotes from some classic author, and the excerpt is like an apple of gold in a picture of silver; he tells a story, and the impression it gives is indelible; he makes an appeal, and tears flow freely; he declaims, and the people are intensely excited; he soars, and his lips are touched with a live coal from the alter of inspiration.
Mr. Phillips believes in a ‘higher law;’ so he appeals to the sense of the everlasting in man. ‘He plays the Titanic game of rocks, and not a game of tennis-balls;’ and yet he ‘floods the heart with singular and thrilling pleasure.’ ‘He is the primed mouth-piece of an eloquent discharge, who presents, applies the linstock, and fires off;’ and the conservatives, who stand with their fingers in their ears, are startled by the report. Is there a mob? his words are like oil on the troubled billows of the chafed sea: he rebukes the winds of strife and the waves of faction, and there is a great calm. The serene face of his bosom friend, the leader of the league, is radiant with smiles; the severe front of a turncoat or a tyrant present, begins to relax; the doughface is ashamed of himself, and determines that hereafter he will be ‘a doer and not dough;’ the stiff-limbed finds a hinge in his joints, and his supple knees bow in homage to the speaker.
But we must find some fault or we shall be deemed a flatterer. Let us see: what shall we say? ‘Oh, he is an impracticible radical; he goes for the dissolution of the Union, the dismemberment of the Church, the destruction of the political parties.’ In this he is wrong. The Christian should do for Christ’s sake what the worldling does for the sake of humanity; then there will be no necessity for such a reproof. The body politic should sever the leprous limb of slavery; and then America would not limp so as to become the laughing-stock and a byword to the nations of the earth. The political parties at the North are leavened with anti-slavery doctrines; and it is hoped they will soon rise to the level of that benevolence which will render such rebukes unnecessary. It is difficult for us to find any fault in him. Reader, you may be Herod, but we cannot be Pilate, and consent to his crucifixion. We must confess that we love the man, although we cannot endorse his creed. It is a pity that he limits his usefulness by his fierce warfare against men and measures that are too long or too short for his iron bedstead.
Mr. Phillips is a man of fortune, and one of the distinguished few who contribute to support the enterprise in which he feels an interest, as much as he expands in sustaining himself and family. Physically, he is a noble specimen of a man. His head is sparingly covered with reddish hair—
‘The golden treasure nature showers down
On those foredoomed to wear Fame’s golden crown.’
A phrenologist would pronounce his head worth more than the South would be willing or able to give for it. He has large ideality and sublimity, hence he soars; large comparison and causality, so he reasons by analogy; large hope and benevolence, and the genial sunshine of good nature irradiates his countenance; large firmness and adhesiveness, and he abides by his friends through evil and through good report. His face is pleasant, and indicates exquisite taste, pure generosity, and Roman firmness. He is now in the full vigor of manhood, and ever ready at a moment’s warning to battle for what he deems the right. Woe be unto the man who enters the arena with him; for he wields a two-edged sword of Damascus steel. Many strong men have been slain by him; yea, many mighty men have fallen before him. Had he united with either of the great political parties, ha would have been chosen as a champion; for he is brilliant as Choate, without his bedlamitish idiosyncrasies: clear as Clay, without his accommodating, compromising disposition: learned as Winthrop, without his bookishness and drawing-room mannerism: genial as Cass, without his dullness: fiery as Banton, without his unapproachable self-sufficiency. He would entertain a promiscuous audience better than either of the above named men. He is not so logical as Webster: not so luminous as the ever-consistent Calhoun: not so learned as the second Adams: not so thrilling as Kentucky’s favorite; and yet he is a more instructive and a more interesting speaker than either of those distinguished men ever were, even in their palmiest days.
Wendell Phillips is universally esteemed and beloved. Even those who hate his creed, and dread his power, admire his disinterested kindness and irresistible eloquence.
<c05>
From the Weston (Missouri) Argus, Jan 26th.
THIRTEEN NEGROES CAPTURED IN KANSAS.
Men, Women and Children, belonging to citizens in Platte, Clay, St. Clair and Jackson Counties, Mo., in the charge of two Underground Railroad Agents, from Lawrence to Iowa!-Dr. Doy and Son!
The most gallant achievement and effective vindication of our rights ever since the war upon slave property has been inaugurated, it is our pleasing duty to chronicle, which we do through an Extra, in order that the country may have all the facts just as they are, before the howling misrepresentations of the abolitionists may poison the Northern atmosphere.
Several valuable negroes having been stolen a few days ago from this county, a party followed them-found where they had crossed the Missouri into Kansas, in charge of three white conductors-pursued them to Lawrence, and thence on the great Lane trail towards Iowa. But immediately after leaving Lawrence, they perceived that the fleeing party, consisting of three white men and thirteen negroes, could be overhauled at Oskaloosa, almost in sight of Lawrence. About ten o’clock in the morning, the assault was made upon the two wagons. The negroes were well armed, and would have made a deadly resistance, had not the white men surrendered after the first fire. No one was killed, and the whole party were captured and brought into this city about two o’clock this morning.
The negroes have all been identified as follows:
Wilson Hays-Says he is free; 21 years old; bright mulatto; five feet ten inches high.
Ranson Winston-About 33 years old; dark; five feet seven inches high; says he belongs to the estate of Jos. Winston, of St. Clair County, Mo.
Dan Bright-About eighteen years old; dark; belongs to widow Bright, in McGee’s addition, in Kansas City, Mo.
Abe Robey-About 58 years old; has a wife and two children, one five years, the other eighteen months old; dark; says he belongs to Robey, of Westport.
Ben Logan-About 22 years old; dark; about five feet ten inches; weight, 140 pounds; belongs to Gen. Kirk, in McGee’s addition to Kansas City, Mo.
One girl-About 22 years old; named Melinda; dark mulatto; belongs to Mrs. S. N. Wilson, Clay county, Mo.
Catherine West-Bright mulatto; 27 years old; belongs to T. H. West, Kansas City, Mo.
Mary Rassell-Bright mulatto; 33 years old; belongs to W. A. Newman, Weston, Mo.
The names of the scoundrels who were conducting these negroes off, are John and Chas. Doy, and Clough. They had an examination to-day, before Justices Colman and Heriot, and in default of $5,000 bail, were sent over to the county jail.

From the Lawrence [Kansas] Republican.
THE KIDNAPPING OF DR. DOY AND SON.
Several days since, some colored people employed Dr. Doy, who lives not far from this city, to take them to another point in the Territory. About ten miles from here, they were set upon by a band of miscreants, numbering some fifteen or twenty, mainly from Missouri, but comprising some wretches who pollute the soil of Kansas by making it their home, and forcibly taken and carried into Western Missouri. It was proposed at first by the kidnappers to murder Dr. Doy, his son, and another man who was with them, on the ground that ‘dead men tell no tales;’ but they finally concluded to take them to Missouri, where Dr. Doy and his son are now confined on a charge of stealing negroes from that State. Bail has been demanded in the excessive sum of $5,000.
We characterize this whole matter very mildly when we call it a flagrant and daring outrage. Dr. Doy is guilty of no crime. He has not been to Missouri to steal negroes. The charge on which he is imprisoned is entirely false. But, had he been a criminal of the highest grade, it was no way for an armed gang of wretches to come over here and kidnap him. He should have been properly arrested, and legally taken there, it at all. But, as we have said, he was guilty of no crime. He was doing only what he had a perfect right to do.
We may as well as once and forever dismiss all ideas of comity or good neighborhood with Missouri, if she is to send over here armed bands of villains and cut-throats to waylay and kidnap our citizens. For four years the citizens of Missouri have attempted to crush the people of Kansas. When we were weak, they overran us with fire and sword. They left the mark of their murderous incursions in the devastated and ruined homes of our citizens. 
We have grown strong-and in our strength we have been willing to bury the past. But if now, the citizens of Kansas are to be kidnapped and dragged into Missouri, to be harassed with prosecutions for offences never committed, and their lives imperiled; if Missouri is to set up a dictatorship as to what the citizens of Kansas shall do upon the soil of Kansas, then we say the people of this Territory will be justified in taking, yea, will be obliged to take, such retaliatory measures as will demonstrate to Missouri that the soil of Kansas cannot be invaded, and her citizens dragged into a foreign State with impunity. The soil of Kansas is sacred, and the rights of her citizens must be preserved inviolate.
One word to the infamous wretches in our midst, who are in league with these hounds from Missouri. You are known-marked, and if a hair of Doy’s head is hurt, you will be held responsible therefore. You urged the murder of Doy when he was taken. Are you better than murderers?
We publish this morning, from a Weston (Mo.) paper, the pro-slavery version of the late kidnapping of Kansas citizens. It glories in the fact that a mob of Missourians have invaded Kansas, and without law, dragged three of our citizens into Missouri. It gives the names of several of the colored people who were kidnapped. Perhaps we can add something to the Weston paper’s particulars concerning some of these chattels. They were not stolen from Missouri. Those who did come from there came voluntarily. They stole themselves, if there was any stealing about it. But, now, let us add a fact in regard to one of these colored women-a fact which lends additional luster to this gallant achievement of Missouri’s gallant sons. One of these <illegible> women was sent to Kansas by her owner’s wife, because he and his two sons used her for the gratification of their lust. This Missouri wife and mother sent money with the poor slave women, and offered to pay her expenses to Canada. She has been recaptured, and returned to the lustful embraces of her master and his sons! Isn’t this a glorious thing for a Missouri paper to exult over? Charming! Beautiful system this!-Lawrence Republican.
<c06>
The Leavenworth correspondent of the Lawrence (Kansas) Republican writes as follows:-
What shall I say when I come to speak of Dr. Doy and his son! My heart bleeds when I think of the wrongs they are now suffering, and fires with indignation at the insult offered to then and us—and for what? Nothing under God’s heavens that makes them amenable to the laws of any place or people but our own. And yet these men are caught, bound, handcuffed, mobbed, insulted, and threatened with burning—and all at the hands of human bloodhounds, wearing God’s image only as the livery in which they serve the blackest devil. And yet these men have committed no crime—broken no law. They have lived peaceably with all men. Bat when some poor fellow-being has come to them for aid, they followed the divine command, and held out the hand of sympathy—they were an hungered, and these noble men gave them meat—they were thirsty, and they gave them drink—strangers, and they took them in—sick and in prison, and they came unto them and helped them; and for this, and for this only, this band of fiends took them from their homes to a prison, and possibly to death. As the party came into Weston, we hear the old man asked some one for a drink of water, and even that was denied him, with curses. I would recommend to those who thus refused the poor man’s request, and to all engaged in that worse than devilish business, to read the 42d, in connection with the first clause of the 46th verses of the 25th chapter of the Gospel according to St. Matthew, if they can find a Bible in their God-forsaken town.
A messenger, sent from here on Saturday, to inquire into the condition of the two prisoners, returned at evening from Platte City, having been refused admittance to the jail, and being almost lynched himself, He fortunately had a copy of the Daily Times, of this city, of that morning, in his pocket, and on reading, that they concluded to let him go. It was the impression here, all day on Saturday, that General Lane would return, perhaps, with some of your boys, and the streets were lined with an excited crowd all day. We hope to see him, and would hail him gladly, especially it he came with Capt. Montgomery; for
‘One blast from his bugle horn
Were worth a thousand men.’
Two reliable and responsible citizens of Leavenworth rode over to Platte City to-day to demand the rendering up of the prisoners. God grant they may be successful. But if not, and if either Dr. Doy and his son, or either of these messengers are injured, or imprisoned, or insulted, God grant that we may resent it with the spirit of men engaged in a holy cause, and do battle to the end, however bitter that end may be. Talk about Liberty, and these things done among us unavenged! Why, Liberty is a farce; Human Rights playthings; Honor and Truth myths, signifying nothing. No! the time will come—we cannot tell when, but come it will, as surely as that God rules and will maintain the Right —when Liberty, and Freedom, and Law, and Honor, and Truth, shall be facts impregnable and sure—patent to every man—surrounding and blessing our homes, our fortunes and our institutions, defended and defending. There is a cloud over the sun just now. but it will break away. There is darkness, but there will shortly be light! Can men who are men lay down their arms in despair? I cannot believe it. But I forget I am a newsmonger, and must leave exhortation to other hands. 
UNSAFE AT HOME The Sioux City left for the South last evening, having on board the thirteen negroes recently captured by the Mayor of Weston. They are bound for the New Orleans market, a point that has no connection with the Underground Railroad—as yet.—Leavenworth Times.
So the human chattels have been shipped to the great New Orleans market. We talk of the African Slave Trade as horrible, and our laws make it piracy, but how is it a whit worse than this transaction? A portion of these colored people bad never been slaves—all of them were kidnapped, just as negroes are kidnapped in Africa. They were sold for gun, just as the piratical slave dealer sells his captives for gain. In a moral view, both transactions are identical, and both most abhorrent. Indeed, in many respects, this Missouri business is much the blackest. The kidnapped negroes from Africa are generally savages, while these people were civilized, had tasted of the sweets of liberty, and probably had flowing in their veins some of the best white blood of Missouri—quite likely that of their own masters. Missouri planters sending off their own children to the shambles of the great slave mart of the nation, are entitled, we think, to a guilty pre-eminence over their brethren, the slave dealers of the African coast.
But there is a compensation in all these matters, a retribution to come—outraged justice satisfying herself for the wrongs committed on her children. These thirteen kidnapped and exiled ones-these sold and marketed human beings—these feeling, acting. thinking chattels, may, and probably will pine and waste away amid the deadly rice swamps of the extreme South, finding their humble graves along the shores of the gulf, or on the banks of the Red river; yet, wherever they go, they shall be the apostles of that liberty from which they have been so cruelly torn. In the lonely cabins of that land of darkness and moral death, they shall tell many a stave who never heard the tale before, of a land where whips, and chains, and never-ending toil are not the portion of the poor colored man. They shell teach many a longing one the mystic meaning of the North Star. They shall plant the seeds of Freedom’s knowledge in many a breast, for that future harvest, peaceful and glorious, or bloody and terrible, which must surely come. God pity the poor creatures, and be merciful to this wicked and guilty nation which thus robs the poor and spoils the feeble! —Lawrence (Kansas) Republican.
LAW AGAINST KIDNAPPING. The late atrocious kidnapping of two of our citizens, and the detention of them in Missouri, demands from the Legislature an expression upon this subject. There is nothing in all our Southern difficulties which equals this bold crime upon the personal liberty of the citizens of Kansas, It was utterly without the shadow of an excuse or palliation. If Missouri can perpetrate these villanies upon Kansas, the sooner we know it the better. But, meanwhile, the Legislature ought to pass a law, calling for the strictest and swiftest punishment upon kidnapping, either by the principals or agents, aiders or abettors.—Ibid.
The meeting, test night, to rebuke kidnapping, was large, earnest, and determined. General Lane made a powerful and thrilling speech. O. A. Bassett, Esq. took strong and decided ground. H. P. Johnson, Esq. of Leavenworth, and Hon. J. C. Vaughan, made able and interesting speeches. The general feeling and sentiment was that kidnapping and man-hunting upon the soil of Kansas must cease. There was also the proper tone manifested toward those wretched miscreants and pimps, who sneak around in our midst, to do the dirty work; of the man-stealers. Some of them have already made tracks, to escape the indignation of an outraged community, and the others are marked!—Ibid.
NO UNION, WITH SLAVEHOLDEES.
The United States Constitution is ‘a <illegible> with death, and an agreement with <illegible>.’
‘The free States are the guardians and <illegible> supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other states, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other states in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the <illegible> of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, FEBRUARY 18, 1859.
THE TWENTY-FIFTH 
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY. 
SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY.
Borrow, Massachusetts, where the Anti-Slavery cause of the North American States first came into being, has, from that very fact and its consequences, always enjoyed the credit with the world of being an anti-slavery city. In London, in Paris, in Rome, in Berlin, in St. Domingo-wherever the American Abolitionists go-they find the comfort of hailing frees city with whose good reputation they have identified themselves.
During all the years that have passed since the first promulgation of the principles of Freedom, the friends who were the first to adopt them have been anxious to secure for them a general application, since that alone can save the country and the world from retrogression into all the barbarisms of which slavery is the sum-total, and from which it was hoped that the civilized world had nearly emerged.
ï¿½But how shall men know unless they have a teacher, and how shall they have a teacher unless he be sent?ï¿½ is still the practical side of every anti-slavery effort, in a country where tyranny had silenced the pulpit, muzzled the press, and nullified the post-office. So the anti-slavery families of Boston have always been desirous to keep the anti-slavery treasury supplied. This they have done for twenty-five years, after the measure of their ability, and with the aid of friends of the cause at home and abroad, by means of the National Anti-Slavery Bazaar, an instrumentality that could not be too highly estimated during the whole time of its continuance. In the unpretending character of a ladiesï¿½ fancy fair, it has done all that such a means could effect for the promotion of the cause, in many senses far more important than even in the pecuniary one.
We were rejoiced at the beginning of the present year to learn that a larger means of social and pecuniary co-operation had, in the course and fulness of time, become necessary; that the same principles, the same applications, the same object were to be more effectually promoted by the same friends who had hitherto conducted the National Anti-Slavery Bazaar, through the means of a NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY. The first of this new series of the old works is reported to us, as below; being a sketch of the recent Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, the observance of which now replaces the Bazaar in Boston.

REPORT.
The anti-slavery families of Boston and vicinity have for years found the numbers of the friends of the cause increasing far beyond the means of receiving and entertaining them which the fair afforded; and, in relinquishing it, their hope was, annually to secure the pleasure of meeting those most valued friends to whom the cause has been their introduction, under conditions far more agreeable to the guests, and more beneficial to the cause.
They therefore determined to engage the spacious and splendid Music Hall, to transform it into a succession of drawing-rooms (so to describe them, ) where, surrounded by their families, they might welcome their co-workers and sympathizing friends, from all parts of their country and the world, for conversation and counselï¿½for cheer, hope and remembranceï¿½for suggestion, enterprise and resolve-for union of means and of heart in the interests of the holiest and loftiest cause that ever saved and glorified a nation.
Of all who had united in the idea of this reception, one family alone was wanting to us when the day arrived-prevented by severe illness from assisting on this occasion the cause to which, for so many years, they have rendered such signal service. May recovered health speedily return them to us!
Meanwhile, the feelings which their vacant place awakened, as well as the sentiments with which the failure in the cause of what our Americans misname politics was regarded, were in unison with the letter of the Rev. Moncure D. Conway, to be found in another column.
But we of the East were favored also with the presence and correspondence of friends from other quarters than the West. The North gave us cheer and encouragement, and the South held not back from sympathy and co-operation. The letter of H. R. Helper, Esq., expressing his unity of feeling with the friends he addresses, and containing the assurance that numbers in his native State of NORTH CAROLINA are ready to strike for freedom with the first opportunity, was listened to with the highest sympathy and satisfaction. Mr. Helper enclosed a generous donation, saying, with that devotedness that makes the largest sum seem to the giver insufficient, ï¿½I could not have ventured to send so small a sum but for the knowledge that with yon no sum that is the emblem of sympathy is so accounted.
The letter of our ancient and honored friend Wm. P. Powell, formerly of NEW YORK., enclosing ï¿½20 from LIVERPOOL, is moat valuable to us as a proof that, in what the friends of freedom have done to abolish slavery, they hare the approbation of their oppressed clients.
Among the immense number of letters received, from names distinguished throughout the world and honored in the cause, scarcely any can be selected for publication without breach of confidence. Let the writers of them all be assured that they have not written in vain, since every word of approbation and encouragement, every token of agreement in great principles, and every statement of disagreement in details, air of great value to the cause.
It was one of the most delightful features of this occasion that it brought face to face the earliest and the latest friends of the cause, and in many instances those who had long desired to meet without finding an opportunity.
The subscriptions of English friends received during the year, for this anniversary, amount to half its whole receipts. Neither the letters nor the gifts accompanying can ever be forgotten, nor can their consequences ever cease to work, during all futurity. They mark a new feeling of moral unity among the nations, stranger than the faulty diplomacy of former times has permitted men to cherish, in that principle of freedom, the faithful application of which is the only guarantee of the common safety.
Those communications, of these and former years, have so awakened the best feelings of our beloved native land, that we trust this year may be the last in which their subscriptions shall exceed those of America in amount and wisdom of direction. Neither the American nor the European friends of our NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, taken conjointly, constitute even an approximation towards the whole number of those who desire the triumph of the cause; but, up to this time, we and they do represent the whole number of those who love it so wisely as to know, what every foe of liberty could teach themï¿½that, whether they agree in every detail with it or not, THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY is to the country what the edge is to the instrumentï¿½the vanguard to the armyï¿½the balance-wheel to the movement; and should be strengthened and defended accordingly.
While renewing the expression of our thanks to all, both at home and abroad, who have sympathized on this anniversary with us, in the great religious and political principles which form the basis of the Anti-Slavery Movement, we refer to the Resolutions of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, hereafter ap-
<c02>
pended, as a fitter acknowledgment than any that could in this place be offered.
We unite in the wish of a rained American friend, that ï¿½we all may do better next yearï¿½; so that, not-withstanding the disgraceful national compact, too criminal and too dangerous for one momentï¿½s allegiance, the present supreme hour of a nationï¿½s deadliest peril and brightest hope may not paw without awakening intellect and heart enough within it to ABOLISH SLAVERY.
SUBSCRIPTION LIST
Of the Twenty-fifth National Anti-Slavery Anniversary
(kept at Boston, January 26th, 1859.)
Mrs. Mary May, 20 00
Mrs. Eliza Lee Follen, 50 00
Mrs. H. G. Chapman, 200 00
Miss Chapman, 50 00
Mrs. Anna Shaw Greene, 200 0
Miss Sarah H. South wick, 3 00
Mrs. James M. Robbins, 20 00
Mrs. Samuel May, Jr., 10 00
Miss Anne Warren Weston, 20 00
Mrs. H. B. Stowe, 50 00
Mrs. G. R. Russell, 200 00
Mrs. Helen E. Garrison, 5 00
Mrs. Convers Francis, 5 00
Miss Susan C. Cabot, 25 00
Mrs. Von Arnim, 5 00
Mrs. Evelina A. S. Smith, 5 00
Mrs. Bramhall, 25 00
Mrs. Loring, 50 00
Mrs. Eddy, 15 00
Mrs. F. G. Shaw, 200 00
Miss Henrieta Sargent, 50 00
Samuel May, Esq., Hollis st., Boston, 20 00
Francis Jackson, 31 Hollis st., Boston, 50 00
Andrew Robeson, New Bedford, 50 00
John J. May, Dorchester, 10 00
The Misses May, 1 00
Rev. Samuel May, Leicester, 20 00
Frederic W. G. May, Esq., Boston, 25 00
Mrs. F. W. G. May, Boston, 3 00
Mrs. M. G. White, Boston, 3 00
Miss A. W. May, Boston, 5 00
Miss M. J. Parkman, Boston, 5 00
Mrs. William G. Weld, Boston, 20 00
A. Warren Goddard, Esq., Brookline, 5 00
Rev. Increase Smith, Dorchester, 5 00
Miss M. A. Sylvester, Dorchester, 2 00
Nathaniel Barney, Nantucket, 20 00
Joseph and Thankful Southwick, Grantville, 5 00
Mrs. R. H. Morrill, Grantville, 5 00
Rev. Samuel J. May, Syracuse, 10 00
Miss Robie, Boston, 10 00
Mr. Edmund Quincy, Dedham, 10 00
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Hovey, Boston, 100 00
Miss de Peyster, Staten Island, N. Y., 20 00
Richard Clap, Esq., Dorchester, 10 00
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Waldo Emerson, -10 00
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Wyman, 10 00
Miss Quincy, Boston, 10 00
Mrs. Lucinda Smith Otis, Boston, 20 00
Hon. John G. Palfrey, Cambridge, 5 00
H. R. Helper, Esq., North Carolina, 10 00
Mrs. R. W. Weston, N. Y., 50 00
Hon. Charles Francis Adams, 10 00
George Winslow, Esq., Boston, 50 00
Mrs. Nathan Brooks. Concord, Mass., 10 00
Mrs. Arnold, New Bedford, 50 00
Hon. David Joy and Mrs. C. A. Joy, 25 00
Mr. J. T. Hilton, Cambridge, 1 00
Mr. and Mrs. E. D. Draper, Hopedale, 100 00
Rev. Thomas Starr King, Boston, 10 00
Mr. and Mrs. Kingman, Cummington, 15 00
Joseph Cotton. Esq., Boston, 10 00
Rev. Convers Francis, Cambridge, 10 00
Miss Francis, Cambridge, 2 00
Mr. William C. Coffin, New Bedford, 20 00
Mr. Edmund Taber, New Bedford, 10 00
Mr. A. Howes and Mrs. Howes, Barnstable, 10 00
William Ashby, Newburyport, 5 00
Mehitable Haskell, Gloucester, 3 00
Mr. J. G. Dodge, West Cambridge, 5 00
Manchester A. S. Soc. by Mrs. Lizzie A.
Elwell, 20 00
Mrs. Lucretia Reed, Boston, 10 00
Mr. Perley King, Danvers, 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Merrill, Danversport, 3 00
Maria S. Page, Danversport, 1 00
T. B. Rice, Boston, 2 00
Mrs. Hamilton Willis, Boston, 5 00
E. B. Fay, Esq., Boston, 15 00
Mr. J. L. Whiting, Boston, 3 00
M. A. Sawin, Boston, 3 00
Mr. Otis, Dorchester, 3 00
Mr. B. F. Danforth, Boston, 5 00
Mr. Richard P. Hallowell, Boston, 5 00
Mr. Daniel Thaxter, Hingham, 5 00
Mr. John C. Haynes, 10 00
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Rogers, 5 00
Mr. A. G. Cansivode, Newburyport, 3 00
Miss A. M. H. Williams, 1 00
Mrs. Sarah Marston, Barnstable, 5 00
Russell Marston, 5 00
Mrs. Lockley,-
T. C. Severance. Esq., Roxbury, 5 00
Mrs. Emerson, Boston, 3 00
J. Sparrell, 1 00
Mrs. H. A. Saddler, 50
P. B. Cogswell, Concord, Mass., 3 00
Wm. Sparrell, Boston, 2 00
A. Bearse, 1 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½1 00
Wm. Proctor, Reading, 3 00
J. Sawyer, 1 00
Spooner Shaw, Cummington, 1 00
Miss Emma Stewart1 50
Daniel Mitchell, Esq., Fall River, 5 00
Rev. Robert C. Waterston, Boston, 3 00
Hon. James M. Robbins, Milton, 10 00
Miss Catherine Robbins, Milton, 1 00
Mrs. Daniel P. Parker, Boston, 10 00
Mrs. Denny, 20 00
Mrs. Margaret Hatch (for Portsmouth), 8 00
T. H. Hinckley, Milton, 5 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½5 00
Mrs. Gamaliel Bradford, Boston, 1 00
Mrs. Wallis Guild, 3 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½50
Benjamin Smith Lyman, 1 00
Edward Pierce. Esq., Milton, 1 00
Mrs. Horatio Jenkins, Chelsea, 10 00
ï¿½Two friends, ï¿½1 00
Mrs. Melendy (by P. P.) N. H.5 00
Lewis and Mary W. Mc Lauthlin, Pembroke, 2 00
Mr. and Mrs. Elias Richards, Weymouth, 5 00
Misses Lucia and Charlotte Bradford, Duxbury, 9 00
Mrs. J. S. Dwight, Boston, 3 00
Thomas Sherwin, Esq., Boston, 4 00
Mrs. Sherwin, 1 00
Mrs. Harvey Bradish, Upton, 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Hall, N. Y.20 00
Oliver Johnson. N. Y.10 00
Mrs. Hannah M. Castell, 10 00
Elisha Clap, Esq., Gill, 5 00
M. E. and Hiram Brown, Huntington, 5 00
N. M. Merritt, Huntington, 5 00
Dr. Jarvis Lewis, 2 00
William Neal, Esq., N. Y.5 00
ï¿½A Citizen of Kansas.ï¿½1 00
ï¿½A Friend, ï¿½10 00
Rev. Wm. Rounseville Alger, Boston, 5 00
Mrs. T. S. Drowne, Boston, 5 00
ï¿½A Friend, ï¿½60 00
Samuel L. Hill, Florence, 5 00
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 10 00
Jacob Leonard, East Bridgewater, 1 00
Hannah L. Leonard, 1 00
Harriet Denham. East Abington, 1 00
Philander Shaw, N. Abington, 15 00
Lydia O. Lefavre, Stoneham, 1 00
Abby Newhall, Stoneham, 1 00

FITCHBURG, by Mrs. Margaret P. Snow, of
which sum $10 to be appropriated to
the Tract Fund, 55 00

WARREN, by Mary Ann B. Blair, 
to wit: C. and E. Cutter, 2 00
J. and M. Powers, 2 00
N. Richardson, 3 00
Mrs. E. Coombs, 1 00
Joseph Lombard, 1 00
H. and E. Ward, 1 00
Eliza Bliss, 0 50
M. A. Moore, 0 25
M. A. B. Blair, 1 25ï¿½12 00
J. Frederick Marsh, 5 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½1 00
G. Walker, Boston, 1 00
E. H. Heywood. Hubbardston, 1 00
Mrs. Silloway, Cambridge, 3 00
Charles E. Hodges, 5 00
E. Gerry Dudley, 5 00
Misses Andrews, Newburyport, (by C. K. W.)5 00
Mores Sawin, Southboroï¿½2 50
H. S. and P. C. Whitney, 2 00
D. S. Whitney, 1 00
The Widow Fay, 0 25
Rev. S. S Hunting, Manchester. N. H.2 50
J. E. Estabrook, Rutland, 1 00
Mrs. Twichell, Brookline, 1 00
Jonathan Buffum, Lynn, 5 00
J. M. Hawkes, Manchester, N. H., 5 00
J. Winslow, Lynn, 2 00
B. Schlesinger, Boston, 15 00
Of which sums $300 were advanced, before they became due, to the American Anti-Slavery Society, by the ladies who subscribed them.
<c03>
C. H. Estabrook, Roxbury, 1 00
H. J. Prentiss, Boston, 5 00
Isaac Osgood, Charlestown, 2 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½-1 00
Mrs. John Thompson0 25
Mrs. Jackson, 2 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½1 00
Jacob R. Andrews, 1 00
Miss Blood, Brookline, 0 25
M. W. Stetson, Hanover, 2 00
Sarah Lily, 1 00
M. C. Peirce, Lynn, 1 00
Mary E. Peirce, Lynn, 1 00
J. E. Oliver, Lynn 2 50
J. Pierce, Lynn 3 00
Olive Oliver, 1 00
LYNN, by Miriam Johnson, 30 00
LYNN, by J. N. Buffum, 20 00
Charles Buffum, Lynn, by Mrs. Garrison, 25 00
ï¿½A friend.ï¿½1 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½ by L. W., 0 50
Mrs. John Jones, Roxbnry, 5 00
Elbridge Sprague, Abington, 2 00
Charles Follen, Boston, 10 00
Charles Rawline, Esq., Liverpool, 10 00
Charles W. Elliott, N. Y., 10 00
Mrs. James Novell and family, Portsmouth, 20 00
Rev. Dr. Hedge, Brookline, 2 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½5 00
Miss Lucy Osgood. Medford, 5 00
Henry I. Bowditch, Esq., M. D., 5 00
Mrs. Elizabeth Bartol, Boston, 5 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½1 00
Miss Chace, Salem, 1 00
Mrs. Kinsman, 1 00
Lydia H. Chace, 5 00
Ezekiel and Alice H. E. Thacher, 10 00
Miss Elizabeth Peabody, Boston, 1 00
S. W. and A. Whitney, 5 00
M. C. Clark, 1 00
Mrs. W. Wason,-
Mrs. Fitts, 0 75
George J. Fisher, Esq., -10 00
Mrs. Meloon, 3 00
Rev. Mr. Huidekoper, Meadville, Penn.5 00
Rev. Mr. Huidekoper, for a friend, 1 00
Mrs. Frederick Cabot, Boston, 2 00
Mr. Francis Cabot, Boston, 1 00
Miss Martha Cochran, Boston, 0 50
Follen Cabot, 1 00
Edward Atkinson, Esq., Brookline, 10 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½60 00
Mrs. Dabney, 2 00
Mis. Fields, 3 00
J. M. Aldrich, 5 00
James Tolman, 10 00
David Thayer, 3 00
Mrs. Daniel Hill, 2 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½2 00
ï¿½A young friend, ï¿½10 00
Samuel Carter, Boston, 10 00
Mary Ann Carter, Boston, 10 00
Sarah M. Babcock, 10 00
Mary B. Merriam, 10 00
Alfred and Abby W. Wyman, Worcester, 20 00
Dr. Joseph Sargent, W. Wyman, Worcester, 15 00
Mrs. William Ives, Salem, 2 00
Mrs. Stephen Clapp, Dorchester, 3 00
ï¿½A friend, ï¿½2 00
Mr. Bicknell, 1 00
Seth D. Chandler, Nashua, N. H.5 00
Mr. and Mrs. Forbush, Westminster, 5 00
ï¿½Two friends, ï¿½1 00
C. L. Joslin, Leominster, 1 00
Mrs. W. S. Brown, 2 00
Gilbert Smith, Harwich, 1 00
Mrs. Doton, Lowell.3 00
Lydia L.Walker, Leominster, 3 00
Friends in Boston, by Miss Tufts, to wit:
Mrs. J. P. Blanchard, 2 50
Miss A. M. Cotton, 2 50
Mr. Robertson, 50
Mr. Henry Harris, 50
Mr. S. H. Lewis, 1 00
Mr. J. P. Coburn, 1 00
Mr. J. D. Revalion, 50
Mr. J. P. Trask, 1 00
Mr. Coffin Pitts, 50
Mr. J. P. Smith, 1 00
WEST BROOKFIELD, by E. H. Heywood.
William Foster, 2 00
Rev. William B. Stone, 3 00
Colman W. Gilbert, 3 00
Francis Stone, 50
Jane A. M. Robinson, 2 00
J. and F. C. M. Henshaw, 4 00
E. F. Henshaw.50 
L. Wetmore, Wollcottville, Conn.6 00
LEOMINSTER, by Rev. Stephen Barken.
Joel Smith, 3 65
Isaac Smith, 1 00
Stephen Barker, 2 00
Solon Carter, 1 00
C. C. Field, 50
Mrs. Lydia Walker, 1 00
J. C. Allen.1 00
Mrs. E. R. Knapp, 50
James H. Carter, 50
Abel Bowers, 50
Geo. H. Taylor, 60
Edward Wilder, 2 00
Artemas Carter, 25
A. J. Newhall, 1 00
A. M. Polley, 50
Nathan Sprague, 50
Jonas Colburn, 50
Daniel Maynard, 50
William Booth, 25
A. P. Newhall, 23
C. H. Merriam, 30
W. H. Yean, 33
M. M. Chase, 34
C. B. Cook, 33
Other friends, 80
HINGHAM ELIZABETH Cushing, 5 00
Mary T. Tidmarsh, 3 00
Ada Whiton, 3 00
Louisa R. Beal, 2 00
Dora Wilder, 1 00
Mrs. Ednah Cheney, 3 00
Mary R. Whiting, 50
Miss Jane Alexander, 1 00
Mr. H. G. Denny, 10 00
Rev. N. Hall, Dorchester, 3 00
Mrs. Hall, Dorchester2 00
Miss Groom, Dorchester 5 00
J. C. Lindsley20 00
Mrs. L. B. Merriam, 10 00
Mrs. John Wright, 50
Mrs. John Coburn, 60
Mrs. Firth and Mrs. Theodore Brown, 3 00
A. B. Humphrey, 1 00
H. Porter1 00
M. S. McFarland, 15 00
Sophia S. McFarland, 15 00
Mrs. Rhoda Powers, 25 00
T. R. Watson, 1 00
Cash, 3 00
Mrs. Dr. Whitcomb and Brookline friends, 5 00
PORTLAND, Maine, by Rev. Frederick Frothingham and friends, 35 00
Julia A. Blanchard, Lebanon, Ct., by J. A.
Howland, 1 00
Fidelia Blanchard, 1 00
A friend, by Louisa Ricketson, New Bedford, 1 00
Joshua Coolidge, Jr., Water town, 10 00
Anna E. Sibley, Chelsea, 6 00
Charles E. Jenkins, Boston, 10 00
Mrs. Gilbert, Cambridge, 3 00
Miss Sarah J. Davee, Plymouth, 1 00
Theodore B. Moses, Great Falls, N. H.2 50
Elizabeth M.ï¿½ Remond, Salem, 5 00
J. T. Everett, Princeton, 1 00
Harriette M. Palmer, Brooklyn, N. Y., 3 00

EUROPEAN SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Through Messrs. Baring, Brothers& Co.
Thomas and Esther Sturge, NORTHFLEET
HOUSE (near Gravesend), KENT, ENGLAND, ï¿½200 0 0
Mrs. George Martineau, 20 0 0
Miss F. Martineau, BRACONDALE, Norfolk, 10 0 0
Miss M. Martineau, 10 0 0
H. Crabb Robinson, Esq., London, 10 0 0
Mrs. Michell, Bridgewater, Somersetshire, 5 0 0
D. Martineau, Esq., Clapham, near London
 (byH. M.) 4 0 0
Mrs. Harriet Martineau, (by M. W. C.) THE
KNOLL, Ambleside, WESTMORELAND, 5 0 0
By Mr. R, D. Webb, Great Brunswick street, DUBLIN.
ï¿½ a d
Misses Ellen and Charlotte Allen, Dublin, 10 0 0
Mrs. Richard Allen, Dublin, 6 0 0
Mrs. Arnold Foxhow, 1 0 0
Miss Barrington, Dublin, (collection) 1 3 6
Bridgend and Llandaff, Friends, 2 0 0
Miss Buol and pupils, Nottingham1 6 6
The Earl of Carlisle, 10 10 0
Miss Courtauld, Rocking, Essex, 6 0 0
Mrs. J. Cropper, Liverpool, 1 0 0
J. Crossfield, Esq., Ambleside, 1 0 0
Mrs. Davy, 1 0 0
DUBLIN Ladiesï¿½ Anti-Slavery Society, 5 0 0
Mrs. Edmundson, Dublin, 2 0 0
Mrs. Edmundson, Dublin, collection, 1 19 0
A friend, by Miss Martineau, 2 0 0
Rev. R. Percival Graves, DOVEï¿½S NEST, 
Windermere, 2 0 0
Halifax, Yorkshire (collection)18 5 6
The Misses Haughton, Dublin collection7 9 0
Hon, C. Howard (per Laid Carlisle), 1 1 0
<c04>
Mrs. Hiley. Woodhouse (per Miss Martineau, )1 0 0
Mrs. Hornby, Wandsfell, by the same, 1 0 0
Dr. Hutton, Derby (collection)1 10 0
Miss Lupton, North Water2 0 0
LEEDS, Yorkshire (collection)16 5 0
Robert Martineau, Esq., Birmingham, 4 0 0
Richard Martineau, Esq., London, 2 2 0
Miss C. Martineau, 0 10 0
William Malone, Esq., Dublin, 0 10 0
Miss Meyer, Windermere, 1 0 0
Mira Moses, Dublin, (collection)2 0 0
B. Smith, Esq., Think, 2 0 0
Mrs. Henry Turner, Nottingham, 4 0 0
Maria Waring, Waterford, 20 0 0
Richard D. Webb, Dublin, 2 0 0
James H. Webb, Dublin, 2 0 0
Henry Wigham, Dublin, 1 10 0
John Wigham, Dublin1 10 0
Mrs. P. A. Taylor, Hampstead, 5 0 0
Mrs. W. Malleson, 1 0 0
Miss Martineau, near Norwich, 2 0 0
Lady Mary Labouchere, 2 0 0
A friend, per Mrs.H. Martineau, 0 11 0
Miss Swain, York, 1 0 0
Miss Yates, Liverpool, 1 0 0
J. Coleman, Esq. Norwich, 5 0 0
Nottingham Ladiesï¿½ Anti-Slavery Society, 7 0 0
W. E. Foster, Esq.. Yorkshire, 5 0 0
A friend, unknown, by Mrs. H. M.0 7 6

Mrs. Reed and Miss Sturch, London, 15 0 0
BOLTON, Lancashire, per Mrs. Payne, 16 0 0
MANCHESTER, per Miss R. Whitelegge, 15 0 0
EDINBURGH, including PRESTON, Jane Abbatt, 7 0 0
LEIGH, Ann Fletcher, 7 10 0
READING, E. S. Palmer, 3 7 6
James Inglis, 2 5 0
Lord Murray, Edinburgh, 2 0 0
By Mrs. Wigham, 50 0 0
GLASGOW, Catharine and Andrew Paton, 30 0 0
BRISTOL, by Mrs. Stephens, 38 14 0
LIVERPOOL (including Mrs. Howorthï¿½s BURY
col.) by William P. Powell, 20 0 0
PERTH, by Mrs. D. Morton, 15 0 0
WARRNINGTON, by Mrs. Robson, 2 0 0
Mr. and Miss Hall, (by Miss Weston.) Rome, 60 francs.
Mrs. Bellamy Hunt, Rome, 100 francs.
Mademoiselle Wild, Rome, 20 francs.
SUMMARY OF SUBSCRIPTIONS.
[Including small items to be paid hereafter.]
Home Friends, $3, 059 54
Foreign Friends3, 057 48
Total, $6, 117 02
The above sums, with interest at 6 per cent., from the time of receiving them, have been paid, through the Massachusetts Society, into the Treasury of the American Society, and will be acknowledged in its next Annual Report.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN.
LETTERS FROM FRIENDS OF THE CAUSE.
From Rev. M. D. Conway
CINCINNATI, Jan. 21st.
Your kind invitation to be present at the Twenty-fifth National Subscription Anniversary, on the 26th, ï¿½ has just reached me. I do not know that these lines will reach you before that time; but if they do, they will tell all who ever think of us at all, that our heart is still trying to be true to the great cause of Human Freedom. I would, in these lines, out of my heartï¿½s depths, call on the youth of -the land to scan well the work God is preparing for them. One moment word comes that a MAY has tottered as he stood faithfully by his port, and must take that voyage abroad whose very sound is ominous; the next, alas! tells us that the noble PARKER must leave that pulpit where ever amongst insane voices, one sane one could be heard-a voice, too, which, by right of sanity, was felt from circumference to centre. ï¿½My Father, my Father! the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof!ï¿½
Well, God help us: we are sure to have voices, even though the stillness should be such that the stones should cry out; but I confess I do not see the youth of the land to be fully conscious of what it is to do. This abominable Fusion Republicanism, which is full of zeal and heroism in maintaining that Kansas ought to be allowed to say whether she will have slavery or not, and that anti-Lecomptonism is the grand efflorescence and final climax of its aim and desireï¿½this whipped spaniel of a party, which will go down to the lowest rung of the ladder for success-has corrupted the young men in the West. It has been worse than the Hessian fly in wheatï¿½noble heads lie low. Were it not that one trusts that there are some hearts who have been liberated by the very evils which have corrupted othersï¿½hearts which, by superb reactions, leap on that ark which rides above all party deluges, bearing the seed of the true and free race which is to people this Western palatinate in Godï¿½s yearï¿½we should despair. But that these parties which try to cross the Dark River should, one by one, like swimming swine, cut their throats by their very swinishness, seems to be one of the methods of our salvation. Men are to do this work, not soulless parties; therefore every party falls into the sin of idolizing success; and, thank God, ï¿½Sin, when it hath conceived, bringeth forth death.ï¿½ And in the case of all parties I know any thing about, I say, the sooner the better. Adieu, O Parties, which would part the very raiment of Christ, and cast lots for his vesture!
May God bless you all, friends of Freedom and Truth; and, ere you keep your golden wedding with the cause, may it be in a liberated land, where the Anti- Slavery Society may sit down to remember the old days of strife, with the rescued ones about her, saying. ï¿½Here am I, and the children thou hast given me.ï¿½ Yours, M. D. CONWAT.
From William P. Powell.
LIVERPOOL, Dec. 10, 1858.
To the President of the National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, Boston, Massachusetts.
If there is one thing that encourages and strengthens us, in our ceaseless demands for the unconditional emancipation of the slave, more than another, it is the fidelity of the American Anti-Slavery Society and its friends. They have always religiously and faithfully resisted the damnable heresies of the so-called American Christian Church, which teaches that the Bible and its Divine Author sanction negro slavery. Therefore we deny the stereotyped imputation, that the Garrisonian Abolitionists are Infidels and Atheists. Who, then, we ask, are the Infidels and Atheists, if not the American Evangelical Church and false prophets who, like Baalam, are hired by the American Baals to curse, reduce and hold Godï¿½s poor in worse than Egyptian bondage? In our humble opinion, after thirty years of anti-slavery experience, we have proved to the world that the cause of vital Christianity and humanity is indebted to that noble band of men and women for their unswerving devotion to the truths contained in that blessed book.
Courage, friends! We have driven the enemy from one post of defence to anotherï¿½even their last stronghold, the Bible, from behind which they hurled at us their most foul calumnies, only to recoil upon themselves. ï¿½We have met the enemy, and they are ours.ï¿½ The slaveholdersï¿½ ï¿½Jordan is a hard road to travel.ï¿½ But they rally once more. ï¿½In the imminent deadly breach ï¿½they erect another battery, viz., the glorious Union, mounted with thirty-two pounder State Constitutions, and their mammoth peace-maker, the United States Constitution, and last, not least, the corrupt Church. With these formidable weapons they renew the attack. On the contrary, we have God, the slave, and his flaming two-edged sword of truthï¿½the Bibleï¿½on our side. Oar weapons are not carnal, but spiritual, and mighty through God; they are invincibleï¿½they must and shall prevail; and, by Godï¿½s blessing, if we faint not, if we remain true to our convictions of duty, though troubled on every side, perplexed, persecuted, and often cast down, driven out from and disowned by Church and State as outlaws-who in much patience, afflictions, necessities, distresses, stripes and imprisonments, and even death-who by pureness, long suffering, kindness to the slaveholder and love for the slave, by the word of truth, by the power of God, by the armor of righteousness, on the right hand and on the left, by evil report and good report, as deceivers and yet true, as unknown and yet 
<c05>
well knownï¿½if you will only continue to refuse to support the United States Constitution, take no part in the government, nor vote at elections, nor hold office, nor acknowledge the binding force of the bloody slaveholding contract, directly nor indirectlyï¿½if you refuse to take the oath of allegiance, nor obey the law of slaveryï¿½if you demand and insist that your nest Legislature shall pass a taw giving protection to every slave who may come into the State of Massachusetts, in another long campaign the blackened ramparts of American slavery will surely topple to the ground.
WLLIAM P. POWELL.
From Rev. Samuel J. May.
BOSTON, Dec. 29, 1859 
DEAR MRS. CHAPMAN: As I sail for Europe tomorrow, I cannot have the pleasure of attending the Financial And-Slavery Festival in January. But I shall be more willing to be absent, if I may be allowed to contribute my mite to the fund, which I hope will then be collected, to help forward tae great work to which, under God, we were called by our beloved Mr. Garrison, and to which you and I put our hands, twenty-yean ago and more.
Yours, truly, S. J. MAY.
From Charles W. Elliott, Esq.
New York, Jan. 21, 1859. 
MY DEAR, KIND FRIEND: Your remembrance and invitation to meet with you reached me in due season.
My wife desires me to enclose to you her small contribution to the cause, which I gladly do, regretting that my purse is so inadequate to my wishes and your work.
It is doubtful if I can partake of the feast yon offer; but, whether I can or no, my hopes and efforts are devoted, to-day and forever, to the cause of manhood, justice and liberty, in which you and your friends have sanctified your lives.
Whatever mischief, or misery, or trial the slaves and their friends may yet be called upon to endure, I know not; but this I know, that God is stronger than the devil, and therefore that liberty and justice must triumph. Infidelity and oppression are doomed by a righteous and indignant public opinion, and the shackles must be broken. In this faith I am
Very sincerely yours, 
CHARLES W. ELLIOTT. 
To Mrs. Follen.
From Hinton R. Helper, Esq.
NEW YORK, Jan. 24, 1859.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your kind invitation to attend the twenty-fifth National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, to be held at the Music Hall, in Boston, on Wednesday, the 26th inst.; and while regretting that my business engagements will deny me the pleasure and profit of meeting you there and then, I beg that, as a slight evidence of my best wishes for your success as an association, and your happiness as individuals, yon will accept the little bank bill herewith enclosedï¿½ten dollarsï¿½which I am emboldened to send only on the assurance on your part that, with your Society, ï¿½no sum that is the type of sympathy is accounted small.ï¿½
It may be, and I dare say will be, interesting to you to hear that, in the absence of a proper sense of moral or religious duty in the premises, the great principles of political expediency, which you and other friends of Free Labor have so long and so faithfully inculcated, are now beginning to be duly appreciated in all of the more northerly and westerly slave States. Even in North Carolina, (my native State, ) the feeling in opposition to slavery is gaining strength every day; and within the last few weeks, I have received several letters from correspondents there, in different counties, giving most gratifying assurances of fidelity to our cause, and who, I am happy to inform you, are impatiently awaiting a fit time to strike for Freedom in the South.
Yours, very truly, 
H. R. HELPER.
From Rev. Stephen Barker.
LEOMINSTER, Jan. 26, 1859.
DEAR MADAM: By speaking to a few friends, and through the kindness of Mr. Isaac Smith, who has called on several of our good anti-slavery people, we are able to send you twenty dollars in aid of your funds. We regret that it is not more, but must be content to trust to do better another year.
Yours, truly, STEPHEN BARKER.
In addition to collections of old friends through Mrs. Drake.
From Mrs. Mary Ann B. Blair.
WARREN, Mass., Jan. 24, 1859.
Mrs. CHAPMAN: DEAR MADAMï¿½I have made what effort I could, and, as the result, I send you the enclosed twelve dollars. I am sorry it is so small. So noble a cause deserves noble gifts. Aye, and has it not noble gifts? If its treasury be not full of gold and silver, on what other altar are there so many noble hearts and lives devoted?
Hoping that great success may crown the anniversary; that, through it, the day of jubilee to the enthralled may more speedily come, I am, with great regard, 
Yours, for the slave, 
MARY Ann B. BLAIR.
The following verses were written for the Twenty-fifth National Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary, held at the-Music Hall, Boston, Wednesday evening, January 26, 1859:ï¿½
THE SLAVEï¿½S PRAYER.
BY MRS. FOLLEN.
God of justice! God of love!
God of mercy! set us free!
From thine awful throne above.
Hear us when we pray to thee!
Crushed and cheated from our birth, 
Here, upon our bended knee, 
Fettered, groaning from our birth, 
Listen, Father! set us free!
Better die than be a slave:
Why in bondage should we be?
There is freedom in the graveï¿½
Father, let us come to Thee!
Let us break these fetters, then!
Let us say we will be free!
Let us prove that we are men!
Give us death or liberty!
SONG FOR THE FRIENDS OF FREEDOM.
BY MRS. FOLLEN.
I.
Heart to heart, and hand in hand, 
Bound together let us stand;
Storms are gathering oï¿½er the land, 
Many friends are gone:ï¿½
Still we never are alone, 
Still the battle must be won;
Still we bravely march right onï¿½
Right on! Right on! Right on!
II.
To the pilgrim spirit true, 
Which nor slave nor master knew, 
Onward, faithful, fearless few!
Libertyï¿½s the prize!
Full of hope that never dies, 
Lift to heaven your trusting eyes!
Spirits of the free, arise!
Arise! Arise! Arise!
III.
Will you your New England see
Crouching low to slavery!
Rise, and say it shall not be!
More than lifeï¿½s at stake!
Rise, and every fetter break!
Rise, for Truth and Honorï¿½s sake!
Every freeborn soul awake!
Awake! Awake! Awake!
IV.
Listen to our solemn call, 
Take no thought what may befall;
Consecrate yourself, your all.
To God and Liberty!
<c06>
On your spiritï¿½s bended knee, 
Swear ye death to Slaveryï¿½
Swear your country shall be freeï¿½
Be free! Be free! Be free!
V.
Soon to bless our longing eyes, 
Freedomï¿½s glorious sun shall rise;
Now it lights those gloomy skies
Faintly from after!
Faith and Love her heralds are:ï¿½
Lo! eï¿½en now her morning starï¿½
Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah!
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
BY REV. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW.
ï¿½ONLY by these lines shall I be able to be present at it; but I dedicate them to those who, for twenty-five years, have striven to arouseï¿½who during the period have almost been-the conscience of the nation.ï¿½ï¿½Letter of Mr. Longfellow.
A quarter of the circling sphere
Has rounded onward to the morning clear, 
We see not yet the morning clear, 
We only see the paling night.

But Hope, that aye relumes her fires, 
And Faith, that shines a heavenly will, 
And Love, that courage reinspiresï¿½
These stars have shined above, us still.
O sentinels, whose tread we heard
Through long hours when we could not see, 
Pause now! exchange with cheer the word, 
The unchanging watchword, LIBERTY!
Look backward, how much has been won!
Look round, how much is yet to win!
The watches of the night are done;
The watches of the day begin. 
O Thou! whose mighty patience holds
The night and day alike in view, 
Thy will our dearest hopes enfoldsï¿½
O keep us steadfast, patent, true

RESOLUTIONS
Of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., presented the following resolutions from the Business Committee, which were unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the past yearï¿½s history having clearly shown the world the truth we have proclaimed from the beginningï¿½that the peace and safety of every European nation depend on the abolition of Americans slaveryï¿½this Society feels therefore bound, by the favorable opportunity as well as by its devotedness to the worldï¿½s welfare, renewedly and unceasingly to invoke the aid of all men everywhere, for the destinations of a common nuisance.
Resolved, That the thanks of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, for the twenty-seventh time in annual meeting assembled, are ever due to our honored and beloved British friends, for the moral support and the material aid they have so generously, from the very beginning, hastened to render to Common Cause; and that the more direct and increasing cooperation of the present year now demands a renewed and fervent expression of our gratitude, for that Causeï¿½s sake, although we well know that in this Godlike purpose they have not in view the thanks or gratitude of man.
Resolved, That this Society observes with profound satisfaction the clear and resolute discrimination with which the free and independent press of England, as contradistinguished from The Times newspaper, has during the past year, handled the subject of American slavery; and we thank those friends throughout the British empire whose organ it is, for the magnificent service they hare rendered to humanity.
Resolved, That we thank the anti-slavery mind of our mother country, as manifested recently in Yorkshire, at a local meeting, representing a general feeling, of the LEEDS YOUNG MENï¿½S ANTI-SLAVERY CIETY, and conveyed to us in the speech of SIR PARM FAIRBAIRN, Mayor of Leeds, as chairman of that meeting; in which he offers his testimony to the importance of the Anti-Slavery work, and to the valued Freedom, expressing his happiness to assist others in securing it, whether for black or white.
We thank that public mind for its apprehension of freedom in the resolution offered by THE EARL or <illegible> LISLE; ï¿½That freedom, being the gift of God, it is the inalienable right of every man; that to deprive a man of this right is contrary to all laws, human or <illegible> and that therefore we regard slavery as an unmitigated evil, demanding the condemnation of every human being who respects the laws of God, or recognizes the principles of natural justice or the equal rights of man;ï¿½ at the same time assuring that long-devoted friend of the cause, that the unworthy course of <illegible> of the members of the Republican party in Congress is no index to the feelings of their anti-slavery districts battling for this Cause: among whom, every such rebuke of ingratitude and injustice as he utters is hailed across the world of waters by all the militant, as most effectual to make this sacred Cause triumphant.
We thank those men of Yorkshire, ever true a heart and brain to Freedom, in whose behalf as made this true recognition of the worldï¿½s universal brotherhoodï¿½this grand resolve to promote itï¿½by Mr. EDWARD BAINES, of Leeds; who, in behalf of the meeting, said: ï¿½That recognizing the universal brotherhood of man, and that ï¿½God hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell in the earth, ï¿½ we are called upon (so far as in our power lies) to remove any evil which interferes with the interests of our fellow men; and that, considering slavery a great social evil, we are justified in using every moral and leginmate means for its overthrow, wherever it exists.ï¿½
We thank those British allies in the moral struggles for Liberty in the North American States, for their impressive statement to the world of a fact it ought a know, in the resolution supported by Mr. W. E. FOSTER: ï¿½That so long a. the free States of America continue to aid the slave States to keep in bondage from three to four millions of their fellow-citizens, we must consider the American Union to be the stronghold of Negro Slavery; and that we therefore deeply deplane that a nation of our own race, and language, and region, and bound to us by so many ties of common interest and sympathy, should be thus the chief upholder of this destructive and sinful system.ï¿½
We thank the British friends of Religion, who feeling that slavery being the worst of all sin, the defence of it must be the worst of all heresy, have warned Christendom in the following uncompromising strainï¿½resolving ï¿½That the system of slavery, as it now exits in America, is grievously opposed to the whole spirit of the Gospel of Christ, and is an oppressive iniquity which no Christian ought to palliate or connive at; and that this meeting deeply deplores the fact that so many of the American Churches should be the abettors, and defenders, and perpetrators of this sin of slavery;ï¿½ and we entreat the Rev. G. W. CONDOX the Rev. P. CHOWN, and Mr. ALD. HARRISON, by whom the resolve was sustained, to feel assured that these an the accents that stir the chain of sympathy which communicates unfailingly between the town halls of Britain and the depths of the slavesï¿½ sufferings and the Abolitionistsï¿½ hearts.
And, finally, white praying the Leeds Young Menï¿½s Anti-Slavery Society, as represented to us by the honored name of ARMISTEAD, with all The excellent and venerated friends who speak to us from its platform to receive a new expression of gratitude from this eldest branch of the American Anti-Slavery Societyï¿½s affiliation, for their ï¿½sympathy with the Abolitionists, their pity for the .slave, and their allegiance to undying Freedomï¿½ï¿½and, white thanking them for the excise of the same political discrimination in dealing their blows against slavery, which the American Anti-Slavery Society practices, and ever means to practice, as by its Constitution bound, we feel most of all cheered by their assurance that they, like ourselves, claim and will ever exercise the right of moral, incorporeal interference with slavery WHEREVER IT EXISTS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FEBRUARY 18.
NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Third Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for the State of New York assembled at Association Hall, Albany, on Monday evening, January 31, and was called to order at half-pas 7 o'clock, by Joseph W. Peckham, of Washington county.
The following organization was subsequently adopted by the Convention:-
President-AARON M. POWELL.
Vice Presidents-JOSEPH W. PECKHAM, of Washington county; LYDIA MOTT, of Albany.
Secretaries-JONATHAN WILDE, of Saratoga; ELIZABETH M. POWELL, of Columbia.
Business Committee-William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Phebe H. Jones,
Parker Pillsbury, Townsend Powell.
Finance Committee-Susan B. Anthony, Emma Wilde, Wilbur Dennis.
Mr. Garrison, from the Business Committee, reported the following resolutions:-
Whereas (to quote the language of John Quincy Adams) 'the bargain between freedom and slavery contained in the Constitution of the United States is morally and politically vicious; inconsistent with the principles on which alone our Revolution can be justified; cruel and oppressive, by riveting the chains of slavery; and grossly unequal and impolitic, by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection, property to be secured a. d returned to their owners, and persons not to be represented themselves, but for whom their masters are privileged with nearly a double share of representation'; and
Whereas (to quote the language of William Ellery Channing) 'we in the Free States cannot fly from the shame or guilt of the institution of slavery, while there are provisions of the Constitution binding us to give it support. On this subject, our fathers, in framing the Constitution, swerved from the right. We, their children, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. No blessings of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures'; and
Whereas (to quote the language of Josiah Quincy, Sen.) 'the arm of the Union is the very sinew of the subjection of the slaves; it is the slaveholder's main strength; its continuance is his forlorn hope'; and
Whereas (to quote the language of Mr. Underwood of Kentucky, as uttered on the floor of Congress) 'the dissolution of the Union, making the Ohio river and Mason and Dixon's line the boundary line, is the dissolution of slave y. It had been the common practice for Southern men to get up on this floor, and say: 'Touch this subject, and we will dissolve the Union as a remedy.' Their remedy was the destruction of the thing which they wished to save, and any sensible man could see it'; and
Whereas to quote the language of Mr. Arnold, of Tennessee, on the same occasion) 'the South has nothing to rely on, if the Union be dissolved; for, supposing the dissolution to be effected, a million of slaves are ready to rise and strike for freedom at the first tap of the drum': therefore,
1. Resolved, That in advocating the dissolution of the Union, the Abolitionists are justified by every precept of the gospel, by every principle of morality, by every claim of humanity; that such a Union is 'a covenant with death,' which ought to be annulled, and 'an agreement with hell,' which a just God cannot permit to stank; and that it is the imperative and paramount duty of all who would keep their souls from blood-guiltiness, deliver the oppressed out of the hand of the spoiler, and usher in the day of jubilee, to seek its immediate overthrow, by all righteous instrumentalities.
2. Resolved, That (to quote the language of Wm. H. Seward) 'they who think this agitation is accidental, unnecessary, the work of interested or fanatical agitators, and therefore ephemeral, mistake the case altogether: it is an irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces; and it means that the United States must and will, sooner or later, become either entirely a slaveholding nation or entirely a free labor nation. It is the failure to apprehend this great truth that induces so many unsuccessful attempts at final compromise between the free and slave States; and it is the existence of this great fact that renders all such pretended compromises, when made, vain and ephemeral.' Therefore,
3. Resolved, That no matter how sincerely or zealously any political party may be struggling with side issues, in relation to slavery, to prevent its extension, or otherwise cripple its power, while standing within the Union and sanctioning its pro-slavery compromises, and refusing to attack the institution itself, its position is morally indefensible, it rests upon a sandy foundation, its testimonies are powerless, and its example fatal to the cause of liberty; hence we cannot give it any support.
4. Resolved, That 'better a thousand times that all North America should be obliterated by a concurrence of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, as a deed, revenging sea over buried cities, than that we, after all our light and liberty, should live only by renouncing the truth that gave us being, or should set the example to a terrified and struggling world of a nation claiming and daring to exist only by sustained and sanctified oppression.'
5. Resolved, That the people of New York have no more right to sanction and tolerate slave-hunting, by any process of law, or to fulfil any stipulation, than they have to legalize piracy, murder, or any other deed of villany; that in so doing, they trample upon the Divine Law, become accessories to man-stealing, and involve themselves in the awful guilt of the slave system of the South; therefore,
6. Resolved, That the officers of this Convention be authorized, in its behalf, to prepare a memorial to the Legislature now in session, requesting that body to pass a law prohibiting slave-hunting in this State, on any pretence and in all cases whatsoever, and securing the personal liberty of every person coming into the State, against arrest or molestation by any State or Federal process, except in case of crime.
7. Resolved, That they also be authorized to prepare a letter to be sent to every clergyman in this State, respectfully but carnestly urging him to preach against the surrender of fugitive slaves to their masters, as a sin against God, of the deepest dye, and to exert his influence to procure signatures to the petition now circulating in this State, asking the Legislature to put an end to this wicked and detestable practice, at once and forever.
Whereas, Christianity, as taught by its founders, cuts up every form of oppression by the roots, and asserts the oneness and equality of mankind; therefore,
8. Resolved, That those Churches which are in religious fellowship with slaveholders, or which are inimical to the Anti-Slavery movement, cannot be Christian Churches; and to expose and repudiate them becomes a Christian duty.
9. Resolved, That the admission of Rev. Dr. Albert Barnes, that there is no power outside of the American Church that could sustain slavery one hour, were it not for the sanction and support given to slavery by that Church, is as true as it is awful, and proves the general corruption of the organized religious bodies in the land.
10. Resolved, That (to quote the language of Rev. Dr. Cheever) 'if the ministers of the Gospel, instead of the policy of silence, had poured out their vials, as God's commissioned angels, and let the thunderings, lightnings and earthquakes shake the heavens and the earth, this iniquity of slavery would long since have been arrested. It is only under the repression and forced silence of the Word of God that it has been able to advance with such giant strides, till it has taken possession of the Senatorial, Representative, Executive and Judicial branches of our Government.'
<c02>
These resolutions were ably and eloquently advocated by Wendell Phillips, Parker pillsbury Wm. L. Garrison, Aaron M. Powell, and. J.W.Peckham. The Convention held five sessions. With the exception of the first, the attendance was not numerous, though it vat throughout made up of highly intelligent and deeply interested friends of the cause. The resolutions were unanimously adopted. It was very strengthening occasion.’
READ THEM AGAIN.
The following resolutions, adopted at the recent annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will repay a second reading:—
Resolved, That (in the language of John QUINCY ADAMS) the Constitution of the United States sanctions a dishonorable compromise with slavery; it is morally and politically vicious, inconsistent with the principles on which alone our Revolution can be justified, cruel and oppressive, by riveting the chains of slavery, by pledging the faith of freedom to maintain the tyranny of the master, and grossly unequal and impolitic, by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection, property to be secured and returned to its owners, and persons not to be represented themselves, but for whom their masters are privileged with nearly a double share of representation; therefore,
Resolved, That such a Constitution should instantly be spurned by the people of Massachusetts, and of every other free State, and the Union subsisting in virtue of it between the North and the South should be dissolved forever.
Resolved, That (to quote the language of Mr. Adams) if slavery be the destined sword, in the hand of the destroying angel, which is to sever the ties of this Union, the same sword will cut asunder the bonds of slavery itself; that if the Union must be dissolved, slavery is precisely the question upon which it ought to break; and that if the dissolution of the Union should result from the slave question, it is as obvious as anything that can be seen of futurity, that it must shortly afterwards be followed by a universal emancipation of the slave.
Resolved, That the solemn and weighty memorial of the colored citizens of Massachusetts to the Legislature, asking of that body indignantly to protest against the doctrines of the Dred Scott decision, and to vindicate their constitutional rights as citizens of the Commonwealth and of the United States, deserves the most respectful consideration, and the most hearty response on the part of the Legislature. Weak and defenceless as they are, to quote the language of Mr. Adams, so much the more sacred the obligation of the Legislature to defend their lawful rights. I would defend them, should the dissolution of the Union be the consequence; for it would be not to the defence, but to the violation of their rights to which all the consequences would be imputable; and if the dissolution of the Union must come, let it come from no other cause but this.

AID TO FUGITIVE SLAVES. Report or the Executive Committee of the Vigilance Committee.—The Executive Committee of the general Committee of Vigilance, organized in 1850, shortly after the passage of the fugitive slave bill of that year, present the following report of their doings:
In September, 1850, the Executive Committee addressed a circular to the churches and religious societies of New England, and also made application to many individuals, soliciting contributions to create a fund for rendering pecuniary assistance to such fugitive slaves as reached the Northern States in a destitute condition. These unfortunate men and women all needed food, clothing and shelter; moreover, they all needed protection, since in every part of New England, the law (as administered by the courts) was their enemy, and many individuals in every town were known to be mean and base enough to co-operate with such a law; some of these fugitives also needed medical aid and careful nursing; and almost all of them needed the means of transportation to a safer place than New England.
The amount thus raised from all the sources was $6028, and this sum has been expended for the relief of fugitives, some in one, some in another, and some in all the above-mentioned departments. The result to be reported to the public is, that more than four hundred fugitives have been aided by their beneficence, and that the Treasurer's purse is now empty.
Since frequent arrivals of fugitives still continue, and doubtless will continue while slavery lasts—since these unfortunate beings generally reach us wholly destitute, having nothing but the garments they stand in, and those miserably insufficient—and since, therefore, money will be still needed for all the purposes above specified, until Massachusetts shall decide to give full and efficient protection to every one who flies from injustice to take shelter on her soil— it is desirable that the Treasury of the Vigilance Committee should at once be replenished, and that those who are willing to assist the fugitive with temporary or permanent employment and protection should at once report themselves to the Executive Committee. There are always some fugitives who would prefer to gain a subsistence by their labor here, rather than in Canada, and who have resolution enough to take the risk of doing so, if an employer can be found to co-operate with them.
Those who wish to help these poorest of the poor with money or aid of any other sort, are requested immediately to communicate with the Treasurer or some member of the Finance Committee. SAMUEL E. SEWALL, HENRY I. BOWDITCH, Committee JOHN A. ANDREW, of ROBERT MORRIS, Finance.
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
RETURN OF DR. ROCK FROM PARIS. Friend Garrison:—Through your Kindness, permit me to say to my friends, that after several months of severe surgical treatment in Paris, my health is so much improved that I am able to resume the practice of my profession. My case was so complicated, that the peculiar operation I went to undergo could not be performed. But, after consultations with Professors Velpeau and Nelaton, I was operated on by the latter, and continued under his treatment until my departure for the United States. I received advices from him, a few days since, and he thinks that, with great care, much exercise, and the continued use of the reme lies which he has prescribed, I will in time be completely restored to my health. Your renewed kindness permits me to acknowledge the kind words and kinder deeds of my friends, which a heart overflowing with gratitude is entirely unable to express. Very truly yours, 
JOHN S. ROCK. No. 34, Garden Street, Boston, Feb. 10, 1859.
The preceding page is wholly occupied with an official account of the late Anti-Slavery Subscription - Festival, by Mrs. Chapman, including a list of the donors, with several interesting letters, &c. The result of this effort will carry joy to the heart of every true friend of the oppressed in our land. Hon-or and thanks to our benevolent English coadjutors, who have so generously responded to the appeal that was made to them! And blessings upon all who contributed, at home or abroad, to make up the handsome aggregate of six thousand dollars—a sum doable that which was realized, last year, by the Anti-Slavery Bazaar.
Oregon, with its tyrannical constitution, outlawing all free colored persons, was admitted as a State into the Union on Saturday last, by a vote of 114 to 103 in the House of Representatives—Comins and Thayer, of this State, voting in the affirmative!!
<c03>
LETTER FROM ANDREW T. FOSS.
Nora, Jo Davis Co. III DEAR FRIEND MAY:
Jack Frost has done me a great service. He has changed the soft mud to a solid, reliable mass. Oh! it is good to feel something solid beneath one's feet once more. May he maintain his icy throne, till welcome Spring shall March him off, and commence her own gentle rain. 
The weather has been, and remains, beautiful. I have been constantly engaged in the good, work. Nightly I am greeted with full, often very crowded houses; and an interest truly refreshing greets me in nearly every place. 
I came to Nora on the 11th of January, and commenced holding meetings on the 12th. The first meeting was well attended, and a very cordial greeting met me from all classes, except the Episcopal Methodists. They were much engaged in a revival meeting, and could not attend.
I spoke on Sunday to a large and very thoughtful audience in the Congregational meeting-house. It being Sunday, I took up the religious aspects of the anti-slavery cause. I showed, briefly, the complicity of the sects of the land with slavery. I stated the fact as clearly as I was able, that the anti-slavery cause was in the outset laid at the feet of the church, and she was asked to accept it, but she spurned it from her; that whatever of hostility there may be between her and anti-slavery is of her own election and seeking.
I have spoken twelve times in the last twelve days. I have an appointment for this evening in a place call-ed Millville, in the town of Rush. I shall be in this vicinity for three or four days, and then go to Fulton city, and cross over to Lyons, in Iowa, and spend some ten days in that neighborhood.
I have made it a point to present, as clearly and strongly as possible, the movement, now becoming somewhat popular, for a Personal Liberty Law, that shall nullify the fugitive slave clause in the Constitution of the United States.
In one meeting in the town, fifty gentlemen signed the petition. As many ladies would have done so, had there been opportunity. In another meeting, seventy-two. If a general move could be made, a large majority of the legal voters of the Northern part of this State would sign these petitions. I am heard with candor and enthusiasm in the most radical announcements of our rallying cry, No Union with Slaveholders!
This part of the West-as, indeed, every part of the West known to me-is ripe for the harvest. But the laborers are few. I cannot supply one-tenth of the demand for my labor.
If money were plenty as in former times, I am sure a large, very large list of subscribers for the anti-slavery papers, particularly for the Liberator, could be obtained. The ministry here have done Mr. Garrison and the anti-slavery cause good service in denouncing him as an infidel, and warning the people to beware of his paper and his followers. This, with other 
causes, has created a strong desire to know more of this terrible man, and of his very audacious sheet. Numbers come to me, and say, Please give me the address of the Liberator. I wish to take the paper, but have not the money. The first money I can spare, I mean to send for it. One young lady, a schoolteacher, in the town of Rush, after getting the address of the Liberator, said, I never knew before what my politics were, but I have learned to-night. The passage of the Personal Liberty Law in Vermont has awakened great enthusiasm in the West; and now the eyes of all are turned to dear old Massachusetts. Heaven grant she may exceed the most sanguine expectation of all, in her deeds of heroism in the cause of human freedom!
I have received the kindest and heartiest reception from the friends in this county. Here in Nora I found our old and long-tried friend, Jesse P. Harriman, of Danversport, Mass. Here I felt at once at home. I expected to find but little aid from any others; but friend H. introduced me to Cyrus Pucket, and T. C. Pucket, and Anthony Diggs, who have shown me every kindness at their homes, and by taking me to the adjacent towns.
I held two meetings in Warren. The first was well attended, the second was on the 21st inst., and the coldest night of the season. Anthony Diggs took me, with a gentleman and two ladies, four miles, in the face of a terrible prairie wind, to the meeting. We found but few assembled at the Free-Will Baptist Church, which had been kindly opened for us. The Baptists were holding a revival meeting, and they, with most of the sectarians, had neither time nor heart to work for the slave. Nothing is so much in the way of the anti-slavery cause as the religion of this land. There is not another influence on earth that is more God-defying and man-degrading. With all the concentrated power of my being, I loathe and abhor it. I measure my love of God by the intensity of my hatred to a religion that enslaves his image.
All through the West, great efforts are making to get up revivals, but, as I learn, with very little success. Heaven be thanked it is so little! One of the Methodist converts of last winter, and who is now laboring with great zeal to get up a revival here, was addressed on the subject of anti-slavery, a few days since, and he said, If you want the niggers, you may have them. He was asked, Do you not regard the colored man as your brother? He replied, Tough match!
Bro. Harriman is working with his accustomed, well-known zeal in the cause of Human Rights. He will hereafter not labor alone. Nora is one of the strong posts in our little gallant army; and if the war is followed up, will be a rallying point from which the war may be carried into the enemies camp. Yours truly,
A. T. FOSS. Samuel May, Jr., General Agent.

MISS HOLLEY IN WORCESTER
WORCESTER, Feb. 15, 1859.
Dear Mr. Garrison,-Although you have copied from the Spy a very good notice of the Anti-Slavery Meeting, held here a week ago, it may still be pleasant to you and your readers to know how Miss Hoi-ley's friends received her, and how her lecture affected those most interested in our cause.
Miss Holley herself is always welcome as an honest, truthful, and efficient worker, and steadfast friend. Her appeals to the feelings of her auditors are irresistible. Having in her own heart a true sympathy for the oppressed, she makes that sympathy felt in a forcible manner, thereby drawing forth the corresponding sentiment in her hearers.
No one can help feeling the force of her scathing rebuke, of those weakly afflicted with prejudice against color, and of going with her when she says, You may call us infidels, but do not, I pray you, call yourselves Christians.
Miss Holley's descriptions of the field of Anti- Slavery work, and of the nobleness of the work itself, were calculated to increase in us all, our thankfulness that we are laborers therein, and to suppress that selfish and unworthy spirit which says, We are proscribed, and outcasts.
While listening to her touching tribute to Wendell Phillips, I could not repress the feeling, which I have often before had, that his position before the world is far mose enviable than it would have been, if he had chosen the brilliant career by the side of those who now consider him insane, for forsaking a profession in which he could have had no equal in his time. 
Allow me to say, in conclusion, that Worcester is going backward in Anti-Slavery sentiment, and needs a succession of your able agents, who shall open the doors of all the churches, of the theologically bigoted, as well as of the aristocratically conservative.
Yours, F.
<c04>
AN ACCEPTABLE LECTURE
CHARLTON, (Mass.,) Feb. 18, 1859.
FRIEND GARRISON-We have just come from hearing Miss Holley's lecture. She spoke this (Sunday) evening in my pulpit, upon the moral and religious bearings of slavery. I wish to bear testimony to the excellency of the address. It was able, faithful, touching, and judicious withal. The slave was pleaded for; Christianity was honored; the claims of humanity were exalted; God was reverenced.
Truly yours, LUCIUS HOLMES.
KISS 8ARAH P. REMOND IN LIVERPOOL. "We copy with great pleasure the following notice from the Liverpool Mercury of the 24th ult.:-
A LADY LECTURING ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.-Miss
Remond of Salem, Massachusetts, last night addressed, at the Tuckerman Institute, Bedford street, an English audience, for the first time, upon the subject of American slavery. The Rev. W. H. Channing presided, and a crowded assembly greeted the lady with the utmost enthusiasm. The chairman briefly introduced her as one who, with her family, had long taken a deep and most active part in the abolition movement-as a countrywoman who had consecrated her best gifts to the cause of heroism and humanity, and he urged that, as women, without at all feeling that they sacrificed their womanhood, appeared on the public stage to rehearse a fictitious tragedy, there was no reason why a woman should not speak in public of a real tragedy, and on a subject upon which she so deeply felt. Miss Remond then proceeded to deliver her address; and though it occupied about an hour and a half in the delivery, she retained throughout the closest attention of her audience as she eloquently depicted the wrongs of the slave, dwelt in the most touching manner upon the social degradation of her sisters in slavery, expressed her unbounded indignation at the apathy which the professing Christiana throughout the whole of the United States as a body manifested on the subject; and concluded with an earnest appeal for the moral and religious sympathy and influence of free England in. the abolition movement. Miss Remond is an able advocate of the cause she has espoused; she speaks strongly because she no doubt feels strongly upon the subject on which she speaks, and is eloquent because she makes no effort to be so. She has a clear, musical voice, a distinct utterance, and-if it be not a needless remark of a lady-we may add she has at her command a great flow of language, for she speaks without any assistance from notes, and is never at a loss for words admirably calculated to express her sentiments. Her repeated quotations from the public addresses of American senators on the subject of slavery display a most retentive memory, whilst the whole of her address as plainly denotes that she has paid no little attention to general literature, and particularly to the writings of the poets of this and her native country. At the close, as frequently throughout her lecture, she was rapturously applauded, and on the motion of the Rev. S. A. Steinthal, seconded by Mr. Wilson, a cordial vote of thanks was unanimously passed to her, and she was requested to be the medium for conveying the sympathy of those present to the American abolitionists in the work in which they are engaged. Thanks were then voted to the reverend chairman, and the proceedings terminated.
The Liverpool Daily Post notices the same lecture as follows:-
LECTURE ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.-Last evening a lecture on American Slavery was delivered at the Tuckerman Institute, by Miss Remond, of Salem, Massachusetts. The lecturer denounced slavery in the strongest terms as an inhuman and unchristian principle, and the tales of horror brought tears to the eyes of many a listener, whilst the earnestness of I the lecturer carried the sympathies of the audience with her. The novelty of a lecture by a lady drew a very large attendance, and every one seemed impressed with the great social, moral, and political importance of the subject.

MR. GIDDINGS'S TESTIMONIAL.
Washington, Feb. 9, 1859.
The testimonial to, Joshua K. Giddings, now completed, is on exhibition at Messrs. Galt & Brother. the manufacturers, of this city. It consists of a solid silver tea set of six pieces, and a highly ornamented waiter. The ground work of its style of ornament is what is technically known as engine turned, a style highly popular from its exceeding chasteness, and the advantage it possesses over work entirely plain, in not showing marks and scratches. This Is relieved by engraved representations of the tea plant, water lillies, &c. The handles, and spouts are beautifully wrought in scroll and leaf work, and on each piece is an ornamented shield bearing the following inscription: 
Presented by One Hundred and Four Members of the Thirty-fifth Congress to Joshua- R. Giddings, as a token of respect for his moral worth and personal integrity.'
Accompanying the service of silver is a walking cane, of rare and beautiful wood, mounted with a massive gold head, which bears a similar inscription to that on the service. In accordance with Mr. Giddings's wishes, no ceremony has been made in presenting the service. It has simply been notified to him that there are a 'few articles' at Messrs. Galt & Brother awaiting his order. The whole cost of the testimonial was five hundred and twenty dollars.
MEETINGS AMONG THE COLORED PEOPLE OF BOSION. John A. Andrew, Esq., has recently delivered an able and instructive discourse on the education of the young. Rev. Warren Burton has also spoken in several of the colored churches on his favorite theme-Home Education. The interest generated by the efforts of these two philanthropists, we trust, will soon be manifested both among the parents and children. A temperance organization has just been established. A series of public meetings are in progress. N.
The Committee on Federal Relations gave a hearing, on Thursday, Feb. 10th, to the memorialists against the Dred Scott decision. William C. Nell, Robert Morris and Lewis Hayden addressed the Committee. We have not room now for further particulars. 
The bill in the Kansas Legislature, ' to prevent slavery in the Territory, of Kansas, and to punish certain offences named therein,' has passed the House by a large majority.
Several letters and communications are on file
for as early an insertion as possible. Also several book notices. The extended report of the annual meeting and festival has driven us into a corner.
We learn that Mrs. Antoinette Brown Blackwell will speak in Worcester, at Washburn Hall, on Sunday next, Feb. 30.
Have you the Dyspepsia? the Asthma? the Liver Complaint, or General Debility does your food distress you? Do you suffer from nervous irritation or ennui? Take the Oxygenated Bitters which cures all these. 
South Danvers. Last Thursday evening, we listened, an hour and a half, to Wendell Phillips' comparison of the different races of men, as illustrated in the revolution of St. Domingo, and the events consequent thereupon. Notwithstanding our prejudices against the negro, so far as our own observation has extended we are constrained to admit that the speaker sustained his argument with consummate ability. No gentleman, who has spoken at the Institute, within our hearing, has acquitted himself with so much ease and propriety of address. As a model speaker, his lecture is worth all it cost.-[Correspondent of the Salem Register.,
THE HATTIEN REVOLUTION. Advices from Kingston, Jamaica, of' 29th ult., give additional details respecting the revolution in Hayti. The Standard contains Soulouque's paper of abdication, and adds that upon his arrival at Kingston, the greatest excitement prevailed among the Haytien refugees who had been expatriated by his orders. The negro population of Kingston were unanimously in his favor, and rushed in thousands along the streets to get a sight of him. A strong escort of police was found necessary to keep off the crowd.
Savannah, Feb. 14. The Grand Jury have found true bills against Messrs. Selvas and Marat, the consignees, and Mr. Cassineras, the captain of barque Angelits, seized here on suspicion of being fitted for the slave trade.
<c05>
DEATH OF LUCIA MARRIOTT. GHENT. COLUMBIA Co., N. Y., Feb. 10,1859. DEAR MR GARRISON,-Another endeared friend has passed on to the realm of spirit lift. Lucia. Mar-BIOTT died on Monday evening, the 7th inst., in the 73d year of her age.
The anti-slavery cause has, throughout its career of a quarter of a century, had in her a clear-sighted, conscientious, and devoted friend. The Liberator, from its first issue, has been her constant visitor. Her gentle, loving spirit has, through a long life, been most fully a personal exemplication of Christian benevolence and virtue.
While we fondly cherish her memory as we have known her in the past, let us? hope that the pulsations of her new and higher life may he henceforth as really felt to vibrate in all our hearts. Very truly yours,
AARON M. POWELL.
OBITUARY.
Died, in Boonton, (N. J.) of congestion of the lungs, ISABELLA eldest daughter of WILLIAM and JESSIE Coates, aged 15 years. She was a dearly cherished child, the light and joy of a family poor in this world's goods, but rich in intelligence and in moral worth. William and Jessie Coates have dared to throw off the authority of all books and constitutions, and of all Christ and Gods that sanction slavery, war and inhumanity. Their eyes and their hearts are on the future, and not on the past. They make the elevation of man, not the support of institutions, the chief end of their being. They trained their daughter to. look to the God within her own soul, for a law of life, and not to the God in the Church, in the State, in tie Bible, or in the forms of religion.
'She was calm and collected to-the last,' writes one, 'and, for three days previous to her new birth, she talked of it, and said she was going soon, and told how she wished to be laid out, and that her body was not to buried till it gave unmistakable signs of decay." She died in my arms,' says her father,' and was conscious to the last. We wanted Henry C. Wright to speak at the burial of her body, as she knew him, and he her.'-COM 

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPT8.
Collection by Parker Pillsbury. In Essex, Mass., - . 5 70 
Natick, " - . 7 50 
Springfield, Mass., - . 3 35 
Concord, N. H., - . 3 00 
Manchester, " -- . 3 25 
Albany, and North Easton, N. Y., 10 00
Thomas Haskins, Gloucester, Mass., 2 50
Mr. Roberts, Essex, 2 00
From Mrs. Anna Thomas, of Bristol, Eng., (proceeds of two drawings made for the American A. S. Society,) through. L. Bache, Wellsboro'. Tioga Co., Pa. 10 00
Donation. Dr. Joseph Sargent, Worcester, pledge to Mrs.
Foster, . . 25 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will lecture as follows: Daversport, Sunday, Feb. 20.
Manchester, Thursday, " 24.
WORCESTER NORTH.-A quarterly meeting of the Worcester County North Division Anti-Slavery Society will be held at CLINTON, on Saturday evening and Sunday,-February 25 and 27, commencing at 7 o'clock, p. m. of Saturday, at Clinton Hall, and continuing on Sunday, day and evening.
PARKER PILLSBURY AND E. H. HETVTOOD, on behalf of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will be present. All persons are invited to attend, and it is hoped that the members of the Society in the neighboring towns will be present. 
JOEL SMITH, President.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at South Royalston, Saturday evening, February 19. Athol, Sunday " " 20.
Ashburnham, Monday " " 21.
GIVE HIM A CHANCE.-A young colored carpenter wants immediate employment. Apply to WM. C. NELL, 21 Cornhill. Dec, 31. 
COLORED BOYS AND GIRLS__A good
colored Boy can hear of a situation in a family a few miles from Boston. Apply to W. C. NELL, 21 Cornhill.
An amiable colored girl of 10 or 12 years of age, whose parents or guardians would be willing she should accompany a lady to Europe, can hear of such a situation by applying as above.
February 18.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE FUGITIVE.- A young able-bodied Fugitive, from the South, wants a place. "He can take care of cattle, drive nurses, wait and tend, chop wood, or work on a farm. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, or by letter to FRANCIS JACKSON.
WANTS A SITUATION.-A widow lady wishes to get a situation to wait on a lady, or to work as seamstress in a respectable family.
Apply at this office, or at 6 Stillman street.
DIED-At Lone Rock, Wisconsin, Dec. 21, of consumption, George H. Thomas, Esq., a young man of much promise, son of L. G. Thomas, formerly of West Winfield, N. Y., aged 24 years.
BREAD,
WITHOUT PQWDERS OR YEAST.
' We have seen bread so prepared, and can testify that it was light, highly palatable, and very desirable.'-Boston Herald.
' The disuse of yeast, salaeratus, soda, and all health-destroying mixtures in bread-making is an item that will recommend itself to every housekeeper."-Boston Traveller.
'We recommend this work, because we know, from happy experience, that it gives directions how to make the best bread we ever tasted.'-World's Crisis.
This light, delicious bread (with flour and water only) can be prepared for baking in a few minutes, and may he eaten warm without injury. We mail the above, with other receipts for healthful cooking, &c.,) for 10 cents; cloth covers, 15 cents.
Your address merely, and one dime, will insure you, by return of mail, the above little work. Persons interested are invited to call and see this delicious bread at Temperance House, 18 and 20, La Grange Place. February 18.
TWO
FREE LECTURES
EVERY WEEK, AT LINDEN HALL, 16 SUMMER ST., BOSTON,
BY MISS S. D. CARMAN Physiological, Mechanical 6f Pathological Physician.
On THURSDAY EVENINGS, at 7 o'clock, to Gentlemen and Ladies, and on FRIDAY AFTERNOONS, at 3 o'clock, to Ladies only. The other four days devoted to country practice.
Physicians, Invalids, Parents, Teachers, Guardians and Philanthropists will find science, common sense and medical skill illustrated and applied to the wants of each and all.
The only scientific SKIRT SUPPORTER, with Braces of all kinds, and CHAIRS to correct and support the Spine, for sale and fitted at her office, Linder. Hall,-open only on Friday and Saturday, for patients and visitors, from 9 A. M. to 7 P. M.
Beware of imposition practised by pretenders who recommend worthless and useless articles. 
Ol 6m
John Quincy Adams.
JUST PUBLISHED, by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield Street, Boston, in one large handsome octavo volume of 459 pages, 'Twelve Messages from the Spirit John QUINCY ADAMS,' through Joseph D. Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy-written in the peculiar handwriting of Mr. Adams.
This unique work contains the autographs of Mr. Adams, Mrs. Abigail Adams, and George Washington-first, a recorded by themselves when in the body-and second, as written by then through mediumistic agency.
Price $1,50. Jan 9
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in. which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparillas, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford aft effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Sermons complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this com­pound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the follow­ing complaints: -
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOCS COMPLAINTS, ERUP­TIONS AXU ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RMECM, SCALD HEAD, SYFHIILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL. DISEASE, DROPSY, NECRALOLA OR TRC DOULOURRUX, DEMILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPE-LAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from Impurity of the Blood.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that sea­son of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sons, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse oat the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and slug­gish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputa­tion of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many prep­arations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public hare been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Ex­tract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has vir­tues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS. Price, $1 per Bottle , Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is en­tirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and' Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic. Price, 25 cents per Box; five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to cer­tify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our American Almanac, in which, they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and--the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand Ayer's, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., Boston
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, I BROWN & PRICE, Salem; | H. H. HAY, Portland; \ J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
And by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m May 7
TO DYSPEPTICS,
And all who suffer the tortures which the disease in­flicts, in one form or another of its many phases: Cure yourselves permanently and speedily by using
The Oxygenated Bitters. The ' Weekly Novelette,' of Sept. 18, says: Dyspepsia is one of the prevailing diseases of out country. This is owing both to climate and the al­most universal habit of eating our meals too rapidly to admit of proper digestion. But, in spite of these adverse circumstances, this disease, even when it be­comes chronic, disappears rapidly by the use of the-Oxygenated Bitters, which have been found to prove an infallible remedy.
From the Publisher of a weekly circulated Magazine. Messrs. S. W. FOWLE & Co: I have taken three bottles of the Oxygenated Bitters, rod have derived great benefit from their use. I have been much troubled with Dyspepsia for several years, and found nothing that afforded me any relief until I used the Bitters. I most cheerfully recommend them to all who are afflicted with this troublesome and stubborn complaint.
JAMES ROBINSON, of the' Student and Schoolmaster.'
From Gen. A. C. Dodge, our Minister to Spain. Washington, D. C, May 18. Dr. Geo. B. Green: Dear Sir-The Oxygenated Bitters with which you were so kind as to furnish me, have had a most salutary effect in my case. I was troubled with Dyspepsia for four years, during which time I tried many remedies, but never met with any so good as your Bitters. I am now in the enjoyment of good health, and I hope and believe that all who use the Oxygenated Bitter* will find them as serviceable as I have found them.
With high respect, your ob't servant, A. C. DODGE.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., BOSTON,
and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. Jan. 21-4tis
NOW READY.
The Life of
JOHN W. HAWKINS,
THE GREAT APOSTLE 
OF THE
WASHINGTONIAN TEMPERANCE RE-FORMATION.
THE LIFE of a most extraordinary and useful man, and faithful, and indefatigable laborer in behalf of degraded humanity. It is a book which no person
can read without being stimulated to noble deeds.
Fifty Thousand should be sold in six months.
can
It makes a handsome 12mo. volume of 420 passé, with several wood-cats, and a fine steel portrait of Mr. Hawkins. Price $ 1.

February 11
28 THE LIBERATOR. FEBRUARY 18.
POETRY
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
PATIENCE
Translated for the Liberator, from the German of
 Spitts
There goes a gentle angel
Throughout this earthly land.
To comfort all Earth’s sorrows
Sent by the Father’s hand;
And in his look is quiet,
And mercy soft and mild-
O. follow bin forever,
Patience the Angel Child!
He leads thee ever truly
Through earthly care and wrong,
And of a time more noble,
So joyous is his song.
When thou art quite desponding,
He doth of courage tell,
To bear thy cross he helpeth,
And maketh all things well
He turns to gentle sorrow
The soul’s moat bitter smart,
And bathes in still humility
The unsubmissive heart.
The gloomiest bows he maketh
All gently clear again,
And surely, if not quickly,
He healeth every pain.
He is not wroth at weeping,
When comfort thee he will;
He blameth not thy longing,
But makes it meek and still;-
And when, in raging tempest,
Thou, murmuring, askest-Why?
Though mute, still gently smiling,
He beameth from on high.
Reply he hath not always
In answer to thy quest;
‘Endure’ is still his motto,
Not far the place of rest;-
And so, without much speaking,
He journeys by thy side.
And thinks but of the fair, grand goal,
Far in the distance wide.
From the Springfield Republican.
THE TALE OF MANY A HOME.
BY ELLA FARMAN.
The neighbors said our little May was one
Of those sweet innocents that early die;-
She had that face celestial which betrays
A child belonging to the far-off sky.
They knew it by the brooding light which slept
In her shy eyes, as in the eyes of birds;
And by the musing of her tinted month,
And by the wisdom of her lisped words.
To us she was our happy little girl;
To us she was no angel in disguise;
And, as she sat between us by the fire,
So dear, so fair, we said in this glad wise:
The lark that sings at sunrise in our house
Is she, the cherished rosebud of our springs;
And she the snow-drop when the summer’s gone;
And she the snow-bird that in winter sings.
But right were they: one mocking, songful morn
We woke to find our happy-seeming child
An angel was, with homeward yearning wing,
No longer by our cottage fire beguiled.
And in the darkened parlor filled with flowers
Of white and blush, by sad, small fingers given,
She lay in state, all lily-crowned and cold.
This fair young princess of the House of Heaven.
And here is all that we can touch or see
Of those few yean, and that fair little girl,-
These shoes in which she ran so daintily;
These locks of hair yet golden and a-curl.
The children bring them oft-as children will-
And sitting with us in the summer door.
In sight of those white stones on yonder hill,
They hear her sinless story o’er and o’er.
Augusts, N. Y,
From the New York Evening post.
MAKE YOUR MARK,
In the quarries should you toil,
Make your mark.
Do you delve upon the soil?
Make your mark.
In whatever path you go,
In whatever place you stand,
Moving swift or moving slow,
With a firm and honest hand
Make your mark.
Should opponents hedge your way,
Make your mark.
Work by night, or work by day-
Make your mark.
Struggle manfully and well,
Let no obstacles oppose;
None, right-shielded, ever fell
By the weapons of his foes-
Make your mark.
What though born a peasant’s son-
Make your mark.
Good by poor men may be done-
Make your mark.
Peasants’ garbs may warm the cold,
Peasants words may calm a fear;
Better far than hoarding gold
Is the drying of a tear-
Make your mark.
Life is fleeting as s shade-
Make your mark.
Marks of some kind must be made-
Make your mark.
Make it white the arm is strong,
In the golden hours of youth;
Never, never make it wrong;
Make it with the stamp of Truth-
Make your mark.
HYMN TO THE PEOPLE.
BY C. D. STUART.
Not to be blest with warrior strength.
To wield the sword and wear the glaive,
Or rise to conqueror’s fame at length,
Proclaims the good or makes the brave.
To have the power to bide the scorn,
And rise above the hate and strife
Of those to wealth and title born,
Is the crown’d courage of our life.
What are the swords that prop a king-
The banners in his army’s van-
To strength of soul, that dares to spring,
And show the monarch in the man!
Kings and the mightiest men of arms,
Strong as the heads of realms they bide,
Sport as they may with fortune’s charms,
They are like leaves upon the tide.
In dim old sepulchres they lie,
The feast of silence and decay,
While the true world-heart beateth high,
And thrones itself upon to-day.
Give me the man whose hands have tossed
The corn-seed to the mellow soil,
Whose feet the forest-depths have crossed,
Whose brow is nobly crowned with toil.
SERVILITY.
It grieves me to the soul,
To see how man submits to man’s control;
How overpowered and shackled minds are led
In vulgar tracks, and to submission. bred.
<c02>
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF MRS. CAROLINE M. SEVER ANOE,
Before the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
FRIDAY EVENING, JAN. 27, 1859.
MR. PRESDENT AND FRIENDS:
I have hesitated to appear upon your platform heretofore, not because I am not with you in all your hatred of oppression, and in all your sympathy with the oppressed; but, because it has seemed both needless and egotistic to stand where voices so long consecrated to Freedom have sounded, and still sound. But your repeated request to do so has come to me in my somewhat improved health, as the call of duty, to give such as I have, and as much as may be able, to a cause so vital and sacred. The obligation to bear one’s own honest testimony it, perhaps, not lessened because others bear theirs more ably, nor is it measured by the magnitude of its immediate results. But, in the influence of each action upon the individual character, and in the stimulus of the example to others, may come the results which shall justify the effort, beyond our hoping.
To me it seems that now, as ever, the hope of the nation in oar experiment, the future of Freedom in our country, rests with those who will suffer no compromise of Liberty with Slavery, at the hand of Church or State, of party or clique, of friend or foe; to whom Freedom is everything, the first condition of beneficent living, the last safeguard of its highest development; and all unions, and compacts, and constitutions good, only in so far as they are the faithful allies and servants of Freedom.
‘The soul is sickened with every day’s report of wrong and outrage’ to the cause of National Freedom at the hands of its professed friends! Alas! that we should be so slow to learn, that all attempts to trifle with the majesty of absolute right, to play the game of expediency with truth, are as ruinous, eventually as they are weak an I wicked-that all apparent conquests, in such struggles, are but masked and costly defeats. And if our politicians and people have no learned this lesson from the records of the past, and the rebukes of their own multiplied failures, let them at least be taught it by the unfaltering testimony of the heroic few, who, in season,’ and it may seem sometimes a little ‘out of season,’ both prophecy and interpret those failures, and compel their hearing.
Carlyle has somewhere said, in his quaint, characteristic way, that ‘a rotten stump will stand a long time, if it be not shaken.’ We know the rottenness of this system of American Slavery. Like all other slaveries past and present, we know it theoretically we know it practically, to be corrupt. There is no child, old enough to feel the dignity of human nature or to entertain the simplest proposition, who, give the dogma of right of property in man, upon which the system is based, and the irresponsible power it invoives, with man’s nature and temptations such a they are, but would instantly reach the inevitable conclusion of the inherent wrong and misery of the system. And there is no child old enough to read intelligently, who cannot see the practical proof of this in all our journals, in all our political and ecclesiastic action. Nothing less than the instinct of self preservation, driven to its last extremity, could have forces its defenders, in our day, into the insanity of claiming for it the character of a high educational instrumentality, a noble Christian Institution! And in the fact of this defence, we see another illustration of the fearful progress in wrong, involved in the first com promise of right.
The barbarism of the system being so apparent; so rebuked by the spirit of the age, and the overthrow of similar servitude under even despotic governments so blasphemous toward God in its usurpation of power over the lives, and consciences, and affections of its victims; so insulting to all manhood, and abhorrent to all womanhood-to the dictates of common humanity and common patriotism; its existence to this day upon American soil seems past comprehension. But -to apply the figure of Carlyle,-this stump of the old Barbarisms, rotten though it be, diseased in every fibre of its substance, maintains its hold, despite the vigorous shaking it has already received, mainly through the roots it had sent, in its abnormal growth into the hardy soil of our freer States. Unsupported by these, a breath only of the Northern gale should topple it at once and forever to the ground.
Here, then, in Massachusetts, we have work, first of all, to do. Let us tear indignantly from soil baptized in brave heroic blood, the deadly fibres which have wrought their stealthy way into soil so won and hallowed! Let us make Massachusetts worthy of her old renown! Let us free her henceforth from the reproach of-being only the border land of a freer Monarchy! And thus shall we make her the fulcrum of that potent lever, which, by one lifting of its majestic arm, shall hurl into its own place among the shades of departed barbarisms and enormities, this vilest monster of wrong and woe!
And in all this, we find much for woman to do. Is there anything more womanly than work and word on behalf of our sisters, both African and Saxon, who are the most helpless victims of this soulless system? Can there be anything more unwomanly than indifferences and inactivity? Aside from the considerations of abstract right, and that loyalty to freedom which woman shares equally with man, there is so much in the system of slavery as it exists among us, which appeals to her quick loving sympathies as wife and mother; to her magnanimity also, as in a condition to be helpful and heroic on behalf of the dumb and stricken; that apathy on her part seems, beyond expression, inhuman and unbecoming; and, like the stupor which precedes the death by freezing. is the saddest, surest proof of exhausted moral vitality. Ah! how the wail of the myriad sufferers in that Southern prison-house comes surging up into ears which are opened and quickened to hear it! What unutterable agony is in the thought of the fond, gentle wives and mothers, of both races, whose hearts are wrung day by day, and hour by hour, with the tortures of a system which regards no tie, and knows no kindred; which obeys no law but that of its own perverted passions; which hedges all the pathway of the beloved son and daughter with temptations certain to deprave the moral sense in its opening tenderness, and to dim the sweet innocence of their earliest years; and which makes the purity and peace of the serf, and Saxon home, an impossibility!
Is all this forgotten by Northern women? Can it be a matter of indifference to Northern wives and mothers? Have the ‘dear delights’ of happier homes so hardened their hearts toward the suffering? Then, let them remember, that even those homes are not safe from the contagion of this iniquity;-that, guard them as tenderly as they will, its subtle miasma has poisoned all the air which enters them, all the atmosphere which surrounds them!
Let them recall the atrocities of Southern cruelty- the fertile inventions of its fiendish revenge, the ignominious gallows, the slow tortures of fire and rack, to which it subjects its noblest rebels, and all that turns our blood to ice in our veins in the reading;-and then let them remember that many doers of these deeds were once tender babes in Northern homes, over whose cradle some happy mother prayed her loving prayer, and dreamed her sweet dreams of future manliness and heroism!
So true it that ‘if there breathe on earth a slave, we are not truly free and brave’; nor safe at any distance, nor in any present freedom and happiness.
But, if once this ‘accursed thing’ were put far from us,-as distant m Bengal or the Fejee Islands,-we should see it in its naked deformity; our horror would grow apace, and kindle into earnest missionary zeal! So much perspectives quickens our moral vision, in re-
<c03>
versal of the common law of optics! So much do personal relation and complicity with wrong-doing impair the integrity of our judgments!
Nothing, however, can give the thoughtful a more vivid sense of the enormous fraud of slavery, which takes the bloom from life, and turns its sweets to wormwood and gall, than a contract of the lot of its victims with the riches of the free-born, to whom all life and culture are broadly open. Listen, far a moment, to the extatic utterance of a soul thus quickened to a consciousness of the grandeur of its mortal and immortal birthright, -and then realize the poverty of the enslaved!
‘Sweet-voiced Hope, thy fine discourse
Foretold not half life’s good to me!
Thy Painter, Fancy, hath not force
To show how sweet it is to be!
Thy witching dream
And pictured scheme,
To match the fact still want the power;
Thy promise brave
From birth to grave,
Life’s boon may beggar in an hour!
In have a stake in every star!
In every beam that fills the day;
All hearts of men my coffers are;
My ores, arterial tides convey:
The fields, the skies,
And sweet replies
Of thought to thought, are my gold dust-
The oaks, the brooks,
And speaking looks
Of lover’s faith, and friendship’s trust.
“All mine is thine,” the sky-soul saith;
The wealth I am, must thou become;
Richer and richer, breath by breath,-
Immortal gain, immortal room!
And since all his,
Mine also is,
Life’s gift outruns my fancies far,
And drowns the dream
In larger stream,
As morning drinks the morning star!’
Let us live only, my friends, to help make this magnificent ‘Te Deum’ the possible experience, if it may not be the artistic utterance, of every human soul!
SPEECH OF WM. CARLOS MARTYN,
Before the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
January 28, 1859.
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-
Diodorus Siculus tells us, that the forests of the Pyrenean mountains being set on fire, and the heat penetrating into the soil, a pure stream of silver gushed forth from the earth’s bosom, revealing, for the first time, the existence of those mines afterwards so celebrated; so, in circumstances of great danger and severe trial, intellectual resources which have before lain dormant are developed and displayed to the gaze of an admiring world, in copious and splendid profusion. From the earliest ages up to the present time, whenever the world’s history was to be changed, or great events to stamp their impress upon the nations, human intellect and energy hare always been found equal to the emergency. When the hour has come, the man has never been found wanting.’
This is emphatically the case with the greatest and noblest of modern reforms, the Anti-Slavery enterprise. The fires of persecution, which (even in this nineteenth century.) have blazed through our land, have developed a wealth of moral and intellectual greatness, compared with which the mines of Peru or Golconda are utterly worthless. But when the great minds have been thus raised up, the people of their own generation have not always been honest enough, or far enough advanced in civilization, to acknowledge their greatness. Indeed, in a majority of cases, they have been persecuted and put to death for the heinous crime of being in advance of their age. It has been truly said by one of America’s noblest and most eloquent sons, and one of the foremost advocates of the oppressed and down-trodden in this country ‘that liberty and civilization, at present, are nothing else than the fragments of rights, which the scaffold and the stake have wrung from the strong hand of the usurper. Every step of progress that the world has ever made has been from scaffold to scaffold, and from stake to stake. It would hardly be exaggeration to say that all the great truths relating to society and government have been first heard in the solemn protests of martyred patriotism, or the loud cries of crushed and starving labor. The law has always been wrong. Government began in tyranny and force, began in the feudalism of the soldier and the bigotry of the priest. And the ideas of justice and humanity have been fighting their way, like a thunder storm, against the selfishness of human nature.’
This is the last great protest wrong of ages. Wrong may triumph for awhile, but ‘Truth, though crushed to earth, will rise again; the eternal yean of God are hers;’ and her apostles, trampled upon and crucified to-day, will ultimately be esteemed the benefactors of mankind. Aye, even now this is true though selfishness and party interests may hate and malign them, yet the names of our Anti-Slavery leaders are dear to the hearts of thousands; and every true patriot, however he may differ from them in minor points, will thank God for having raised up a body of men so noble and so fearless. True, no Young Men’s Democratic Committee waits upon them to order patriotic eloquence by the yard; no ‘ten dollar plate’ is made ready for them at the ‘Revere’; but who would not prefer a dinner of herbs, and freedom therewith, to a stalled ox, spiced with the eloquence of Choate, Everett, &c.? Do not understand me as depreciating Mr. Choate. Oh, no! Our Rufus is an honorable man; ‘so are they all, all honorable men.’
There are several prominent reasons why the Anti-Slavery enterprise should command the hearty cooperation of every true patriot, philanthropist and Christian.
First. Because the evil which this enterprise seeks to remove is, in itself, an inherent wrong. It transforms an immortal man into a thing-makes the image of God a chattel personal, herded and driven about with brutes, and by brutes, for the convenience of his master. We cry shame on a man who robs his neighbor of his earnings of a life-time, and reduces his wife and children to beggary; but what language can portray the atrocity of a system which not only robs a man of his property, but of himself-of his body and soul, of his wife and children, of all which be is or possesses? The wrong is so monstrous, that its very magnitude seems to have benumbed the public conscience, and rendered the nation insensible to its horrors. I should really be afraid to trust a slaveholder in heaven; for the guilty wretch who will traffic in the blood and bones of his fellow-men on earth, for money, I should expect to find engaged in digging up the golden pavements in Paradise, for the same object. If Mr. Everett ever gets there, he will undoubtedly endeavor to appropriate it to the Mount Vernon Fund.
Again. Slavery places us before the world in a false light. At a time when the thrones of Europe were rocking to their foundations, and millions of her down-trodden inhabitants were endeavoring to throw off their chains, and to rise into the ranks of manhood, the patriot hearts of Italy and Hungary looked to us for sympathy and aid. This they had a right to expect, for we boast that we are the friends of the oppressed and the down-trodden.
Not only that; but when our fathers were struggling to obtain independence, did they not receive both sympathy and aid from a government from which we had no right to expect anything but scorn and curses? Yet we, the ‘Model Republic of the world.’ dare not, aye, cannot if we would, without having the lie hurled back into our teeth, give Hungary or Italy the least encouragement, by word or action; for, is not every seventh man in this ‘Model Republic’ groaning to-day beneath a yoke far more oppressive than any which the white man in Europe has ever felt?
But not only are our mouths padlocked when
<c04>
Kossuth or Massini call to us from another hemisphere, but, here, in America, among ourselves, freedom of speech is fast becoming a men figure of rhetoric. When Charles Sumner stood in our national capitol, mad dared to speak out, in defence of that freedom to which its halls were professedly consecrated, his arguments were answered by blows, and he was struck down in the very zenith of his man-hood, for hawing uttered sentiments which would have immortalised a Grecian or a Roman senator. A model republic! I know of no nation but that of the Fejee Islands, that would not be obliged to lower its standard of justice and humanity by looking to us for its model.
The Anti-Slavery enterprise is the most truly religious enterprise of the age; for it is not only in accordance with the teachings of the Bible, but with the whole spirit and life of Jesus. Yet the Bible is made to sanction this ‘sum of all villanies,’ and that, too, by men who profess to be followers of that great Teacher who ‘spake as never man spake’ before; who overturned and swept away existing institutions as the dust is driven before the whirlwind; and who proclaimed liberty to the captive, and freedom to the bondman. Yet the professed followers of this greatest reformer and agitator the world has ever seen are (strange to say) so afraid of agitation now, that they are straggling to muzzle the mouths of the few men who dare proclaim the rights of down-trodden and suffering humanity. These Reverend gentlemen pour a terrible cannonade upon ‘Jonah’ for refusing to carry God’s message against Nineveh, and tell us about the whale in which he was entombed, while they utterly overlook the existence of the whales which trouble our republican waters, and know not that they themselves an the ‘Jonahs’ who threaten to sink our ship of state. We are told that the whale vomited up the runaway prophet. This would not have seemed so strange, had it been one of our lukewarm Doctors of Divinity whom he had swallowed for even a whale might find such a morsel difficult of digestion.
There are (and I say it with a feeling of pride) men who are no sham followers of Jesus-men who believe the pulpit to be something else than a mere auction-stand, from which to dispense principles and opinions to the highest bidder-men who dare attack tyranny and wrong whenever they find them in high places as well as in low. Foremost among this class stands George B. Cheever, a man who was baptized into the cause of reform by suffering and imprisonment-a man who is not to be deterred from doing what he deems right, by the opinions of this church-member, or that pew-holder; in short, a man who can afford the luxury of speaking his mind;-and this is saying much, for even the ‘Harpers,’ the largest and most wealthy publishing house in the United States, dare not follow the dictates of their conscience, but truckle to the South, and expurgate at her dictation.
I have heard that some of Dr. Cheever’s brethren are endeavoring to exclude him from the pale of professional fellowship. I sincerely hope that they will succeed; for it is too bad that a man should be found in such detestable company.
The Christianity which does not seek to elevate the masses-which does not seek to elevate man, as man, aside from color or condition-needs another Christ to die for it. A pro-slavery gospel is mere whipped syllabub, covering with its froth the loathsome mass of putrid corruption beneath.
Liberty is the soul’s right to breathe; and if it cannot take a long breath by reason of slavery, what avails the religious instruction of which we hear so much boasting? It is as though one had gone into the ‘black hole’ of Calcutta, and commenced to discourse eloquently to the perishing victims there upon abstract truths and doctrines. ‘Give us air!’ would have been their agonizing cry. ‘Give us air; we are dying for want of air! Give us liberty to breathe, then we will listen to your words.’ ‘So with the poor slave. His soul is imprisoned, cramped, stifled, and liberty is his first necessity. After you have given him that, then tell him of his duty to his God.
I cannot conceive why the descendants of the Pilgrims should have such a nervous dread of agitation. Every conquest of value is won only by popular commotion and heroic blood. There are many who acknowledge that slavery is a great crime against both God and man, and who think also that it is a curse to the country; yet these very men shrink from the toil necessary for its overthrow.
Men must dare, if they would win. Galileo fought in the observatory, and suffered in prison, while striving to establish the true principles of astronomy; and cannot we forego a little comfort for the privilege of leaving the world better than we found it?
There is a class in our country who regard agitation as a kind of night-mare, which is to be ‘shaken off.’ These are the real enemies of our liberties-the ‘brake-men,’ who spend their energies in retarding the wheels of progress, instead of urging them onward.
The Bible is the very centre and focus of agitation for the world. ‘I will overturn, overturn, overturn’ was the gracious promise, not the threatening, of Him who ‘doeth all things well’; and any gospel which does not carry out that doctrine is a mere sham and pretence, and is radically wanting. Henry Ward Beecher says, ‘That gospel which sanctions ignorant and oppression for four millions of men, what fruit or what flower has it to shower down for the healing of the nations? It is blasted in its own boughs, and cursed in its own roots.’
What care we for a gospel which teaches that every black man was born to be the slave of every white one? What care we for a gospel which proclaims that every sin which becomes popular must not be touched, lest we should disturb the delicate nerves of our neighbor, or the peace and quiet of the community? Thus sacrificing justice and humanity to a wretched expediency; for that only is expedient which is right.
It is the business of the Church to speak in tones of thunder against all the moral evils which curse society; and if the Church will not do it, the people should rise above the Church, and do it for themselves. ‘Vox populi, voz Dei,’ would be true in that case, if in no other. The Church was designed by its great Founder to be the pivot on which all moral reforms should turn, the nucleus around which its elements should gather; but, to a great extent, it has proved recreant to its duty, and the world has often been found far in advance of it. If the Church would regain its influence, and be felt as a living power, in this republic let it proclaim throughout the land, from North to South, from East to West, ‘the irrevocable title of every man to himself.’
I have been asked, a number of times, by gentlemen not particularly sanguine in their hopes of human progress ‘What is the use of talking about slavery so much? What can you do with public sentiment against you, a large majority of the churches against you, the State against you, and the laws of the country directly against you?
In reply to these questions, we answer, we can change public sentiment; and it is being changed- there is a much stronger feeling against the Union to-day than then was six, or even three months ago; and this feeling is constantly growing stronger. The day will come, as truly as there is a God in heaven, when men will see that, under the present Constitution, slavery never can be abolished; and, seeing this, they will do away with it, and cast it from them, as if to touch it even were pollution. And, as a matter of course, if public sentiment be changed, the government of the State will be changed. As for those churches which now sanction slavery, either directly, or indirectly, they will always be found with public opinion. But the laws of the country are against us-the
<c05>
so-called laws; for we believe with Hampden, that all law is founded upon justice; that which is not founded upon justice is not law, and should never be obeyed. Tried by this test, then, that law (so called) which sanctions slavery is not law, to the higher meaning of that term, and should not be obeyed. I want you, men and women of New England, to tell the American Government, If you want your laws obeyed, make them fit to be obeyed; for if you make laws which directly conflict with God’s laws, be assured that we shall spurn them.’ The eccentric Scotchman Carlyle has said, ‘If you want your laws obeyed without mutiny, see to it that they be pieces of God’, almighty law; otherwise, all the artillery in the world cannot keep down mutiny.’
In conclusion, let me request, nay, entreat you who are not now engaged in this noble and philanthropic enterprise, to aid us, heart and hand, in our endeavors to sweep this hydra-headed monster of slavery into the bottomless pit, whence it originated.
[From the Atlantic Monthly.]
OUGHT WOMEN TO LEARN THE ALPHABET? NO. 2.
BY THOMAS W. HIGGINSON.
Ancient mythology, which undertook to explain everything, easily accounted for the social and political disabilities of woman. Goguet quotes the story from St. Augustine, who got it from Varro. Cecrops building Athens, saw starting from the earth an olive-plant and a fountain, side by side. The Delphic oracle said, that this indicated a strife between Minerva and Neptune for the honor of giving a name to the city, and that the people must decide between them. Cecrops thereupon assembled the men, and the women also, who then had a right to vote; and the result was that Minerva carried the election by a glorious majority of one. Then Attica was overflowed and laid waste; of course the citizens attributed the calamity to Neptune, and resolved to punish the women. It was therefore determined that in future they should not vote, nor should any child bear the name of its mother.
Thus easily did mythology explain all troublesome inconsistencies. But it is much that it should even have recognized them, at so early an epoch, as needing explanation. When we ask for a less symbolical elucidation, it lies within our reach. At least, it is not hard to take the first steps into the mystery. There are, to be sure, some flowers of rhetoric in the way. The obstacle to the participation of woman in the alphabet, or in any other privilege, has been thought by some to be the fear of impairing her delicacy, or of destroying her domesticity, or of confounding the distinction between the sexes. We think otherwise. These have been plausible excuses; they have even been genuine, though minor, anxieties. But the whole thing, we take it, had always one simple, intelligible basis,-sheer contempt for the supposed intellectual inferiority of woman. She was not to be taught, because she was not worth teaching. The learned Acidalius, aforesaid, was in the majority. According to Aristotle and the Peripatetics, woman was animal occasionatum, as if a sort of monster and accidental production. Mediaeval councils, charitably asserting her claims to the rank of humanity, still pronounced her unfit for instruction. In the Hindoo dramas, she did not even speak the same language with her master, but used the dialect of slaves. When, in the sixteenth century, Francoise de Saintonges wished to establish girls’ schools in France, she was hooted in the streets, and her father called together four doctors, learned in the law, to decide whether she was not possessed by demons, to think of educating women, pour s’ assurer qu’ instruire des femmes n’elait pas un <illegible> du demon.
It was the same with political rights. The foundation of the Salic Law was not any sentiment anxiety to guard female delicacy and domesticity; it was, as stated by Froissart, a blunt, hearty contempt: ‘The kingdom of France being toe noble to be ruled by a woman.’ And the same principle was reaffirmed for our own institutions, in rather softened language, by Theophilus Parsons, in his famous defence of the rights of Massachusetts men (the ‘Essex Result,’ in 1778):’Women, what age soever they are of, are not considered as having a sufficient acquired discretion [to exercise the franchise].’
In harmony with this are the various maxims and bon mots of eminent men, in respect to women. Niebuhr thought he should not have educated a girl well,-he should have made her know too much. Lessing said, ‘The woman who thinks is like the man who puts on rouge, ridiculous.’ Voltaire said, ‘Ideas are like beards; women and young men have none.’ And witty Dr. Magin carries to its extreme the atrocity: ‘We like to hear a few words of sense from a woman, as we do from a parrot, because they are so unexpected.’ Yet how can we wonder at these opinions, when the saints have been severer than the sages? since the pious Fenelon taught that true virgin delicacy was almost as incompatible with learning as with vice,-and Dr. Channing complained, in his ‘Essay on Exclusion and Denunciation,’ of ‘women forgetting the tenderness of their sex,’ and arguing on theology.
Now this impression of feminine inferiority may be right or wrong, but it obviously does a good deal towards explaining the facts it takes for granted. If contempt does not originally cause failure, it perpetuates it. Systematically discourage any individual or class, from birth to death, and they learn, in nine cases out of ten, to acquiesce in their degradation, if not to claim it as a crown of glory. If the Abbe Choisi praised the Duchess de Fontanges for being ‘beautiful as an angel and silly as a goose,’ it was natural that all the young ladies of the court should resolve to make up in folly what they wanted in charms. All generations of women having been bred under the shadow of intellectual contempt, they have of course done much to justify it. They have often used only for frivolous purposes even the poor opportunities allowed them. They have employed the alphabet, as Moliere said, chiefly in spelling the verb Amo. Their use of science has been like that of Mlle, de Launay, who computed the decline in her lover’s affection by his abbreviation of their evening walk in the public square, preferring to cross it rather than take the circuit,-‘From which I inferred,’ she says, ‘that his passion had diminished in the ratio between the diagonal of a rectangular parallelogram and the sum of two adjacent sides.’ And their conception, even of Art, has been two often on the scale of Properzia de Rossi, who carved sixty-five bends on a walnut, the smallest of all recorded symbols of woman’s sphere.
All this might perhaps be overcome, if the social prejudice which discourages woman would only reward proportionately those who surmount the discouragement. The more obstacles, the more glory, if society would only pay in proportion to the labor; but it does not. Women, being denied not merely the antecedent training which prepares for great deeds, but the subsequent praise and compensation which follow them, have been weakened in both directions. The career of eminent men ordinarily begins with colleges and the memories of Miltiades, and ends with fortune and fame; woman begins under discouragement, and ends beneath the same. Single, she works with half-preparation and half-pay; married, she puts name and wages into the keeping of her husband, shrinks into John Smith’s ‘lady’ during life, and John Smith’s ‘relict’ on her tombstone; and still the world wonders that her deeds, like her opportunities, are inferior.
Evidently, then, the advocates of woman’s claims -those who hold that ‘the virtues of the man and the woman are the same,’ with Antisthenes,-or that ‘the talent of the man and the woman is the same,’ with Socrates in Xenophon’s ‘Banquet’-must be cautious lest they attempt to prove too much. Of course, if women know as much as men without schools and colleges, there is no need of admitting them to these institutions. If they work as well on half-pay, it diminishes the inducement to give them the other half. The safer position is, to claim that they have done just enough to show what they might have done under circumstances leas discouraging. Take, for instance, the common remark, that women have invented nothing. It is a valid answer, that the only tools habitually needed by woman have been the needle, the spindle, and the basket, and tradition reports that she herself invented all three. In the same way it may be shown that the department, in which women have equalled men, have been the departments in which they have had equal training, equal encouragement, and equal compensation,-as, for instance, the theatre. Madame Lagrange, the prime donna, after years of costly musical instruction, wins the zenith of professional success; she receives, the newspapers affirm, sixty thousand dollars a year, travelling expenses for ten persons, country-houses, stables, and liveries, besides an uncounted revenue of bracelets, bouquets,
<c06>
and billet-doux. Of course, every young debutate fancies the same thing within her own reach, with only a brief stare vista between. On the stage there is no deduction for sex, and therefore woman has show, in that sphere an equal genius. But every female common-school teacher in the United States find, the enjoyment of her two hundred dollars a year to be secretly embittered by the knowledge that the young college-stripling in the next school-room is paid a thousand dollars for work no harder or more responsive than her own,-and that, too, after the whole pathway of education has been obstructed for-her, and smoothed for him. These may be gross and carnal considerations; but Faith asks her daily bread, and Fancy must be fed. We deny woman her fair share of training, of encouragement, of remuneration, and then talk fine nonsense about her instincts and her intuitions,-say sentimentally, with the Oriental proverbialist, ‘Every book of knowledge is implanted by nature in the heart of woman,’ and make the compliment a substitute for the alphabet.
Nothing can be more absurd than to impose entirely distinct standards, in this respect, on the two sexes, or to expect that woman, any more than man will accomplish anything great without due preparation and adequate stimulus. Mrs. Patten, who navigated her husband’s ship from Cape Horn to California, would have failed in the effort, for all her heroism, if she bad not, unlike most of her sex, been taught to use her Bowditch. Florence Nightingale, when she heard of the distresses in the Crimea, did not, as most people imagine, rise up and say, ‘I am a woman, ignorant, but intuitive, with very little sense or information, but exceedingly sublime aspirations; my strength lies in my weakness; I can do all things without knowing anything about them.’ Not at all. During ten years she had been in hard training for precisely such services,-had visited all the hospitals in London, Edinburgh, Dublin, Paris, Lyons, Rome, Brussels, and Berlin,-had studied under the Sisters of Charity, and been twice a nurse in the Protestant Institution at Kaiserswerth. Therefore she did not merely carry to the Crimea a woman’s heart, as her stock in trade, but she knew the alphabet of her profession better than the men around her. Of course, genius and enthusiasm are, for both sexes, elements unforeseen and incalculable; but, as a general rule, great achievements imply great preparations and favorable conditions.
To disregard this truth is unreasonable in the abstract, and cruel in its consequences. If an extraordinary male gymnast can clear a height of ten feet with the aid of a spring-board, it would be considered slightly absurd to ask a woman to leap eleven feet without one; yet this is precisely what society and the critics have always done. Training and wages and social approbation are very elastic springboards, and the whole course of history has seen these offered bounteously to one sex, and as sedulously withheld from the other. Let woman consent to be a doll, and there was no finery so gorgeous, no baby-house so costly, but she might aspire to share its lavish delights;-let her ask simply for an equal chance to learn, to labor, and to live, and it was as if that same doll should open its lips, and propound Euclid’s forty-seventh proposition. While we have all deplored the helpless position of indigent women, and lamented that they had no alternative beyond the needle, the wash-tub, the school-room, and the street, we have yet resisted their admission into every new occupation, denied them training, and cut their compensation down. Like Charles Lamb, who atoned for coming late to the office in the morning by going away early in the afternoon, we have, first, half educated women, and then, to restore the balance, only half paid them. What innumerable obstacles have been placed in the way of female physicians! what a complication of difficulties has been encountered by female printers, engravers, and designers! In London, Mr. Bennett was recently mobbed for lecturing to women on watchmaking. In this country, we have known grave professors to refuse to address lyceums which thought fit to employ an occasional female lecturer. Mr. Comer states that it was ‘in the face of ridicule and sneers’ that he began to educate women is book-keepers, eight years ago; and it is a little contemptible in the authoress of ‘A Woman’s Thoughts on Women,’ to revive the same satire now, when she must know that in one half the retail shops in Paris, her own sex rules the ledger, and Mammon knows no Salic law.
We find, on investigation, what these considerations would lead us to expect, that eminent women have commonly been more exceptional in their training and position than even in their genius. They have excelled the average of their own sex, because they have had more of the ordinary advantages of the other sex. Take any department of learning or skill; take, for instance, the knowledge of languages, the universal alphabet, philology.-On the great stairway, at Padua, stands the statue of Elena Cornaro, professor of six languages in that once renowned university. But Elena Cornaro was educated like a boy, by her father.-On the great door of the University of Bologna is inscribed the epitaph of Clotilda Tambroni, the honored correspondent of Porson, and the first Greek scholar of Southern Europe in her day. But Clotilda Tambroni was educated like a boy, by Emanuele Aponte.-How fine are those prefatory words, ‘by a Right Reverend Prelate,’ to that pioneer book in Anglo Saxon lore, Elizabeth Elstob’s grammar: ‘Our earthly possessions are indeed oar patrimony, as derived to us by the industry of our fathers; but the language in which we speak is our mother-tongue, and who so proper to play the critic in this as the females? But this particular female obtained the rudiments of her rare education from her mother, before she was eight years old, in spite of much opposite from her right reverend guardians.-Adelung, the highest authority, declares that all modern philology is founded on the translation of a Russian vocabulary into two hundred different dialects by Catherine II. But Catherine shared, in childhood, the instructors of her brother, Prince Frederick, and was subject to some reproach for learning, though a girl, so much more rapidly than he did.-Christina of Sweden ironically reproved Madame Dacier for her translation of Callimachus: ‘Such a pretty girl as you are, are you not ashamed to be so learned?’ But Madame Dacier acquired Greek by contriving to do her embroidery in the room where her father was teaching her stupid brother; and her queenly critic had learned to read Thucydides, harder Greek than Callimachus, before she was fourteen.-And so down to our own day, who knows how many mute, inglorious Minervas may have perished unenlightened, while Margaret Fuller and Elizabeth Barrett Browning were being educated ‘like boys’?
This expression simply means that they had the most solid training which the times afforded. Most persons would instantly take alarm at the very words; that is, they have so little faith in the distinctions; which Nature has established, that they think, if you teach the alphabet, or any thing else, indiscriminately to both sexes, you annual all difference between them. The common reasoning is thus: ‘Boys and girls are acknowledged to be distinct beings. Now boys study Greek and algebra, medicine and book-keeping. Therefore girls are distinct As if one should say: ‘Boys and girls are distinct beings. Now boys eat beef and potatoes. Therefore, obviously, girls should not.’
The analogy between physical and spiritual food is precisely in point. The simple truth is, that, amid the vast range of human powers and properties, the fact of sex is but one item. Vital and momentous in itself, it does not constitute the whole organism, but only a small part of it. The distinction of male and female is special, aimed at a certain end; and apart from that end, it is, throughout all the kingdoms of Nature, of minor importance. With but trifling exceptions, from infusorial up to man, the female animal moves, breathes, looks, listens, runs, flies, swims, pursues its food, eats it, digests it, in precisely the same manner as the male; all instincts, all characteristics, are the same, except as to the one solitary fact of parentage. Mr. Ten Broeck’s race-horses, Pryor and Prioress, were foaled alike, fed alike, trained alike, and finally ran side by side, competing for the same prize. The eagle is not checked in soaring by any consciousness of<illegable> nor asks the sex of the timid hare, its quarry.<illegable> ture, for high purposes, creates and guards the sexual distinctions, but keeps it humbly subordinate to still more important ones. Now all this bears directly upon the alphabet. What sort of philosophy is that which says, ‘John is a fool; Jane is a genius; nevertheless, John, being a man. shall learn, lead, make laws make money; Jane, being a woman, shall be ignorant, dependent, disfranchised, underpaid,’ Of course the time is past when one would state this so frankly, though Comte comes quite near it, to say nothing of the Mormons; but this formula really lies at the bottom of the reasoning one hears every day. The answer is: Soul before sex. Give an equal chance, and let genius and industry do the rest. La carriere<illegable> talents. Every man for himself, every woman for herself, and the alphabet for us all.
