THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 40. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4.1861.WHOLE NO. 1606.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
THE ADMINISTRATION AND SLAVERY.
We are gratified, in common with a vast portion of the people of the North, at the course taken by the President in the treatment of Gen. Fremont's proclamation. When we wrote last week that we were convinced from the former declarations of the President, that the Administration must regret the course of the Western General, our view was received with considerable distrust, and even this slight expression of dissent from the practice adopted by one of the army officers was by some zealous people regarded as an interference with the prosecution of the war by the Administration. It appears plainly now, and we record it with satisfaction, that a headlong approval of whatever political plans are adopted by Major Generals, is quite as likely to be an interference with the designs of the President and his cabinet, as a judicious expression of opinion against them. Those of our cotemporaries who in their haste applauded the proclamation of General Fremont as "the way to carry on the war," find that way is not the Administration way, and that by approving it they have added to the embarrassment it has caused the Government, while the President is as firm to-day as ever in his resistance to the Abolition pressure which has been brought to bear on him. Upon this slavery question, we are convinced, as we have before said, that the President has maintained one constant and consistent idea, and that he may be relied on to carry out the views which he has always expressed. The question has been magnified into one of great importance by the constant effort to inveigle the Government into the toils of the emancipationists, and enlist the army in a crusade against slavery. There is really no practical difficulty whatever in the treatment of slaves by the army, according to the ordinary principles of law or the common rules of war. As to making our soldiers slave-catchers, we apprehend that no one expects it, North or South; and as to affording shelter to fugitives, we are unable to perceive on what principle they are to be treated differently from poor persons of any other color or position in the places where they may be found. An advancing army will necessarily make what use it can of all property of rebels in arms, and in doing so will, without waiting the slow processes of courts, seize and consume provisions, transfer to their own uses all arms and munitions of war, horses, wagons, and available goods, and will of course make the slaves of a rebels useful if they can, and if they cannot, will let them look out for themselves. This would effect the virtual freedom of many slaves, nor do we see how a people in arms can expect any other result than this in the immediate localities where the war is carried on. But this, which may be called an accidental effect of the war, is a very different matter from confiscation of property, as that phrase is ordinarily and properly understood, to the perfection of which a legal proceeding is necessary, involving a conviction for treason, or a decree of confiscation on account of treason, by a competent court.
When the war in Virginia shall be over, the condition of slaves then in that State will become, as before, a matter of State law and regulation, while those who have been forcibly conveyed, or who have escaped into other States, will be subject to the provisions of the Fugitive Slave Act. The confiscation and freedom, under the act of Congress, of any who have been actually employed by rebels for treasonable purposes, may then be pleaded in behalf of such as have thus obtained freedom, and the courts will recognize all decrees of other courts which shall have been made on that subject.
No possible course could be devised more likely to make the war permanent in duration to a period beyond the foresight of any man, than the introduction of the principle contended for, that all slaves of rebels engaged in rebellion shall for that cause and at once be and become free. This declaration, circulated over the Southern States, while it could do no possible good, would make the union of the entire South against the North for war to the end, an absolute necessity. It would hold up before every man and woman as the result of peace and submission, an immediate declaration of the freedom of all slaves, and a demand by Northern Abolitionists that such freedom should be secured by the Government, and a future in the South, as the consequence, from which humanity shrinks with horror.
As to any possible good to be derived from it, it would be supposed that the experience of five months past was enough to dispel forever any such idea.
The apprehended uprising of the slaves, which was one of the elements in many men's calculations last spring, has long been seen to be without probability. No proclamation of liberty to the slaves will have any force to frighten the Confederates, but, on the contrary, such a proclamation would unquestionably add to their determination never to submit to the Constitution. The principle that the regulation of slave property is a State matter, only to be interfered with by the local exceptions which actual war creates, and only to be disturbed by legal confiscation under due process of law, is manifestly that on which the President intends that the contest shall be conducted, nor will he be likely to consent to any proclamations which shall be so general in their operation as to overthrow, in entire States, the confidence of the people that they may lay down their arms, and resume their peaceful occupations, at any moment when a general amnesty shall be proclaimed. If such a proclamation could operate as a legal manumission of slaves, it is very plain that no future proclamation could suspend its effect, or deprive slaves of the freedom to which they had become entitled by its issue. So that, without discussing its illegality, it is evident that, if legal and of force, it would forever overthrow the foundations of society at the South, a result which would gratify Northern Abolitionists infinitely more than a speedy and peaceable submission to the Government, and close of the war.
We trust that the firm course of the President in the case of General Fremont's proclamation will be the end of the attempt to coerce the Administration into Abolitionism. We cannot but regard the occurrence as one of the most important which has taken place since the outbreak of the war, and we are well assured that it will not only strengthen the Administration in the estimation of the entire North, but will give great encouragement to the Union men in the border and Southern States, on whose labors so much of the future now depends.-Journal of Commerce.
MASSACHUSETTS SOLDIERS IN MAYRLAND. A letter from Carroll county, Maryland, speaking of the recent expedition to Lower Maryland, says the presence of Col. Cowdin's Massachusetts Regiment has convinced the wavering that even Massachusetts men could march through our county without interfering with the slaves. "I know of several instances,” the letter continues, "where negroes seeking their camp were WHIPPED AND SENT HOME’!! 
<c02>
WHAT TO DO WITH AGITATORS.
In answer to the clamor of one of our local newspapers. (itself not always over-scrupulous in the use of language.) that certain Abolition editors and clerical agitators should be incarcerated at Fort Lafayette, the Boston Courier offers a few practical suggestions. The editor says:-
"Surely, these newspapers and reverend parsons, with their confederates, stand on the very outer edge of flat rebellion itself; indeed, they are as inveterate foes of anything possible to be called a Union of the States as the most inveterate secessionists, because they openly declare they will have no Union, except on their own terms, which are out of the question. It is evident that the time must come when something must be done with them-but the question is-when and how?
In our judgment, nothing would tend so much to the public welfare, by the settlement of public opinion, as the prosecution of those pestilent newspapers and parsons. We desire to see neither mob law nor any arbitrary proceedings applied to them by the Government. We are firmly for freedom of speech and of the press, according to the fundamental provisions of the Constitution, and because anything short of this is totally inconsistent with the whole theory and practice of public and private liberty. But in order that this liberty of speech and of writing shall not become licentious, it is necessary to define it, and keep it within the bounds of justice and reason. In a free country, of all others, this is most necessary. Where there is the greatest temptation to licentiousness and opportunity for it, there it is most necessary that the ill-disposed should be most held under wholesome restraint.
We have suffered amazingly in this country for want of a sounder public sentiment on this subject. Nothing could regulate this so well as solemn and formal judicial proceedings. We propose, therefore, that the parties in question be properly indicted and brought to trial-either for their treasonable speeches and conduct, as the case may be, or as disturbers of the public peace and safety. By thorough investigation of the true principles of republican institutions at the bar, and by the solemn adjudication of a learned bench, let the case of these culprits be determined. As the result, if found guilty, let a sufficient fine and suitable imprisonment be awarded-enough to stop them effectually, and to check others inclined in like manner to offend. We should thus soon put men of more discretion and of a higher tone in the management of the press-which would then be as beneficial, as it is now too often mischievous-ranting clergymen would devote themselves to their proper vocation of the cure of souls, instead of bewildering themselves and others in politics, and thus public sentiment and public conduct might be essentially enlightened, raised and refined." -N. Y. Journal of Commerce.

INCENDIARY PARSONS.
To deal leniently with reverend incendiaries like Cheever and Beecher at such a time is to imperil our own safety. Away, then, with all false delicacy in the treatment of those, who, to gratify their fanatical longings, would destroy the government. As a beginning, let the mad priest of the Puritans be sent to keep company at Fort Lafayette with that rival fire-rand of sedition, the Abbe Mc Master. The Abbe will have good society at the Fort-some staunch Catholics and educated men. But the company will not be complete till it is joined by Beecher, Cheever and half a dozen more of the shining lights of Puritanism, who will have plenty of time for discussion, and can enter into an "irrepressible conflict" with the "Errors of Popery " and the false doctrine, heresy and schism of the Protestant Churches. Freedom of speech will be allowed within the walls of the Fort, where it can do no mischief. We would suggest that Wendell Phillips, Garrison, Tappan and Jay should be added to the list of illustrious inmates of the Fort, in order that they may enter into mortal combat with the pro-slavery prisoners, and that both factions may eat each other up, like the Kilkenny cats. The course of the President has knocked abolitionism on the head, but it has saved the country and prevented the war from degenerating into Mexican anarchy. If the ideas of the anti-slavery fanatics were adopted, the war would be interminable. Two-thirds of the people of the Southern States are to-day sound Unionists, and would so declare themselves if they could. But the policy recommended by the Tribune and the other abolition sheets would totally alienate these men, and make them as deadly enemies as the most rabid secessionists. In the North, too, it would paralyze the arm of the government, and deprive the war of that general and enthusiastic support which is essential to its success.
It is as important, therefore, for the government to put a stop to the rebellious course of the Abolitionists as to seize secession sympathizers. They are both equally the enemies of the Administration. Not only ought the abolition presses to be squelched, and their editors sent to some fortress, but the conventicles of the abolition demagogues bearing the title of "reverend" ought to be closed, and the incendiaries themselves handed over to the tender mercies of the Southern rebels, in exchange for some of the valuable prisoners of war now incarcerated in Castle Pinckney, in the harbor of Charleston. -New York Herald.

GEN. FREMONT, THE ADMINISTRATION, AND OUR ABOLITION ORGANS.
Our Abolition organs, including the Tribune and Evening Post, are close upon the verge of rebellion in consequence of President Lincoln's instructions holding General Fremont subject to the laws of Congress in reference to this business of the emancipation of Southern slaves. We can thus discover the extremities to which, for Abolition purposes, our anti-slavery radicals and their organs are prepared to push this war. They are prepared to set up the unauthorized edict of a military subordinate above the authority of the President and the government; just as another of our silly and malignant Abolition organs, the Times, was clamorous a short time ago for the removal of Mr. Lincoln by a mob, and the substitution of George Law as President or Provisional President of the United States. With regard to General Fremont, we have always been disposed to overlook his faults and to magnify his virtues, as a politician, soldier and patriot. But we must say that this late dashing proclamation of his, without authority and upon his own responsibility, was a very indiscreet proceeding in every point of view. No subordinate officer has the right to assume any such grave responsibility as this. The President, in his mild rebuke of Fremont, has dealt very tenderly with him; but they who, with the facts before them, continue to glorify the imprudent proclamationt of Fremont, are counselling insubordination in its most dangerous form. They should be looked after, and taught a wholesome lesson upon that first duty of loyalty in this crisis, submission to and cooperation with the government and its war policy to save the life of the nation.-New York Herald.
<c03>
Selections
THREATS OF JAMES GORDON BENNETT AGAINST THE SOUTH AND SLAVERY.
Bennett's Herald, (says the New York Times,) as a general rule-when it seeks to direct special indignation against a rival, does it by imputing to him its own villanies. Conscious apparently that what nobody dreams of stooping to censure in its columns, would ruin the reputation of any respectable journal which should publish it, the Herald ingeniously seeks to inflict its own character upon those whom it hates. It could not possibly do them a worse turn. It is doing precisely that thing in this case. It invokes the interposition of the government, and the summary vengeance of the mob, against the Times, Tribune, and Independent, for proclaiming that the war now waged "can only end with universal emancipation." We have only ourselves to answer for; and, so far as we are concerned, the assertion is false. There is but one daily paper in the city, to our knowledge, which has taken this ground, and that is the Herald itself. When the war first broke out—almost immediately after the Herald had been compelled by a mob to stop its advocacy of secession and sustain the Union-it distanced the Liberator and the Anti-Slavery Standard in its fierce demands for a war against slavery. Here are a few paragraphs clipped from its columns:-
From the New York Herald, April 19.
With the secession of Virginia, there is going to be enacted on the banks of the Potomac one of the most terrible conflicts the world has ever witnessed; and Virginia, with all her social systems, will be doomed and swept away.
From the New York Herald, April 20. 
We must also admonish the people of Maryland that we of the North have the common right of way through their State to our National Capital. But let her join the revolutionists, and her substance will be devoured by our Northern legions as by an Arabian cloud of locusts, and her slave population will disappear in a single campaign.
A Northern invasion of Virginia and of Kentucky, if necessary, carrying along with it the Canadian line of African freedom, as it must do from the very nature of civil war, will produce a powerful Union reaction. THE SLAVE POPULATION OF THE BORDER STATES WILL BE MOVED IN TWO DIRECTIONS. One branch of it, WITHOUT THE MASTERS, WILL MOVE NORTHWARD, and the other branch, with the masters, will be moved Southward, so that, by the time the Northern army will have penetrated to the centre of the border slave States, THEY WILL BE RELIEVED OF THE SUBSTANCE AND ABSTRACT RIGHTS OF SLAVE PROPERTY FOR ALL TIME TO COME.
Finally, the revolted States having appealed to the sword of revolution to redress their wrongs, may soon have to choose between submission to the Union or the bloody extinction of slavery, from the absence of any law, any wish, any power for its protection.
From the New York Herald, April 21.
By land and water, if she places herself in the attitude of rebellion, Maryland may be overrun and subdued in a single week, including the extinction of slavery within her own borders, for war makes its own laws.
We are less concerned about Washington than about Maryland. Loyal to the Union, she is perfectly safe, negroes and all; disloyal to the Union, she may be crushed, including her institution of slavery. Let her stand by the Union, and the Union will protect and respect her-slavery and all.
From the New York Herald, April 22. 
Accordingly, let old Virginia begin to put her house in order, and pack up for the removal of her half million of slaves, for fear of the impending storm. She has invited it, and only a speedy repentance will save her from being dashed to pieces among the rocks and surging billows of this dreadful revolution.
From the New York Herald, April 23. 
Virginia, next to Maryland, will be subjected to this test. She has seceded, and hence she will probably risk the breaking of every bone in her body. If so, we fear that every bone in her body will be broken, INCLUDING HER BACKBONE OF SLAVERY. The day is not far off when the Union men of the revolted States will be asked to come to the relief of their misguided brethren, for otherwise the war which they have chosen to secure their institution of slavery MAY RESULT IN WIPING IT OUT OF EXISTENCE.
From the New York Herald, April 24.
In advance of this movement, President Lincoln should issue his proclamation, guaranteeing the complete protection of all loyal Union men and their property, but warning the enemies of the Government of the dangers of confiscation, negroes included.
If Virginia resists, the contest cannot last very long, considering her large slave population, which will either become fugitives or take up arms against their masters.
From the New York Herald, April 28.
That we are to have a fight, that Virginia and Maryland will form the battle-ground, that the Northern roughs will sweep those States with fire and sword, is beyond peradventure. They have already been excited to the boiling point by the rich prospect of plunder held out by some of their leaders, and will not be satisfied UNLESS THEY HAVE A FARM AND A NIGGER EACH. THERE IS NO SORT OF EXAGGERATION ABOUT THESE STATEMENTS, AS THE PEOPLE OF THE BORDER STATES WILL SHORTLY ASCERTAIN TO THEIR COST. The character of the coming campaign will be vindictive, fierce, bloody, and merciless beyond parallel in ancient or modern history.
From the New York Herald, April 29.
The class of population which is recruiting in our large cities-the regiments forming for service in behalf of the Union, can never be permanently worsted. THEY WILL POUR DOWN UPON THE VILLAGES AND CITIES OF VIRGINIA AND MARYLAND, AND LEAVE A DESOLATE TRACK BEHIND THEM, and inspire terror in whatever vicinity they approach.
From the New York Herald, April 30.
It will be idle for Tennessee and Kentucky to attempt to escape from the issue, and to remain at peace, while the remainder of the country is at war. Neutrality will be considered opposition, and the result of a general frontier war will be, that slavery, as a domestic institution of the United States, will be utterly annihilated.
These are a few, and only a few, of the "incendiary" appeals daily made by the Herald to the passions of the North. Yet this is the paper which now invokes public wrath on other journals, upon a false imputation of using language infinitely less ferocious than that with which its own columns are filled.
<c04>
FEELINGS OF AMERICANS ABROAD.
We take the following stirring passage from an eloquent Discourse delivered in Harvard Street Baptist Church, Boston, August 11, 1861, on the return of the Pastor from Syria, by Rev. Daniel C. Eddy, D. D.-(published by John M. Hewes, 81 Cornhill, Boston.)
I return to you in the midst of civil war. I find hostile armies traversing our country. I find a man's foes to be they of his own household, and my soul shudders at the prospect yet before us. I venture to say that such an unreasonable, unnatural, merciless war was never entered upon. The rebellion of Absalom against David, his royal sire, his mad endeavor to overturn the Hebrew throne, does not approach the enormity of this sanguinary conflict. The Sepoy rebellion, in India, was not as inexcusable as this war against the Federal Government by States whose soil we have purchased, whose firesides we have defended, whose debts we have paid, whose insults we have forgiven, whose injuries we have borne, and, alas!-God forgive us,-whose slaves we have caught and returned. Never, since God made the world, has a brighter and more beautiful flag been drabbled in a dirtier soil than that which fell pierced with swords in the streets of Richmond; never has treason worked to a meaner purpose, and with more villanous instruments, than that which had South Carolina nullification for its hydra-head, and the Montgomery abortion for its cloven foot and forked tail. The name of Arnold, which has been hung with a sable cloud, now begins to glow with lurid light, in comparison with those that in inky black are inscribed beside it; and the Roman Catiline looks saint-like, compared with some of the men who have plotted the ruin of this great nation, and who, to consummate their purpose, have been willing to drench their land in innocent blood.
The first intelligence we received of the commencement of hostilities was in Syria. We were told that eight thousand chivalrous men had overcome a half-starved garrison of seventy soldiers, and divided the immortal honor of the exploit between them; that Massachusetts blood was soaking into the pavements of Baltimore; that the American flag, which no sovereign in Europe would dare insult, had been hooted by a mob, pierced with swords, trampled under foot, and rent to pieces; that an army of rebels was marching on Washington, to haul down the banner, every star, and stripe, and thread, and dot of which is redolent with freedom, and put up a bastard ensign, a piratical insignia, in every flap of which the world should hear the crack of the whip, the clank of chains, and the groans of the negro.
And that was all we heard! The account was meagre, and did not tell us how such treason was to be met, how such rebellion was to be quelled, and how such a government was to be preserved. A week,-a long and painful week must elapse ere we could hear again. It was a week of harrowing suspense, and I assure you that, as excited as you were here, your suspense could not have been as dreadful as ours. The very silence of the Syrian desert was eloquent with forebodings and fears. We questioned! Have the fires of patriotism all gone out? Has the love of liberty fled from Plymouth Rock to find a home in Italy, Hungary and Poland? Are, the descendants of the men of Lexington, and Bunker Hill, and Valley Forge all dead? Will the people rise in their majesty, and defend the Constitution and vindicate the flag, or will the freemen of the North yield once more,-yield forever? and let that base. Palmetto rag float over the capitol, that counterfeit Montgomery constitution extend to the St. Lawrence, and that arrogant Georgian fulfil the boast he made, that he would call the roll of his slaves on Bunker Hill?
I must tell you that I was afraid of the North, of New England, and especially of Boston. I knew that the North had a conscience, but I also knew that warehouses and manufactories had been built upon it ten stories high. I knew that New England had a heart, but I was well aware that it was all covered up with bales of cotton, boxes of shoes and cargoes of tea, and was afraid that its life-throes could not cast off the mighty incubus.
The week rolled away,-a week of suspense, and we held our breath with pain. We had reason to suspect this now vindicated metropolis. The scene that was shimmering before my eyes, when I sailed, was that disgraceful mob in Tremont Temple, where, in obedience to the behest of South Carolina, free speech was trampled down and lay bleeding in the dust. The last sounds that floated on the air were the echoes of those compromise speeches made in Faneuil Hall, tempered and toned to be read in old Virginia.
The week expired, and behind the bar of the Ottoman Bank in Beyroot, ten of us gathered over a pile of English and American newspapers; our letters lay unopened before us. Wives and children were forgotten; our bleeding country was alone remembered. The intelligence was all we could desire. It told us that the Pilgrim spirit was yet alive; that everywhere at home an intense enthusiasm was enkindled; that party ties were all sundered, and party interests all forgotten; that our young men had risen to arms, and our old men had blessed them as they went forth; that women and children were making garments, banners and tents for the soldiers; that the churches were hung with the old flag-the Stripes and Stars-God bless it! that from the farthest river in Maine to the prairies of the West, the people were rising to trample the traitors down; that Sunday, God's day, had been taken to do God's work; that timid, conservative preachers, who had been deaf and dumb while all this mischief was brewing, had come to the front of the altar, shouting, "The sword of the Lord and of Washington;" that a long vacillating Cabinet had been raised, and cast on the great waves of popular might against the brazen gates of treason; that the old flag, borne by ten thousand hands, was to go straight through Baltimore, and be lifted up upon the Federal capitol, and wave there in the sight of all nations, the symbol of Constitutional Government and human freedom, until treason was overturned and slavery was extinct.
This was enough! Never, since the day when God forgave my sins and made me a new creature, have I felt so willing to die as then,-so able to say, sincerely, "Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation." We read those columns down with choked utterance and sobbing voices. The tears streamed down our cheeks, while clerks and bankers looked on amazed; we grasped the hands of each other; we laughed and wept by turns, and rushed out to make the French camp, close by, and through which we rode, on our way to Damascus, ring with our national anthem:-
"My country, 'tis of thee,
Sweet land of liberty,
Of thee I sing;
Land where my fathers died,
Land of the Pilgrims' pride,
From every mountain side,
Let freedom ring."
<c05>
You know what has transpired since. You have lived an age, within these last four months; events have burnt themselves into the staple of time; have been written in letters of blood on the pages of history. When posterity reads, what a chapter it will be! Treason for thirty years working in the Cabinet, in the Army, and in Congress; fraud plundering the national treasury and the public arsenals; cowardice assailing with eight thousand men, and eighty thousand still behind, a half-starved garrison of seventy men; a ferocious mob murdering unoffending Massachusetts soldiers, while on their way to defend the Federal capital; a letter of marque issued by an ambitious pretender, for the encouragement of piracy; the sacred tomb of the Father of his country threatened with robbery, and, as if it was not enough to tear Washington's Constitution to pieces, destroy his country and trail his banner in the dust, his ashes must be cast upon the altars of the oppression which he hated, to satisfy the Moloch of slavery. And then scene followed scene,
"Blood trod upon the heels of blood;
Revenge in desperate mood at midnight met
Revenge. War brayed to war,"
until now, in the harvest moon, Death centres as if it were a pivot upon the ridge of the Alleghenies, and flaps his raven wing over all the land. The nation seems to have been passing over a gulf of horrors, upon a bridge of sighs, all the way from John Brown's gibbet to Manassas Gap. Who can count the widows' tears as they fall? Who can describe the desolated homes? Who can number the silent graves? Who can tell the ruin of character, the blasting of hope, and the fearful crimes that will follow, like a retinue of devils, in the track of this fratricidal war? And what name will history give to him who stands forth as the acknowledged leader of this rebellion, on whose hands the blood is clotting now, as she enrolls him on her catalogue with Nina Sahib and the murderers of the Marionites?
And now what of the future? Watchman, what of the night? Can any one of you see any stars amid the portentous blackness of this hour? You, who stand in the midst of prostrate business prospects, who walk in the gloom which hangs over the exchange and the market-place, who are menaced by failure and bankruptcy; you, whose honest dues have been repudiated by your Southern creditors; you, who clung to guilty South Carolina, praying her to be reasonable, shielding her from reproach, until she turned and stabbed you, and sent you home bleeding and wounded; you, who apologized for the South until she had well nigh brought down the temple of our liberties a heap of ruins: tell me, do you see any rays of light?
It seems to me that a division of our country is an impossibility. We cannot have two or more republics on this soil. God and nature have forbidden it. Neither of them, could they be established, would attain to any considerable respectability in the great family of nations, and between them would be perpetual war. A peaceful separation seems to be rendered impossible by all the exigencies of the case, and hence there can be but two ways of settling this question,-it is a dreadful alternative.
The first way, is to compromise, yield, surrender. A government extending over a wide range of country, must, to some extent, be one vast system of compromises. When the interests of one part conflict with the interests of another part; when opinions differ, and men cannot see alike, compromise and concession are the legitimate modes of adjustment. But no government can with any safety compromise the principle on which it is founded; to do that is self-destruction; and there are some questions which can never be made matters of compromise.

THE GOVERNMENT OFFERING A BOUNTY FOR CONFEDERATE SOLDIERS.
The Government of the United States presents the only instance ever recorded on earth, where a government at war offered an immense premium for soldiers to join the ranks of its enemies. The late Act of Congress, known as the Confiscation Bill, does exactly that thing. The fourth section reads as follows:-
"SECT. 4. And be it further enacted. That whenever hereafter, during the present insurrection against the Government of the United States, any person claimed to be held to labor or service under the law of any State shall be required or permitted by the person to whom such labor or service is claimed to be due, or by the lawful agent of such person, to take up arms against the United States, or shall be required or permitted by the person to whom such labor or service is claimed to be due, or his lawful agent, to work or to be employed in or upon any fort, navy-yard, dock, armory, ship, entrenchment, or in any military or naval service whatsoever, against the Government and lawful authority of the United States, then, and in every such case, the person to whom such labor is claimed to be due shall forfeit his claim to such labor, any law of any State of the United States to the contrary notwithstanding. And whenever thereafter the person claiming such labor or service shall seek to enforce his claim, it shall be a full and sufficient answer to such claim that the person whose service or labor is claimed had been employed in hostile service against the Government of the United States, contrary to the provisions of this Act."
It has been the custom of slaveholders, whenever any great service had been performed by a slave-any life of his master's family saved by a chattel-or any remarkably meritorious act performed by "persons held to service or labor"-to grant such slave his freedom as a reward of great merit. Liberty is looked upon as the greatest earthly boon that can be conferred upon man. It is this high premium which our Government offers to four millions of people, if they will take up arms against its existence. All that the millions of slaves have to do, to absolve themselves from all legal obligation to their masters, is to take up arms, and kill all the Union men they can! "It is so nominated in the bond." By becoming armed rebels against the Government, they become, what Gen. Fremont thought best to declare them before they were armed—FREE MEN! By arraying themselves in deadly hostility to our national existence, they are converted from chattels into men, "according to an Act of Congress "! How long will it take to give the slaves the requisite information, for availing themselves of this generous Act? What an immense increase of the Confederate army would be the consequence of spreading this intelligence! The late modification of Gen. Fremont's Proclamation by the President has made it absolutely necessary for slaves to fight, or to engage in some active work of the rebellion, in order to avail themselves of the Confiscation Act!-Chester County (Pa.) Times.
To a universal sweep of rebel property "wherever found," our Government has made one exception. Slave property is not to be thus treated. While all other property "wherever found," if used "in any way" to promote the insurrection, is "lawful subject of prize and capture," slaves can only be confiscated when they shall work on entrenchments,
<c06>
or take up arms against the Government! Then they can be confiscated, and made "free men."
In Missouri, thousands of open rebels are in the field, fighting against the existence of the nation. As many thousand slaves are at home raising provisions for the rebel army. Two hundred thousand rebels now menace the Federal capital, with arms in their hands. Two million of slaves are raising provisions for these fighting rebels. In the name of our country, we ask, are these slaves being used "in any manner" in "aiding, abetting, or promoting" the insurrection? Can any other "property" be so important or so active in aiding this great treason? The whole white population, they claim, can fight, while the slaves do the work. If this be true, why make a distinction, and protect the slave property of the rebels, while all other kinds must be confiscated? Are we, if we meet a black regiment in the field, to refrain from firing on them, for fear Jeff. Davis, Beauregard or Lee may have "a person held to service or labor" among them? Must we still yield to slave-drivers, although they are in open rebellion against the Government? Are we still the cringing, timid waiters upon the mighty oligarchy who have so long shaken their whips in our face? Will we never cease to be poltroons, and to bow at the bidding of these dictators? Recent events give us great cause for doubt on the subject-Ibid.

THE PROCLAMATION OF GEN. FREMONT
Events move towards war. Three months ago the nation would not have sanctioned, or the boldest general dared, so sweeping an act as that which the commander of our Western forces has just essayed in Missouri. And yet at the present time it is questionable whether even this bold measure, which declares a whole State under martial law, and which gives a free interpretation to the confiscation act of Congress, is at all in advance of popular opinion. The nation demands that this rebellion shall be put down, if not in one way, then in another, and it is not likely to stand splitting hairs very long about the propriety of this or that measure, so that it be forcible and successful. Whether slavery is or is not abolished in any particular instance, is in the minds of the majority of the people entirely subordinate to another question, whether the government shall be abolished. They are willing to give a large latitude of discretion to the government and the Federal Generals, and for the prudent exercise of that discretion they expect, in the light of subsequent events, to hold them to a strict account.
Although the proclamation of Gen. Fremont appears at first sight to dissolve the relations of master and slave over a large portion of the State of Missouri, yet a moment's reflection will convince any one that it is a statement of a result which war has already accomplished, rather than the proclamation of one which is new and prospective. Slavery is founded upon force. War inevitably interferes with such an artificial system. It brings a more or less complete disruption of all civil and social relations, and those which are least natural and self-existent of course are first to feel its effects. Owners run away from their slaves, and slaves run away from their owners, in the presence of an invading army. Indeed, from the very first, all intelligent men have perceived that the institution of slavery could but be incidentally gravely imperiled if it was not completely destroyed during the progress of this rebellion, although its destruction was in no sense the aim of the government. It is impossible that the march of armies, whether friendly or inimical, over the Southern States, can be reconciled with the safety of the "peculiar institution." The South, in taking up arms to extend the area of slavery, has resorted to the process most of all calculated to ultimately destroy it, and the longer the rebellion continues, the less will be its power to resist its ultimate effects.-Maine Evangelist.

FREMONT AND THE PRESIDENT.
The country has learned with anxiety and regret of the troubles between Gen. Fremont and the government at Washington. So far as these have to do with administering the detail of affairs, the public does not know the circumstances, and is not prepared to pass judgment. An investigation will settle who is to blame in this respect, and doubtless reform mistakes or abuses. But, in the other and far graver matter, of the difference as regards the line of policy to be pursued towards the rebels, the great majority of our nation is not only well-informed, but will insist upon having and expressing its own opinion.
One thing, we think, is entirely obvious. This is, that no document of the campaign thus far has been received so favorably as the proclamation of Gen. Fremont, putting Missouri under martial law, and emancipating the slaves of those in arms against the Government. No measure has done so much to inspire public confidence-to convince our people that the administration is in earnest in its war with traitors, and is determined it shall be prosecuted till the rebellion is put down. It emphatically marks the period of the turn of the tide in our national struggle. It indicates the point where the gloom of disaster and despondency was succeeded by the light of hope and confidence. Every man breathed freer after its issue. We all felt instinctively that the administration was at last stiffened up to the energy which the times required and the people demanded. This was by no means confined to the radical class in the community. The conservative organs of public opinion welcomed its appearance as well. The St Louis Republican, the Baltimore Patriot, the Boston Post, sustained its positions, and more than justified-they applauded its issue.
In common with these and other papers, we have regarded it as the most wise in design and salutary in effect of all the manifestoes of the campaign. And it has been with peculiar satisfaction that we have seen the readiness with which these papers have penetrated and recognized the true character of the proclamation. It is not an anti-slavery document in intention, or necessarily so in its effects. General Fremont in drawing it up does not consider slavery in its sentimental or moral aspects. He does not pronounce upon it as an evil, or as a blessing. There is no attempt to treat it either in the one character or the other. He simply looks upon it as a power in the hands of the enemy, which has been in the past, and may be in the future, used to impede the progress of our arms. He attacks it solely as a method of weakening the hands of the rebels. Whatever interpretation may be put upon it by those interested to give it another meaning, this is all that it will legitimately bear. The conservative press and the conservative people of the North gave it this construction, and were satisfied with it. They welcomed it, instead of complaining of it. We wish the administration had but done as well.
President Lincoln, by his letter to Fremont, modifying, restricting, and explaining away some of its most important provisions, has done our country's cause not good, but mischief. He has done this, perhaps, more by the spirit than the letter of his mis-
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with, death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a. privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it- no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
sive. It was not so much by the strict terms of Fremont's proclamation that the country was inspirited, not chiefly that we expected, or even for, a general emancipation of the bondmen of Missouri as its effect. It was because it showed the leaders of our country's cause to be in earnest in the nation's struggle. It was because it was an evidence that we had at last plunged with all our power into the contest-that we had thrown to the winds all idea of compromise with rebellion, and were determined to fight it to the bitter end with all the means that God and Nature had put into our hands. It was because it indicated that the day of squeamishness and false toleration had gone by and there was no legitimate weapon of warfare which would not be turned against the traitors in arms. This gave the nation confidence. This roused the despondent patriotism of the masses. This increased the eagerness of the patriot to devote his energies to the Government's service. It was this which improved so perceptibly the tone of the press and the people which quickened the enlistments, and revived the business of our manufactories and marts of trade. Men saw the evidence of vigor, activity and earnestness which they had all along felt themselves, and yearned to see displayed in the government, and the public pulse beat quickly in hopeful response.
It is just this feeling which President Lincoln's letter comes in to dampen. The letter is another of those discouraging and deplorable symptoms of hanging back which have cursed our cause from the beginning. There is no doubt, as this most unfortunate letter says, that Fremont has gone beyond the limits of the law in his proclamation. But do not the circumstances justify him in this? Has not the country sustained him; as it did at an earlier day the President himself, when he suspended the writ of Habeas Corpus and put in force other extra-constitutional measures? Fremont's proclamation places the State under martial law-which, thanks to the halting policy of the government in allowing it to be overrun by rebels, is the only law which meets the requirements of its condition. When the present danger is removed, and the authority of the government is re-established in its borders, it will be time enough to insist on the scrupulous observance of the letter of the law of Congress. The martyred Lyon saved the State once, in spite of the administration, from relapsing into the present condition of Virginia. Fremont is straining every nerve to rescue it from the same danger a second time. In this he ought not to interfered with. If he cannot do it within the limits of the United States laws, he must do as the President did in a similar exigency-exceed them. To require him to do otherwise, is as absurd as to ask a man whose house is on fire to consult the Revised Statutes to see if the law allows him to play upon it through pipes of India-Rubber only, or if he may take gutta percha. The alarming necessity is to put out the flames. It is absurd to waste thought upon technicalities in its presence.-Roxbury Journal.

"DOWN WITH HIM!"
We must say we are surprised at the extent and fierceness of the clamor which the press has so suddenly raised against Gen. Fremont, even though much of what has been said of his military management should prove to be true. In quarters where he was an idol two weeks ago, he is now represented as little better than a mischievous imbecile; and the variety of charges now generally brought to bear against him would, if as generally credited, break him down and sweep him into hopeless ignominy. Why is all this? Because Colonel Mulligan was compelled to surrender at Lexington-an event about which we are not sure that we have the most obvious incidents, such as the killed and wounded, in a reliable shape. We do not know whether Col. Mulligan was not ordered and expected to vacate Lexington, instead of making any stand; nor why Gen. Sturgis did not reach him; nor why Gen. Lane did not traverse his reported forty miles distance in four days; nor why the steamboats, with reinforcements, which were sent by Fremont with the expectation that they would arrive on the morning of the day in which Mulligan surrendered in the afternoon, did not appear in season; nor many other particulars which are l essential to a fair understanding of the case.
And yet in advance of this understanding, a great many journals are clamoring for the immediate punishment of Gen. Fremont, some, even insisting that he shall be prevented from taking a personal share in the effort to recover Lexington and capture Price's army. He has blundered-off with his head! Such the policy now pursued toward the commander of the Department of the West. It seems to pass for nothing with his new detractors that Gen. Fremont was dropped, a few weeks ago, into a sphere where a mighty army had to created out of nothing at hand, neither men money, equipments, ammunition, transports, system of any kind, nor popular interest. Since then, Fremont has worked eighteen hours a day, has gathered immense military stores, built railroads and made soldiers, after attracting them from the people by his own popularity. The Government has now thousands of good troops on the Potomac that it could not have had anywhere but for the attractive influence of Fremont.
But he has failed once-that is, granting (which we certainly shall not do at present) these new charges to be true in substance, for many of them in their specific shapes are so contradictory as to be evident falsehoods. Have we then had such brilliant and invariable success on the part of all our other officers, politicians and public advisers in general, during this crisis, that Fremont must be condemned unheard? We submit this is no way to treat those on whom we are to depend for arduous service in this great struggle. We say it not only in the interest of Gen. Fremont, but of Gen. Butler, who has already had a series of the same ups and downs, of Gen. Rosecrans, of Gen. McClellan himself, who may need public forbearance to-morrow equal to the adulation which he enjoys to-day. Let Fremont's course have a fair and thorough examination, and let him have a fair chance to show in the field whether his incontestable merits are so impaired by any defects that he is to be thrown aside as useless in this campaign. Having not altogether approved his course when the press in general was glorifying him, and not having hesitated to criticise it in some important particulars, we now think it is right to say thus much in behalf of Gen. Fremont.-Boston Journal.

LETTER TO GENERAL FREMONT.
The following letter, signed by several pastors of different denominations in one of the principal towns of De Kalb County, has been sent to Gen. Fremont:-Major General Fremont:
HONORED AND DEAR SIR The undersigned ministers of the gospel, representing, as we believe the unanimous and enthusiastic sentiment in this part of Illinois, the sentiment we trust of twenty millions of loyal citizens of the United States, desire hereby to declare to you our unspeakable satisfaction with, and gratitude to God for the position taken in your proclamation of martial law in Missouri, and especially for those words we trust to become historic and immortal by their fulfillment, viz: "Their slaves, if any they have, are hereby declared free men We trust, dear sir it will be grateful to your feelings to be assured, that in closet, family and Church, with millions of fellow supplicants, we daily cry to the Lord of Hosts, that He will be your "help and shield" (115 Psalm), to gird you and your army with strength from on high to carry those glorious words into speedy and complete effect, so that traitors and tyrants may fall before you, and the hallelujahs of "vassals long enslaved," transformed into "free men," mingling with the music of the Star Spangled Banner, may cheer your triumphant pathway to the Gulf, and give you an immortal name by the side of a Moses, a Cyrus, a Cromwell, a Washington, as a liberator of mankind and a conservator of human freedom.
With prayers to God and hymns of freedom, we send our Christian brethren to your army, and look see the history of the old "" and their noble "Protector," reenacted in this great valley.
FREMONT. A long string of stalwart fellows were marching gaily down the street yesterday afternoon. They all looked jolly, and nearly all had carpet bags. We inquired: "Which way, boys?" And the reply was the single word "FREMONT!" There is music in the name. The boys go to him with a will, and more recruits can be obtained for his Department than for any other. Companies recruited for his army leave here nearly every day. Ask almost any squad of sturdy young men who are evidently off for the wars, where they are bound, and you hear the name "FREMONT," given with a hearty emphasis and a glitter of the eye that tells how the gallant little man, with nerves of steel, lives in the of the people Cincinnati Commercial.

LETTER OF GENERAL FREMONT.
ST. LOUIS, SEPT 27. The following will appear in the Democrat of to-morrow: Just before leaving the city. Gen. Fremont wrote this letter to a friend in New York ST. LOUIS, Sept. 26.
MY DEAR SIRI leave at eight o'clock in the morning, and send you this hurried note in the midst of my last arrangements before starting. We have to contend with an enemy having no posts to garrison and no lines of transportation to defend or guard; whose whole force can be turned at will to any one point, while we have Leavenworth and from Fort Scott to Paducah to keep protected. I wish to say to you, that though the position is difficult, I am competent to it, and also to the enemy in the field. I am not able at the same time to attend to the enemy at home. It is a shame to the country, that an officer going to the field, having his life in his hands, solely actuated by a desire to serve his country and win for himself its good opinion, and with other object, should be destroyed by a system of concentrated attacks utterly without foundation. Charges are spoken of when there are none to be made.
What is the object of the repetition of these falsehoods, except to familiarize the public mind to the idea that something is wrong? Already our Credit, which was good, is shaken in consequence of the newspaper intimations of my being removed. Money is demanded by those furnishing supplies. To defend myself would require the time that is necessary, and belongs to my duty against the enemy. If permitted by the country, this state of things will not fail to bring on disorder. I am an exponent of a part of the force of the nation directed against the enemy of the country. Everything that is directed against me is directed against it, and gives its enemy aid and comfort.
My private character comes in only incidentally. I defend it because naturally his reputation is dear to any man; but only incidentally. This is the foundation of many of my acts, and will be if I stay here. Everything that hurts, impedes or embarrasses the work entrusted to me, I strike at without hesitation. I take the consequences. The worst that can ever happen to me is relief from great labor.
Yours truly,
JOHN C. FREMONT.
FELONYBY LIEUT. GENERAL T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
It is amusing to see the different shades and gradations by which men make up their minds to befriend an avowed felony, like that which stole an African from his native land, and keeps him when stolen. And, besides this, it is a fine study, as throwing light on the construction of those human hearts, which, if not always desperately wicked, maintain a fair claim to the minor charge of being deceitful above all things.
Now, who could have supposed, that, when there was a fair and unmistakable opening for putting down the greatest existing blot on human society- an opportunity which small exercise of the faculties of a politician or the soldier must have told them would, according to all present odds, speedily be successfulthat, with all this staring them in the face, there should have been such a bold stand, to the utmost limits practicable, made in England for keeping down the national movement against Slavery, and holding out all manner of comfort, solace, and encouragement to its supporters, and dabs of cold water in the faces of its opponents?
And first, why "on this most unhappy subject does it become us to abstain from whatever might be deemed to indicate an opinion upon the merits of the controversy"? Do men do so in any other instance? There might be situations where prudent men would not bring up a controversy foreign to the questions before the court. But would they seize that moment to introduce the subject for the purpose of saying it would be very improper to indicate an opinion? The mere of doing so is indicating an opinion in the strongest form. It is seizing the opportunity to say everything on the plea of saying nothing This may be all very proper, and within the duties of an advocate. But it leaves no doubt of what the advocacy is. It may be in Quinctilian or not, but the practical bearing is clear. There are those of us who call it "a most happy subject," and sing their "Gloria in excelsis" with heart and outstretched voice.
Another form of persuasion to open our mouths, as the children say, and see what Heaven will send us (though spoken to before), is the "nameless horror" bugbear. Do not put down felony, for there will be nameless horrors. You have no notion what terrible fellows the honest men are when relieved from felony, and what "nameless horrors" are inflicted by them on the defenceless of the felons! For goodness' sake, stand up between the felons, and the results of putting felons down! As said before, the true answer to this foolish and indecent plea will be, when the white women of the South petition against the right of buying yellow mistresses on the auction-block.
A milder form of the same devotion to the interests of humanity is in the question of "What is to become of the Negroes? Think of their condition when there is no master to flog them into the right way, or keep them from those perilous acquirements of A, B, C, to which there is so strong a propensity in human kind! Or perhaps the objectors will stand on less romantic points. How are they to be fed, if they are not to have the "herring with one eye"? By what possible process can four millions of open mouths be filled, if you do not continue the present feeds from the head ostler or overseer?
Feeble specimen of things that walk in doublet and hose, did it never occur to you that they were to be fed as the negroes in the British West Indies were fed, by working for wages instead of the provender of cattle? Once let the military superiority of the North be fairly establishedas in all reason would be done in one campaign, if there was not the idiotic resolution to do without the native allies-and see how the Southerners would flock like crows to the carecase, to pray for remission of their estates forfeited by unsuccessful rebellion, on condition of entering heartily into carrying on their cultivation as before, only by means of the negro with wages less than was the cost of keeping him before. There might be difficulties, as there are in eating an artichoke, which Gen. Scott would soon settle. Men must be blinded with a judicial pinch of snuff in their organs of vision, who can be. led astray on this ground. But it is astonishing hard an ill thing dies; how it twists and wriggles, and shows itself in forms which might deceive even the elect.
One more "last words" there is of the dying serpent, which is expressed in the hope that, at all events, the Northerners will pay the market price for the negroes. A decent suggestion and a comely, where rebellion has been tried and failed. Fancy it applied in any other case; though there is none in which it would not be needful to apologize for the opprobrious comparison. But fancy that in any case the imagination may select, after a defeated rebellion the victorious party was asked to come forward with an offer to buy up the casus belli. Before the trial, there might be something said for an offer to buy up the stakes. But after, do there exist men so lost to all sense of what is honest or of good report as to push their neighbor on such an expedient-save and except, always, those who have some lurking bias, whether they know it themselves or not, to counselling a course so stamped with unprofitable imbecility?
Perhaps a light way may be thrown upon the present policy of the thing. It is to distract attention from the plain, straightforward course, by suggesting something else. It may carry with it some shallow show of followers, but they will neither be many nor strong. The hope of all men who have the ordinary share of brains or hearts is that the days of slavery are numbered: and happy is he who can tread down a snare on one side the Atlantic, though he cannot do more towards advancing the truth on the other!
The British ministry is already buffeted by the honest conservatives, for having most shamefully aided and abetted the Southern States under the poor plea of neutrality, and" dignifying the rebels with the preposterous title of a belligerent power, thus recognizing their right to hire hundreds of blood-thirsty pirates who infest the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico." To which may be added, the studied insult of sending reinforcements to Canada in the "Great Ship," instead of sending quietly a fur et a as well disposed people would have done; and which the papers say is to be repeated. All this only points to the necessity we English are under, of getting up a ministry when we can, which shall be independent of the two stock channels in which government has been supposed to run.-London Elector, Sept.7thThe Liberator
No Union with Slaveholders!
FRIDAY, OCT. 4,1861.
The following Memorial to the next Congress has been prepared for universal circulation, with the belief that it will readily be adopted by all but those who are in favor of eternizing the accursed system of slavery-who, while pretending to be on the side of the Government, are secretly in hearty sympathy with the Southern traitors-and who would prefer to see the Federal forces every where defeated, the blood and substance of the people expended to no purpose, and the rule of the Southern Confederacy victorious over the whole country, rather than have the oppressed set free under law, even though a satisfactory adjustment is proposed in the case of the so-called loyal slaveholders. Let the most active measures be at once taken to procure the signatures of men and women, voters and non-voters, to this Memorial, in every city, town and village. A MILLION such can be easily obtained by energetic and concerted action. Forward!
MEMORIAL OF THE PEOPLE TO CONGRESS.
"PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS THEREOF."
To the Congress of the United tThe undersigned, citizens of, State of
respectfully submit
That as the present formidable rebellion against the General Government manifestly finds its root and nourishment in the system of chattel slavery at the South; as the leading conspirators are slaveholders, who constitute an oligarchy avowedly hostile to all free institutions; and as, in the nature of things, no solid peace can be maintained while the cause of this treasonable revolt is permitted to exist; your honorable body is urgently implored to lose no time in enacting, under the war power, the total abolition of slavery throughout the country-liberating unconditionally the slaves of all who are rebels, and, while not recognizing the right of property in man, allowing for the emancipated slaves of such as are loyal to the government a fair pecuniary award, in order to facilitate an amicable adjustment of difficulties; and thus to bring the war to a speedy and beneficent termination, and indissolubly to unite all sections and all interests of the country upon the enduring basis of universal freedom.
Editors of newspapers are requested to give this Memorial one or more insertions in their columns.
RE-STATEMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES, MEASURES AND OBJECT OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
In the month of December, 1833, a National Convention of the Friends of Impartial Liberty was held in Philadelphia, resulting in the formation of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, and the promulgation of a "DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS," signed by the members of that Convention, in which these doctrines were set forth"That no man has right to enslave or imbrute his brother-to hold or acknowledge him, for one moment, as a piece of merchandise-to keep back his hire by fraud-or to brutalize his mind by denying him the means of intellectual, social, and moral improvementand,"That all those laws which are now in force, admitting the right of slavery, are therefore before God utterly null and void; being an audacious assumption of the Divine prerogative, a infringement on the law of nature, a base overthrow of the very foundations of the social compact, a complete extinction of all the relations, endearments and obligations of mankind, and a presumptuous transgression of all the holy commandments."
The plan agreed upon to effect the overthrow of this great iniquity was-
"To organize Anti-Slavery Societies, if possible, in every city, town and village in our land; to send forth lecturers to lift up the voice of <illegible> and of rebuke; to circulate, unsparingly, Anti-Slavery tracts and periodicals; to enlist the pulpit and the press in the cause of the suffering and the dumb; to aid at a purification of the churches from all participation in the guilt of slavery; and to spare no exertions to bring the whole nation to speedy repentance."
The animating spirit of the movement was declared to be"Such only as the opposition of moral purity to moral corruption, the destruction of error by the potency of truth, the overthrow of prejudice by the power of love, and the abolition of slavery by the spirit of repentance."
From the hour of its organization to the present time, the American Anti-Slavery Society has sacredly adhered to its principles and measures, as here laid down, which transcend all creeds and parties, all sectional rivalries and geographical divisions, and are based upon absolute morality, immutable justice, the divine law, and human nature itself. Nevertheless, during that long period, the Society has been persistently branded and assailed, in every part of the country, by all that is powerful in the State, and by the concurrent action of the Church, by the press and by the pulpit alike, as a fanatical and disorganizing combination, undeserving of any sympathy or encouragement. Had its object been avowedly to encourage highway robbery, piracy or murder, it could not have elicited more indignation, nor led to a more determined resistance! So thoroughly had the nation become demoralized in its spirit, poisoned in its blood, and crazed in its reason, by the all-pervading virus of slavery in the body politic! Yet, four years after the formation of the Society, DANIEL WEBSTER, in a speech delivered by him at Niblo's Garden, New York, recognized the potency of its moral agitation as follows:-
On the general question of Slavery, a great portion of the community is already strongly excited. The question has not only attracted attention as a question of politics, but it has struck a far deeper chord. IT HAS ARRESTED THE RELIGIOUS FEELING OF THE COUNTRY; IT HAS TAKEN STRONG HOLD OF THE CONSCIENCES OF MEN. He is a rash man, indeed, little conversant with human nature, and especially has he a very erroneous estimate of the character of the people of this country, who supposes that a feeling of this kind is to be trifled with or despised. IT WILL ASSUREDLY CAUSE ITSELF TO BE RESPECTED. It may be reasoned with but, to coerce it into silence-to endeavor to restrain its free expression-to seek to compress and confine it, warm as it is, and more heated as such endeavors would inevitably render it-should all this be attempted, I KNOW OF NOTHING IN THE CONSTITUTION, OR IN THE UNION ITSELF, WHICH WOULD NOT BE ENDANGERED BY THE EXPLOSION WHICH MIGHT FOLLOWWell had it been for the nation if it had heeded this truthful representation and solemn warning! Well had it been for the character and fame of Mr. Webster himself if he had subsequently acted upon these well-founded convictions!
For the first ten years of its existence, the American Anti-Slavery Society was chiefly occupied in organizing auxiliary societies, vindicating the safety and duty of immediate emancipation, revealing the horrors of the slave system, exposing and condemning the subtle scheme of African colonization, printing and circulating tracts, petitioning Congress for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and making strenuous efforts to secure the cooperation of the various religious bodies in the land. t is true that, in the "DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS" adopted at the period of its formation, it was said:-
"The people of the free States are now living under a pledge of their tremendous physical force to fasten the galling fetters of tyranny upon the limbs of millions in the Southern States: they are liable to be called upon at any moment to suppress a general insurrection of the slaves; they authorize the slave-owner to vote for three-fifths of his slaves as property, and thus enable him to perpetuate his oppression: they support a standing army at the South for its protection, and they seize the slave who has escaped into their territories, and send him back to be tortured by an enraged master or brutal driver. This relation to slavery is criminal: IT MUST BE BROKEN UP."
It was not, however, till its anniversary in 1844, that, after long deliberation and discussion, the Society decided, by a nearly unanimous vote, that
"Fidelity to the cause of human freedom, hatred of oppression, sympathy for those who are held in chains and slavery in this republic, and allegiance to God, require that the existing national compact should be instantly dissolved; and that the motto inscribed on the banner of freedom should be, NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS."
As ample justification for this procedure, it was said"As citizens of the United States, we are treated as out-laws in one half of the country, and the National Government consents to our destruction. We are denied the right of locomotion, freedom of speech, the right of petition, the liberty of the press, the right peaceably to assemble together to protest against oppression and plead for liberty-at least in thirteen States of the Union. If we venture, as avowed and unflinching Abolitionists, to travel south of Mason and Dixon's line, we do so at the peril of lives. If we would escape torture and death, on visiting any of the slave States, we must stifle our conscientious convictions, bear no testimony against cruelty and tyranny, suppress the struggling emotions of humanity, divest ourselves of letters and papers of an anti-slavery character, and do homage to the slaveholding power, or run the risk of a cruel martyrdom. These are appalling and undeniable facts."But, worse than this
"Three millions of the American people are crushed under the American Union! They are held as slaves, trafficked as merchandise, registered as goods and chattels! The government gives them no protection; the government is their enemy; the government keeps them in chains! Where they lie bleeding, we are prostrate by their side; in their sorrows and sufferings we participate; their stripes are inflicted on our bodies, their shackles are fastened on our limbs; their cause is ours."
It was said, further, in regard to the all-controlling body of slaveholders at the South:-
"We separate from them, not in anger, not in malice, not for a selfish purpose, not to do them an injury, not to cease warning, exhorting, reproving them for their crimes, not to leave the perishing bondman to his fate-o, no! But to clear our skirts of innocent blood; to give the oppressor no countenance; to signify our abhorrence of injustice and cruelty; to testify against an ungodly compact; and to hasten the downfall of slavery in America and throughout the world."The conclusion being"We believe that the effect of this movement will be First, to create discussion and agitation throughout the North; and these will lead to a general perception of its grandeur and importance.
Secondly, to convulse the slumbering South like an earthquake, and to convince her that her only alternative is, to abolish slavery, or be abandoned by that power on which she now relies for safety.
Thirdly, to attack the Slave Power in its most vulnerable point, and to carry the battle to the gate.
Fourthly, to exalt the moral sense, increase the moral power, and invigorate the moral constitution of all who heartily espouse it."
It will be seen by these extracts, that the grounds for Disunion, as advocated by the American Anti-Slavery Society, were(1) Moral and religious-the iniquity of the national compact, in certain of its provisions. (2) Personal-relating to individual conviction of duty, and withdrawal from complicity with oppression. (3) Relative-concerning the doom of the enslaved, with the Union as their enemy. (4) Patriotic-the friends of liberty being treated as outlaws throughout the South for their Anti-Slavery sentiments, and thus warranted by the Declaration of Independence in desiring and seeking new safeguards for their own rights and liberties, as well as for those held in bondage.
It will also be seen that the course to be pursued contemplated no violence in any direction, no uprising by force and arms against the Government,-nothing but the exercise of a peaceful, lawful, constitutional right of protest and reformation, using only the weapons of reason and argument,-FOR THE SOLE PURPOSE OF ESTABLISHING OF ALL CLASSES UPON ENDURING BASIS.
Ever since its adoption, the Constitution of the United States has been uniformly interpreted and executed, throughout the nation, in support of its alleged pro-slavery guaranties. These originally provided slave representation in Congress, not for the protection of the oppressed, but to increase the power o their oppressors; the prosecution of the foreign slave trade for a period of not less than twenty years; the recapture of fugitive slaves in every section of the Union; and the suppression of domestic insurrection of every kind. All these remain in full force, except the clause relating to the foreign slave trade.
For more than seventy years, the people of the North have faithfully executed all the pro-slaver compromises of the Constitution; answering scornfully, in reply to the earnest remonstrances and solemn warnings of the Abolitionists, as did the Jewish people in the days of the prophet-"We have made a covenant with death, and with hell are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through it shall not come unto us; for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves At last, the prophecy is fulfilled:- Because ye spise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay thereon: therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at an." At last, "judgment has been laid to the line and righteousness to the plummet; the hail has swept away the refuge of lies, the waters overflow the hiding-place; the covenant with death is annulled, and the agreement with hell no longer stands." The Union of 1789 is perfidiously overthrown by the very class which fashioned it at the beginning, and which until now has controlled its administration. Eleven slave States have organized themselves into a Southern Confederacy, proclaimed to the world their independence, treasonably repudiated the National Government, resorted to robbery on the land and piracy on the ocean, and now menace the safety of the Capitol at Washington with an army of two hundred thousand implacable enemies, who require as formidable a host from the North to keep them in check; and the end is not yet. Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri are retained in a factious and unwilling connection only by Federal bayonets.
In this war of elements and breaking up of the foundations of the Republic, when new issues are presented and the relations of things are so essential changed, it becomes the advocates and representative of the enslaved intelligently to understand and clearly to define their true position, that they may not be tempted to compromise their principles on the on hand, nor give occasion for needless misapprehension and excitement on the other.
In the first place, it indicates intense malignity or inexcusable ignorance on the part of those who put in the same category the anti-slavery disunionists of the North, and the pro-slavery secessionists of the South No two classes can be more unlike, or more opposed to each other, in spirit, design and action. The former are for the immediate liberation of all in bondage: the latter aim to give an unlimited range and lasting perpetuity to slavery and the slave trade. The former are animated by an unselfish and all-embracing philanthropy, seeking the welfare of the oppressor as well as of the oppressed, and desiring to put an end to all sectional animosities and divisions by the proclamation o universal freedom: the latter are under the control of an unappeasable selfishness, a satanic aspiration for universal dominion, an imperious spirit that would "rather reign in hell than serve in heaven," and striving to break down, as intolerable nuisances, all the free institutions of the North. The former heartily subscribe to the Declaration of Independence, as defining the origin, nature and scope of human rights: the later contemptuously trample that Declaration beneath their feet, and boldly give the lie to its self-evident truths. The former resort to no other weapons than those of entreaty, warning and rebuke, meeting all calumnies with patience, all insults with forbearance all outrages in the spirit of martyrs: the latter armed with bowie knives and revolvers, and ready to stab, shoot, or hang any Abolitionist who may venture upon Southern soil. In short, the former are laboring disinterestedly to save the country from ruin, and fill it with the abundance of peace, by extracting the only root of bitterness: the latter are desperately bent upon mischief, and" full of treason, stratagems and spoils."
"But," it may be objected,"between Abolition disunion and slaveholding secession, the Union goes to the ground; and, therefore, practically, there is no difference between them. "In a moral point of view, and with a due regard to the cause of freedom and humanity, the difference is infinite. The former is simple obedience to the divine precepts," "Ye shall not go with the multitude to do evil Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them"-"Remember them that are in bond as bound with them." It finds its justification and necessity in the truthful language of the lamented CHANNING "The free States the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We the jailers and constables of the institution". There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other states, and by force restore their rights; but they without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We, their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution."
It is demanded by the honest confession of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, that "The bargain between freedom and slavery, contained the Constitution of the United States, is MORALLY AND POLITICALLY VICIOUS, inconsistent with the principles on which alone our revolution can be justified, cruel and oppressive by riveting the chains of slavery by pledging the faith of freedom to maintain and perpetuate the tyranny of the master, and grossly unequal and impolitic by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection, property to be secured and returned to their owners, and persons not to be represented themselves, but for whom their masters are privileged with nearly a double share of representation. The consequence has been, that this slave
representation has governed the Union. Benjamin's portion above his brethren has ravined as a wolf. In the morning he has devoured the prey, and in the evening has divided the spoil" "It cannot be denied slaveholding lords of the South prescribed, as a condition of their assent to the Constitution, three special provisions to secure the perpetuity of their dominion over their slaves. The first was the immunity for twenty years of preserving the African slave trade; the second was the stipulation to surrender fugitive slaves-an engagement positively prohibited by the laws of God delivered from Sinai; and thirdly, the exaction fatal to the principles of popular representation, of a representation for slaves-for articles of merchandise, under the name of persons."
"In the articles of confederation, there was no guarantee or the property of the slaveholder-o double representation of him in the Federal councils-no power of taxation-no stipulation for the recovery of fugitive slaves. But when the powers of government came to be delegated to the Union, the South-that is, South Carolina and Georgia-refused their subscription to the parchment, till it should be saturated with the infection of slavery, which no fumigation could purify, no quarantine could extinguish. The freemen of the North gave way, and the deadly venom of slavery was infused into the Constitution of freedom."
It is warranted by the radical sentiment of WILLIAM H. SEWARD"I cannot believe that a being of human substance, form and image endowed with the faculties, propensities, and passions, common to our race, and having the same ultimate destiny, can, by the force of any human constitutions or laws, be converted into a chattel or a thing, in which another human being like himself can have property, depriving him of his free will, and of the power of cultivating his own mind, and pursuing his own happiness; a property beginning with his birth, and reaching over and enslaving his posterity. I cannot believe that that can be stolen, which is not, and cannot be, property."
And again "Shall I tell you what this collision means? They who think that it is accidental, unnecessary, the work of interested or fanatical agitators, and therefore ephemeral, mistake the case altogether. It is an irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces, and it means that the United States must and will, sooner or later, become either entirely a slaveholding nation, or entirely a free-labor nation." "It is the failure to apprehend this great truth that induces so many unsuccessful attempts at final compromise between the Slave and Free States, and it is the existence of this great fact that renders all such pretended compromises, when made, vain and ephemeral."
Finally, Abolition disunion is warranted by the doctrine laid down by ABRAHAM LINCOLN"A house divided against itself cannot stand.' I believe this government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free. It will become all one thing, or all the other."
Again "This is a world of compensations; and he who would be no slave must consent to have no slave. Those who deny freedom to others, deserve it not for themselves; and, UNDER A JUST GOD, CANNOT LONG RETAIN IT

The cry of" treason," so long and so vehemently raised against disunion Abolitionists by their enemies, proceeds not from any perception or appreciation of the cause of freedom and equal rights, but from traditional and idolatrous veneration of a parchment, or, more generally, from contempt and hatred of an unfortunate and deeply wronged race, whose sufferings excite no commiseration, and whose appeals for mercy are met with derision. Bad as the Constitution is, in its pro-slavery clauses, among the rights citizenship is the liberty of speech and of the press if not without limitation, at least to the extent of any amount of criticism upon that instrument, in whole or in part. The farmers of the Constitution, conscious of their own fallibility, and of the imperfectness of the work of their hands, inserted in it a provision for its amendment ad libitum. "They were not bold or rash enough," says Judge Story, "to believe or to pronounce it perfect. They made use of the best lights which they possessed, to form and adjust its parts, and mould its materials. But they knew that time might develop many defects in its arrangements, and many deficiencies in its powers. They desired that it might be open to improvement; and, under the guidance of the sober judgment and enlightened skill of the country, to be perpetually approaching nearer and nearer to perfection." It is, therefore, the lawful right of every citizen freely to criticise, and as freely to object to, any portion of the Constitution which he believes to be wrong in equity, injurious in practice, or destructive in tendency. Especially is he bound to protest against it wherein he conscientiously regards it as imposing unrighteous obligations and immoral duties, and to refuse to obey it, be the penalty what it may; for, in the words of Algernon Sidney, "that which is not just is not law, and that which is not law ought not to be obeyed." He may err in judgment, or be ethically unsound, or perverse in spirit and design; but his right to interrogate it, and to call its legal construction or moral character in question, cannot be invaded without violence to his citizenship. If he is honestly disposed, he can do no higher service to the country than to seek to perfect its organic law by denouncing what is wrong, and upholding what is right. Instead of this being a treasonable act, it is the duty of every good citizen: and, surely, the strongest motive that can be presented for the modification or abnegation of any constitutional clause is to show that it is inherently iniquitous. This is what disunion Abolitionists have done, as a matter of conscience, and for the sake of universal freedom: "the head and front of their offending hath this extent-no more." Distinguished for their pacific sentiments, they have discountenanced all violence and disorder, and sought their end only through a rectified public sentiment, by the power of truth. Even the Southern Review concedes to them no wish to transcend the limits of ethical reasoning. It says
We are of those who believe the South has nothing to fear from a servile war. We do not believe that the Abolitionists intend, nor could they, if they would, excite the slaves to insurrection. The danger of this is remote. We believe that we most to fear from their organized action upon the consciences and fears of slaveholders themselves; from the insinuations of their dangerous heresies into our schools, our pulpits, and our domestic circles. It is only by alarming the consciences of the weak and feeble, and diffusing among our own people a morbid sensibility on the question of slavery, that the Abolitionists can accomplish their object. Preparatory to this, they are now laboring to saturate the non-slaveholding States with the belief that slavery is a sin against God; that the "national compact" involves the non-slaveholders in that sin; and that it is their duty to toil and suffer, that our country may be delivered from what they term its blackest stain, its foulest reproach, its deadliest curse."
Certainly, they can neither desire nor receive a higher tribute to their peaceful disposition and conscientious integrity than this. The "dangerous heresies" which they promulgate may all be found in the Declaration of Independence and in the Golden Rule, and these in all ages have commended themselves to the reason of mankind. What can be more unjust or defamatory than to class persons thus actuated by the highest moral considerations, thus true to the cause of the oppressed and down-trodden, and thus laboring to save the country from ruin by righteousness, with the rebellious secessionists of the South, whose passions are "set on fire of hell," whose crimes and atrocities outrun enumeration, whose pathway is red with blood and marked by desolation, whose treason is of the most malignant type, whose designs are of the worst character, whose perfidy and treachery and barbarity are scarcely to be paralleled in the anuals of human de-OCTOBER 4.
Pravity? In denouncing the course of these desperate conspirators, and in promptly refuting their lying accusations and exposing their devilish machinations, the Abolitionists have not been behind the most zealous partisans of the Government. Nevertheless, in declaring the Government to be wholly in the right, and the secessionists wholly in the wrong, relates to the precise issue the parties, the Abolitionists abate no jot or tittle of their testimony against a pro-slavery Constitution and Union. That constitution, could it be enforced, as hitherto, would still be "a with death," and that Union, could it be maintained as from the beginning, would still be "an agreement with hell." But eleven slave States (virtually, all the slave States) are out of the Union, and over them the Constitution has no power. Theoretically, as well as sincerely, but none the less impotently, the Government is aiming simply to enforce the one, and to maintain the other, in exact accordance with the original stipulations; practically, it is in direct and deadly antagonism with the Slave Power, to preserve whatever of democratic freedom and free institution remains in the land. When, in the Southern Confederacy, it is made a treasonable act to avow loyalty to the old Union, to rally under the star-spangled banner in support of the Government, and to claim protection under the American Constitution; and when President Lincoln and his Cabinet are as completely outlawed in all the South and would be as ignominiously dealt with, if caught, as the most radical Abolitionists; it is, apparent that the relation of things has essentially changed, and a new definition of terms is needed. While, therefore, our sympathies are with the Government thus situated we believe that it will fail to restore the old order of things; but, even if should succeed, it would bring no real peace or unit, to the country. The same moral objections would lie against the Constitution, on account of it Pro-slavery guaranties; a more vigorous moral agitation would follow, to put down which, by lawless violence, fresh efforts would again be made; and the same root of evil and source of division would remain, in due season to curse the land with fratricidal strife and civil war.

But two alternatives are presented to bring the present tremendous conflict to a speedy termination, namelyeither to acknowledge the independence of the Southern Confederacy on its own terms, or else to abolish slavery throughout the land, by one comprehensive act of the Government, under the war power: for it is nothing short of fatuity to suppose that a reconciliation can be made by any additional slaveholding compromises, or on the original basis of the Constitution. True, the Government is still insanely hoping to subdue the rebellion, and to preserve the Union as it was; but, vast as may be its resources, and mighty as are its armies, it must fail, for it cannot change the decrees of Heaven, nor master events beyond the control of human agency. Unquestionably, the North and the South ought to be united in indissoluble bonds; but one common government is needed from ocean to ocean. Unquestionably, a forcible disruption of the Union, if successful, must be attended with the gravest consequences and the most serious difficulties. Under these circumstances, therefore, with rampant treason thundering with its forces at the very gates of the Capital, it is not only the imperative duty, but the glorious prerogative, of the Government, under the war power, "in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity," to declare the immediate abolition of slavery throughout the land, and freedom and protection to every loyal person found beneath its 
SUMNER'S SPEECH AT WORCESTER.
"EMANCIPTAION THE CURE FOR REBELLION In the admirable speech of Charles Sumner before the Republican Convention held this week in Worcester, the very title of which, above quoted, expresses our "one thing needful, the accomplished orator congratulates his hearers on a victory "already won. "This strong expression, which he repeatedly uses, and his equivalent declaration, "Already the country has been saved, are so painfully in contrast with the position of the National Government, compelled to keep an immense army in constant readiness for the defence of its capital, that I felt obliged to look back in the speech to recal the precise amount of the victory thus claimed to be already achieved. It is expressed in these words, in the third paragraph of the speech,-namely:-
"Often have I exclaimed, in times past, that our first great object was the emancipation of the National Government, so that it should no longer be the slave of slavery, ready to do its bidding in things. But this victory has been won."
It is true that so much has been won. Our National Government is no longer ready to do the bidding of slavery in all things! There are a few things, such as the Capitol and the city of Washington, and the national mints, arsenals, fortresses and ships of war, which our Government still withholds from the demands of slavery. But is this matter for boasting, or even for self-congratulation, that Government is still ready to protect the interests of slavery everywhere but in the case of rebels? Nay, worse! Our Executive takes pains to prohibit interference even with rebel slavery, except so far as rebels can be proved to have used their slaves in acts hostility to the nation! Worse still! Our Executive takes pains to check the action of those subordinates who have gone further than himself in commencing the great movement from which he has been weakly and shamefully shrinking; takes pains to check and counteract all movement towards the very policy which Mr. Sumner himself points out as indispensable to that far greater victory which yet remains to be gained.
No, we are not yet saved! And it is the Commander-in-Chief of the army, and the elected head of the nation, it is Abraham Lincoln himself, who obstructs, by the exercise of his individual will, the nation's entrance upon that movement against slavery which Mr. Sumner has shown to be the direct course, and the only, to success against the rebellion. What, in this case, is to be done? What, but for the people of the North to speak to this unfaithful servant, who allows his local attachments and prejudices to interfere with their interests, and even with the assertion and maintenance of their dearest rights, and immediately and strongly to express to him their wish, that the rebellion be combatted by the immediate adoption of measures for the overthrow of slavery! The crisis is too momentous for ceremony or for delay. The welfare of the whole nation is not to be sacrificed to the particular personal preferences engendered by one man's birth and education in Kentucky. Every Northern State is making immense sacrifices, not only of property, of every kind, but of the blood of her children, to sustain the Government that is now sacrificing their welfare to save unharmed the prejudices of Kentucky. If Kentucky cannot consent to sacrifice one class of what she calls her "property," for the sake of the Union, in God's name let her at once join the rebels! By joining them openly She would do the nation infinitely less harm than by blocking the course of opposition to that rebellion, as at present. But if she will neither join nor consent to the one movement indispensable to its overthrow, it is time for the Northern, and Middle, and Western States to go through the short computation necessary to calculate the value of Kentucky, and see if she is worth keeping with the incumbrance of slavery. If she will not go with the Union, utterly and absolutely irrespective of the loss or retention of the estimated money value of her slaves, why not leave her out of the calculation! Let her go or not, as she likes, but at all events, crush the rebellion without waiting longer for her consent.-C. K.W.A communication from David Lee Child, Esq. in reply to the letter of inquiry from Dr. Grandin, is unavoidably deferred till next week.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER  JAMES HAUGHTON, ESQ.
35 ECCLES ST., DUBLIN, 8th Sept., 1861.
TO HENRY C. WRIGHT:
DEAR HENRY-The Liberator of Aug. 23d has come to, and in it I find a letter from you addressed to me, and purporting to be a reply to a letter of mine to Mr. Garrison, dated 29th May last I am sorry you took so much trouble to point out to me, at great length, the special wickedness of , with regard to the unhappy war now raging in your midst. I was about to say in the United States-or the American Union as I never believed in the existence of a real, and as it is now dissolved, the term would be an incorrect one. I needed no farther evidence on that head. I believe wholly with you, that the Southern men ho have revolted, are rebels-rebels without any just cause; and that, therefore, no words of condemnation of their conduct, that you or any other person may choose to apply to it, could be fairly denominated too strong, or too severe. I concede this whole matter to you. The South "has not a leg to stand on in this transaction; and if Northern men feel and aver that the sword is a legitimate weapon to use against their erring brethren, and that they can batter the South into compliance with their will, why, let them pursue that course. I have no present controversy with such parties. It is true, I consider them wrong in thus acting, and I feel assured that time will prove them to be so. The sword has ever been an effective instrument against human freedom,- but in favor of it, never The question, however, between you and me is, not the depravity of the , but, has not the "Dissolution of the Union" been long considered by us, and by all those friends of the slave with whom we have acted in America, as the grand essential point at which we should aim, as the best, if not the only, of securing his freedom? Has not this been the steady demand of the Garrison Abolitionists for many years? And now, when this great object of our labors seems to be on the eve of accomplishment are we to flinch from its realization, and withdraw all the words we have ever used in its favor? Certainly we are, if it be shown that our idea was an erroneous one. let us have the proof-none has yet been offered. the dissolution of the Union be a great national evil,-one which should beresisted at any cost,-the Garrisonians have been enemies of their country for the last twenty years, and I have not yet seen any recantation by them of this error I do not yet see any reason calling on me to recant Sixteen years ago, you wrote me a letter, inviting my cooperation with you, to effect this dissolution of your Union in which you use these word: "That Union was designed to perpetuate slave-breeding slave-trading and slaveholding, so long as the slaveholder wish to pursue these practices. Its overthrow is demanded by every consideration of mercy, justice and expediency, and should be earnestly and perseveringly sought by every friend of mankind, not by arms and blood, but by urging the people of the nonslave States to withdraw from their alliance with that sum of all villany, American slavery; and leave the Southern lords of the lash alone in their infamy." To this letter, although I doubted the propriety of your applying to foreigners for such a purpose, I gave you a cordial assent, as moral and peaceful means alone were to be employed. If you will read my letter to Mr. Garrison of 29th May, again, you will see that these opinions are still entertained by me. Can you wonder, then, that I should feel surprised that my abolition friends in America should now rest their hopes on an exactly opposite issue? and that they should, moreover, give their entire sanction to a bloody and remorseless war, to sustain a Union which they have often denounced as a "covenant with death
As I may not encroach much on the already overcrowded columns of the Liberator, I shall not pursue these ideas, although my heart is very full of sorrow at the course pursued by friends in America whom I truly love and esteem; and I look forward with dismay to the future; not because of the outrageous conduct of Southern men,-from whom we never expected any thing better,-but because of what seems to me an insane determination of Northern men to conquer, by force of arms, the rebels that have risen up against lawful authority. If the thing be possible,-which I do not believe it to be,-it can only be accomplished at such a waste of life, and of time, and of money, as the world has seldom seen lavished on similar objects. There are some points in your letter, touching your notions as to the views of conquest by the South over the North, which I should like to notice but I fear to write a long letter. If Southern men have such views as you apprehend, general insanity must be their miserable condition. Do you, Henry, ever "believe in an armed defence of freedom, and free institutions, and in armed resistance to in their plans and efforts to enslave them," (the North)? These are your words, and they seem to come approvingly from you. My peace principles,-although I never was a non-resistant,- (were not you in their ranks?) constrain me to repudiate the doctrine. It seems to me that our plain course is,-I mean the Abolitionists, who have always counselled peace,-to condemn all resort to arms, and to depend steadily, "through evil report and through good report," on the sufficiency of moral and peaceful mean for the accomplishment of all the good objects we have in view. Our proper business is, always to withstand the erroneous notion so widely prevalent, that wrong should be met with violence; that rebellion should be met with force of arms, even to bloodshed. The wickedness of others is no justification of like conduct on our part. The solemn question for you and for me is, Is war the Christian's duty under any circumstances? I believe it is not. If you answer that question in the affirmative, it will then be for you as an American, to consider whether your present war is just in all its bearings, and, if so, is it likely to be successful except at such a cost as may prove ruinous for many generations?
One word on another point, and I  done. The North will receive no extensive sympathy from Europe, until your government declares openly and unconditionally in favor of universal liberty-until it says, "No slave shall tread upon the American soil." Then, and not till then, will the world care much which side wins. So far as the poor slave is concerned, it will be, until this declaration is made, "six of one and half a dozen of the other," between the belligerents, in the general estimation of mankind.
A pouring wet day has kept me within doors, and given me leisure to inflict my opposing views upon you, and some other friends in America,-yet I would fain hope that there are not a few in that far-away land-whose distractions I hope will soon come to a termination-who will sympathize with me, and say, "He is right."
Affectionately, yours,
JAMES HAUGHTON.
P S. You smile at my idea of a peaceful separation the absurdity appears to me all on the other side. Surely the South would abide quietly, if the North permitted it. To use your own commercial illustration, I would say to the South, "You have been always a disagreeable partner, and I am heartily  to be quit of you. You may dissolve the partnership without any fear of obstruction on my part. Be off! and set up for yourself at once!" J. H
FAST DAY AT WASHINGTON. The President's proclamation for the observance of the National Fast was duly honored in city and in camp. All of the churches were opened, and the congregations  fully equal to those of the Sabbath. At the Unitarian church, Rev. William Henry Channing, of Liverpool, England, well known to thousands of your readers, preached a  sermon to an immense congregation. He maintained that there could be no peace so long as we ignored the cause of the war-SLAVERY It was an eloquent, able production, and was listened to with profound attention.-Washington corr. of New York Tribune.
The Fast elicited able and telling anti-slavery discourse from Rev. Messrs. Manning, Stone, Alger, Weiss, J. F. Clarke, and others, in Boston.
<C02>
THE PRESIDENT'S COUNTERMAND OF FREMONT'S PROCLAMATION.
For this, there must be great blame somewhere. A controversy taking such  of stern conviction and sense of duty on one side, and savage passion on the other, admits not of safe trifling nor innocent vacillation. Let us, then, frankly endeavor to ascertain the cause of the disappointment, and the duty of true men and patriotic Americans in the premises.
Congress, at its late session, passed "an act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes." After providing for the seizure and confiscation of all property so used, the act goes on to make special provision for the forfeiture of slave property, as follows:
"Whenever, hereafter, during the present insurrection against the United States, any person claimed to be held to service or labor under the law of any State, shall be required or permitted by the person to whom such service or labor is claimed to be due, to take up arms against the United States, or to work or be employed in or upon any fort, navy yard, dock, armory, ship, entrenchment, or in any military or naval service whatever against the Government and lawful authority of the United States, then the person to whom such service or labor is claimed to be due shall forfeit his claim to such labor, any law of the State or of the United States to the contrary notwithstanding. And whenever thereafter the person claiming such service or labor shall seek to enforce the claim, it shall be a full and sufficient answer to such claim, that the person whose service or labor is claimed had been employed in hostile service against the United States, contrary to the provisions of this act."
The difference between the scope of this act and of Fremont's proclamation is, that to the number of slaves belonging to rebels, and declared by the former to be forfeited and free, the latter adds all other slaves belonging to rebels, however employed. This class would probably be to the former as ten or perhaps a hundred to one.
The act, therefore, greatly contracts that war power of the President, by which he might call to the service of the country all the slaves within the country, whether considered as persons or property and whether belonging to traitors and enemies, or to loyal citizens and friends; in the first case, as forfeited by treason and rebellion, and in the second, as liable to be taken, like any other private possession, for public use, just compensation being given therefore 
The repugnance which the Government had shown to make use of the war power, except over law dear to free States, may be presumed to have been the cause which moved Congress to enjoin upon them the use of it to the extent which the act prescribes. With Congress, it was a question of the tenth of a loaf or none. They meant to put the President on the right track. The President infers that he can proceed upon it no further than he is allowed by the letter of the law; in other words, that he can set free no slaves, except they are employed in the "military or naval service" of the rebels. This is a correct legal interpretation, and so far as the civil law is concerned, he is bound by it. But he told us, in his late message to Congress, that under the imperious necessity imposed upon him by treachery and civil war, he had been compelled to transcend the in order to save the country; and he enumerated as among the laws he had transgressed, those limiting the military and naval establishments of the United States, and the act of habeas corpus. True, he raises a question whether the Constitution does not confer upon the Executive the power to suspend the latter in case of war or insurrection, but it is a suggestion, not a proposition, nor an argument.
The habeas corpus act has been called in England "the greatest thing in the Great Charter"; it is the primary cause why Inquisitions, Bastiles and Siberias have been impossible for Englishmen and for Anglo-(not Angola-) Saxons in America. It was the high-water mark of liberty in all the political storms of England, until the Puritans wrung from Charles I. the concession, that "an order from the King's majesty" should hold no man restrained of his liberty longer than three days, unless a judge or judges of the King's Bench or Common , on bringing the prisoner before them by writ of habeas corpus, should find that he was restrained of his liberty according to the law of the land.
The English Petition of  of 1639, and Bill of Rights of 1689, the suspension of the privilege of the writ, except by Parliament; and every State Constitution in the United States prohibits it, except by act of their Legislatures. Suspending is repealing for the time being. No power less than that which makes a law can repeal a law.
The reason why the Constitution of the United States contains no express declaration to that effect in relation to the habeas corpus is, that it did not occur to the framers of it that anybody, in a land of liberty and law, would ever conceive that it could be otherwise!
This great safeguard of personal liberty the President has suspended on the Southern coast, at Baltimore, on all the route to Philadelphia and at New York. He did so on the plea of the necessity which treason and rebellion had created.
What was the situation of things in Missouri? The noble Lyon had laid down his life to hold in check an overwhelming force, which he had scarcely more hope of conquering than Leonidas the host of Xerxes. That force, and two or three more equal to it, in all 50,000 men, econverging toward the feebly guarded Federal posts, and loyal people upon the line and North of the Missouri. Add to this, traitors of more than Vandal destructiveness and ferocity lurked and secretly banded in the territory best affected to the cause of the Union. It was the mournful and almost universal conviction of the country, that Missouri, with all its loyal inhabitants, except, perhaps, St. Louis, was lost
Is there not in this situation ample justification of the General's use of the war power? There was no greater necessity for it at Key West, Washington, Baltimore, and on the route to Philadelphia. The President has the same right to use his power over the confiscation act that he has to ride on his war horse over any other law, and above all, over the sacred bulwark of personal liberty!
Gen. Fremont had exercised his right with moderation, under the circumstances. He might have called every slave in the State to his standard. Mr. Cameron's order of "August, 1861," removed the distinction between the slaves of loyal and disloyal masters, so far as fugitives are concerned. Fremont restricted himself to the slaves of that class, whom Congress by law, and the House by resolution, had marked to be stripped; though there is reason to believe that might have gone further with the general and cordial concurrence of the loyal Missourians. It was not with them, but with Kentuckians, the President's countrymen, that the disastrous order, "dimming the shine" of the Pathfinder, originated. The Louisville (Ky.) Journal boasts of the achievement, and claim the honor for the Union men there!
I have sufficiently considered the false and fatal position of Kentucky, and in so doing, I have said, in substance, no more than the President himself did in his message to Congress. But Kentucky applauds her own "rotten policy," and in spite of it, she has been lauded by the lady of the President, a daughter of Kentucky. He himself is said to have stiffly refused at first to sign "the Confiscation Bill," because "it would cost us Kentucky." If these nineteen States, which have saved the Constitution and the Capital, and will save Liberty and the Union, could have been heard at that moment, they would have said in tones of thunder, "Then, sir, it will cost us nothing that we would not willingly part withal. Through her venerable and most influential citizen and otherwise, Kentucky strove to seduce and bully the Republican party into a degrading and delusive compromise. The pressure was fearful, and appalled for a time the stoutest hearts. Ever since that, she has been playing with a steam-power of ten thousand horses into the hands of malignant and murderous traitors. If slave-driving dictation can ever be tolerable to American freemen again, it cannot be so from Kentucky at present; and it is as unsafe as it is indecent for her to attempt it, or the Government to listen to it. D. L. C. 
<c03>
TO J. P. B.
If I now comprehend you, you do not propose a compromise, or amicable adjustment, with the traitors, but simply a formal recognition of the existing fact of their separate governmental existence. You would then enforce, if not otherwise accepted, certain conditions. Now, here is the difficulty with me, as respects the utility of your system. I should have no objection whatever to such formal acknowledgment, if the South would peaceably abide the conditions you propose.
It was the pretended anticipation of the imposition of conditions less favorable to freedom than those suggested in your programme, that is at the bottom of this war.
You say rightly that your conditions would destroy slavery. And do you not suppose that this " community of barbarians," as you justly call them, would sooner imperil their institution by perpetual war, than by peaceably suffering its overthrow by the imposition of your conditions?
The only possible chance for peaceable relations with the South is in the utter destruction, in this or other wars, of the barbarism that has come to make its very existence depend on bold or unmasked aggression.
But why remove from them the character of rebels, and invest them with the character of legitimate nationality? Why divest the North, in the eyes of the world, of the obligation for imposing the conditions you insist upon? A. HOGEBOOM.
COLORED VALOR F0R THE COUNTRY.
Mr. Nell permits us to publish the following private letter from a much esteemed friend and an earnest supporter of the cause of the oppressed:-
NEW BEDFORD, SEPT 18,1861.
WM. C. NELL, ESQ.: Dear Sir,-I find the following statement in an account of the Bermuda Islands, given in " Morse's American Gazetteer," Boston, 1797:-
"In the late war, there were at one time between fifteen and twenty privateers fitted out from hence, which were manned by negro slaves, who behaved irreproachably."
If you had not already met with this additional testimony in favor of the manly qualities of the African race, I thought you might like to place it among your valuable reminiscences of their noble deeds. (1)'
I need not assure you how deep an interest I feel in the present conflict between the North and the South, trusting it will end in the setting free every victim of " the prison-house of bondage."
How uncalled for the last act of President Lincoln, in his requisition upon Gen. Fremont to modify his late proclamation in favor of the slaves in Missouri! Slowly, but at last, will the people and the Government learn the true nature of the struggle between liberty and slavery. The blessing, at last, seems so sure, that we can almost afford to " bide our time"; and yet our fervent prayers to God must be, "to hasten the day of freedom to the oppressed, when every yoke shall be broken, and those who have borne the burden set free."
I fear, however, that the work of the Abolitionists is not yet done: to them, ere long, will our suffering people look for guidance. In the meantime, let us keep our armor bright and ready for action.
Yours, very truly,
DANIEL RICKETSON.
(1) Here is a very recent incident:-
A COLORED SOLDIED AT BULL RUN. When Governor Sprague's battery was about to leave Providence for Washington a few months ago, the officers wished to engage the services of a colored citizen of that State, as a servant. He replied that he was perfectly willing to go, but would only go as the rest went, a full private in the corps. After a little demurring, he was regularly enlisted as a volunteer. At the battle of Bull Run, the captain of his gun was killed early in the action, and the colored soldier took command and held it to the last moment; for which he was highly complimented on the return of the troops to Providence. The name of the hero is Mr. James Roeder. Pass him round.-Anglo African. 
THE RIVAL OF COTTON. If King Cotton is not to be speedily dethroned by the folly and crime of its supporters, his uncrowned rival, Flax, is destined to give him some very severe pokes in the ribs. Recent specimens of the flax production have been brought out which come very' near the genuine article, if not fully up to the average of cotton. Flannel, calico, drilling and thread have all been made of the new flax fibre, and with a remarkable degree of perfection. New processes for preparing the fibre give great encouragement to those who are embarked in the business. Mills for the manufacture have already been erected in New York and in New England, and will soon be in operation, not only working the flax by itself into fabrics, but working it in connection with wool and cotton. There is little doubt that American ingenuity and enterprise will soon accomplish what the English, French and Germans have failed as yet to achieve. Machinery and capital are being somewhat extensively employed in this improved production- Thus, while great and successful efforts are being made by Great Britain to procure cotton supplies from India and Africa, the inventors and capitalists of this country are pushing forward the flax production as a powerful rival of the great monopoly of the rebel States.
-Kennebac Journal.
NAVAL OFFICERS IN COMMAND IN THE BLOCKADING SQUADRON. The recent changes in officers in command of the larger ships of the blockading squadron are noteworthy, as apparently indicating a disposition to entrust the important operations of that squadron to officers from seceded, doubtful, or border States. Capt. D. M. Golds borough, who relieves Commodore Stringham, is a citizen of Maryland; Capt. S. F. Dupont, appointed Flag Officer of the South Atlantic squadron, is a citizen of Delaware; Commander I. S. Missroon, ordered to the Cumberland, is a native and citizen of South Carolina; Commander William Smith, ordered to the Congress, is a citizen of Missouri; Capt. L. M. Powell, in command of the Potomac, is a native and citizen of Virginia; Capt. C. Ringgold, in command of the Sabine, is a native and citizen of Maryland; Capt. Samuel Mercer, in command of the Wabash, is also a native and citizen of Maryland; Commander Percival Drayton, ordered to special duty in the South Atlantic, squadron, is a native and citizen of South Carolina. The list can be extended, but this will suffice. We do not doubt that all these office are loyal to their flag, or the Navy Department would not place them in these responsible positions. They are liable, however, to be placed in difficult and painful situations, rendering action timid and vacillating that should be prompt and decided. A larger proportion of Northern officers would be quite as likely to induce a vigorous enforcement of the blockade, and they should not be passed over to so great an extent to favor those from the South, when so much is at stake.-Boston Journal, Sept. 20th
THE WAR NEWS. The news from Washington is important Early on Saturday morning, possession was taken of Munson's Hill by the Federal troops, the rebels having evacuated that point on the previous night. A sad mistake, similar to that which happened at Newport News, occurred during the march of our troops in the dark. One detachment fired into another, killing and wounding a large number of our own men. It is not known what has become of the rebels, but it is supposed this movement on their part is a feint to draw our troops into an ambuscade.
From Missouri, we learn that Gen. Lane had an engagement with the rebels at Papinsville, and succeeded in capturing a large supply train left by Generals Rains and Price, together with $100,000.
The rebel troops under Gen. Price had committed great outrages on the property of citizens, seizing everything valuable and insulting the owners.
It is estimated that the number of rebel troops now in Missouri is about 42,000.
From Kentucky, it is reported that Buckner's men attacked Muddy River forty miles from Bowling Green and the rebels were badly whipped.
Advices from Fort Pickens bring intelligence of the capture of the privateer Judith, by a boat expedition from the United States ship Colorado. Our loss was three men killed, and fifteen wounded.
Much dissatisfaction is felt at the large proportion of Southerners recently appointed as commanding officers of the blockade. Always the lion's share!
Southern Kentucky has been completely skinner by the rebel troops, so that scarcely a mouthful to eat is left.
The St. Louis Republican states, on the authority of an Arkansas paper, that some thirteen hundred Indian warriors-Camanches, Chickasaws, Seminoles and Creeks-have actually crossed the Arkansas riven, en route for Ben. McCulloch's camp, to help him carry on the war against the Union!.
<c04>
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER,
Before the State Republican Convention, at Worcester,
Tuesday October 1,1861.
"EMANCIPATION THE CURE FOR REBELLION."
FELLOW-CITIZENS,-In meeting my fellow-citizens of Massachusetts, who have come together on this occasion, from all parts of the Commonwealth, I find myself in a familiar scene, but I feel that there has been a change. Yes! there has been a great change, and it is felt in our Convention.
We are no longer met, as so often in times past, for purposes of controversy, or to sustain our cause by argument That hour has passed. Formerly, I have exposed to you the atrocities of the Fugitive Slave bill; I have rejoiced to show that freedom was national and slavery sectional; I have striven to prevent the extension of slavery into the territories; I have vindicated, especially, freedom in Kansas, assailed by slaveholding. conspirators; I have exposed the tyrannical usurpation of the slave oligarchy, and I have dragged into day the whole vast intense Barbarism of Slavery. But these topics have now passed into history, and are no longer of practical interest, are not of to-day.
Let us rejoice that at least so much has been gained, and from the extent of our present triumphs let us take hope and courage for the future. Providence will be with the good cause in times to come, as in times past Others may despair; I do not. Others may see gloom; I cannot. Others may hesitate; I will not. Already the country has been saved. Great
as may seem to be its present peril, its peril was greater far while it was sinking, year after year, under he rule of slavery. Often have I exclaimed, in times past, that our first great object was the emancipation of the National Government, so that it should no longer be the slave of slavery, ready to do its bidding n all things. But this victory has been won. It was won first by the ballot box, when Abraham Lincoln was elected President of the United States; and it was won the second time by the cartridge-box, when, at the command of the President, the guns of Fort
Sumter returned the fire of the rebel artillery. Such was the madness of shivery, that the first was not enough. Unhappily, the second was needed to complete the work.
The slave oligarchy, which, according to the vaunt if a slaveholding Senator, has ruled the Republic for more than fifty years; which has stamped its degrading character upon the national forehead; which has entered into and possessed not only the politics, but the literature and even the religion of the country; which has embroiled us at home and given us a bad name abroad; which has wielded at will President, Cabinet, and even judicial tribunals; which has superseded public opinion by substituting its own immoral behests; which has appropriated to itself the offices and honors of the Republic; which has established slavery as the single test and shibboleth of favor; which, after opening all our territories to this wrong, was already promising to renew the slave trade and all its unutterable woes; nay, more, which, in the instinct of that tyranny, through which it ruled, was beating down all the safeguards of human rights-freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and security of person, and delivering the whole country to a rule whose vulgarity was second only to its madness; this slave oligarchy has been dislodged from the National Government, never more to return. Thus far, at least, has emancipation prevailed. The greatest slave of all is free.
Surely, if at any moment we are disposed to be disheartened-if the future is not always clear before us, we may find ample occasion for joy in the victory already won. Pillars, like those of Hercules, might fitly mark this progress.
Among the results of this victory is one which we may specially enjoy on this occasion. It is slavery which has been the occasion of our party divisions, keeping men asunder who ought to act together. But, with the expulsion of this disturbing influence, the occasion for our divisions has ceased. All patriots-all men who truly love their country-may now act together; no matter in what party combination they may have formerly appeared; no matter of what accent is the speech by which our present duties are declared; call them Democrats, Union men, natives or foreigners, what you will, are we not all engaged n a common cause? Nor will I claim as yet the highest praise for those with whom I am most intimately associated. I have read history too well, not to remember that Hannibal, in his campaigns, relied less on his own Carthaginians than on his Spanish infantry and Numidian horse.
The Government is assailed by a Rebellion, without precedent in human history. Never before since Satan warred upon the Almighty has rebellion assumed such a front; and never before has it begun in such a cause. The rebels are numerous and powerful; and their cause is slavery.
It is the very essence of rebellion to be audacious, unhesitating, unscrupulous. Rebellion sticks at nothing; least of all, will a rebellion which began in slavery. it can be successfully encountered only by a vigor and energy which shall surpass its own. Patriotism surely is not less potent as a motive than treason. It must be invoked. By all the memories of your fathers, who founded this Republic and delivered to you the precious heritage; and by all the sentiments of gratitude for the good you have enjoyed beneath its protecting care, you are summoned to its Defence. Defence, did I say '. It is with mortification that I utter the word; but you all know the truth.
The rebel conspirators have set upon us, and now besiege the National Government. They besiege it at Washington, where are the President and his Cabinet and the national archives. They besiege it at Fort Monroe on the Atlantic, at St. Louis on the Mississippi, and now they besiege it in Kentucky. Everywhere we are on the defensive. Strongholds have been wrested from us. Soldiers gathered under the folds of our national flag have been compelled to surrender. Citizens, whose only offence has been their loyalty, have been driven from their homes. Bridges have been burned. Railways have been disabled. Steamers and ships have been seized. The largest navy yard of the country has been appropriated. Commerce has been hunted on the sea, and property, wherever it could be reached, ruthlessly robbed or destroyed. Only within a few days we have read the order of one Buckner, a rebel commander in Kentucky, directing the destruction of a most important lock, by which Green River had been rendered navigable. Pardon me if I read this intercepted order. It is instructive, as showing the spirit with which this rebellion is waged:-
"BOWLING GREEN, SEPT, 1861.
MR. GEORGE W. TRIPLETT: My Dear Sir,-Yours is received. Lock No. I most be destroyed. I rely upon oar friends at Owen borough to do it. Not an hour must be lost Its destruction is a great deal to me in crippling our adversary. Assemble our friends without delay, in sufficient force to accomplish the object. One of the best ways is to open all the gates but one, and to dig down behind the wall at both gates; to put one or two kegs of powder behind the wall, apply a slow match, and blow the wall into the lock. If possible, it should be done in such a way as to leave a strong current through the lock, which will empty the dam. Provide everything in advance. Do not fail. It is worth an effort
[Signed,] S. H. BUCKNER ".
It is still doubtful if the work of destruction was accomplished according to this rebel order. But the spirit is here shown which would sweep away one of the most valuable of the internal improvements of Kentucky, a part of the pride and wealth of the State.
Then you ask in whose name all this has been done The answer is easy. Not " in the name of God and the Continental Congress," as Ethan Allen summoned Ticonderoga; but " in the name of slavery." Yes in the name of slavery has all this crime, destruction and ravage been perpetrated.
Look at the war as you will, and yon will always see slavery. Never, were the words of the Roman orator more applicable: Nullum facinus extitit nisi per te; nullum flagitium sine te." Slavery is its inspiration; its motive-power; its end and aim. It is often said that the war will make an end of slavery. This is probable. But it is surer still, that the overthrow of slavery will at once make an end of the war.
If I am correct in this statement, which I believe is beyond question, then do reason, justice and policy all unite in declaring that the war must be brought to bear directly on the grand conspirator, and omnipresent enemy, which is slavery. Not to do this, is to take upon ourselves, in the present contest, all the weakness of slavery, while we leave to the rebels its boasted resources of military strength. Not to do this, is to squander life and treasure in a vain masquerade of battle, which can have no practical result 
Believe me, fellow-citizens, I know all the imagined difficulties and unquestioned responsibilities of this suggestion. But if you are in earnest, the difficulties will at once disappear, and the responsibilities are 
such as you will gladly bear. This is not the first time that a knot hard to untie has been cut by the sword; and we all know that danger flees before the brave man. Believe that you can, and you can. The will only is needed. Courage now is the highest prudence.
It is not necessary, even, according to a familiar phrase, to carry the war into Africa. It will be enough if we carry Africa into the war,-in any form, any quantity, any way. The moment this is done, rebellion will begin its bad luck, and the Union will be secure forever.
History teaches by examples. The occasion does not allow me to show how completely this monitor points the way. I content myself with two instances, of special mark-one from ancient Greece and the other from ancient Rome.
The most fetal day for ancient Greece was the defeat at Cheronrea, when Philip of Macedon triumphed over forces in which Demosthenes was enlisted as a soldier. Athens was thrown into consternation. Her great orator had ignobly fled. Another orator, second.
<c05>
only to him, Isocrates, died suddenly on hearing the report of the battle. The book of Fate seemed about to close, while Athens sunk to be a mere dependency of Philip. Then it WAS that another orator in the assembly of the people suddenly brought forward a proposition to emancipate the slaves. The royal Philip, already strong in his victory, trembled. King and conqueror, he was also a statesman, and he saw well that such a proposition begun in Athens would shake all Greece even to his powerful throne, which the young Alexander was then preparing to mount. His triumphant course was at once arrested, and peace secured.
The other instance is in Roman history. You will find it in Plutarch's life of Caius Marius. This experienced general, who in the civil conflicts of the time had been driven from Rome and found shelter in the ruins of Carthage, was able at last to effect a landing in Italy. Thus is the incident recorded:-
"Marius, upon this news, determined to hasten. He took with him some Marusia horse which he had levied in Africa, and a few others that were come to him from Italy, in all not amounting to above a thousand men, and with this handful began his voyage, He arrived at a port in Tuscany called Telamon, and as soon as he was landed, proclaimed liberty to the slaves. The name of Marius brought down numbers, the ablest of which he enlisted; and in a short time had a great army on foot, with which he filled forty ships."
Thus far Plutarch. It is needless to add that Marius found himself soon master of Rome 
These are historic instances. I do not adduce them that you should blindly follow them; but simply that you should see how in times past defeat has been stayed and victory won by a generous word for freedom. Men die and disappear; but the human family continues the same in passions and fears as when Philip was frightened back from Athena, and when Marius was borne in triumph to Rome.
To these historic instances, let me add an admitted principle of the ancient Roman law. According to that law, the state of slavery might be terminated in three different manners: first, by manumission; secondly, by way of reward to the slave; and, thirdly, by way of punishment to the master. If the master had failed to be a good citizen, he was punished; so that, at the same time, he should suffer in property, and others should gain what is more than property-freedom. But I do not cite even this principle of a time-honored jurisprudence for your government. I will not doubt that, in the unparalleled circumstances by which we are now encompassed, justice will be done. 
Already, the way is easy. A simple declaration that all men coming within the lines of the United States troops shall be regarded as freemen, will be in strict conformity to the Constitution, and also with precedents. The Constitution knows no man as a slave. It treats all within its jurisdiction as persona, while the exceptional provision for the rendition of persons held to service or labor, you will observe, is carefully confined to such as have escaped into another State. It is clear, therefore, that there can be no sanction under the Constitution for turning a camp into a slave-pen, or for turning military officers into slave-hunters. Let this plain construction be adopted, and then, as our lines advance, Freedom will be established, and our national flag, in its march, will wave with new glory.
A brave General, whom Massachusetts has given to the country-though commencing his career with prejudices derived from the pro-slavery school of politicians-has known how to see this question in its true light. I mean, of course, General Butler. He has declared, in his letter to the Secretary of War, dated Fortress Monroe, 30th July, 1861, with reference to fugitive slaves, that it is his duty" to take the same care of these men, women and children, houseless, homeless and unprovided for, as he would of the same number of men, women and children, who for their attachment to the Union had been driven or allowed to flee from the Confederate States. These words are better for his reputation than a victory.
Another General, born in Kentucky, and living and dying in the South-Major-General Gaines, of the army of the United States-laid down the same rule as long ago as 1838. It will be found in the documents of Congress. " The military officer," said he, " can enter into no judicial examination of the claim of one man to the bone and muscle of another as property. Nor could he, as a military officer, know what the laws of Florida were while engaged in maintaining the Federal Government by force of arms. In such case, he could only be guided by the Laws of war; and whatever may be the laws of any State, they must yield to the safety of the Federal Government."
This proposition, though of seeming simplicity, would be of incalculable efficacy, if honestly and sincerely enforced. Then would our camps become nurseries of freemen, and every common soldier would be a chain-breaker.
But there is another agency that may be invoked, which is at the same time under the Constitution, and above the Constitution; I mean Martial Law. It is under the Constitution, because it is distinctly recognized by the Supreme Court among the functions of our government. It is above the Constitution, because, when set in motion, like necessity, it knows no other law. For the time, it is law and Constitution. All other agencies, small and great, executive, legislative and even judicial, are absorbed in this transcendent triune power, which for the time declares its absolute will, while it holds alike the scales of justice and the sword of the executioner. The existence of this power nobody questions. If it has been rarely exercised in our country, and never on an extended scale, the power none the less has a fixed place in our political system. As well strike out the kindred law of self-defence, which belongs alike to States and individuals. Martial law is only one form of self-defence.
That this law might be employed against slavery was first proclaimed in the House of Representatives by a Massachusetts statesman, who was a champion of freedom, John Quincy Adams. His authority is such, that I content myself with placing the law under the sanction of his name, which becomes more authoritative when we consider the circumstances under which the doctrine was put forth, repeated, and then again vindicated.
It was as early as the 25th of May, 1836, that Mr. Adams first expounded what he called " The war power and treaty-making power of the Constitution." Then it was that he declared-
"From the instant that your slaveholding States become the theatre of war, civil, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery in every way with which it can be interfered with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of the State burdened with slavery to a foreign power."
Again, on the 7th of June, 1841, after many yean of reflection, and added experience in public life, he terrified slave-masters by showing that universal emancipation might be accomplished through this extraordinary power.
Afterward, on the 14th of April, 1842, for the third time, he stated the doctrine in the House of Representatives, and challenged criticism or reply. I forbear to read the whole speech, though it is worthy of constant repetition. An extract will suffice:-
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that the military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, slavery among the rest. Under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."
And then again he asks, in words applicable to the present hour:-
If civil war come, if insurrection come, is this beleaguered capital, is this besieged government to see millions of its subjects in arms, and have no right to break the fetters which they are forging into swords? No! The war power of the Government can sweep this institution into the
Gulf."
The representatives-of slavery fumed and raged at these words; and at their venerable author; but nobody answered them. And they have stood ever since in the records of Congress, firm and impregnable as adamant.
In the protracted controversy which is now drawing to its close, Massachusetts has done much. She first gave the example of Universal Freedom within her borders; and ever since that early day, she has borne a leading part in all efforts against slavery. It is her children who have never failed in this cause, where anything was to be done, whether by word or deed. Massachusetts has for years borne the burthen of this discussion, and also the heavier burthen of obloquy, which has long rested upon all who pleaded for the slave. It is Massachusetts, who, with patriotic ardor, first leaped to the rescue, when the Capital was menaced by slavery, and by a happy coincidence, on the 19th April of this year, consecrated herself anew by the blood of her children; thus being at the same time first to do and first to suffer. It was also a Massachusetts General who first in this conflict proclaimed that our camps could not contain a slave; and it was an illustrious Massachusetts statesman who first unfolded the beneficent principle by virtue of which, constitutionally, legally, and without excess of any kind, the President or a Commanding General may become more than a conqueror, even a Liberator.
Massachusetts will be false to herself, if she fails at this moment. And yet, I would not be misunderstood. Feeling most profoundly, that there is now an opportunity, such as rarely occurs in human annals, for incalculable good-seeing clearly that there is one spot, like the heel of Achilles, where this great rebellion may be wounded to death-I calmly deliver the whole question to the judgment of those on whom the responsibility rests, contenting myself with reminding you that there are times when not to act carries with it a greater responsibility than to act. It is enough for us to review the unquestioned power of the government, to handle for a moment its mighty weapons, which are yet allowed to slumber, without assuming.
<c06>
to declare that the hour has come when they shall flash against the sky.
But may a good Providence save our Government from that everlasting regret which must ensue if a great opportunity is lost by which all the bleeding wounds of war shall be staunched-by which prosperity shall be again established, and peace be linked for ever with liberty. Saul was cursed for not hewing Agag in pieces when in his hands, and Ahab was cursed for not destroying Benhadad. Let no such curses ever descend upon our Government.
So many slaves, so many enemies! " Unless this ancient proverb has ceased to be true, there are now; four millions of enemies intermingled with the rebels; being four millions of allies to the National Government. Can we afford to reject this natural alliance; inspired by a common interest, and consecrated by humanity? There is another motive to such an alliance which cannot be forgotten. Without it, insurrection will be inevitable, and when it comes, it will be wild and lawless. This should be prevented, if possible. But if Liberty does not come from the tranquil and beneficent action of the Government, it will come in blood, amidst the confusion of families. All this was foreseen by the Emperor of Russia, when, on the 21st of September, 1858 he called upon, his nobles to unite with him in Emancipation. " which," he nobly declared, " ought to begin from above, to the end that it may not come from below:" and now, this very year, twenty millions of Russian serfs have peacefully passed out of the house of bondage. Cheered by this great example, let us not forget that if began from above.
There is another practical advantage where the action proceeds from the Government. The interests of loyal citizens can be protected. Compensation may relieve the hardships of individual cases. Nor can I object. Never should any question of money be allowed to interfere with human freedom. Better an empty treasury than a single slave. A bridge of gold would be cheap, if demanded by the retreating flend.
Fellow-citizens-I have spoken frankly; for such has always been my habit And never was there greater need of frankness. Let patriots understand each other, and they cannot widely differ. All will unite in sustaining the Government, and in driving back the rebels. But this cannot be done by any half way measures, or by any lukewarm conduct. Do not hearken to the voice of Slavery, no matter what its tones of persuasion. Believe me, its friendship is more deadly than its enmity. If you are wise, prudent, conservative, practical, you will strike quick and hard-strike, too, where the blow will ha most felt-strike at the main-spring of the rebellion. Strike in the name of the Union, which only in this way can be restored-in the name of Peace, which is vain without Union-and in the name of Liberty also, which will bring both Peace and Union in her glorious train.
Of this dispassionate and statesmanlike speech, the sham democratic, sham loyal, sham patriotic Boston Post speaks in the following Billingsgate style:-
" Mr. Sumner's speech at Worcester yesterday was in direct opposition to the policy of the Administration, the declaration of Congress, and the avowed purpose of the war-overflowing with the same narrow, bitter and unconstitutional sentiments that have done so much to bring our present misfortunes upon us, and which tend to render the restoration of the Union impossible. If such views as he advances governed the action of the Administration, not a brigade could be kept in the field, or money enough raised by the Secretary of the Treasury to buy breeches and gaiters for a demagogue Senator. For such men as Sumner and his ilk do not fight nor pay-they only brawl, and deserve to be treated as were old scolds in days past-ducked in a hone pond."
REV. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE said he had two resolutions in the spirit of Mr. Sumner's speech, which he wished to present to the Convention. He did not desire in any way to prejudice the rights of any person not belonging to the Republican party, who had come into this Convention under the liberal terms of its call. We are in the habit of saying that the time for speaking has passed, and that this is the time for action only. We believe that, while engaged in war, it is not worth while to bring up any questions upon which there might be a doubt. But there is one thing we ought to consider. If men are the muscles of war, if dollars are the sinews of war, ideas and convictions are the nerves of war; and unless we are fighting for something, and know what we are fighting for, it is pretty certain that after a while our courage will give way. Every one who comes from Washington represents that the Government is quite willing to carry on the war vigorously; but that it wants to be backed up by the people. Now we have a Convention, the most important, perhaps, ever held in Massachusetts. Is not this the time and the place for the people to say to the Government, "Go on; make use of any mean Providence may place in your power, and we will back you; we will support you"? I suppose the people of Massachusetts are united upon two points: first, we don't mean this war, when it terminates, shall leave us where it found us, but that it shall leave us with some guaranty that we shall not have to do the work over again. I suppose we are also agreed that slavery shall either be annihilated in the course of the war, or shall be very greatly crippled. In order to show that we are ready to sustain this Government, he proposed the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That while the people of Massachusetts have confidence in. the wisdom of the National Administration, and are ready hereafter, as hitherto, to give their blood and their treasure in answer to its call- yet, believing that slavery is the root and cause of this rebellion, they will rejoice when the time shall come, in the wisdom of the Government, to remove this radical source of our present evils.
Resolved, That when the proper time shall arrive, the people of Massachusetts will welcome every act under the war power of the Commander-in-Chief which shall declare all the slaves within the lines of our armies to be free, and accept their services in defence of the Union-compensating all loyal owners for slaves thus emancipated-and thus carrying liberty for all human beings wherever the stars and stripes shall flow.
Mr. LEE, of Templeton. I have not the presumption to rise in my place here with any view to discuss this great question, with any view to entertain this Convention; but, sir, I will ask, before this is put precipitately upon us, whether or not this Convention, notwithstanding gentlemen have listened to the eloquent discourse of Mr. Sumner, whether or not we are ready at this moment to take this great leap. Sir, the prophetic mind of John Quincy Adams, who has been quoted here, would suggest to us delay until the proper moment comes. (Applause.) Has that moment come? ("Yes! yes!" "No! no!") When that moment comes, it will be hailed with delight by all the oppressed of humanity throughout the world. But if we declare it now, out of time, it will recoil upon us, and we shall lose the ground we are seeking to gain. Sir, I protest. We have gone as far, in the resolves reported by the Committee, as prudence, policy or the public good requires. Sir, let us consider one moment the attitude we are in. Whom do we represent? The great State of Massachusetts. And our views, will go forth over the whole United States. Let us not, by any untimely word or act, challenge or promote any feeling of hostility. I am for war, but I would not be rash.
Mr. George S. Hale, of Boston, moved that the resolutions of Mr. Clarke be laid upon the table. The motion prevailed, and the Convention adjourned without venturing to look them in the face! Poor timid, halting, huckstering, compromising Republicanism!
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
Reed by R. F. Wallout:
From Dr. D. S. Grandin, Mechanics Falls, Me.,
to redeem pledge, of May,1860, $3 00
Thos. S.  Greenman, Mystic Bridge, Conn, a donation, 2 50 
Mrs. M. W. Chapman, Weymouth, Ms., for expenses
of Abington. Celebration, 1 00
R. H. Ober, to redeem pledge, 20 00
By A. T. Foss:
North Beverly, 1 07
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer 
Boston, Oct. 1,1861.
a. T. FOSS,an Agent of the American A. S. Society, will speak on "The War," at 
Peacham, Vt. Sunday,  oct 6.
Danville,  Vt Tuesday,  oct 8
St. Johnsbury, Vt Wednesday oct 9
L. Waterford,  Vt Friday oct 11.
McIndoes Falls, Vt Sat eve'g, oct 12 and Sunday, 13.
Ryegate,  Vt Tuesday oct 15.
Topsham,  Vt Wednesday oct 16
Washington,  Vt Thursday oct 17.
Newbury,  Vt Friday,  oct 18
Bradford,  Vt Sunday,  oct 20.
Windsor,  Vt Wednesday oct 23.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and 
MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, Accoucher,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, Boston, sad will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office House, from 10, A. M., to 4, P. M. Boston, Oct. 4, 1861.
3m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE BEGINNING OF THE END OF SLAVERY.
BUTLER AND FREMONT.
Ben. Butler has made out a case,
Without a legal flaw,
By which the slave his freedom gets;
He's “contraband of war"!
And Fremont, too, o'er Western plains,
Proclaims his stern decree,
That traitorous men, where he bears sway,
Shall let their slaves go free! E. W. T.
NOW,
ANSWER TO W. C. BRYANT'S “NOT YET”-BY T. HULBERT UNDERWOOD.
A “marvel of the earth" indeed!
Our country from its greatness thrown-
Thrown dustward like a blasted reed-
Its pride laid low, its green leaves strown.
The traitor's arm has laid her low-
In vain the hopeful answer, ”No!"
A stigma rests upon her fame-
Though still she's cherished in our heart-
The traitor's blight, a sullied name!
Yet cling to her as once a part
Of that which was the “glorious" Great,
The favored land, the model State.
Stern Truth-of those who gave this land
The prestige of its former name-
Will say, “Its erring statesmen stand
Convicted of the present shame."
Could they the present sequence know,
They'd seek the deepest shades below.
Because they left undone the task
Which God assigned them, then and there-
To “tear” from Slavery its mask,
And drive it from its cherished lair-
Their judgment or their will was wrong,
Who left this dragon to grow strong.
They bandied honeyed words with Crime,
And made expediency of Sin;
They left a curse to after-time,.
A curse that worketh now within 
The councils of this cheated land:
Their boasted ties are ropes of sand.
Our “marts" are dead, our “iron ways" 
Are bending with their freight of war!
Our “woods and waters" stand amazed,
While rattles down the crimson car;
Potomac's waves unsanguined flow,
Missouri's sands are red below.
Our “winds” are vocal with the boom
Of fate, and blood like water flows!
Atlantic heart the threatened doom,
And answers with his wail of woes;
And from the Mississippi's flood
There's no response save that of “Blood!"
We stand aghast-" the hour is nigh,"
When “Eld's" green goblins, grinning, sit
Close by the Nation's face, and cry:
"Doomed country, welcome to the pit,
Dug deep for all who thus begin
The record of their work with sin!”
Is there an arm stretched down to save?
"There is no God!” the fool replies,
"No King but COTTON!"' and we wave
The lie beneath insulted skies,
Give Slavery fair Freedom's place,
And flaunt the fraud in Heaven's face.
The fire of civil war to-day
Has charred upon the Nation's brow
A brand no tears can wash away!
No compromise will answer sow!
There it a God, and NOW he rules,
And whips us with a race of fools!
GOD'S ANVIL.
Pain's furnace heat within me quivers,
God's breath upon the flame doth blow,
And all my heart with anguish shivers,
And trembles as the fiery glow;
And yet I whisper, as God will,
And in his hottest fire hold still.
He comes, and lays my heart, all heated,
On the hard anvil, minded so,
Into his own fair shape to beat it,
With his great hammer, blow on blow;
And yet I whisper, as God will,
And at his heaviest blows hold still.
He takes my softened heart, and beats it:
The sparks fly off at every blow;
He turns it o'er and o'er, and heats it,
And lets it cool, and makes it glow.
And yet I whisper, as God will,
And in his mighty hand hold still.
Why should I murmur? for the sorrow
Thus only longer lived would be:
Its end may come, and will to-morrow,
When God has done his work in me.
So I say, trusting, as God will,
And, trusting to the end, hold still.
He kindles, for my profit, purely,
Affliction's glowing, fiery brand:
And all his heaviest blows are surely
Inflicted by a master hand:
So I say, praying, as God will,
And hope in him, and suffer still.
BETTER LATE THAN NEVER.
Life is a race where some succeed,
While others are beginning;
'Tis luck at times, at others speed,
That gives an early winning.
But if you chance to fall behind,
Ne'er slacken your endeavor,
But keep this wholesome truth in mind,
'Tis better late than never.
If you can keep ahead, ’tis well,
But never trip your neighbor;
'Tis noble when you can excel
By honest, patient labor;
But if yon are outstripped at last,
Press on a£ bold as ever;
Remember though you are surpassed,
Tis better late than never.
Ne'er labor for an idle boast
Of victory o'er another;
But while you strive your uttermost,
Deal fairly with a brother.
Whate'er your station, do your best,
And hold your purpose ever;
And if you fail to beat the rest,
‘Tis better late than never.
Choose well the path in which yon run,
Succeed by noble daring;
Then, though the last, when once ‘tis won,
Your crown is worth the wearing.
Then never fret if left behind,
Nor slacken your endeavor,
But ever keep this truth in mind-
'Tis better late than never.
DOING GOOD.
'Tis never too late to do good;
We all have our time to improve;
'Tis doing no more than we should,
Progressively onward to move,
Tis folly to lornfully grieve;
Be hopeful, and yon will be wise;
The lower the station we leave,
The greater the merit to rise.
We all might be better-in fact,
More loving-more friendly-more kind;
With a little more feeling-more tact-
To manage the heart and the mind;
Tis noble to earnestly strive
By labor or learning to rise;
The gem-seeker deeply must dire,
Or never look out for a prize.
<c02>
The Liberator.
LETTER
To a Corporate Member of “The American Board."
BOSTON, Sept. 26, 1861.
T. P.HANDY, Esq.:
SIR-I have received from you, without date, but post-marked Sept. 19th, 1861, the following:-
"Send no more of your false and abusive documents relating to the American Board to me." T. P. HANDY,
Cleveland, O."
A note so brief and so uncourteous, from an entire stranger, leaves me at a disadvantage in replying, since I cannot know from it to which of the following classes you belong; whether you are a determined advocate of slavery, and thus a supporter of the Board which supports it-or whether you are one of that large number of well-meaning and unsuspecting people who have formed a habit of implicit confidence in the Board, and who unwisely assume that nothing is to be said on the other side-or whether you are a mere partisan, entirely regardless of truth and right-or whether you are merely incompetent to judge of evidence. In either case, I may properly send you the following reply:-
If your expression “false and abusive" refers to my book recently published –“Relation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Slavery," it is utterly and doubly inappropriate, since all the charges there made against the Board are proved, in the same volume, by evidence drawn from its own publications. I have been so scrupulous, not only to treat the Board justly in my own comments, but to enable every reader to judge for himself whether my accusations are well founded, that I have printed, unabridged, all the documents they have issued in their Annual Reports on the subject of slavery; arid these fully support my charges against the Board, namely,-
1. They have sheltered slavery in their Cherokee and Choctaw mission-churches, representing the holding of slaves, and the purchase and sale of them, (even when this includes the separation of young children from their parents,) as perfectly consistent with the Christian character.
2. They have not only suppressed, and attempted to conceal from their readers, certain remonstrance's made by their missionaries in the Sandwich Islands against American slavery, (remonstrance's made on the ground of the injurious influence of slavery upon their missionary labors.) but they have framed this iniquity into a law, which still exists-(No. 42)-among their “Regulations," to prevent any further remonstrance of this sort.
3. They have treated those of their members at home who remonstrated against their complicity with slavery, first with discourteous silence and neglect, and afterwards with unjust and disingenuous replies and action.
4. They have framed their reports upon this subject with deceptive craftiness, using, in the very documents which expressly permit the continuance of slave-holding among their Indian church-members, general expressions unfavorable to slavery, and thus adapted to mislead the undiscriminating reader. Finally-
5. They now hold the position of giving their influence in the strongest possible way in aid of the continuance of slavery, by having publicly recorded their testimony, in the Annual Meeting of 1860, at Boston, that the slaveholding Cherokees “are a Christian people."
All those things are proved, by the quotation, unabridged, of the Board's own documents, in the book in question.
I find, by reference to the last Annual Report of the Board, that you are one of its Corporate members, elected in 1857. If your acquaintance with the affairs of that body began at that time, you may very profitably study the full history of its complicity with slavery for forty years past, which has been copied from its official documents into my book. If, on making such examination, you find any material error in my state-merits, and will send me evidence really proving the existence of such error, in season for the second edition of that book, I will willingly, nay, gladly, insert it there. If you do not accept this offer, it will appear to candid examiners of this subject that it is your accusations, not mine, which are “false and abusive."
Hoping speedily to receive any light which you may have to give upon this important subject, I am, sincerely,
Your friend and servant for the truth,
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE.
MEETINGS AT THE NORTH-WEST.
MR. GARRISON: During July and August, we have had a series of Sunday Conventions and Anti-Slavery Meetings at the North-West. Although, in the Conventions, the Bible and Spiritual questions were prominent, the cause of Woman and the American Slave was fully and freely heard. Mrs. Frances Brown, of Cleveland, O., rendered us great assistance. At Tipton, Iowa, the Court-House was crowded during several sessions. Lawyers and priests attended; and one of the former, (a dark-complexioned, hunkerish fellow,) undertook to thrust Amalgamation on to the audience, as the moving spring of our meetings. Mrs. Brown replied in a manner that left some to infer that if the said lawyer's wife was a white woman, he was practically an amalgamations himself. He vamosed.
At Iowa City, (a town of 8000 people,) the meetings began in the Universalist Church, and adjourned to Market Hall, for want of room. At one session, Mr. Campbell discussed the relation of slavery to republics, showing from history that the aristocracy and land monopoly which slavery always breeds, have ever been the bane and destruction of republics, and now threaten ours. He was followed by Mrs. Brown, with her peculiar theory that de-parted spirits have originated the present war-that John Brown and Stephens, and Calhoun and Jackson, (murderer of Ellsworth,) all “still live," and are still fighting in the American battle. Passing the merits of this theory, Mrs. Brown did herself great Credit by the expose of the wickedness of slavery, by her gallant defence of John Brown, and by her thrilling appeal to the audience to still “sue for simple justice” for the slave. And some of us felt, that if our countrymen did not” act right, and grant his claim,"
"By the great God that made all things, We'll fight till from our bones our flesh be hacked."
Mrs. Brown has none of the highfalutin Spiritualism-she speaks (with her eyes open) good practical sense; and although her pet topics are Spiritualism and the Cause of Woman, yet she is thoroughly anti-slavery, and will not assist in Conventions, except where all liberal minds on all radical subjects can be heard.
At Springdale we enjoyed hospitalities at friend Mason's, where John Brown's famous eleven (Stephens, Ralph, Cook, &c.,) drilled for three months previous to the Harper's Ferry affair. We saw their portraits about the room, and looked with awe on an old wooden sword-a relief of the severe discipline they experienced that famous winter of ‘58 and ‘59.
Barclay Coppic (who escaped from Harper's Ferry when Cook was taken) attended our meetings at Springdale. He was on his way to join Montgomery and John Brown, Jr., in Kansas. Barclay is said to have been moody and sad till the war broke out. His brother had been hung, and our Governor's requisition hung over his head for a year, threatening to hand him over to Virginia. But since the war begun, Gov. Kirkwood has voluntarily and unsolicited recalled his requisition for Coppic. (Item: Of what “damned stuff" are these Governors made? or is the trouble in their making up?) We saw Barclay in good spirits, collecting his recruits of true men. We saw him leave with four-one, of sixty summers-as true as steel, leaving a good home in good
<c03>
circumstances, to fight for the slave. An hour before going, one of the recruits met opposition from a harsh father. It was cool to see Barclay quietly pocket a pistol, and with quickened pace go out to settle the matter. It was well for all the young recruit had just settled it by a cross-lot stampede to join his comrades. (1)
At Dixon, Iowa, we held a fine grove meeting, where for once, in God's own temple, the people worshipped Him in the service of Humanity. At this, and other conventions, Mrs. Dr. Stillman, of De Witt, spoke with great acceptance on Health, according to the gospel of Water-Cure. Mrs. Campbell spoke for Woman, her Sphere and Abilities.
At Lane, Illinois, we held a Convention the hottest Sunday of the season. Evening sessions full. The people are ready to hear. We think Mr. Pillsbury is right in believing Anti-Slavery effort is now needed more than ever. We do not believe in the Standstill-See-Salvation-God theory. We hope for a grand Convention this fall, to tell the North-West that “eternal vigilance is the price of liberty”-our own and that of the slave. A recent Chicago Times (Douglas) has specified the Independent, Liberator and Standard as papers to be suppressed, and calls on the Federal Government to do it. The Slave Power still controls the North. Let it be fought down.
Clinton, Iowa, Aug., 1861. C. B. C.
(1) Since this communication was received, the death of Barclay Coppic has been chronicled in the papers, be having been killed, with many others, by the destruction of a railway train at Little Platte River in Missouri, by the falling of a bridge, the timbers of which had been burned underneath the track, through the diabolical malignity of the succession tritors.
MEETING AT ST. MARY'S LAKE.
ST. MARY'S LAKE, (Mich.) Sept. 16, 1861.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND-On Sunday, the 15th inst., at 2 o'clock, P. M., a great concourse of citizens, from Battle Creek and vicinity, assembled for divine service in the cause of humanity, at the Steam Saw-Mill on St. Mary's Lake. The scone was full of inspiration. Unlike many parts of Michigan, this is a country of hill and dale, and, just here, the beautiful little lake, well named St. Mary's, nestling itself so lovingly amid the trees of the forest, so secure, so pure-reflecting from its polished bosom all the beauty of sky and shore-gives life and glory to the landscape. Nature has indeed been lavish of her bounty, and the hand of man has not been wanting to add attractions to this charming spot. Seven years ago, it was all wilderness-to-day, the hundreds of cultivated acres around St. Mary's, the orchards, the fields of wheat and clover, the flocks and herds, the great Steam Saw-Mill, the Water-Cure establishment, in whose hall both heart and foot keep time to the merry music of the violin, and the beautiful home of Henry Willis-the animating spirit of the whole-is proof that if man is not a creator, he is at least a maker.
The occasion, too, was inspiring. When the fountains of the great deep are broken up-when the revolutionary ploughshare is opening the heart and soul of man to the light and warmth of the Sun of Righteousness and Truth, it is the time, above all others, to broadcast the seed which shall yield the glad harvest of universal liberty. So it seemed, to one who looked at that audience, composed of people of various politics and various theological creeds, and beheld their eager, thirsty spirits drinking in the word of life and salvation.
The subject for discussion was, The War-Its Cause, and Cure-and, as our noble friend Henry C. Wright, with deep-toned voice, and powerful, thrilling words, opened up the theme, and showed the Cause to be Shivery, and its Cure Emancipation, the hearts of the people were with him as the heart of one man.
He said-Slavery is the whole cause of the war. Our fathers, North and South, built, at common cost and for common occupancy, a great national temple. They agreed that the majority should govern in this temple. For seventy years the South, by the aid of her friends at the North, had always carried the majority for slavery, and the North had submitted loyally and patiently to this rule. The slaveholders threatened that if the friends of liberty even sought to obtain the majority in favor of freedom and free institutions, this temple should be thrown down-there should not be left one stone upon another-the Union should be dissolved, and the United States blotted from the map of nations. Yet the friends of freedom dared to wage this forbidden war of Ideas, and it finally culminated in a victory at the ballot-box. Had they not a right so to do? and should not the South have submitted, as the North had so long done? This was “the head and front of our offending." The only political defence the North ever gave to the South was this finally successful endeavor to obtain the majority for freedom. And now the South endeavors to subvert the foundations of this common temple; and when the North would prevent its destruction, cries out, Coercion! State Rights! She clutches at the Northern throat, and says, Hands off! you are invading my right to take your life-blood! Keep still! all I ask is to be let alone!
Never was there such a civil war as this; so sudden, so overwhelming, so causelessly forced upon a nation, so brutally waged. The South has been preparing for years-that just so soon as the war of Ideas should culminate in a victory at the ballot-box, she should inaugurate a war of bullets. The stake is, freedom or slavery for the whole nation and the whole continent. What is all this outlay for-four hundred thousand men on the altar of the Union? Do you mean liberty, or slavery? What is all this blood and treasure to be expended for? Merely to patch up a hollow peace for a day, or to tear up the root and branch of this tree of death? Will you wait till the slave takes the matter into his own hands? He has been taught to disregard all rights of person, of family, of property-all these have been denied him by j the laws of the land-wrested from him; nothing has been held sacred; and now if he should turn and practice upon his master the lesson he has taught him, could you wonder, and would you dare to cry out at his brutality?
The South means SLAVERY. She hates free speech, a free press, free schools, and freemen. She is true to slavery-be you true to FREEDOM! Let the question be settled now, and for all coming time, whether freedom shall rule this great continent, or slavery. Circulate petitions! See to it that the President, as commander-in-chief of the army and navy, proclaim freedom to all the slaves, and this war will come to an end in three months. Declare that the cause of this war shall be rooted out. Make the star-spangled banner the banner of freedom, universal freedom. Let your watchword be-Resistance to slavery is obedience to God! Give me liberty, or give me death!
At the close of his remarks, Mr. Wright read the strong Resolutions presented below, and, after some animated discussions by several present, they were carried heartily and unanimously.
There was present a Congregational minister, who declined voting; and, on being invited to speak, came forward, and honestly stated that, though the Resolutions contained his own sentiments-sentiments which he had designed to embody and present to his people on the approaching day of National Fast-he had not voted for them, because it was the holy Sabbath-the day set apart for the worship of God, for divine service. He deemed the war so righteous that he could, if necessary, go forth to battle on the Lord's day-could draw his sword, or load his musket, or point the rifled cannot at the enemy of his country on the Sabbath, and feel that he was doing God service; but he could not vote political (!) Resolutions on that day, because there were other days of the week in which to attend to politics, and no necessity existed for so using Sunday! Mr. Wright replied to him by a few weighty remarks. The Sabbath, he said, was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. It is right to do good on the Sabbath day. Every day should be consecrated to God's service. To rescue man from the hell of slavery, and
<c04>
have the country from the horrors of a protracted war, <illegible> as truly, serving God. He marveled at the hallucina-<illegible><illegible>on which could override the sacredness of the Sabbath, for the purpose of drawing the sword, and point <illegible> the rifled cannon to destroy men's lives, and deem <illegible> a desecration of the day to save men from slavery and war!
This little scene created a lively interest, and called forth much after remark. One old lady, 83 years of age-the mother of Dr. Peterman of the Water Cure-who takes an intelligent and vivid interest in the events of the day, though of Orthodox faith, said she never thought she was breaking the Sabbath, and had never felt more religious in her life; that she wanted to rise and vote for the resolutions with both hands, and should have done so, had she not been lame. Another friend remarked that, admitting the especial sacredness of the Sabbath, it had been pronounced right to lift an ox from the pit on-that day, and this ox was too heavy to lift alone. We wanted all the help we could get, and could obtain more on that day than any other.
On the whole, we did not regret this little discussion of the holiness of the Sabbath, and came to the conclusion that if it was not to be used for man, it had better secede.
The following are the resolutions:-
Resolved, That slavery is the cause, and emancipation the only cure of the present war, and the sooner these facts are recognized and acted on, the sooner will the war be ended.
Resolved, That the responsibility of the existence of the war, and of the anguish and suffering, and expenditure of blood and treasure, resulting from it, rests solely with the slaveholders and their allies.
Resolved, That the only cause of political offence the people of the North have ever given to the slaveholders of the South, consists in their efforts to obtain and maintain the rule of the majority in favor of freedom and free institutions, over the rule of the minority in favor of slavery and slave institutions.
Resolved, That no rebel State and no rebel individual have any constitutional rights which loyal citizens are bound to respect, inasmuch as those who, by arms and blood seek its overthrow, are not entitled to protection of property or person under the Constitution.
Resolved, That this assembly heartily approves the act of Major-General Fremont in proclaiming liberty to the slaves of all the rebels in Missouri.
Resolved, That one united call should go up from the people of the United States to the President, as Commander-in-chief of the army and navy, to proclaim liberty to all the slaves in every rebel State, and to the slaves of all the rebel individuals of all the States, as the speediest and most righteous and constitutional means of ending the war, and securing the blessings of liberty to the nation and the continent.
Resolved, That the President, in the exercise of the war power, should be urged by, all who would bring the war to a speedy and successful issue in favor of liberty, to confiscate the property of all the rebel States, and of all the rebel individuals in all the States, North as well as South, and apply it to pay the expenses of the war.
HENRY WILLIS, Chairman.
C. EUPHEMIA COCHIRAN, Secretary,
THE WAR AND ITS CAUSE.
All hope of deliverance from the evils of our great national conflict lies in fully comprehending and removing the underlying cause. Politicians may dodge it, as they play the games of politics and war. The President, statesmen, and military chieftains may seek to evade it, to suit their political proclivities, or in deference to pro slavery interests, as they are forced to grapple with it in the discharge of official duty. The people may discuss and mourn over it, and individual citizens may plan its removal; yet all this is only the preliminary but necessary stage in the great business of finally removing it.
There can be no doubt that the majority of citizens of every political and religious creed throughout the Northern States are now, for the most part, fully up to the belief, however they may think it expedient to act, that SLAVERY lies at the bottom of the gigantic contest in which we are now engaged. To a certain extent this is, no doubt, true in the Border States, and even in the seceded States themselves. This feeling is growing every day. While all eyes are turned to the marshalling hosts in both sections of the country, the question unceasingly arises in every mind, “Why all this array of military force?” and the response comes with renewed emphasis, “both when we wake and when we sleep"-SLAVERY, SLAVERY!
Mistaken men in the South, so thoroughly educated into the destructive and untenable doctrines of the divinity of shivery and of State rights, and ambitious and wicked conspirators, are gratuitously instructing us every day. Immense losses of Southern debts, the wanton destruction of public and private property, the persecutions of innocent citizens,-in short, the terror which reigns in the rebel States, only equaled by the French reign of terror,-are all adding to our knowledge of the villainy which comes of slavery.
Made fully aware of the bearing which the “institution” has on our present national troubles, we need have no fears of the result. The great material interests of this and other civilized countries are directly interested as a matter of economy to remove it; the noblest sentiments and impulses of untold millions would receive new life at its downfall; the best civilization of the age would rejoice at its overthrow, while God on his throne and in his providence is using most unerringly such instrumentalities among the good and bad as He knows will best compass his divine ends, by securing the freedom and the rights of all.
Let us, then, work on. Signs of the resurrection of our nation to a nobler career gleam out over every mountain-top, and up every valley, throughout the regions of our intense mental life, and bid us hope on. That this nation can never be reconstructed with slavery in it is certain. It is certain, too, that American slavery is doomed; but precisely when, or by what methods, none can know. Under the war-cry of “Down with the Rebels, and preserve the Union!" or under the still more grateful and direct one to most of us, No Union till slavery ends, it is still certain as any unaccomplished fact can be, that the future Union mill be one of Free States.
It is now too late to look back. It were vain to say how far from the wish or intention of the wildest Abolitionist, that the abolition of slavery should have been consummated by any other than wise measures of peace. A foul conspiracy has thrust a war upon us. In self-defence, we must take up the gauntlet. Till the last expiring traitor bites the dust, or breaks his sword, let the war go vigorously on to its final results.
In the meantime, the men who remain at home, while so many noble fathers and sons grasp the sword in defence of all that is dear, can perform no more useful task, through press and pulpit, by wayside and by the fireside, and in all the methods of human intercourse, to intensify and arouse the holy instinct of freedom, and, finally, to concentrate it in the hand of the Government when slavery, with its villainies, shall by its outstretched arm be swept away like chaff.
With the exception of a handful of stultified and unprogressive souls, whose function and destiny seem to be to fill up the fag-end of every great movement that “hath a stomach in't"-the Rip Van Winkles of the nation, the growlers and grumblers whose highest conception of government lies in grasping at the loaves and fishes, and in putting down “agitators” scores of years after the thing agitated shall have passed into oblivion-with this solitary exception, the great public is alive and active, both as to the war and its unmistakable causes. Better that the bones of the patriot soldier should whiten a thousand battle-fields, and our treasures be poured into the sea, than to imperil our future liberties by the barbarous intrusion of slavery! Peace, to be permanent, can only be achieved by a stern regard to the dictates of justice and humanity.
W.
<c05>
THE PROPER VIEW.
"Procrastination is the thief of time”-"Time, is money.” 
"Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States, according to their respective numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole number of tree persons, three-fifths of all other persons, except Indians not taxed."-U. S. Constitution.
A brief examination of the tendency of this vital article in our national charter indicates the constitutional establishment of two co-ordinate cardinal rules on two very important subjects, viz., representation and taxation. As was contended by our Fathers of 1776, these twin principles should not be divorced, actually nor virtually, but should go together hand in hand. We find it distinctly enunciated near the very threshold of the Constitution as our guiding policy on these points. The strict observance of these was emphatically demanded of Great Britain towards us, and our revolutionary sires emphatically, by self-sacrifice, enjoined it upon us and our posterity.
Now, the” three-fifths" mentioned above can be no other than the slaves. Every slave State is, accordingly, represented in Congress on a basis wherein every slave, male and female, minor and adult, is reckoned to be three-fifths of a free person. If South Carolina has 275,000 free persons and 400,000 slaves, she has a represent able population of 275,000 x 240,000, or three-fifths of 400,000. Added together, 515,000 constituents are the result. If the national ratio be 103,000 to a representative, she is entitled to five representatives. On the contrary, Vermont's 320,000 free persons would yield but three representatives. So much does alleged property, in this country, prevail over man, not only out-numbering him, but out-voting and out-influencing him.
But, direct taxes, as well and by the same authority as representation, are to be assessed in precisely the same manner. If the slave States had bequeathed and secured to them the advantage of slave representation, it was no more than right that they should bear the disadvantage of slave taxation. Like the two jars, from which Jupiter distributed good and ill among mankind, these two antagonisms were yoked together. Therefore, if a direct tax of 40,000,000 is to be assessed on the nation of thirty millions people, South Carolina's 515,000 represent able inhabitants should pay one fifty-eighth of the sum, or $690,000, while Vermont's 320,000 people should pay one ninety-fourth part of it, or $426,000.
Such being the practical Constitutional requisition, is it not clear that the products of slave labor are taxed in those States, if the slave himself be not? If he be not, there can be no good reason for the slave owner's exemption therefrom, if the slave be adjudged property. Such exemption increases the burden of the non-slaveholding inhabitant of the same State; for, by the Constitution, the whole State is doomed according to its population, free and slave. Is this just? Should seven or eight million non slaveholders be saddled by the extra fax which only 400,000 slaveholders thus draw upon the State as its proportion! And is the extra representation awarded to them any way equal to the disadvantage which pays for it? Is not the slaveholder the actual one who reaps the advantage both of the representation and of the slave exemption? The non-slaveholder's interest is the same as any other non-slaveholder's interest, whether he live North or South. If the slave be taxed, as well as the plantation and its fruits, he is directly national property as well as State property, for the purposes of taxation, as he is partially man for the sake of representation. At any rate, the slave is indirectly taxed, since his profits constitute part or all his holder's income. This income is taxed as such, and the real estate he buys therewith is also taxed. The slave labor supports the holder, be he loyal or disloyal; and this labor is all for which the slave is generally kept. It is virtually, therefore, the slave himself, and it is taxed both by State and nation. 
Thus, even overlooking the facts that the slave is supporting the holder while absent on a campaign against the government, and producing means to equity him with arms and ammunition, why is not the slave amenable to confiscation as property of the rebel holder, who has avowed his disconnection with and hostility to the government? He has not only forfeited all right to its protection by his traitorous course, but spurns the idea of its protection, and disclaims the authority of its constitutionally elected officers, whose election, too, was effected through his own exclusive conduct and indiscreet mismanagement. His every act is self-condemnatory.
Still, how came the slave to be property, and where is he so considered? By State laws. Law determines what shall be conventional property. Who enact the laws? Legislators. They constitute the State government. They can repeal them. Their legal validity, therefore, resides in the option of this State government. If therefore the government be disbanded, as in Maryland, where is the slavery tenure? It is in virtual suspension. Apply this to Alabama and Louisiana. They have rebelled and withdrawn their governments. Let these be disbanded, and not a 
sufficiency of loyal people will be therein to elect a loyal government. Has 
the national government, which insists they yet belong to the Union, no right to release the slaves, when it cannot but see that the holding of these is the actual cause of our difficulty, endangering the vitality of the Union? That this difficulty is liable to be repeated ad infinitum, so long as slavery exists? Shall we learn nothing from experience, and shut our eyes to her lessons? She presents us one of her most impressive precepts, in the ordeal now before us. Nature joins her in the lesson, and admonishes us that like causes are followed by like effects. These are two infallible teachers, and are worth heeding. Nor will they be neglected with impunity. And since the object is to restore the Union, and to establish it on a permanent basis, which we see it was not before, proper means should be employed. One of them is the removal of the offending cause.
Especially, as it is believed that the cause of the war may at some time make it expedient or necessary to emancipate, what matters it whether it be done now or two years hence; whether we do it as freemen voluntarily, for the benefit of the nation and our posterity, or as slaves to England, France, or the South forcing us to do it? The sooner it is done, the sooner will the war and its long train of disasters and evils be arrested, as all traitors should be. If it may be done
by and by, it is possible. If possible then, it is now And it is resolved into a mere question of time. One would think that the dangers attending its delay, and the certain benefits of its achievement, would be powerful enough to influence a government, desirous to relieve, establish, and benefit itself and the people for whom it acts, to inaugurate the national reform at once.
It is very evident that the Confederates are perpetrating high treason, and 
that Congress only has power to determine what its punishment shall be. This is so generally expressed that it includes seasons of peace as well as of war. Therefore, the President feels constitutionally bound to await the action of that body, next December, on this vital and precarious point, when he would hardly consult the same instrument for authority to appoint a Governor over a Territory. But, emancipation would no more be entirely punishment to traitors, except incidentally, than the destructive eruption of a volcano is a mere judgment. The one would be likewise a blessing and a debt long due to the nation, as the volcano would be a physical safety-valve to the globe. Both would prevent future earthquakes of greater devastation. It would promote liberty, the vital essence of a Republic.
It is a very serious question, then, under all the circumstances, whether it is even warrantable, not to say judicious, to procrastinate a salutary measure, when decisive action is requisite to enforce it; whether it is advisable to defer to traitors, either to punish or to reward, if the public safety, peace and welfare sooner demand action for themselves. The only sure way of disarming the wasp or hornet is to pull out its sting, not as a punishment to the insect, but as self-protection for yourself. The best way to disarm an enemy is to deprive him of his resources; and is not this
<c06>
justifiable, when that enemy is the aggressor? Nothing can be more self-evident National preservation constitutes the tenor of the national Constitution, and is the very first and supreme national law.
Once more, the cardinal tenet of the Republican party is, that Congress has a right to prohibit the institution of slavery in a territory; and some contend that a State with slavery is not a republican form of government which the United States guarantees to every State in the Union. Now, the territory is a candidate to become a State; and if the above tenet is constitutional, Congress has a right to insist upon every new State to be free from slavery. If so, as equality is a prerogative of each and every State, and the standard to be observed among all of them,-the citizens of one State to have equal rights with those of every other State,-Congress has a right to make old States free as well as new or ones. By this tenet, the real action of Congress is only preparatory to qualify the territory for admission as a States with a republican form of government. If such then as contain no slavery are alone endowed with this republican form, no others can be, and the duty of emancipation is incumbent on the administrative party, to be consistent with its asserted professions. The exercise of this declared right is what is chiefly feared by the slaveholding interest.
A LETTER TO ENGLAND: NOT BY AN LLD
MY DEAR FRIEND,-I have at length succeeded in quietly making up my mind that it is useless to expect any Englishman to understand our war. It would seem at first blush, that people whose ancestors have always been engaged in civil war might easily see that a civil war here, of itself, neither proved nor disproved anything. Your Jacobite troubles the rising of’45, and the march of Prince Charlie upon Edinburgh, were not held, I believe, to prove the English system a failure, nor show that a monarchy is inadequate either to prevent or repress disaffection, treason, and rebellion. Cromwell's absolute success might have been considered tolerably strong evidence-but King Charles came back again. The landing and march of Monmouth is not-in this country, at least-supposed to be a valid argument against monarchy; nor the expulsion of James, and happy coronation of the- Dutch Prince as English King. 
This nation is now, as yours has been constantly, engaged in civil war. The Government is maintaining itself against armed rebels, assisted by those who dare everything but fighting against their country. You in England tranquilly sneer, and say to us, "Why don't you give it up? Your principle is that people shall do as they want to."
No, my friend, you mistake. Your principle in England, I believe, is that everybody shall do as he wants to, subject to the constitution of England. Ours in America is precisely the same: with this advantage, that we know what our Constitution is and you do not know what yours is. for it is only a series of precedents. The American principle is not individual license, it is constitutional liberty: and we had always supposed that of England to be the same. We had supposed, farther, that that community of political faith and practice was the deepest bond, with our community of race, between us. We have learned that it was no bond whatever, and there is not a thoughtful or humane man in the country who does not deeply regret it.
You ask. why we don't give it up? For the same reason that England didn't give it up in any of her civil wars-the. necessity of national unity.
You ask, why we don't let the rebels' go? For the same reason that you would not let London go, or Wales, or the County of Kent, even if a majority of these parts of England should seriously wish to go. For the same reason, nationally, that would prevent you, individually, from suffering your body to be cut into two, or three, or thirty-four pieces.
If London or Yorkshire should defy the English Government, we should do exactly what you have done, if we should declare you and these rebels equally belligerents, and hold ourselves neutral, and in every way sneer at the blundering crash of the impossible English monarchy, which from its beginning has been only awaiting this day. We might have sent sensation reporters to describe battles they did not see. We might have jeered that, if the English Government were waging a war for the miners or the factory operatives, we could have had some sympathy, but a purely political war was perfectly dreary, and futile, and stupid. If you said to us that the surest and most radical reforms of every kind were dependent upon order and government, while every man's life, liberty, and property, were imperiled by anarchy, we might have stared at you, and said, “I dare say; but you've made your bed, and you mustn't squirm at lying in it."
These things, mutatis mutandis, you have done and do. Of course, it is not every Englishman who says or thinks so. It is not every newspaper: for your Daily News and Star, and others have been no less eloquent in their statement than just in their appreciation of the case. But the great mass of the journals that we see in this country, and the official voice of your government, all speak in this strain. We are painfully sensitive. I allow, to English criticism. Mr. Roebuck's late sneer at us is not without reason. But I think that you. or any other intelligent man, will not, upon reflection, find it to be altogether an ignoble susceptibility.
This younger nation, striking for liberty under law, had hoped for your sympathy. Doubtless we forgot that you might be “unable” at first to understand the bearings of the contest; and many of us were sure that, when you saw just: how it was, your hesitating, deprecating, or worse tone would change. In that we have been disappointed. But I think that you are the losers. I think that you must feel very rich when you can afford to lose so lightly the treasure of a nation's sympathy and good-will. Good-bye.-Harper's Weekly.
MORE CONTRABANDS. 
FORTRESS MONROE, Sept.16. 
A party of twelve negroes came across; the river yesterday from Princess Ann County, Virginia, in open boats. They complained of not having enough to eat, and ill-treatment. They have been hired to the frigate Savannah as seamen. Last night, a party of five negroes came down the Chesapeake in an open boat, having started from the mouth of Ware River at midnight. They also say that they did not have enough to eat, and that violence was threatened them by their masters.
"How did you know that you would be any better off at Old Point?"
"We heard master say that the Northerners held the place, and wants colored men to work."
"Did your master tell you what would become of you, if you came here?”
"Yes; master said the Yankees would work us till the war was over, and then send us back, or to Cuba to be sold, or would shoot us, but we understand that kind of logic."
"What' do you think is going to become of you? Are you certain you will be any better off here than you were with your master?"
"Don't know ‘xactly, but are willing to take the chances. Guess’t will be all right, though” 
This morning, another half-dozen came in from Warwick, fifteen or twenty miles above Newport News. They have about the same story to tell and represent the rebels as building batteries on James River, above our encampment, and have a large force in the neighborhood.-Corr. N. Y. Tribune.
CHARACTERISTIC SLANG. Bennett, of the New York Herald, referring to the proceeding of a select meeting recently held in that city to welcome Rev. Dr. Cheever on his sale return from England, says: 
"We select these specimen bricks of this abolition love feast from the copious report of the whose sympathies and labors are devoted to the same object. We denounce the whole affair and all its affiliations as demoralizing, seditious and treasonable; for if it be treason to give aid and comfort to the enemy' in this war, it is treason to be laboring to sow the seeds of discord, and to stir up our abolition fanatics against the administration charged with the great responsibility of saving our government from a violent overthrow. We call the attention of the government to these seditious agitators of abolition. In seeking to divide our loyal people, to distract our counsels, and to embarrass the administration, they are giving ‘aid and comfort to the enemy,' and hence we contend that these abolition disorganizes deserve no less the restraints of Fort Lafayette than the secession emissaries, agents and co-laborers of Jefferson Davis and his rebel confederates."
