THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED -
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT. GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, - FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 11. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1861.WHOLE NO. 1878. 
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
COMPLIMENTARY TO MARSHAL JOHNSON, AND TO CONDUCTOR W.C. CLELAND.
WHEELING, Feb. 15. 1861. Johnson, Esq., U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Ohio:
SIR-By the request of the City Council of Wheeling, I have the honor to transmit you the enclosed copy of a preamble and resolution, adopted unanimously at the last session of that body.
It affords me great pleasure to convey to you an expression of the sentiments of admiration entertained by this community for your prompt, energetic and efficient service in the execution of the laws under the Constitution of the United States, in the case of the fugitive slave Lucy.
The firm support given you by the citizens of Cleveland, in the discharge of your duty in the enforcement of a law objected to by many of the people of the North, is an evidence of a determination to secure to their Southern brethren their just rights under the Constitution, and is worthy of all praise and imitation, and cannot, and will not fail to go far towards procuring a speedy and satisfactory settlement of the questions now distracting our beloved country, and threatening the destruction of the Union.
Fully coinciding with the sentiment and object of the preamble and resolution.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
A. J. SWEENY, Mayor.
RESOLUTIONS OF THE COUNCIL OF WHEELING.
Whereas, in the present unhappy condition of our country, produced by sectional controversies concerning the institution of slavery, the Council deems it proper to make special acknowledgment of an instance of fidelity to the constitutional obligations of the North in the conduct of Northern citizens and officers, to the end that sentiments of harmony among the States may be fostered. 
And whereas, the Council is informed that a citizen of Wheeling, in reclaiming a fugitive from his service, has recently, at the city of Cleveland, Ohio, and on his return from that place to Wheeling, through the State of Ohio, received prompt and efficient aid, according to the Constitution and laws, and to the duty of comity between citizens of different States of the Union: and especially that Matthew Johnson, Marshal of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, and W. C. Cleveland, a conductor on the Cleveland and Pittsburgh Railroad, exerted themselves with intelligence, vigilance and courage, to baffle the operations of all opponents, and to secure the return of said fugitive to Virginia,-be it therefore Resolved, by the Council, That the thanks of the city of Wheeling are hereby tendered to the said Matthew Johnson and W. C. Cleveland, and to all other citizens of Ohio who have, in like manner, given proof of their good will towards this State, and their fidelity to the Constitution which binds the States together.
Passed. February 12th, 1861.
A. J. SWEENY, Mayor.
JACOB BUSKE, Clerk.
[A copy of the above resolutions was also sent to Mr. Cleland, accompanied with a letter as follow:]
WHEELING, Feb. 15, 1861.W. C. Cleland, Esq., Conductor C. & P. R. R.:
SIR-By the request of the City Council of Wheeling, I have the honor to transmit to you the enclosed copy of a preamble and resolution, adopted unanimously at the last session of that body.
It affords me great pleasure to convey to you an expression of the sentiments of admiration entertained by this community for the promptness and decision manifested by you in protecting your train, having on board citizens of Virginia, securing, under the laws, the return of the fugitive slave Lucy.
Fully coinciding with the sentiment and object of the resolution and preamble,
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
A. J. SWEENY, Mayor.
THE DESIGNS OF REDPATH, JOHN BROWN, JR, FEED. DOUGLASS, &c.
A Negro Army to be Formed-Daring Scheme.
There are many facts which go to show that a daring scheme is on foot among the free negro population of the Northern States and the Canadas; that, under the direction of such turbulent agitators as Redpath. Fred. Douglass, and young John Brown, on whose shoulders has fallen most fully the mantle of his father's blood-thirsty fanaticism, they are proposing to take advantage of the first outbreak of war to consummate a raid upon the South, in which all the horrors contemplated by John Brown, Sr., will find their full realization. A few of the facts leading to this conclusion have been already given by us, and others have been furnished us by a gentleman whose source of information is very near headquarters. The facts already alluded to in this paper from time to time are, some of them, as follows: 
The presence of Gerrit Smith and other agitators in Canada, and the threatening language reported as held by them there; the movements of the notorious Redpath, who has been flitting like a spirit of evil all over the land for the past few months- now in Kansas, now in Canada, now on a mysterious voyage by sea, bound, in the opinion of some, for the coast of Georgia or Florida, and turning up unexpectedly in Hayti; John Brown, Jr., among the negroes in Canada, eating, living and sleeping with them, and using his efforts to persuade them into some scheme, the purport of which can only be guessed; letters have appeared in various Northern papers intimating that the negroes of Canada were arming with a view to the invasion of the South,-that they only awaited the declaration of war to take up their line of march, and that they feared nothing so much as compromise, and hope for nothing so much as coercion. These, and other facts which have at different times transpired, furnish ground for serious apprehension.
That this apprehension is well founded, we have reason to believe from additional information received by us yesterday. Monmouth, Illinois, is, in this State, one of the foci of the eccentricity of Abolitionism it is noted for the almost unanimity of its radical sentiment, and matters which, even in Chicago, would be told and talked of only in whispers, are there discussed with impunity, it being considered all en famille. We are informed by a gentleman, a Democrat of that city, that it is no secret there that such a movement as that above intimated is fully determined on. In fact, many of the details are given with a circumstantiality that leaves little room for doubt. A prominent Abolitionist of that place, who is in correspondence with the plotters all
<c02>
over the country, says openly that an army of 8,000 Northern negroes, armed, equipped and well drilled, is ready to march at a moment's warning, and can be concentrated in forty-eight hours at any available point on the border; that they are in sympathy and concert with the free negroes of Canada, who will furnish several thousand more; that the men who are at the head of this movement are, ostensibly, Redpath, Fred. Douglass, and John Brown, Jr., but that their objects is known to and sympathized with by prominent Abolitionists of the North, and particularly of the Northwest, in and out of Congress; that the mission of Redpath to Hayti is for the purpose of obtaining assistance in his scheme from President Geffrard, and sounding the negroes of that island with a view to raising an army there; that the plan of these gents is to strike the slave line, with their colored cohort, somewhere in the neighborhood of the Mississippi, march in a body and directly for the Gulf, through the portions of the South most thickly populated with slaves, stir up insurrections among these as they go, force or induce the slaves to join them, pillage, plunder, murder and burn,-leaving their track as desolate as the desert, and black with ruin; reaching the Gulf, they will veer to the Southwest, ravage the Gulf coast, pass through Texas; skirt along the Mexican coast, and make themselves a home in Central America, where they are prospecting for the location of their colony. 
-Chicago Times, Feb. 21st
Selections.
ELOQUENT VINDICATION OF COLORED CITIZENSHIP.
Extract from the able and uncompromising speech on the Resolutions of Mr. Crittenden, proposing certain Amendments to the Constitution, delivered in the U. S. Senate, Feb. 21st, 1861, by Hon. HENRY WILSON, of Massachusetts:-
The Senator from Kentucky, seconded by the Senator from Illinois, proposes to incorporate in the Constitution a provision that" THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISESHALL NOT BE EXERCISED BY ANY PERSONS OF THE AFRICAN RACE, IN WHOLE OR IN PART." Why, sir, is this proposition of disfranchisement now made? Who demands it? What is to be gained by this disfranchisement of man, whose ancestors possessed the right of suffrage before the Constitution of the United States came from the hands of its illustrious framers? "At the time," says Judge Curtis, in the Dred Scott case, "of the ratification of the Articles of Confederation, all free native-born inhabitants of the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, and North Carolina, though descended from African slaves, were not only citizens of those States, but such of them as had the other necessary qualifications possessed the franchise of electors, on equal terms with other citizens." In Maryland and Tennessee, persons of the African race long exercised the right of suffrage. To the casting votes of that class of men, John Bell once owed his election to the House of Representatives. 
Massachusetts adopted her Constitution in 1780, during the war of Independence. That Constitution made the slave a freeman-made persons of the African race citizens, entitled to the elective franchise. This right, secured in the troublous days of the Revolution, to persons of the African race, by John Adams, Parsons, Lowell, and their noble associates, has been exercised for eighty years. Now, sir, the Senator from Kentucky comes into this chamber, proposes the disfranchisement and degradation of citizens of Massachusetts, made so by her heroic sires, and I blush to confess that there are men in that Commonwealth so false and recreant to human rights, as to petition Congress to sustain this wicked, this monstrous proposition of disfranchisement I know, sir, it is an ungracious task, in these days, and in these chambers, to maintain, even, the legal rights of a proscribed race; I am not insensible to the gibes and jeers, the taunts and misrepresentations of a corrupted public opinion; but, I never can-I never will consent, by word or act, to this crime against freemen. The material interests of Massachusetts are dear to me, but the rights of her people are far dearer. Sir, I tell her apostate sons who have put their names to these memorials for the disfranchisement of her colored men, knowing what they did, that the constitutional rights of the humblest man who treads the soil of the old Puritan Commonwealth are dearer, far dearer to me, than all those material interests for which they are ready to sacrifice the rights of their fellow-men.
Sir, in the dark days of our weakness, the ancestors of the men you would now, in the days of your power, trample beneath your feet, freely gave their blood for the liberties and independence of America. The leader and first victim of the Boston Massacre of the 5th of March, 1770, which so fired the hearts and roused the patriotism of the people, was Crispus Attacks, a colored patriot. One of that race mingled his blood with the fallen patriots of the 19th of 1775, and they stood with our heroic sires on the heights of Bunker Hill, when the storm of battle clung around and beat upon it. They fought side by side and shoulder to shoulder with our fathers; "for the right," says Bancroft, in his narration of the work of that day, "of the free negroes to bear arms in the public defence at that day, was as little disputed in New England as their other rights." When Major Pitcairn-the leader who opened the murderous fire upon the patriots on the green of Lexington common-mounted the works on Bunker Hill, crying "The day is ours," he fell, mortally wounded, by the unerring shot of Salem, a black soldier.
Hundreds of the ancestors of the men upon whose brows the Senator from Kentucky would stamp degradation, entered the army and fought with heroic courage on the stricken fields of the Revolution. Some of the most heroic deeds of the war of Independence were performed by black men. A braver regiment than the Colored Regiment of Rhode Island, led by the gallant Col. Greene, the hero of Red Bank, trod not the battle-fields of the Revolution. Of this black regiment, Tristam Burges said in the House of Representatives, in 1828, that "no braver men met the enemy in battle"; and Governor Eustis, of Massachusetts, Secretary of War under Jefferson, said of them, in 1820, "They discharged their duty with zeal and fidelity; the gallant defence of Red Bank, in which the black regiment bore a part, is among the proofs of their valor." Arnold, in his admirable history of Rhode Island, pays this noble tribute to the conduct of this regiment in the battle of Rhode Island-which Lafayette pronounced "he best fought battle of the war."-"It was in repelling these furious onsets, that the newly raised black regiment, under Colonel Greene, distinguished itself by deeds of desperate valor. Posted behind a thicket in the valley, they three times drove back the Hessians, who charged repeatedly down the hill to dislodge them: and so determined were the enemy in these successive
<c03>
charges, that the day after the battle the Hessian Colonel, upon whom this duty had devolved, applied to exchange his command and go to New York, because he dared not lead his regiment again to battle, lest his men should shoot him for having caused them so much loss."
Connecticut, too, raised a battalion of black soldiers, and Colonel Humphrey, attached to the military family of Washington, accepted a command in this corps! The heroic defence of the fort on the heights of Groton, by Colonel Ledyard and his brave comrades, is a glorious page in our history. By their side fought and fell men of this hated race. History records that, when the works were stormed, the British officer, exasperated by the heroic resistance, inquired: "Who commands this fort?" "I once did; you do now,"answered Ledyard, handing the officer his sword, which was instantly run through his body by the officer. Lambert, a black soldier, avenged this murder of his commander by thrusting his bayonet through the body of the British officer, and then fell, pierced by thirty-three bayonet wounds. Sir, in the great struggle for independence, in the war of 1812, on land and sea, the  of the colored men of New England was freely poured out in vindication of your liberties, rights and honor; and now you ask us to despoil them of their long possessed rights. Never, sir, never by my consent. In addressing the German workingmen of Cincinnati the other day, Mr. Lincoln told them that "they were all of the great family of men, and if there is one shackle upon any them, it would be far better to lift the load from them than to pile additional loads upon them." That was the utterance of a Christian statesman. These men you propose to disfranchise forever are all of the great family of men, and if there are shackles upon them, it would be far better to lift the load from them than to pile additional burdens upon them.
The Senator from Kentucky, supported by the Senator from Illinois, proposes to incorporate into the Constitution a provision authorizing " the United States to acquire districts of country in Africa and South America, for the colonization, at the expense of the Federal Treasury, of such free negroes and mulattoes as the several States may wish to have removed from their limits, and from the District of Columbia, and such other places as may be under the jurisdiction of Congress."
This proposition is not intended to encourage emancipation, but to perpetuate slavery. It does not propose to send, at the public expense, such persons as may  hereafter emancipated by masters willing to emancipate on condition of expatriation to distant lands. No, sir, that is not its purpose. That purpose is to make slavery more secure by sending out of the slaveholding States the free negroes. Efforts-inhuman and unchristian efforts-have been made in several of the States, and in some of them successfully, to expel or reduce to slavery the free colored population. Judge Catron, of the Supreme Court, to his honor, denounced the proposition, when made in Tennessee, as an attempt "to commit an outrage, to perpetrate an oppression and cruelty." These efforts "to commit an outrage, to perpetrate an oppression and cruelty "have been defeated only in some of the States by the greatest exertions. The proposition was lately made, in the Legislature of South Carolina, to reduce all free negroes to slavery and confiscate their property. The committee to whom the subject was referred made an adverse report, in which they say, " There is at present within the borders of the State nearly ten thousand free colored persons; that they are thrifty, orderly, and well disposed; that they are the owners of a vast amount of property, both real and personal; that in the city of Charleston alone they pay taxes on $1,561,870 worth of property; that of this amount, more than three hundred thousand dollars are in slaves; that the free negroes of Charleston alone pay taxes to the amount of $27,20981, and that other portions of the State show as fair a ratio. "In answer to the proposition to confiscate the property of these people and sell them into slavery, the committee say they "forbear to consider anything so full of injustice and wickedness."
Adopt this proposition-amend the Constitution, and the wild cry will go up for the removal of the free colored men, whose freedom and prosperity, even under the almost crushing burdens imposed upon them, excite the jealousy of master and the hope of the slave. Put this proposition in the Constitution, and the farmers, mechanics, and workingmen of the free States will be forced to contribute millions, earned by the sweat of their brows, to enable the people of the slave States to banish their free colored men. Gladly would I so amend the Constitution as to authorize the Federal Government to acquire territory, in Mexico, or Central or South America, for the colonization, at the public expense, of such persons as the humanity of slave masters may emancipate, on condition of removal, and for the free people of color who may choose to emigrate at their own expense; but, I never can I never will consent to this proposition for eternizing slavery, and imposing this burden upon the toiling people of the North. No, sir, never, never!

NO CONCESSION TO TRAITORS.
Extract from a manly and eloquent speech delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, Feb. 10th, 1861, by Hon. DANIEL E. SOMES, of Maine:-
I would save the honor of the free States from a disgrace so humiliating as would be involved in the cowardly surrender of the great principles for which they have so valiantly contended and honorably won. And before this scheme of bartering away a nation's hope, to appease the wrath of a few traitors, is consummated, I would implore gentlemen whose talents and position necessarily give them great influence in the nation, to reflect upon the awful responsibility which rests upon them. If you "sow the wind, you will reap the whirlwind." You may imagine you are sowing the seeds of promised peace and future hope; but they will spring up thorns of disappointment and civil discord. Other men have gained position and the affections of the people by their brilliant talents, and their eloquent and luring words of patriotism, and their devotion to the cause of humanity; and when they have scaled all the barriers that lay between obscurity and the temple of fame, this same devil, the Slave Power, that is now whispering in your cars, stealthily crept up behind, and promised them the highest national honors if they would fall down and worship at his shrine. They listened, they consented, and fell; and, as they tumbled from their giddy heights, the whole land shook as with an earthquake, and humanity cried aloud. Young men, you who have a brilliant future before you. I beseech you to ponder and pray before you take the first fatal step. A nation's fate is in your hands the friends of liberty are waiting to catch your decision; down-trodden humanity, that has clanked its chains for centuries, and fed its soul on the sands of the desert, is now turning its agonizing look to the throne of Heaven, and with its fettered hands uplifted, and its heart throbbing now
<c04>
with hope and now with fear, admonishes you of the importance of this decision. If you vote for compromise, you sow, on soil now free, the seeds of whips, chains, theft, robbery, and murder. You vote to legalize the forcible separation of families, and the selling of them on the auction-block, to be driven to the rice and cotton fields, there to be worn out in a few years like things. You vote to compromise with a power that regards neither compromise, law, nor the Constitution. You vote for the perpetuity of ignorance, and you vote for the overthrow of the freedom of speech and of the press. You lose the respect of the friends of freedom; you gain the contempt of the Slave Power and the applause of hell. You say to all traitors, go on with your robbery and treason; hereafter, they shall be respectable and at a premium. Whenever you are beaten at the ballot-box, you have only to steal the public property and declare war against the Government, and we will make concessions, even to the sacrifice of our dearest principles, and break the power that defeated you, if you will be quiet and remain in the Union.
Mr. Speaker, this is probably my last appeal on this floor. I should be willing to do anything that might lead to the restoration of national tranquillity and social harmony which would not compromise the honor and dignity of the nation; but I fail to discover, in any proposition now before the House, anything that will lead to these results. And before I would leave a word or a vote on record that might be construed into favoring the extension or perpetuity of slavery, I would perish on the steps of my country's Capitol, or be lost in the general wreck that would follow revolution. If I thought the preservation of the Union would be the means of furnishing fetters for those who are yet to be born on soil now free, I would be the first to break the chain that has so long bound us together, and let the slave States swing out from the protection of the National Government, to contend alone against servile insurrections, famine and civil war. But, sir, I trust and believe that no such calamity will befall the hopeful and prosperous millions of the American States; and when this crisis shall have passed away, and the dark horizon shall be lighted up with the rainbow of hope, peace, new glories, and a happy future, the people will decide who were right-those who would strike hands with wrong, or those who would subdue it, and let universal liberty "have free course and be glorified. "Let us have liberty and Union, if we can; but liberty rather than Union without liberty. The country will occasionally receive the assaults of traitors, and the shocks of political earthquakes. Popular outbreaks will disturb the harmony of society, and whirlwinds will plow through the forests of our vast domain, breaking down the old, decayed trees, and testing the strength of the young and vigorous. But, when the storms shall have cleared away, we shall find, instead of destroying the temple of civil liberty, they will have proved how strong is its framework, and how broad and firmly laid is its foundation, and that these disturbing elements were as necessary for the purification of parties and society, and as essential for the healthful growth of our new system, as the agitation of the atmosphere is for the health and life of man.

WHAT THE SOUTH HAS SAID AND DONE.
It said it would never endure a Republican President, and it has not endured him. It threatened secession and war, and it has acted up to its threats. It talked of captures and attacks, and then it made them. The Southern men have no more cause to be accused of being "bluffers and braggers." They have done what they said they would do. They have even done more; and but for some providential occurrences, they would now in all human probability be in possession of the capital and nominal Government of the country. However history may view their fool-hardy and suicidal effort to overthrow their Government, it will at least say that they acted like brave and determined men, who went straight to their objects, and risked everything on the cast.
But the North! History will relate that she had the Government, the navy, and the army, both Houses of Congress, and an almost unlimited supply of money and men; and yet in a few weeks she suffered almost the whole maritime defences of the Southern coast, consisting of fourteen forts and property valued at $6,000,000, to be captured by rebels. Her ships were fired on; her officers were driven out in disgrace; the old flag, which had waved in triumph over so many bloody battle-fields, was hauled down and trampled on; her Mints were plundered, and even the sick in her hospitals were turned out with more than barbarian cruelty; her officers deserted their posts or surrendered them, and even before the traitorous act was fully consummated, coolly sent in their resignations to Washington. But more than all this, peaceable Northern men, engaged in commercial pursuits, or travellers in the Southern country, were arrested, imprisoned, beaten, without form or trial, or were lynched, or murdered, or hung. Offences-the smallest of which inflicted on one of our citizens in Europe would once have fired the whole nation, and to avenge which we would have defied the world in arms-were detailed in all their horrors week after week by the scores in our papers. 
And what was the Northern reply to all this? What did either House of Congress do? What our Courts? What our Legislatures, our statesmen? During the two months, was there even an effort made to force the President to his duty? Was a single proposal for impeachment ever offered, so that such traitors as Floyd might at least be punished for the future? What syllable was ever breathed against Toucey, until it came so late, that it sounded more like an infantile burst of rage, when the use for it had passed? Why was the Volunteer bill put off, until it seemed likely to remain in the President's pocket? What are the North seen to be doing? Has a single manly word been uttered at the foul wrongs perpetrated daily on free citizens, engaged in their own business in the Southern States? The moment we hear of another respectable Massachusetts merchant or Illinois trader, whose head has been shaved, or who has been ornamented with tar and feathers, or hooted out of town, or hanged on a tree, we at once set about considering whether we have been sufficiently active in hunting back run away negroes for their masters! At every fresh kick from our Southern brethren, we carefully examine whether we have furnished sufficiently fresh portions of our persons for this salutation. In all our Conventions, our Peace Conferences, our Legislatures, we hear a plenty of Northern Personal Liberty Bills, and of the rights of Southern masters to hunt their slaves in our streets; but, so far as we have seen, we have not beheld a word on the rights of Northern men in other States, and on Southern Personal Lynching Bills! We should like to know how long our Southern brethren would bear it, if our Yankee villages occasionally tarred and feathered a Southern gentleman! The slightest injury of that sort would set a fire which would blaze from the Potomac to the Rio Grande. 
If this meekness under injury, and this lamb-like
<c05>
silence before contumely, were for principle's sake, the matter would be very different. Every one knows it is not. We all see it is sheer and simple cowardice. The last two months would lead a disinterested observer to believe that the Northern liberties would never be preserved because they were not worth preserving; for he would say, what are all liberties for except for manhood? If the nation is a nation of cowards and time-servers, it had better die. Yes, it has been a disgrace of late to be an American citizen. We seem to have come to "the talking age."
Oratory on the one side, and Trade on the other, have sucked out our courage. There is no mistake that commercial interests do usually weaken, the manhood of a people. Our representatives now are rhetoricians and lawyers, or they are the deputies of the great trading cities, and they are not usually men of pluck, and, thank Heaven! do not represent the courage of the country.
But a new era begins now. A man step into the place which a coward has held. Who can tell the inspiration and courage which our brave leader may give to the whole North? Perhaps, under God's good providence, American manhood may yet retrieve itself.-C. L. B.-New York Tribune.

INHERENT SINFULNESS OF SLAVERY.
The inherent sinfulness of slavery is in the fact that it is possession without ownership. We know, indeed, that slaveholders claim to own their slaves, but we know that the claim is founded on physical force, and not moral right. We are not now speaking of certain rights that men may have to one another in the social relations of life, such as that of husband and wife, parents and children, masters and servants. These are relations that God has appointed, and to the extent of his laws regulating the relations, rights in them may be held. But here is a relation for which those with whom we argue do not claim divine institution; a relation constituted by the forcible taking possession of that to which there is no ownership. The man has not yielded it himself, God has not given it, and there is no other power that can take it from him.
Let us now, for a moment, look at the sentiments of the Princeton Review, in the article headed "The State of the Country," in the  number. We give a few extracts:-
"We admit that the obligation to restore fugitive slaves is a constitutional and moral obligation, and consequently that any law designed to prevent such restoration is unconstitutional and criminal." Page 19.
"We regard, therefore, all opposition to the restoration of fugitive slaves, whether by Legislatures, or individuals, or by mobs, as morally a crime, deserving legal penalties, and the condemnation of all good men. If, therefore, any State has passed laws to prevent the full and efficient operation of that provision of the Constitution, we hold that they are bound by their allegiance to God, as well as to the country, at once to repeal them." Page 20..
"We heartily join, therefore, in the condemnation of all resistance to the restoration of fugitive slaves. All laws designed to interfere with the full and efficient operation of the constitutional compact on this subject are criminal."-Ib.
While there is much in this article that we are glad to see, the above sentiments are equally condemned by our feelings and judgment. The declarations which we have quoted above, teach that any attempt to prevent a slave who has escaped, from being taken back to bondage, is a sin against God. The writer holds before us, to deter from the attempt, not the penalties of the Fugitive Slave Law, but the displeasure of God, the righteous Judge. He tells us in no equivocal language, that God will not hold us guiltless if we conceal or aid any one who is struggling to recover his liberty that he had never forfeited! And it matters not, the fugitive may be a helpless female, fleeing to preserve her virtue, dearer to her than life, we must, neither directly nor indirectly, put any hindrance in the way of the execution of a law that would send her back to endure what she dreaded worse than death. These are not overstrained conclusions from the statements quoted above. "The obligation to restore fugitive slaves," it is declared, "is a moral obligation." "All opposition to their restoration," it is added, "is, morally, a crime." "States are bound by their allegiance to God to repeal all laws" that have that effect. The obligation, then, is not merely legal; it is moral, to be recognized and enforced by conscience.
We protest against such teachings, and with the greater earnestness on account of their high source. We, on behalf of humanity, on behalf of religion, and on behalf of the Bible and of its divine Author, solemnly refuse and repudiate them. The law of God, above all human laws and human constitutions, is, "Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant who is escaped from his master unto thee: he shall dwell with thee, even among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of thy gates where it liketh him best: thou shalt not oppress him." Deut. 23: 15, 16. This law, the fugitive clause in the Constitution, and the Fugitive Slave Law, directly contradict. The question for the conscientious Christian to settle is, Shall I obey God or man?-a question settled already by Scripture example, Acts 4: 19, and 5: 29; and one that an enlightened and tender conscience will settle in the same way.
The sentiments which we have quoted from the Review belong to the past. They have a strong odor of passive obedience, and lack the freshness and vitality of practical truths. As fossils, they are entitled to a place in the collection of an antiquarian, as a specimen of the teachings of an age when the Church, with but few exceptions, affixed her subscription to the dogma, that slaveholding is not inherently a sin. 
-Reformed Presbyterian.
OUTRAGES UPON A METHODIST MINISTER IN MISSOURI.
The Central Christian Advocate publishes a communication from Mrs. Amanda Gardner, giving an account of an attack made upon her husband. Rev. J. E. Gardner, a Methodist minister of Utica, Missouri, by furious pro-slavery mob, of which the following is the substance:-
I was engaged with my housework, when one of our friends hastened to inform us that the mob was then collected, and would be on us in five minutes. We could scarcely credit the report; but he had hardly got out of sight when I, from my window, saw the rabble coming. They were armed with rifles, shot-guns, revolvers and knives. I called to Mr. Gardner; he hastened into the house, bolted the door, and chose a position where he could defend himself and family. They surrounded the house; some rushing to the doors and others to the windows. Jack Stone (constable) rapped at the door. I asked, "Who is there?" He answered, "A friend," and said that he wished to speak to Mr. Gardner. I told him they could not see him until they came in a different manner, and asked, as a favor, that they would withdraw, and not disturb our peace. At this they shouted like demons.
Some cried: "Burst the door!" others, "Break
<c06>
in the windows!" One Cooper, a notorious villain, gave ten minutes, by his watch, for Mr. Gardner to promise to leave the country within twenty-four hours, or have the house burned down over our heads, and ordered a bunch of hay to be brought to kindle the fire. They declared they had given us ten days to leave the country, and the time was up and now they were determined that Mr. Gardner should give them a pledge to that effect, or they would hang him.
I endeavored to reason with them from my window, and told them that, according to their own arrangement, they were one day before their time, which would not expire until Friday, January 4th, 6 o'clock, P. M., and that we intended going to the country at that time, as Mr. Gardner had an appointment, and the friends would be in for us; but I only received curses in reply. They appeared, however, to be somewhat confused; some declaring, that they were before their time, while others thought not. At length they agreed to leave, and give us until the next day, noon, for our exit, declaring with the most horrid oaths, that if we were not gone at that time, they would accept of no compromise.
In the afternoon, Bro. Gardner ventured out of his house and into a store, to attend to some business, when "Mr. Austin, a South Methodist, slipped out, and informed the rabble where he was." They came with drawn revolvers, seized him, put him on what they called a "Lincoln rail," and with shouts of "North preacher," "Nigger thief," &c., rode him through the town, some calling for tar and feathers, and some for a rope. The description of the scene given by Mrs. Gardner is as follows:-
Mr. Gardner let no opportunity slip, but as they carried him through the streets, he exhorted the rabble and those who thronged him, to flee the wrath to come. Above the clamor of the mob was heard his voice, as he held up the cross of Christ and his sufferings for a world of sinners, and that his servants should not be ashamed to suffer reproach for his name's sake. After he had finished his exhortation, he sung:-
"Children of the heavenly king, 
As we journey let us sing," &c. Some tried to mock. One fiend in human form, by the name of Shaffer, swore "he would make him shut his mouth," at the same time striking him with a large ball of ice on the shoulder-blade, crippling him for the time being. They shortly called a halt, and let Mr. Gardner down to consider what farther measures to take. By this time I had got our little Allie (who was taken sick that morning) in the care of a lady friend, and made my way through the snow, which was about eight inches deep, to where they had him in custody. Never shall I forget the appearance of innocence and manly courage that was depicted upon his contenance, while endeavoring to reason with his persecutors. I walked boldly into their midst, amid a multiplicity of the most horrid oaths that ever escaped the lips of men, and demanded the deliverance of my husband, informing them that I would die with him or have him released. 
Through the interposition of Mr. John Harper and Mr. William Wells, Mr. Gardner was permitted to go home, accompanied by them, who advised us to leave as soon as possible, as we would not be safe. We assured them we would go if possible; not because it was just, but as the only hope of saving our lives. They told us that unless they could take a pledge to that effect to the rabble, we would not be safe until the morning; we gave it, and were then left to ourselves. Friday, January 4th, we were taken to the country by Bro. P. Rudolph, where we were kindly treated. We have been received into the house with brother and sister Dalton, and have once more got through with the labors of another move.
As Mr. Gardner is necessarily much from home, many duties devolve upon me; and while I write for the Central under the excitement peculiar to the occasion, I have also a sick child upon my hands. O, when will the ways of the wicked come to an end? When will the wicked cease to trouble, and the weary be at rest? But my soul doth magnify the Lord, and I can say: "Though the Lord be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly; but the proud he knoweth afar off. Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me; thou shalt stretch forth thy hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me."
Mr. Gardner attempted to prosecute his persecutors, but the rabble would not allow the Justice of the Peace to conduct the trial.

AN ENGLISH GARDENER HURRIED OUT.
To the Editor of The New York Tribune.
SIR: I am to be sent off from this place to-morrow for being suspected of being favorable to the emancipation of the slaves; and, as I was farming on shares with a man who I expect raised the report, I lose all my time since last August, beside upwards of $60 worth of seeds had from Thorburn's-seed oats and rye-ruta-bagas, etc., in addition. Without any notice whatever, I was arrested and placed in prison, because the man who owned the plantation said he was afraid I should injure him, or his property, and, though he could not bring any kind of proof whatever to substantiate his charges, yet I had to find bail, which I did; but, next day, these Englishmen were threatened with the loss of all their customers unless they gave me up; consequently I must remain in jail, and my wife and three little one suffer want, etc., or go out of the slave States. My wife and children are put into the Sailor's Home, my household effects scrambled together without any care, and put on the "John" schooner, where I am to be guarded by a policeman, and meet my wife and family to-morrow, to land at New York next week without aught to recompense me for the loss of my crop and other expectations. My object in telling you these particulars is that I have not herewith to take a room to put my furniture in; and if you could put an advertisement in your paper in such a way as to draw immediate attention, I could come to your office on landing, and perhaps meet with some one who wants a "farming manager," and then my goods could be fetched off the schooner, and be taken direct to my destination. I am an Englishman by birth, and farmed extensively in England, and was engaged North in agriculture previous to coming here in 1859. My passage is paid by the wretch who reaps the advantage of my exertions, for the past five months. G. GARDNER.
Wilmington, N. C., Feb.13, 1861.
Another British subject, W. Morrow, has been abused at Savannah, Ga. He lent a newspaper to a negro, which had one of Beecher's <illegible> in it, and the mob caught him and <illegible> hanging, but let him off for %50, on condition he should leave on the next steamer, which he did, and has arrived safely at Toronto.
Benjamin F. Winter, a blacksmith by trade, has been ordered to leave the town of Hamilton, Harris county, Georgia, by a meeting of citizens, for uttering abolition sentiments.
The United States Constitution is "a cover with death and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was a invested with such an odious and <illegible> privilege as of the separate and exclusive representation of less half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this <illegible> in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential <illegible> This investment of power in the owners of <illegible> species of property concentrated in the highest <illegible> of the nation, and disseminated through, thirteen of <illegible> twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privilege order of men in the community, more adverse to the right of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the <illegible> than any order of nobility <illegible> known. To government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind... It is doubly <illegible> with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name <illegible> the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine <illegible> what a <illegible> to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this <illegible>-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
WHIPPING A NEW-YORKER IN MISSOURI.
Here is an extract from a letter written by H. W. Beach of Essex Country, N. Y. He had done work in Missouri, and went there to collect money due to him. The letter tells the result. Singularly enough, the unreasonable young man seems to be opposed to compromise in the case:
NEBRASKA CITY, Feb., 1861.
DEAR FATHER AND MOTHER: When I got back from Wisconsin, some one had told them that I was a salaried -thief so I was taken the very night I got back to where I had been at work in the woods, by ten or twelve ruffians, stripped bare, tied to a, a rope put around my neck and over a limb, and told that I had got to "own up" or be whipped to death. I tried to reason with them, but they were full of whisky, and of course it did no good. They cut a whip eight or ten feel long (crotched), and then set one man to pull up the rope, and another to apply the forked gad, with both hands, until was used up entirely, and then gave me a chance to "own up" again. I told them they could probably extort anything they wished to by whipping long enough, but that as long as I had my senses I could tell them nothing different from what I had. They got another gad then, and used it up in the same way; put a fresh hand at it, of course, this time, whether to divide the honor or to multiply the pain, I could not determine, probably the latter. Thanks to kind human nature, it refused to the most of the last fifty," as they called it. The three that did the whipping and choking were strangers. The others stood off at a distance, and as it was between 8 and 11 o'clock in the night, I could not recognize them. The leader has been justice of peace, and is now at Fillmore, Mo. They tried to frighten me with their revolvers, and one that had hold of the rope, after they had concluded to whip no more, stuck his revolver up to my head, and with great gravity and sternness said: "Now, G-d d-n you, own up, or I will blow your d-d brains out" They caught hold of him, and held his pistol. Then he swore he would break my neck, and then jerked up on the rope, but they at length untied me not, however, until I had promised to leave and stay away, which is not hard to do. The charge of "Abolitionist" was a base fabrication, got up by one or two that were owing me, to get rid of paying. Now I hope there may be a civil war-anything for an excuse for me to go into Missouri, to hunt some of those bloodhounds; but I will hold my temper.
The Essex County Republican says of this case:
"Now in the name of God and outraged humanity, we ask, how long free-born citizens of this republic to suffer such indignities? Are we men, or slaves, to submit quietly to any hellish outrage which these Slavery ruffians may see fit to inflict on our sons or daughters? If our manhood is not entirely gone, then in Heaven's name let us demand redress for this and similar outrages, and also security and safety for our citizens in the Slave States, and failing to obtain both by fair and peaceable means, then let us demand and secure at the point of the bayonet, on the red field of battle, it if needs be, the rights which God and nature have made inalienably ours."
HOW THEY PAY DEBTS TO NORTHERNERS.
A man who has just returned to Rock Island, after trying to collect some debts in the chivalrous South gives the following account of his adventures.
"I went down the river toward the end of October to seek for work. I hired out the 5th of December with a man named Edward Dyer, to cook for a gang of hands at work at ditching and repairing levees, on the northern boundaries of Louisiana. I was to have $35 a month and board. I got along with him without any trouble for over three months, and I gave, so far as I understood, entire satisfaction. At the end of that time I happened, in the presence of Dyer's two brothers, to see a negro flogged, and as the poor fellow was groaning most pitifully, I could not help saying, 'Poor fellow, what a pity!' The next day. Dyer's brothers swore that I was an Abolitionist, and that they would bury alive. They then took me and held me down by main force, where the hands were wheeling dirt, until about 15 barrow-loads of had been emptied over me I never to have come out alive, but finally they let me go, and with many oaths ordered me to go to their brother's office and settle with him and be gone about my business. There was then owing to me eighty-three dollars. Edward told me that he should not pay me more than five dollars, for that would carry me to Memphis, and to be off before night, or else his brother caught me there, he would surely kill me, I was obliged to take it and go for he presented a revolver at me, and swore he would shoot me unless I went about my business. After I had travelled about three quarters of a mile, he overtook me and gave me another five dollars, which he said was enough to carry me to St. Louis, and at the same time he threatened that if I mentioned the neighboring town how I had been treated, I should be lynched to a certainty, for he should be there himself early the next morning. I got on board a boat bound up the river, the very next day, in company with a gang of Irishmen, who as they told me had been cheated out of their pay in much the same manner.
"It would have been perfect madness for me to stay and attempt to collect the money due me. I had seen enough to know that any man charged with being an Abolitionist was certain to be hung or thrown into the river by lynch law; and there were Dyer's two brothers ready to swear, as they told me that I actually was Abolitionist. Not very long before I left, a planter had been robbed and murdered on the highway, and there came along on the levee where we were working a crowd of some forty ruffians, armed to the teeth, and accompanied by forty hounds, as are used to track runaway negroes. They searched the cabin where I cooked, and inquired particularly after any strangers. Three hours afterward, they returned with a white man whom they had caught, tied to the tail of a mule by a halter, which had been tied around his neck. The mule travelled at a good round trot, and he had to keep on a run to save his life. I heard that they took him into the timber and half-him to make him confess, and would have hung him outright but for a planter who persuaded them to wait till the next day, and give him a trial by jury. The very next day the real murderer was caught, and the innocent man was released. JOHN JONES.
A BRITISH CAPTAIN TARRED AND FEATHERED AT SAVENNAH.
The report which reached us a few days since, to the effect that an English captain had been tarred and feathered by a mob in Savannah, is Through a gentleman just arrived from Savannah, the Albany Evening Journal learns the following particulars of the outrage:
"It appears that the captain had employed a free negro stevedore to load his vessel He was very anxious to push the work; and to this purpose encouraged the stevedore to unusual efforts by various little acts of kindness, which he considered calculated to aid in the accomplishment of his purpose. Among other things, he invited him to take his dinner on shipboard. The invitation was accepted. This annoyed the, who communicated to some of his acquaintance on shore, with embellishments, what the captain had done.
It required no great effort to raise the cry against the captain, nor to induce a gang of drunken rascals to resolve upon his summary punishment The plan adopted was carried out A mob proceeded to the vessel during the night of Friday of last week, seized the captain, dragged him from vessel, and clothed him with a coat of tar and feathers.
The next day the captain communicated with the British Consul, who at once offered a reward of $1000 for the apprehension of guilty of the outrage.
Serious results are likely to grow of this act. Our own government may pay no attention to similar outrages upon our own citizens, but Great Britain more sensitive."
ORDERED OFF.
We learn from the (Alabama) Gazette, of the instant, that it was informed, by Colonel R. Rives, of, Lowades county, that a man named Robert S. Tharin, a lawyer of Wetumpka, was taken up at Collirene last week, tried by a jury of citizens, convicted, punished, and banished from that community, for expressing and endeavoring to propagate sentiments that were dangerous to the peace of society. He conversed with several non-slaveholders in the neighborhood, and proposed to them the organization of a secret abolition soci-
<c02>
ety, and said he was going to establish a newspaper to be called the Non-Slaveholder. The evidence against him was conclusive. The punishment inflicted was physically slight, although it was degrading.
GONE TO HIS DOOM.
"Ring out wild bells, ring out again,
Ring out the old, ring in the new,
Ring out the false, ring in the true."
Nero fiddled while Rome President Buchanan, with less of the elements of manhood but with greater cowardice and cruelty, treacherously hesitated, apologized and prevaricated while the Union has been destroyed. Thank God with reverence and, that the nation, as we write this, is relieved from the infamy-unqualified and infamy-of the rule of James Buchanan It matters not what may succeed it, it can find no parallel in meanness, mendacity, and recreancy to duty in the future. Chaos may come again, but no combination of circumstances, under any other rule, can equal the infamy of the administration of James Buchanan. Thank Heaven, then, that as we write, it to an end!"Ring wild bells, ring out again, 
Ring out the old, ring in the new,
Ring out the false, ring in the true!"
What matter though your brazen tongues tell of a broken and dismembered Government, whose future one year ago was the hope and example of the world? what though the clangor of your brazen tongues resounds like a funeral march to the nation, which his cowardice, meanness and folly have destroyed Yet there is room to rejoice that the midday bell of the 4th of March consigns this childish and weak-minded old man to the infamy which he deserves.
As he goes out of Washington, as he casts off the official robe of office, forever desecrated by his wearing of it, the treachery and weakness of this base man's life come thronging on the mind; and we wonder at the blindness of a people who have made him their ruler. James Buchanan's life has been the embodiment of extreme selfishness and ambition He has had no fidelity, except to those whose evil counsels, traitorous conduct, and thief-like life, awoke in his soul a vibrating and sympathetic cord; and we cannot but here declare that Floyd, with his treason and thefts, over both of which the President was cognizant, is better worthy the veneration and respect of the American people than James Buchanan. In Floyd we recognize the greatest faults and crimes of our common humanity, while in the less glaring but greater crimes of James Buchanan, we recognize the sublime artifice of the direction of the arch-fiend himself.
As we write, come thronging upon the mind the treachery, wrongs and crimes of James Buchanan to his country, and their baleful influences, which have been the means of destroying a nation whose previous history had been the pride of the world. promise to Governor Walker, whom he induced under fair promises of an equitable administration of the government of Kansas, afterwards broken, destroying Walker, and opening the doors to that after struggle in Kansas and in Congress, to establish slavery in Kansas, which struggle above all other things has been the cause of the destruction of the Union. In the train of that broken pledge, that unqualified falsehood, follow the crimes of his administration: to recapitulate them would require volumes. The beastly attack of Brooks upon Sumner, for portraying the crimes against Kansas, dyeing with blood the floor of the Senate chamber, and challenging the direct interposition of the Omnipotent in the punishment of the cowardly fiend who made that attack-the ignominious dismissal of Governor Walker from office, for insisting that the administration should keep the pledges made through Walker to the people of Kansas in relation to her State Constitution-the refusal of the President to permit the submission of the Lecompton Constitution to the vote of the people of Kansas, in violation of the pledges made to the country and to Mr. Walker-the attempt to force that pro-slavery constitution upon Kansas by lying messages to Congress, by the bribery and corruption of the legislative department of the Government-the rending struggle in Congress and the country over this treachery, purely caused by the falsehood of the President-the upon the treasury, by which James Buchanan became the direct plunderer of it, for the purpose of purchasing the votes of members of Congress to carry the Lecompton Constitution-these are among the earlier causes for the state of things that to-day results in the utter demoralization of the Government.
But it is within the last year that his treason and corruption will consign him to everlasting infamy. There can be doubt that he has been a party with the complicities and treasons of his Secretaries Cobb, Thompson and Floyd. There can be no doubt that he consented to the plunder of Northern forts and arsenals, for the purpose of arming the South. If not, why concentrate 70,000 muskets with corresponding military equipage at the Charleston arsenal, when you could not find 45,000 able-bodied men for soldiers in the whole State? Why a similar concentration of arms in all the Southern forts Look at the agreements made by Southern traitors at Charleston, and to which agreement President Buchanan and Secretaries Floyd, Thompson and Cobb were parties, that the forts and arsenals at Charleston should not be re-garrisoned. Look at his cowardly agreement to leave Major Anderson to his fate at Fort Moultrie, a victim to Southern cowardice and cruelty, and which Anderson checkmated by taking possession of the impregnable Fort Sumter. Look at the hesitation with which he denied the order from Secretaries Floyd and Thompson, that Major Anderson should be remanded from the impregnable position of Fort Sumter to that of Fort Moultrie. Had he done so, and Anderson had fallen, he would have left Washington headless. Look at the vacillating course with regard to the reinforcement of Fort Sumter by the Star of the West. Look at the firing upon that steamer, the ignominious insult to our, and the disgrace of having a ship with national forces driven from our own ports. Look at the plundering of the Treasury through Secretary Floyd, who allowed $870,000 of trust bonds to be stolen; and if Senator Benjamin tells the truth, the President was aware of the issuing of more than 6,000,000 of fraudulent acceptances by Secretary Floyd.
With these and thousands of other evidences of the complicity of President Buchanan with traitors and treason, with his cowardly and temporizing policy in favor of secession, contrasted with his vindictive enforcement of the disgraceful laws of the bogus Border-Ruffian legislature of Kansas by all the power of the federal army, we have a still deeper insight into the President's complicity with the treason of the South.
We have not to-day as much respect for James Buchanan as we have for Yancey, and Jefferson Davis. If they are traitors, they are open traitors, taking the responsibility of their treason, and are willing to abide its issues. James Buchanan is by a fair construction of his official acts a cowardly traitor, who, if he had his deserts, would meet his death by the hangman, rather than retire upon his official plunder to the shades of Wheatland-Paterson (N. J.) Guardian.
WAR WITH THE NORTH.
If war be forced upon the South by the incoming Administration of the Northern States, it will be the obvious policy of the South to keep war from her own borders by invading the enemy's territory. No Southern woman should hear the discharge of a hostile musket; no interior Southern village should be startled with the echoes of a hostile cannon. As the North would endeavor to make the most of her naval advantages, the South should at once take steps to get possession of the chief Northern seaports and harbors, and thus leave the enemy's navy without a point for its operations, and cut off from supplies of men and money, ammunition and provisions, and means of repair. For the South, then, to construct an adequate war marine would be only a question of time; but meanwhile privateers, hired from New England and. other shipowners, would form a very effective substitute. This is no visionary project. No country offers so many vital points of attack as one that is thickly populated, manufacturing, and highly commercial. An agricultural country, such as most of the South, is comparatively invulnerable to invasion. The dense population of a large, city augments its weakness when an enemy has once reached it. It be defended at a distance, if at all. A Southern army, once victorious beyond the Southern boundary, and in the direction of Philadelphia, New York and Boston, those cities would be at its mercy. Commanding those cities, it would not be long before the South would command the whole Northern seaboard, and in due time she would command the sea-New Orleans Delta. [A veritable Bohadil!]
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1861.
RETARDING THE CAUSE
Among its multitudinous false accusations against the Abolitionists, the New York Observer declares-"Disguise it as we will, shut our to the truth of it as we may, the cruel fact strikes us as with a knife, that the anti-slavery agitation of the last quarter of a century has not elevated, but has depressed the colored people of this country 
What if it were true that the warnings, entreaties and rebukes of the Abolitionists, with reference to slavery, have seemed to strengthen rather than to loosen the fetters of its victims? Let us see, by consulting the pages of that volume which the Observer professes to regard as divinely inspired throughout, whether this fact is conclusive as to their blameworthiness. Take the first case:-"And afterward Moses and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh, Thus the Lord God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness."
What followed their abolition "interference"? Just what might have been expected! "And Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord, that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go."
Thus they made a bad matter worse, confirming the old tyrant in his heathenism, and, instead of effecting their object, postponing the day of emancipation indefinitely. So much for not minding their own business, and impertinently meddling with what did not concern them Instead of proposing acompromise," or devising some plan of conciliation," they impudently renewed their demand in the name of the God of the Hebrews, abating not one jot or What came of it? "And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore do ye, Moses and Aaron, let the people from their works Get you unto your burdens. And Pharaoh commanded the same day [swift retribution!] the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying, Ye shall no more give the people straw to make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw for themselves. And the tale of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, ye shall lay upon them; ye shall not diminish ought thereof; for they be idle; therefore they cry, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God. Let there be more work laid upon the men, and let them not regard vain words."
Of course, the new and cruel exaction was enforced by the task-masters, to the letter-a result analogous to that of modern abolitionism. This must have been somewhat discouraging to Moses and Aaron, especially when those in whose behalf they pleaded took up the very reproach of the New York Observer against them! "And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they were in evil case. And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came forth from Pharaoh; and they said unto them, The Lord look upon you, and judge; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hands to destroy us."
This state of things was as undeniable as it was lamentable. Moses does not seem to have comprehended, at that time, the philosophy of reform; and so, instead of possessing his soul in patience, as the modernfanatics" do, he was greatly disquieted, and began to expostulate with the Lord!
"And Moses returned unto the Lord, and said, Lord, wherefore hast thou so evil-entreated this people? why is it that thou hast sent me For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, HE HATH DONE EVIL TO THIS PEOPLE; neither hast thou delivered them at all."
This was not mincing the matter, but coming directly to the point. Instead of a rebuke, a promise and a pledge followed it to the following effect "Then the Lord said unto Moses, Now thou see what I will do to Pharaoh. I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant. Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched out arm, and with great judgments."
Glorious promise! inspiring pledge! Before their fulfillment, however, there was to be a long and fearful struggle with the haughty Egyptian tyrant; for the nature of absolute and irresponsible power is to harden the heart, debauch the moral sense, increase the severity of its sway, and lift itself up above all that is called God." They must, as in all similar cases, be preceded by great judgments"; and in this case they followed each other with augmented violence-Pharaoh's heart hardening more and more desperately until in the slain of the first-born, "a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there was none like it," went up to heaven. How the struggle terminated we are told in a subsequent chapter-"Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the Lord, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea. The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as a stone. The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; lust shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them. Thou didst blow with thy wind, the sea covered them: they sank as lead in the mighty waters. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? who is like thee, fearful in praises, doing wonders?"Sic s!" exclaims self-convicted Virginia. So it always has been, and so it will be; for tyrants seem to be incapable of repentance, and therefore must be visited with great judgments," and ultimately find their Red Sea." Those judgments are at hand for the South, and the Red Sea is not far distant. Though Moses and Aaron only exasperated Pharaoh by their interference, and for a time intensified the sufferings of the Israelites, yet no blame could justly attach to them, or to Him who sent them, for the result. No wiser, better, or more successful method has since been discovered for abolishing tyranny. As they were not responsible for what Pharaoh did, so to them belonged not the glory of the mighty deliverance that followed. And so of the Abolitionists: grant that, as yet, they have increased rather than diminished the burdens of the Southern bondmen; the dread responsibility not rest upon them, but wholly upon the oppressor. They, too, have been commissioned from on high to open their mouths, "in the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction," such as are "drawn unto death, and ready to be slain"; and the promise and pledge made to Moses and Aaron are also given to them. In due time, if they faint not nor turn back, they too shall sing the song of deliverance, giving all the glory to God. Their cause is identical with that of the children of Israel, excepting far more sorrowful; it has been pleaded with equal fidelity; it has experienced the same evil treatment; and its final triumph is as sure and glorious.
Let us now turn to the Book of the Prophet Jeremiah (chapter vii.), and see whether we cannot find a similar case of growing contumacy against the commands of God and the claims of humanity, on the part of those, who, like the Southern dealers in human flesh, trusted in lying words, that could not profit; who oppressed the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow; who stole, murdered, committed adultery, swore falsely, burnt incense unto Baal, shed innocent blood, and at the same time could piously exclaim, "The temple of the Lord, The temple of the Lord, The temple of the Lord, are these"; and in justification of their conduct, impudently declare, "We are delivered to do all these abominations"- and so they were not guilty! The message of Jeremiah (the anti-slavery "fanatic" and "infidel" of age) to them was:
"Thus said the Lord of hosts, Obey my voice, and I be your God, and ye shall be my people; and walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, THAT IT MAY BE WELL UNTO YOU."
<c04>
A most reasonable command, and nothing but good to follow from obeying it! The ways pointed out were those of justice, humanity, and brotherly kindness:-
"If ye thoroughly amend your ways and your doings; if ye thoroughly execute judgment between a man and his neighbor if ye oppress not the stranger, the fatherless, the widow," &c.; "then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers, for ever and ever."
No Crittenden amendment-no fresh guaranties to protect their system of oppression-no half-way measures; but the work of repentance and reformation was to be immediate and THOROUGH, just as the Abolitionists have always contended for. But did Jeremial fare any better' than they have done Did he at all in convincing the men of Judah of their, gross iniquity? Did they recognize the prophet as God-sent, or as only a pestilent disturber of the peace Read on, and see:-
"But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in the counsels and in the imagination of their evil heart, and WENT BACKWARD, and not forward. Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt unto this day, I have even sent unto you all my servants the prophets, daily rising up early, and sending them; yet they hearkened not unto me, nor inclined their ear, but hardened their neck: THEY DID WORSE THAN THEIR FATHERS."
And upon whom rested the blame for this result-upon God, the prophet, or themselves? This brief statement is a complete synopsis of American history for the last seventy years. For "since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt," read "since the day that your fathers threw off the British yoke, and proclaimed to the world their national independence," and all the rest is literally true. The anti-slavery prophets have been ridiculed and stoned; the people have gone backward, and not forward; THEY HAVE DONE WORSE THAN THEIR FATHERS. Under these circumstances, ought not the prophets to be dumb, and is further agitation a duty Read!
"Therefore [even because they are not inclined to hear, and wax worse and worse] thou speak all these words unto them; but they will not hearken to thee: thou also call unto them; but they will not answer thee."
But if this is a settled matter-if no appeal will be listened to-where is the wisdom or propriety of reiterating the old command Surely, it is time to close the lips! Not so:
"But thou say them, This is a nation that not the voice of the Lord their God, nor correction: truth is perished, and is cut from their mouth."
Behold an exact portraiture of the American people at the present time! And in the light of it read once more, the taunt of the New York Observer against the Abolitionists for their alleged want of success!
Even this brought no discharge to the prophet from his thankless work. Once more he was told to cry aloud-(see chapter xviii.)
"Now, therefore, go to, speak to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, Thus the Lord, Behold, I frame evil against you, and devise a device against you: return ye now every one from his evil way, and make your ways and your doings good."
Surely, they would now take the alarm, and change their course! Far from it:-"And they said, There is no hope; but we will walk after our own devices, and we will every one do the imagination of his evil heart."
Is not this the precise language of the Southern oppressors Is not every appeal to them, however kind or guarded, followed by a volcanic explosion o wrath, and by fresh excesses in wickedness Their ultimate resort against him who reproves them is personal violence-the application of lynch law. So fared it with the prophet:-
"Then said they, Come, and let us devise devices against Jeremiah; for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet: come, and let us smite him with the tongue, and let us not give heed to any of his words."
As did the rejected prophet, so does the faithful Abolitionist, in such a dark and evil time, exclaim-
"Give heed to me, O Lord, and hearken to the voice of them that contend with me. Shall evil be recompensed for good Remember that I stood before thee to speak good for them, and to turn away thy wrath from them."
But there is another equally striking case of this kind recorded in the Book of the Prophet Ezekiel. To that prophet came this message-certainly, anything rather than encouraging:-
"Son of man. I send thee to the children of Israel, to a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me: THEY AND THEIR FATHERS have transgressed against me, even unto this very day. For they are impudent children and stiff-hearted. I do send thee unto them; and thou say unto them, Thus the Lord God."
"They and their fathers." How exactly applicable to this nation-to those who, in framing the Constitution, made "a covenant with death," and to their children who are for continuing an "agreement with hell," which they insanely describe as "a glorious Union But what vituperative language is here used-what coarse personalities are indulged in! "A rebellious nation-"impudent children and stiff hearted A pretty way of conciliating them-first, knocking them down, and then expecting they will listen to reason! Are not more flies caught with molasses than with vinegar? When did "abusive epithets" ever melt an obdurate heart Why not admit the difficulty of their position-the force of circumstances-and deal with them as unintentionally misled, and not as transgressors Of course, with their feelings grossly outraged, they will turn a deaf ear to every warning. What then is to be done? Listen!
"And they, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear, (for they are a rebellious house,) yet shall know that there hath been a prophet among them.
That may be true, but they will none the less disown and persecute him; and, therefore, would it not be prudent for him to remove to some other field, or "subside" into silence Let us see:-
"And, son of man, be not afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns be with thee, and dost dwell among scorpions. And thou speak my words unto them, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear: for they are most rebellious."
This has been the experience of the Abolitionists in faithful dealing with a nation still more guilty and contumacious. Briers, thorns, and scorpions are ever in the pathway of the uncompromising reformer. As Jesus came to his own, and his own received him not, so the prophet experienced the same fate:-.
"Son of man, thou art not sent to a people of a strange speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel; not to many people of a strange speech and of a hard language, whose words thou canst not understand. had I sent thee to them, they would have hearkened unto thee. But the house of Israel will not hearken unto thee; FOR THEY WILL NOT HEARKEN UNTO ME: for all house of Israel are impudent and hard-hearted. But thou, son of man, hear what I say unto thee: Be not thou like that rebellious house."
Now, if the Bible be all that the New York Observer claims for it, this is God's method of dealing with a haughty, proud, oppressive nation. It is to "deal in personalities"-It is to use "sweeping denunciations," making no exceptions, "all the house of Israel being branded as impudent and hard hearted"- it is to be pertinacious and unyielding in the face of fiery persecution-it is to speak the word of warning and rebuke, "whether men will hear, or whether they will forbear," nay, though it is certain that they will not hear! In this spirit, upon this model and for this end, have the Abolitionists labored for the last thirty years; and if they have failed to accomplish their desires, no strange thing has happened unto them, as the Scriptural record clearly shows. But they have not failed. They have quickened the whole country, advanced their lines in every direction, and shaken the slave system to its foundation.<illegible>!<c05>
THE SLAVEHOLDER'S PRAYER.
This Prayer may be found on our last page. Though intended to be somewhat satirical, it is really without the slightest exaggeration as an exhibition of slaveholding piety. But why should the most rapacious of thieves, the most profligate of debauchees, the most unscrupulous of buccaneers, the most cruel and inexorable of oppressors, the most lawless of traitors, allowed a monopoly of religious cant? Is it not time for common burglars, highway robbers, horse-thieves, gamblers, and the occupants and frequenters of stews, to have their litany, their scriptural defences, their pious in vocations, their gracious revivals, and boldly to outface Christendom by declaring that they, only, are owned and blessed of Heaven-that there is nothing so dangerous to society as honesty, and nothing so demoralizing as purity? Why need they shrink from boldly taking such a position, when men-stealers and cradle-are daily committing deeds a thousand times more aggravated than their own, and yet are ranked of the household of faith Certainly, the amplest inducement is afforded for all such to put their ingenuity to the test to make out a laudable case for themselves, by an array of scriptural texts! Why do they not make application of the Rev. Dr. Nehemiah Adams, or the Rev. Mr. Van Dyck, or the Rev. Sidney E. Morse, or President Lord, to appear as their advocate or apologist? For what is house-breaking compared with kidnapping what is stealing silver spoons compared with stealing human rights what is running off horses compared with laying violent hands upon helpless, unoffending men, women and children what is occasional, unforced licentiousness compared with the annihilation of the marriage institution among a population exceeding that of all New England? If slavery, "the sum of all," can be reconciled with patriotism and piety, why not petty larceny and the robbing of Will some one enlighten us?
It may gratify some of the early friends of the Anti-Slavery cause to know that the author of "The Slaveholder's Prayer" is the Rev. MOSES THACHER, of Fort Covington, New York, who wrote the first address ever published by the New England Anti-Slavery Society, (no better one has since been written)-who, as the editor of the New England Telegraph, was one of the earliest and ablest advocates of immediate and unconditional emancipation-and who has never faltered in bearing his testimony against the damning sin of our land.
FATUITY OF MR. SEWARD.
The citizens of Illinois now in Washington called on Mr. Seward after the Inauguration, and in response to their congratulations, he said:-
"GENTLEMEN: If you want to save this Administration, and have it successful and profitable to the country, I implore you to remember that the battle for Freedom has been fought and won. Henceforth forget that Freedom was ever in danger, and exert your best influence now to save the Union. Let it not be said that the Republican party of the United States won its first, last, and only victory, over the dissolution of the Union."
One of his visitors remarked:-
'Governor, I want the integrity of the Republican party maintained."
Mr. Seward responded:-
"Remember, that the way to maintain the integrity of the Republican party is to maintain the Union. Remember that the point at which the enemy strikes is always the point which you should defend."
Mr. Lovejoy interposed and added:-
"And remember that the Union is worth nothing, except so long as there is Freedom in it."
To this Mr. Seward replied:-
"Freedom is always in the Union."
Mr. Seward is manifestly stricken with fatuity. At the present time, by such talk as this, he is the most dangerous man in the country. To say that "the battle for Freedom has been fought and won," with four millions of slaves still clanking their chains, and increasing annually more than one hundred thousand, is no evidence of statesmanship, scarcely any of sanity. To say that "Freedom is always in the Union," while the Republican President was inaugurated and is protected at Washington solely by the aid of a strong military force to save him from assassination, and the capital itself from seizure by traitors; while the Republican party were denied their constitutional right, in nearly every slave State, to advocate the claims of their own candidates at the late Presidential election; and while Mr. Lincoln cannot safely visit the graves of his ancestors, and Northern citizens are scourged, tarred and feathered, and driven out from the South in every direction-is the grossest mockery conceivable. And to talk of maintaining the Union, by forgetting that Freedom was ever in danger, while seven States have already seceded, and organized themselves into an independent confederacy, breathing defiance to the government at Washington, and laughing to scorn all overtures for conciliation, compromise, and reconstruction, is the babble of imbecility, if not a ruse of the demagogue.
ANDERSON CONGSATULATION MEETING.
A meeting of the colored citizens of Boston was held on Tuesday evening, at the Joy place Church, congratulatory of the release of John Anderson, the fugitive slave in Canada. The attendance was large, completely filling the church. John J Smith presided, and Geo. W. Potter acted as Secretary. Speeches were made by Rev. J. Sella Martin, George T. Downing, Dr. Smith of New Bedford, and others. The chief speech of the evening was by Mr. Martin, and was one of his best efforts. He uttered many plain truths, and contended with earnestness and point that the claims of the colored man in this country are not appreciated and recognized. He was severe on the City Council for inviting Mr. Crittenden to visit Boston. A Council which had little but insult for their own citizen, Mr. Sumner, bended its knees to worship the owner of a hundred slaves.
During the evening, a resolution was offered by Mr. Downing, eulogistic of the English-Canadian judiciary for its righteous and humane judgment. The meeting was spirited and excellent, no less than orderly and attentive.
MR. CRITTENDEN COMING.
By the correspondence which is published a report of the proceedings of the Board of Mayor and Aldermen, we learn that the Hon. John J. Crittenden has accepted the invitation of the City Council to visit this city, and that he may be expected the early part of next week. Aldermen Wilson, Amory and Spinney, with such as the Council may join, were appointed a committee to make all necessary arrangements for the reception of Mr. Crittenden.
This invitation is worthy of the City Council, (the meanest ever yet chosen,) which recently passed the most spiteful resolutions in regard to Senator Sumner, for properly characterizing the petition which was forwarded to Congress from this city, favoring any scheme of compromise, however base, that would pacify the treasonable South. But it is a disgrace to Boston, and an insult to the Commonwealth, to invite Mr. Crittenden to an ovation. A smooth, adroit, slaveholding Aminadab Sleek, he has tried his utmost to seduce the North into a support of his plan of adjustment, (!) whereby slavery was to be indefinitely extended and protected south of 36 deg. 30 min.-all Personal Liberty Laws to be repealed-the Fugitive Slave Bill to be executed without hindrance-the free colored citizens of the North to be deprived forever of the elective franchise-&c., &c. Himself an unrelenting slaveholder, no living Southerner is more wedded to the slave system, or more prompt to resent any imputation cast upon, than himself. His affected moderation gives him a dangerous influence in a time like this. However loud he may be in his professed regard for the Union, his attachment to slavery if far stronger. Why, then, this invitation to Boston?
<c06>
THE PENDING HABEAS CORPUS BILL.
Although this bill, and especially the two first sections of it, were attacked with great ability in the Senate, yet it has passed that body. Under these circumstances, I feel impelled, as a citizen of Massachusetts, to enter my protest against it.
Whatever may be thought of the last four sections of the bill, I cannot believe that the Legislature or the people of Massachusetts would approve the first, if they fairly examined and understood these retrograde movements. The first section seems me very objectionable in regard to all habeas corpus cases; the second only in its relation to persons charged with being fugitives from 
As the law now stands, the hearing on a habeas corpus may be had before the Superior Court, or any judge of that court, as well as before Supreme Court or any justice thereof. The proposed bill makes the writ in all cases (except those mentioned in general statutes, chapter 144, section 30, relating to bail in criminal cases, and section 32, which has nothing to do with personal liberty) "returnable before the Supreme Judicial Court, or some justice thereof."
The reason, I am told, that is given for <illegible> the Superior Court of all power to try the habeas corpus case is that a question so momentous as a man's right to his liberty ought only to be decided by the highest tribunal in the Commonwealth. But this objection is very superficial, for if the person claiming his liberty has his case decided against him by a judge of the Superior Court, he can take out a new habeas corpus, returnable before the Supreme Court, and there have his cause re-heard. As far as regards a person claiming another as a, it is a mere question of property of the value, it may be, of $500 or $1000. The Superior Court is constantly trying cases of far greater amount.
But the practical objections to taking away the jurisdiction of the Superior Court are very serious. There are only six judges in the Supreme Court. During half the year, or more, all these judges are concentrated in Boston and its immediate vicinity, four being in Boston, and one Cambridge, Dedham, or Salem. If the new bill is passed, and habeas corpus is needed in Pittsfield, Springfield, or New Bedford, or in any place except within a few miles of Boston, when the full Court here, the applicant for the writ, who is often poor, must be put to a very great cost in paying expenses and in Boston for himself, the sheriff, and his witnesses, when probably some one of the ten Judges of the Superior Court would be found within a much shorter distance. Magna Charta says "we will neither sell, nor deny, nor delay justice or right to any one." Is not this putting poor men to needless expense and consumption of time, both selling and delaying justice?
If there is any defect in the present law, which practically interferes with any person carrying his case from the Superior to the Supreme Court, let it be remedied, as it easily may be, by direct legislation, but not by this bungling measure, which cuts off a general and important good to remedy an inconvenience in a few cases. For it should be remembered, that habeas corpus is a writ used probably a hundred times in other cases, for every one involving the question of liberty or slavery.
The second section of the bill provides that when any trial shall be had under chapter 144, section of the general statutes, issues shall be framed the direction of the court "and the rules of, procedure and decision shall be those of the common law."
This is one of the most extraordinary pieces of legislative legerdemain that I have ever known attempted. The general statutes, chapter 144, section 19,20,21, direct the course of proceedings on the jury trial when claimed under a writ of habeas corpus. The provisions are clear and intelligible, some of them certainly such as none but a lover of slavery would wish to see repealed. Yet this second section attacks them in such an insidious and covert manner that no uninspired person can tell which of them remains in force, and which are repealed. For myself, I am compelled to say that both the exact object and the probable object of this section are beyond my comprehension.
The common law process for summoning a jury is very different from ours. Does this section, under the word procedure, mean to give the sheriff the power of packing the jury? The general statutes on the trial direct the jury to elect a foreman by ballot. This is in entire derogation of the common Does the second section mean to deprive the jury of the power of choosing a foreman?
The rules of evidence are to be those of the common law. By the common law, persons who are interested in the event of the trial, or are atheists, or have been convicted of felony, are excluded as witnesses. All this has been changed by our law. Does the second section mean to reinstate their incompetency? It would be a long stride backwards.
There is still another possible view of the effect of introducing the rules of evidence by the common law. In hearings on habeas corpus, affidavits are often heard in England. The general statutes, chapter 144, section 21, contain an admirable, even if merely declaratory, provision that no ex parte affidavit shall be received on behalf of the claimant. Will this provision be repealed, or remain in force, should this section be passed?
The rules of decision are to be those of the common law. How many statutes this may repeal, I cannot guess. Hitherto our constitution and statutes have, in every case where they applied, afforded the rules of decision. Fortunately this provision cannot repeal the constitutions either of the State or Union, though it purports to do so. But as there can be no slave under the common law, since the decision in the Some case, if that law is to be the rule of decision in Massachusetts, it would give every slave coming into Massachusetts, and tried under this law, his freedom.
What can be more absurd and monstrous than this attempt to introduce a foreign system of law as the rule of evidence, procedure and decision, a system in many parts out of use, and repealed in multitude of provisions by statute both here and in England?
Those that dislike our liberty laws should attempt to repeal by express enactment what they disapprove, and introduce what they intend to substitute and explicit provisions, and not leave us to grope among the rubbish of dark ages for the obsolete rules of the common law.
A poor man once came to a Boston lawyer whom he had been told was familiar with the habeas corpus unfortunate said that his wife had run away from him, and gone to live with some of her relations, and requested the lawyer to give him a hocus pocus to get her back. I am forced to say he did not get any satisfaction. If this second section passes, I think there will be hocus pocus enough in it for S. E. S.
We copy the above protest against the action of the Massachusetts Senate, on Friday last, from the Atlas and Bee. It bears the initials of the honored name of SAMUEL E. SEWALL, Esq. of this city, who for thirty years, has warmly and generously exposed the cause of the oppressed in our land, and done great service in behalf of civil liberty in this commonwealth. Though this protest proves unavailing, <illegible> much as the Bill from the Senate passed to a third reading in the House on Tuesday, by a vote of 114 to 63, it is worthy of being placed on record. The changes which have been made the Personal Liberty Bill by this action of the Legislature, though detrimental to its efficiency in some particulars, will produce no other effect at the South than to excite its ridicule and elicit its contempt.
Governor Andrew has appointed our Fast Day for April 4th. Connecticut and New will have their Fast Day a week later, the 11th.
The annual State Election took place in New Hampshire on Tuesday last, resulting in the success of the Republican ticket by some three or four thousand majority. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE QUESTION.
The only question of to-day is SLAVERY. It has come to the people. Let the political demagogues temporize, compromise and cheat. The question is not before them; they ignore it. But it comes before us in our sovereign capacity as final arbiters. We have got to meet it, and settle it, not with compromise as politicians, which is no settlement at all. We have got to meet it as men, with Eternal Justice, and give it such a settlement as God and Humanity will accept it, or it will meet us as less than men: and Gods retributive justice must ultimately be done. And who will complain? Not the just. Who shall suffer? Not the innocent. It is the voice of God immutable law that the unjust, the guilty suffer. May that will be done!? Who is unjust? He who wrongs his fellow-. men willingly. Who is guilty? He who consents to that wrong when it is in his power to prevent it.
Some men may feel bound by the Golden Rule, even at this day. To such, this rule puts the question in these words: Shall I be a slave to my neighbor? Shall my wife be his chattel? Shall my children be the slaves of his children? Shall I be doomed in myself and in my posterity to toil, that others may reap the benefit? There is but one answer. Death itself can force no other from a man." But does not the Golden Rule bind you to respect the rights of the master?" O, most devilish shrewd attorney! Who is this master" you would have me recognize, and so give up the whole question? I know him not. I will call no man master" till it be settled whether there be such a legitimate functionary. But is any body a man? He is my neighbor; I am bound to love him as myself to do unto him as unto myself. Does any man assume to be master? I know him not, a save as my neighbors oppressor, and by the Golden Rule as my own oppressor.
But, your neighbor owns the slave as his property. It is a lie. Who says it, is a liar; who maintains it is a robber, a pirate, a kidnapper; for the slave is my neighbor indeed, fallen among thieves. I must go to his relief. A free man in his own country has been kidnapped. The kidnapper has sold him to a pirate, who thereby becomes his accomplice, and is therefore guilty of kidnapping and piracy. The kidnapper and pirate has sold him to the planter, who by the purchase becomes participator in both crimes, and adds thereto the perpetual crime of robbery, the mean crime of robbing a poor innocent man of all his earnings, of making his wife a thing for his own gratifications of pilfering his cradle, and perchance making merchandise of his own child.
But the world has advanced eighteen hundred years since the Golden Rule was proclaimed in Judea. All men may not now feel bound by it. Shall we then accept the question as the New York volunteer slave attorney has stated it? We will do so; for his words are unequivocal, and present the issue just as it is today:
"Is negro slavery unjust? If it is unjust, it violates the first rule of human conduct. Render to every man his due. If it is unjust, it violates the law of God, which says, Love thy neighbor as thyself, for that requires that we should perpetrate no injustice. But I insist and that is the argument we must come to I insist that negro slavery is not unjust. This is the ground we must take. We are not to talk about slavery being an evil; we must pronounce it just, humane, lawful and proper.
We agree with the New York Herald, that this speech of Mr. OConor. Was the only one which rose to the high dignity of the occasion, and comprehended the true nature of the issue between the North and the South.
Mr. OConor puts the question fairly as it is. He answers it boldly. Shall we accept his answer, and go with him? The only other alternative is to pronounce negro slavery unjust, and pronounce it sin in our sovereign capacity. Let us consider it Is negro slavery unjust? Does it render to every man his due? 1 Is the negro a man? Are all men created equal? Do all men possess inalienable rights? Is justice one thing for the American-born white man, and another thing for the American-born colored man? What ac-cursed influence has rendered it necessary to ask these questions once pronounced self-evident by the greatest men the nation has produced. What has practically denied that self-evident answer, and put its denial into the mouths of the great orators of our day? Slavery. Slavery, that strikes down every right; slavery, that makes man a mere chattel personal, to whom nothing can belong, not even wife or child, not even the hand which toils not the heart which feels, not even life itself, for it take s away all that supports life, all that protects life, and to all intents, constructions and purposes, makes man a thing, a piece of merchandize. Slavery, be it conceded, has one virtue. It makes no distinction of color. The laws of all the slave States are silent as to color; the customs of all make no distinction of this kind. Will any in the free States deny that the slave, white or black, has a just right to his liberty a right equal to his own? If he have this right, has any man, has any body of men, in any capacity, the right to take away from him the enjoyment of this inalienable right? Will any deny that the American slave, black or white, has a right to rise up and cut his way to freedom, striking down all who obstruct him? If he has such a right, has any body, in any capacity, at any time, any right to restrain him? No man has a right to do that, for doing which another man would have a right to kill him. No man has any right, or can have any right, to take away the inalienable rights of another. No State or other body of men can have such a right, or confer such a right. To talk of the rights of our Southern brethren to property in man is to repeat the whining cant of disappointed bedlamites. To talk about State rights to take away the inalienable rights of men is to babble the pernicious nonsense of unprincipled politicians, who for success will thus undermine the only permanent foundation of republican government; and when they get the power, declare themselves ready to tear out the very heart of the Republic, that they may retain an ulcerating and corrupting member, with all its deadly virus. Away with this pernicious cant about slaveholders rights! No body has any rights as a slaveholder. No body has any right to recognize the slaveholder as anything else than an enemy to his country and to mankind.
The declaration for which our fathers poured out their blood affirms as self-evident truth that all men have rights which no State can take away; that governments are founded to protect these rights; that when any government fails to protect them, it is the right, it is the duty of the people to abolish such government, and establish a new one. This they did. They threw off the government, which refused to protect a few of their rights, and they established another, to preserve their liberties and establish justice. They sought to make the principles of the Declaration of Independence, the inalienable rights of all men, the very corner stone of the new Republic. Why does that corner stone now give way? Because, alas! in their then impoverished and weakened state, slavery insisted that it should not go down unless they consented to let her shadow fall upon it With averted faces and trembling voices, confessing awful forebodings, they gave tacit consent It was enough. It was all slavery asked. There was no word; there was nothing that could be traced after the ugly from should be removed; and they all hoped and prayed that something might soon remove it. But" there it stood and grew, casting a shadow more heavy and dark, till at last it stepped forward on to the cornerstone, which then crumbled away, leaving in its place only the hideous form of slavery as the chief corner-stone of our Republic. Thank God, the people have seen this at last; they have protested, they have declared that is shall not be. Still, how much more yielding than our fathers, who would not have so much as a word implying that there could be property in man thus nationalized! They consent that slavery is itself legitimately therethat they will protect it there, only that it shall not be the chief stone of the corner. And now the huge monster is foaming mad, and declares that if it cannot be there recog-
<c02>
nized in expressed terms, it will withdraw itself altogether, taking along with it the soil it pollutes, the members of the Republic it has completely corrupted. Shall we now, in our strength, still cling to the knees of this harlot, and refuse to let her go out? What have we lavished upon her? Six hundred millions of dollars, with the lives of all that have been devoured in two of her long, relentless wars. What annual tribute will she levy if we retain her? Six million dollars in times of peace, with an occasional hundred million for a Cuba, and the risk of other wars of conquest. More than this, a thousand times more we must, to retain her, wed ourselves to her, and accept her as the legitimate mistress of the house henceforth. We must sacrifice to her all our remaining virtue, all the virtue of our posterity. Yes, slavery must be nationalized by an expressed constitutional acknowledgment. What our fathers would not have sacrificed for all they bled to conquer, for all they were or hoped to be, we are to giveand then we are to give again; and continue to givegivegivetill all is lost. Now is the turning point. Slavery will go out, if we refuse to purchase its stay. Why not let it go? We are nineteen States without it, and have a territory for nineteen more. Without a single slave State, we are larger in. area and population, and twice as strong as we were with all we had in 1840. 
Why make concessions, and propose new compromises with iniquity, to keep pestiferous States in this Union? Are we afraid they will hurt us if they go! out? We are nineteen millions; they are less than eight and a half, all under bonds to the amount of four millions slaves to keep the peace with us. Are we afraid we shall hurt them? Is not this very solicitude a guarantee that we shall do no such thing? Have we manifested any disposition to hurt them? On the contrary, we have spoilt them by our indulgence, until they threaten to tear the house down over our heads, if we do not permit them to go out and leave us, or stay and rule us. The hour calls upon us to assert our rights, and insist upon their enforcement. It is now in our power to wipe out every shadow of slave stain from the Constitution. We are strong enough to do it Let us make this our demand; let us insist upon it. If they all go, let them go. Yes, let them take the portion of goods they claim, and go and try it alone. What can be the harm? If the experiment fails on their part, they will come back repenting, and without slavery, having had enough of it Then we will accept them, and kill the fatted calf upon a thousand free hills. Then we will become a great, and glorious, and free, and happy people, and our Union will indeed be a glorious Union. 
But if we fail if we who have taken care of them and ourselves too, can not support ourselves without them, then will be time enough to make our acknowledgment, and put our necks humbly under their yokes. But let us 
try it first. At any rate, let us, the people, now in this golden opportunity, rid ourselves of every shadow of allegiance to slavery, and trust God, whose eternal justice now thunders upon us from the storm-clouds of civil war which enshroud the nation. Our prophets, in whose mouths are lying spirits, tell us to bow and acknowledge slavery, or perish. Our counsellors, with folly confounded, tell us to first set ourselves right, by fumbling our statute-books with the black fingers of slavery, that we may cut out every line that looks towards liberty, and consign it to the hot flame of human hate. They tell us to be just, and treat a fellow-man as a stray horse; to be just, and acknowledge that the right to strike down all justice, all right, is equal to the right to fell a forest and consume the brushwood; that the right to raise men and women for the shambles is equal to the right to raise pigs and cows for the market; that labor forced under the lash is entitled to equal protection with labor inspired by natural want, and performed by mutual contract. They tell us we can afford to be magnanimous and generous, by conceding the unconditional right of less than four hundred thousand of" our Southern brethren" to take away all the rights of and brutally enslave forty hundred thousand of our native-born fellow-countrymen;that we can magnanimously afford to open half our territory to these three hundred thousand pirates and robbers, and pledge ourselves and our posterity to the everlasting protection of their plunder, notwithstanding by so doing we turn out to them, for perpetual ravishment, millions of our wives, mothers and daughters, and make ourselves vigilant sentinels to prevent their escape from the hopeless doom to which we consign them. 
Such justice, such magnanimity, such generosity, would disgrace the Thugs of India. Shall it stain the history of this great American nation? Sooner let every man and woman of these thirty millions perish than cover ourselves with such infamy. The fact that those we have looked up to as guides, those we call our greatest statesmen, propose it, and are not consigned to infamy at once, proves that we are sleeping, while they have been debauching and corrupting. Let us raise ourselves at once, and spurn these God-defying counsellors who would abate the flames of hell they have kindled by piling on more and more combustibles. Let us take counsel of common sense, and put water on the flame itself, with the intention of quenching it at once and utterly. All we have to do is to say to the politicians, stand aside, and let the maddened fiends open the flood-gates with their own hands. This they have already begun to do; this they threaten to complete, unless we concede to their iniquity, and share their infamy. Let them do it; for God's sake, for Humanity's sake, let them open the flood-gates of Divine wrath upon the hell-flames with which they insist upon consuming every element of national virtue and human justice. They have broken" the compact," blood-stained by their interpretation. They declare it already nullified, that it shall no longer bind them to us. With a jubilee shout, let us accept their declaration. Let us no longer give any direct or indirect approval of their ac cursed system. Let all our arsenals, navy yards, territory and the District of Columbia be purged of it at once. Let no slaveholder have, or continue to hold, any appointment under the incoming administration. Let the Supreme Court be remodelled upon the basis of freedom. Let the whole policy of the government be openly and avowedly hostile to slavery, and let the people of the free States at once meet in Convention to wipe out. every clause of the Constitution which has been, or can" be, tainted with a pro-slavery interpretation. This is the way, the only way, to set ourselves right to be just, to be magnanimous, to be generous. Then, if civil war must come, let it come; then, if the South must perish, let it perish-we shall be innocent, we shall be saved, yet so as by fire. God help 
THE PEOPLE.

MR, FOSS IN LOWELL.
LOWELL, March 4, 1861. 
MR. GARRISON: 
DEAR SIR,-I know you will be glad to learn that, the Anti-Slavery meeting here, yesterday, addressed by Andrew T. Foss, was a complete and triumphant success over the riotous elements that were evidently among us at the commencement of the afternoon meeting, but were very soon allayed by the kind remonstrance of one of the ladies present, and the calm confidence, undaunted manner, and powerful voice of Mr. Foss, so that most of the disturbers in the galleries soon came, and took the unoccupied seats nearest the speaker; and, with the exception of a few impertinent questions, sat quietly to the dose of the service, and listened attentively to the most ultra and uncompromising truths. 
In the evening, some hundreds assembled at an early hour; and although there was no admission fee, no protection requested, and no police present, yet, with the exception of a few noisy demonstrations at the commencement, there was no disturbance. Four it slaves were seated upon the platform, and a short appeal was made to the audience, whether any one present would be willing to have them sent back to the bondage from which: the humanity of their masters had rescued them. One of them then sang a short, fa-
<c03>
miliar hymn, Mr. Foss following with a masterly vindication of the Golden Rule, the Higher Law, and a true manhood, over all inhuman compacts, godless enactments, and infamous Fugitive Slave Bills; which, I think, must have convinced every one present, that ours was a sublimer faith, a deeper reverence, a purer, zeal, and a more self-sacrificing devotion to human rights and the brotherhood of the race, than rather they were, accustomed to hear from pro-slavery pulpits or political platforms. Yours, most truly, 
SARAH CLAY.

MR. SENATOR WHITING IN THE PULPIT. 
The Senator .from Plymouth county, Mr. N. H. Whiting, made his appearance in the "pulpit" .of the. Music Hall, in this city, yesterday morning. After reading a chapter from the Bible, the Senator proceeded to say: A wise man of long ago: is reported to have said, "There is nothing new under the sun." Whether this was absolutely true or not, Mr. Whiting; did not know; but it might be conceded that the chords through winch the natural anthem vibrated were simple. It was not difficult to detect the well-known air in all its variations. One of those through a child of hers, (Nature,) she presented to them this morning. When he was asked to address them, he said it would" be presumptuous in him, with his limited ability, to occupy the pulpit which had been made illustrious through the genius, wisdom and eloquence of Theodore Parker, who, though dead, yet speaketh," and the very walls of the ball were resonant with the divine breath of liberty and immortality;-of Phillips, Emerson, Garrison and Beecher; and before an audience, too, which had been so often quickened and enlightened by their inspiriting strains. But when he remembered the brave men and women, who, in spite of popular odium; in spite of a faithless and corrupt city government, a hostile church and pulpit, an unscrupulous press were endeavoring to maintain the old Protestant rights of liberty, of that liberty for which the Pilgrims came across the sea, and for which the battles of the Revolution were fought, he said he would joyfully cast his influence upon the altar. He would therefore ask their attention to some evils which beset the human race, and would point out some of the means for reform. He would take for his text the two maxims, "Whatever concerns man concerns me;" It is more blessed to give than to receive." Men, though ever ready .to acknowledge these maxims in theory, did not acknowledge them in practice. Every man presses upon his neighbor. The Senator then went on at some length to show that we, and those who came before us, live in a "dog eat dog state of society." An essential prerequisite, he said, to under standing, is thought. Every man must think for him-self, for so long as he allows others to think for him, he is a slave. Here and there one has been born out of the eternal silence, who has given birth to an idea, but he has been hurried to the stake or the cross. The next generation erect a monument to his memory, and are astonished at the wickedness of their fathers; but yet they pursue with the same remorseless barbarism the reformers of their own day. They had been too successful in this work of blood. Even now, in the 19th century, in this country which boastingly calls itself the land of the free and the home of the brave; if a man dares call in question the received dogmas, if he fails to encounter the stake and the gallows, if he escapes the mob, he is called an infidel and a Jacobin, which is as fatal to him, often, as the dagger of the assassin. -Boston Courier of Monday.

THE FLAG UNFURLED AT MONTGOMERY.
The Montgomery Advertiser of the 5th says:-"The 4th day of March was an eventful day in the provisional Capital of the Confederated States of America, as well as in Washington. At 3 1/2 o'clock P. M., on yesterday, the flag of the Confederated States of America was flung to the breeze from the staff on the Capitol, and as its proud folds gradually unclosed, it seemed to wave defiance to the Northern wind that came rushing down from the Potomac laden with threats of Abolition coercion. A large concourse of spectators had assembled on Capitol Hill, and the number would doubtless have been trebled, had it been possible to have given an earlier announcement of the ceremony. Miss L. C. Tyler, one of the fair descendants of the Old Dominion, and a daughter of the venerable ex-President of the United States, had been selected to perform the principal part upon this occasion. When the time had arrived for raising the banner, Miss Tyler steadily, and with heart throbbing with patriotic emotion, elevated the flag to the summit of the staff, cannon thundered forth a salute, the vast assemblage rent the air with shouts of welcome, and the people of the South had, for the first time, a view of the Southern flag. Ere there was time to take one hasty glance at the national ensign, the eyes of all were upturned to gaze at what would perhaps at any time have attracted unusual attention, but on this occasion seemed really a Providential omen. Scarcely had the report of the first salute died away, when a large and beautifully-defined circle of blue vapor rose slowly over the assemblage of Southern spirits there assembled to vow allegiance to the Southern banner, rested for many seconds on a level with the flag of the Confederated States, then gradually ascended until lost to the gaze of the multitude. It was a most beautiful and auspicious omen, and those who look with an eye of faith to the glorious future of our Confederacy, could not but believe that the same God that vouchsafed to the Christian Emperor the cross in the heavens as a promise of victory, had this day given to a young nation striving for liberty a divine augury of hope and national durability." [!!!]

"LET THE COTTON STATES GO." 
The following petition is in circulation in this vicinity, and undoubtedly reflects the matured convictions of a very large number of thinking men, who realize the obstacles which stand in the way of any attempt to bring back the cotton States to their allegiance:
To the Senate and House of Representatives of Massachusetts in General Court assembled:
The petition of the undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully represents, that in their opinion the feeling which has so long been growing in the cotton States has culminated into a state of hostility to the North, that establishes clearly that a return of those States to the Northern Confederacy is impossible, without such a sacrifice of principle on the part of the North as would render a unity of States, under such terms, of no value. Your petitioners, in view of this aspect, and the want of confidence in the business community, which this state has brought about, and the probability of no improvement for a long period; and also, in view of the great evils of civil war, which would follow if measures of coercion and conquest were taken, and further, if such measures resulted in conquest, that the conquered people would again be clothed with the same immunities and privileges as they had before, and would return their representatives to the Congress of the United States, to re-enact the same scenes again, do respectfully petition that you would pass the following act, and submit the same to the different States, that such action may be taken thereon as will accord with the Constitution of the United States:-
Resolved, by the People of Massachusetts, That, in view of the hostile attitude which the States of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas have taken toward the other States, and the great evils which would follow attempts at coercion and conquest, the people of Massachusetts are willing and do consent, (three-quarters of the other States agreeing to the same,) that the States of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas may secede from the Union, and form any other government which they may deem best for their interests, provided that they declare freedom of navigation in the Mississippi river, and surrender all right to a district of territory six miles square, bordering on the Mississippi and opposite to the city of New Orleans, as a port of entry of the United States; and further, that they resign all right and claim to participation of the territories now belonging to the United States, and in consideration of which all forts, custom-houses and other property of the United States, lying within the boundaries of the above-named States, shall be made over and surrendered to them.Boston Journal, 11th inst.

EMANCIPATION OF THE RUSSIAN SERFS. A letter from St. Petersburg, dated Feb. 10, says:
"The moment is close at hand, and I am happy to announce it, when the emancipation of the serfs will be an accomplished fact. The proclamation will be issued on the 3d of March next, the anniversary of the accession to the throne of Alexander II., whose reign will be forever illustrated by this measure of. social justice.
Thus more than 20,000,000 of Christian souls will at one and the same hour have ceased to be property. Yesterday a solemn sitting of the Council of the Empire was held on the subject, and much curiosity and anxiety prevailed to know what it would lead, to. There were a thousand different rumors this morning, but during the day, well-informed persons have assured me that the date I have above given is that fixed for the act of liberation. The emotion created by in this news throughout the Empire is immense."
REDPATH'S AGENT. A. J. Ackerman, whose arrest as a supposed emissary of the notorious James Red-path of Kansas-Boston-Tribune-Hayti notoriety, we have mentioned, was yesterday dismissed, after a full examination before Mayor Munroe. He showed all his letters from Redpath, and these, with his other showings made with the greatest -candor, established the fact that he was here solely to further, the scheme of free negro emigration to Hayti a business against which no objection can be urged.- N. O. Crescent.
<c04>
EXTRA SESSION OF THE U. S. SENATE-Washing-ton, March 8th. Mr. Dixon's resolution to print the Inaugural Address was adopted.
Mr. Foster offered the following resolution:
"Whereas, Mr. Wigfall now Senator from Texas, has declared in debate that he is a foreigner, owing no allegiance to this government, but to another, it is resolved that Louis T. Wigfall be expelled from this body."
Mr. Foster, not seeing Mr. Wigfall, let the resolution lay over.
Mr. Clingman moved to amend by substituting:-
"It is understood that the State of Texas has seceded from the" Union, and is no longer one of the United States; therefore, 
Resolved, That Texas is not entitled to be represented in this body."
Mr. Bright presented a list of the standing committees, which was adopted. 
A committee of three was appointed to report additional regulations to preserve order in the galleries.
On motion of Mr. Sumner, the Senate referred to the Committee on Judiciary the resolution here to fore submitted by Mr. Mason, that there be paid out of the contingent fund such actual costs as shall be incurred by Silas Carl ton and his associates, in suits now pending in the Circuit Court in Massachusetts against them, founded on acts in executing the process of the Senate against one F. B. Sanborn.
The Senate then went into Executive session. 
There had been some animated debates on the President's Inaugural, in which the impudent Texas Senator, Wigfall, has figured very disgracefully. The following is a specimen of his disgusting tirade: 
In reply to Mr. Douglas, he (Wigfall) denied that Union as it was formerly, now existed legally and constitutionally. The evil is upon us; the disease is seated. A blue pill at night and a cup of coffee next morning may relieve the liver, but when the disease is on you, blistering and blood-letting are sometimes necessary; and when the patent dies, it is necessary to have a coffin, very, deep, a funeral service, and things of that sort. As he said the other night, the only question is, whether there shall be a decent, quiet funeral, after the Protestant fashion, or an Irish wake. The Union is dead and has to be buried. If you want a Protestant funeral, you can have it; if not, you can have an Irish wake.
The seceding States will never, surely, come back. They wilt not now come back under any circumstances. They will not live under this Administration. Withdraw your troops then, make no attempt to collect tribute, and enter into a treaty with, those States. Do this, and you have peace. Send, your flag of thirty- four stars thither, and it will be fired into, and war will ensue. 
No compromise or amendment to the Constitution, no arrangement you may enter into will satisfy the South, unless you recognize slaves as property, and protect it as any other species of property. 
Mr. Douglas defended the Inaugural, as he construed it to mean peace, and replied forcibly to Wigfall." The Senator from Texas," remarked Mr. Douglas, "says he remains a member of this body because his name continues to be called; but according to his own doctrine, he is a foreigner. His affections are with his. own country; mine are with the United States." 
Wigfall explained why he remained here was that he had no official information that Texas has abolished the office of United States Senator. When he should be so notified, he would file notice of his withdrawal at the desk, and if after being so informed his name should continue to be called, he should answer to it if it suited his convenience, and if called upon to vote, he would probably give his reasons for voting, and regard this as a very respectable public meeting! 
This Wigfall is a disgrace to the country and to human nature, and ought to be ignominiously expelled from the Senate.
OFFICERS OF THE SO-CALLED SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY. The following are the rebels who have suffered themselves to be made officers of the pretended Southern Confederacy:-
PRESIDENT-Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi; a native of Kentucky; educated at West Point; served under Zachary Taylor, whose daughter he had married; commanded the Mississippi Rides at Monterey and Buena Vista; was appointed Secretary of War under Pierce; and was elected Senator four years ago. 
VICE PRESIDENTAlexander Hamilton Stephens, of Georgia; a fragile, consumptive man, (who never in his life weighed a hundred pounds,) yet of great energy and intellectual ability; a kind of John Randolph, but without the wit and eccentricities of "Roanoake." 
SECRETARY OF STATE-Robert Toombs, of Georgia; one of Dr. Nott's students at Schenectady, New York; served in 1836, as Captain, against the Creeks;, since which he has been Senator and fire-cater.
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURYC. S. Memminger, of South Carolina.
SECRETARY OF WARLeroy Pope Walker, of Huntsville, Alabama-where he probably enjoys the preachings of the eccentric Dr. Ross, who conducted the Secession movement in the New School Presbyterian Church a few years ago. 
SECRETARY OF THE NAVYJohn Perkins, Jr., of New Orleans; a graduate of Old Yale; a lawyer and a cotton planter,
POSTMASTER GENERAL-Henry T. Eliett: a native of New Jersey, but residing at Fort Gibson, Mississippi. 
ATTORNEY GENERALJudah P. Benjamin, of Louisiana, who, as his name indicates, is a Jew. 
Behind all these conspicuous gentry, as the background to the picture, stands the shadowy figure of Impartial Justice, with an indictment for treason in one hand, and hemp-rope in the other.
TEXAS. The San Antonio Herald of the 23d ult., says that the following is a list of the property given up to the State:
1,800 mules, valued at $50 each, $90,000
500 wagons, valued at $140 each, $90,000
950 horses, valued at $150 each, $142,500
500 harness, valued at $50 each, $25,000
Tools, wagon materials, iron, nails, 
horse and mule shoes, 250,000
Corn, (at this post,) 7,000
Clothing, 150,000
Commissary stores, 75,000
Ordnance stores, 400,000
Total, $l,229,500
Exclusive of public buildings, to which the Federal Government has a title. Much of the above property is estimated at the original cost, its value here being much greater, being worth to the State at least a million and a half of dollars.
SECESSION EXACTIONS. The Methodist gives a letter from an "intelligent and loyal Christian minister" in Alabama. This correspondent" Labors after the following fashion" with Brethren Crooks and McClintock:
"I have watched the course of Harper's Weekly and your own paper, and a few others that have sought Southern patronage; and miserable, miserable have been the manifestations. Gentlemen, we are going to set up for ourselves. We are done with you. We feel toward you as the Italians do to the Austrians. You are the most malignant enemies we have on earth! I say this as profoundly convinced of its truth as of anything I believe. May God avert all collision between the Federal troops and those of the South. One drop shed, and woe! woe! to those who have advised and persuaded to it. I know what I say the war will be carried into Africa. We have more respect for Wendell Phillips than for the pseudo friends who have feigned conservatism for the money! You'll make but little more out of us. It's all the use you've had for us."
RELEASE OF THE BARK ADJUSTER. The Savannah Georgian says:" We are pleased to learn that Gov. Brown has released the bark Adjuster, in consequence of representations made to him by H. B. M.'s Consul, E. Molyneux, Esq., that the cargo she held belonged to the subjects of Great Britain. This release is creditable to our Executive, as taking a proper view of commercial relations. While sternly resolved on retaliation when it injures none but the guilty, he exhibits a proper regard for the innocent, and a correct appreciation of the demands which non-interruption with business requires."
THE SENATE COMMITTEES. The following are the chairmen of the Senate Committees under the new organization:
Foreign Relations, Mr. Sumner; Finance, Mr. Fessenden; Commerce, Mr. Chandler; Military, Mr. Wilson; Naval, Mr. Hale; Judiciary, Mr. Trumbull; Post Office, Mr. Collamer; Public Lands, Mr. Harlan; Private Land Claims, Mr. Harris; Indian Affairs, Mr. Doolittle; Pensions, Mr. Foster; Revolutionary Claims, Mr. King; Claims, Mr. Clark; District of Columbia, Mr. Grimes; Patents, Mr. Simmons; Public Buildings, Mr. Foote; Territories, Mr. Wade; Expenses of the Senate, Mr. Dixon; Printing, Mr. Anthony.
Mr. Sumner and Fessenden succeed to the places in which Mason and Hunter have so long held autocratic sway. The Change is an excellent one for the country, and highly complimentary to New England. Both gentlemen are peculiarly well qualified for their respective posts.
AGES OF MEMBERS OF THE CABINET. Mr. Blair is the only one of the seven gentlemen, in the Cabinet of President Lincoln who is under 50 years of age. He is about 45 years old. Mr. Bates is 68, Mr. Seward 60, Mr. Chase 53.63, Mr. Cameron 60, Mr. Welles about 62, and Mr. Smith 56.
<c05>
SEIZURE OF THE REVENUE-CUTTER DODGE. The United States revenue-cutter Dodge, anchored in the; bay, off the city, was taken possession of this mornine (says the; Texas News of the 2d); in the name of the; State, by Sheriff McCarty assisted by Capt. Howard and his fine company, the wigfall Guards", and two other companiesin all, some 250 men. Two pieces of artillery, were on the; wharf, aimed at the cutter. Lieut. Rogers was in command of the cutter, with a small force; 2d Lieut Roach was under him.
As the State troops approached the cutter; in a large life-boat, Lieut. Rogers called out: Mr. McCarty, what means; this large farmed force? I do not under-stand it" Mr. McCarty got aboard and demanded the A surrender of the vessel, which was refused. Mr. McCarty then ordered his men aboard, which was obeyed, and he then showed his authority from the state. The vessel was then surrendered, thirteen guns were fired in honor of the United States flag; the officers went on shore, and were; cheered; of the stars and stripes" were lowered, the Lone-Star flag raised, and thirteen guns fired as a salute, amid load cheering from: those on the cutter and the crowd ashore. 
We presume Lieut Rogers will be continued in command by the State. He is an excellent officer, and is highly respected here.
Since writing the above, we learn that Lieut Rogers received to-day by mail, from Washington, his promotion as captain in the United States revenue service. 
He resigned it at once; was appointed to the same position in the service of Texas, and has appointed as his assistant, Lieut. Roach, who has also resigned. 
Capt. Rogers and Lieut. Roach are now on board, in command. 
SEIZURE OF FORT COOPER. The Texas Civilian has the following:"The Weatherford White Man says that Dr. Kirby has arrived from Camp Cooper, and states that the State troops had taken the fort with all the appurtenance belonging thereto. The main; body of the troops-were on the road to take Fort Chadbourn.
MONTGOMERY, Ala., March 11th. A permanent constitution, has been .adopted, but is kept secret. A member of Congress says it provides that" the President shall have six years; executive appointments under the grade of Cabinet are to hold their offices during good behavior; the slave trade is prohibited and Cabinet officers are eligible to seats in Congress.
An, act has passed issuing a million of dollars in treasury notes. An appropriation bill for current expenses has passed.
The Secretary of the Treasury finds no difficulty in negotiating the fifteen million loan at par.
A Charleston correspondent of the Richmond (Va.) Despatch, after describing; the reception of Mr. Lincoln's. Message, says:
"Now mark my prediction, that if Lincoln dare attempt; what he darkly hints at coercion, in. less than six months- you will see a Southern army invading the North under the lead of President Davis in person. I say "my prediction;" it is not prediction, and I tell you what I know, that it will be done, and Virginians -yes, Virginians yes, Virginians resident in your own State, will be in the Scrimmage. This war is a game that takes two to play at and when once commenced it will not be ended on Southern soil. The people are as cool and dispassionate to-day as if Lincoln had never lived.
Louisiana has queer ideas of honor. It has taken possession of the Custom House building, and allows the Government to run the mails in that State, It has also seized the bullion of the Government in the Sub-Treasury, and has returned drafts on that bullion protested, which were given to the builders of the Custom House for their pay, and to the contractors for carrying the mail. Thus it refuses to allow the Government pay for work done on the Custom House with its own money, which the State now claims as its own property, and for the carrying of the mails within the State.
The Charleston Courier states that Gov. Brown, of Georgia, has seized the Northern stock in the Macon and Western Railroad, amounting to a million of dollars. This information can surprise no one: who has observed the method taken throughout the South to obtain forts, arsenals, a navy, ammunition, and money. When all other means of replenishing empty coffers have failed, a limited and precarious revenue may be gained by robbing the trunks and fobs, of the few Northern travelers who pass through Georgia.-Tribune.
The rabid organ of Jefferson Davis in New Orleans, the Delta, rejoices with demoniac glee over what it. calls the downfall of the American. Republic: 
"Who now so poor as to do reverence to that once proud Republic? How rapidly have her fortunes, her dignity, her power, fallen in the estimation of the world! Haw her vast revenues have dwindled and shrank, her solid credit fallen, her means vanished!"
It is true her revenues have gone; stolen by Floyd, Thompson, the State of Louisiana, and other thieves, as witness the case of the Mint at New Orleans.
The Arkansas True Democrat devotes a column to a blackguard lampoon upon the celebration of Washington's birthday at Fort Smith.
Gen. Bickley, the great humbug of the K. G. C.s, instead of being at the field of battle in Texas, is preaching for proselytes in Kentucky. His last effort at Jefferson town yielded three converts. He no longer conceals the fact, that his Knights are a band of free-booters.
FRATERNAL: The Savannah Republican publishes an inflammatory appeal to the border States to come to the rescue. In a tone altogether unaccustomed for so mild-mannered a sheet, it says: 
"The sending of a Federal soldier to the South after of letter the 4th of March, should be the signal for a conflagration at Washington, and an utter rout of the Vandal invaders from the North."
THIEVES CARRYING OFF THEIR PLUNDER-A letter from New Orleans, of March 7th, says the Convention in secret session to-day, passed an ordinance transferring to the Government of the Confederated States $536,000, being the amount of bullion found and customs seized by the State.
SUPPRESSION OF NEWSPAPERS.-The grand jury in Richmond have taken initiatory steps for preventing the circulation of the New York World, Tribune, and Times in that city-.Central Presbyterian.
NOT WARMLY WELCOMED. Several traders who went to Charleston in the steamship South Carolina with shoes for sale, returned in that vessel, because they found they would be taxed 25 per cent, under a recent law to prevent non-residents from engaging in business there.' Their goods were seized, but were subsequently returned, and brought back.Traveller.
THE FIRING THIS MORNING. Early this morning between 6 and 7 o'clock, while cleaning out the guns at the iron battery, Cumming's Point, a ball contained in one of the guns struck near the gate at Fort Sumter. Major Anderson immediately open his battery on, that side, but a boat being despatched to explain the; circumstance as unintentional, nothing further resulted from the accidental discharge.-Charleston Mercury, 8th.
The Atlanta Intelligencer is going mad upon incendiary documents, and wants Georgians to mob their own people for taking certain Union papers from Tennessee.
It is believed that nearly every post in Texas is by this time in possession of the State authorities.
The Charleston Courier says that the works in the harbor have made formidable progress within a few days, under Gen. Beauregard. Three soldiers, whose enlistment had expired, had left Fort Sumter.
A WARNING. The Charleston Courier warns President Lincoln and Gen. Scott. It believes "that Washington city, and some places not very far from, it, and in the Middle States, are in more I danger now than at the time of the military inauguration."
A dispatch from Gen. Beauregard says"We are prepared at all points, and defy them to reinforce Fort Sumter."
The Memphis Appeal, with the decency characteristic of a nigger-whipper, laughs over the outrage upon Mr. Van Wyck, and says -there was no outrage at allthat he was drunk, and imagined it all.
The schooner Edward Bernard sailed from Mobile on the 28th ult., with fifty-three emigrants for Hayti.
A FUGITIVE SLAVE ESCAPE. On Monday night, the inhabitants in and about Third and South streets, Philadelphia, were aroused by a scrambling noise in the rear of the residence of the high constable. That officer himself arose, and seeing two men climbing over, his fence, he challenged them, and, presenting a; musket, drew a head upon them, and: they demanded, a parley. They pretended that they were U. S. marshals in pursuit of English robbers; but it appeared that to they were. after a fugitive female slave from Washington. She had been under the protection of the high of constable, but had withdrawn to the Western .part of the State, upon learning that her owner's agents had in arrived in the city.
THE MAINE PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL. A despatch from Augusta says the bill for; the repeat of the Maine Personal Liberty Act, so called; passed the Senate on Thursday, by a vote type of 17 to 10. Five of the judges of the Supreme Court of that State have expressed" the opinion that the Personal Liberty Act is unconstitutional, and three hold the opposite opinion,.
DETROIT, March 11th. The House indefinitely postponed the consideration of the repeal of the personal Liberty Bill. 
<c06>
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References-David Thayer, M. D; Luther Clark, M.D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M.D., Portland, Me. 
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, p.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2 P.M. Nov .23-3m.
FREE DISPENSARY, for Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock. 
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified- female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge.
NO COMPROMISE WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.-Conventions, in the State of New York, to be addressed by PARKER PILLSBURY and SUSAN B. ANTHONY, will be, held as follows:-at
Seneca Falls, Thursday and Friday, March 14, 15.
Junius, (Progressive Friends' House,) Sunday, March 17.
Brackett's Bridge, Sunday March24.
North Easton, Wednesday, March. 27.
North Easton, Wednesday, March 27
Easton, Thursday and Friday, March 28, 29.
Union Village, Sunday, March 31.
NASHUA, N. H.-A. T. Foss and HENRY C. WRIGHT will speak at Nashua, N. H., Sunday, March 24, day and evening. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Haverhill Town Hall, Sunday, March 17, all day and evening.

$40 PARKER, $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and; Grover & Baker, .and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these- parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the Market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work. done at short notice. Boston, Jan. 18, 1861.3m.

The British Reviews, 
AND
Blackwood's Magazine.
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative.)
2.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS.
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00
For any two of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood and one Reviews 5 00
For Blackwood and two Reviews, 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N. B. -The price in Great Britain of the five periodicals above-named is $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT & CO.
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec.28. 6m

SEIF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
Fourth, Edition.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God,. Fourth Edition. Price 13 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers, A. J. DAVIS & A CO.,
05 6m 274 Canal Street, New York.

LINDA 
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with and Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by ANY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing- must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address 
WM. C. NELL,
F8 tf
221 Washington street.
A FEW Photographs of WENDELL PHILLIPS, by HORTON, are on sale at the Anti-Slavery Rooms for $1.01)0 each. They are much admired."F8 tf

TRANSIENT BOARDERS
The subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board. Terms moderate.
Jan. 11.S. NEWELL.

NEW SERIES OF TRACTS.
PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY,
AND TO BE OBTAINED AT THE
Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman Street, New York; 107 North Fifth Street, Philadelphia; 15 Steuben Street, Albany; and 221 Washington Street, Boston.,
No. 1.-Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. pp. 28. 5 cents.
No. 2.-Victor Hugo on Americans Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, & c. pp. 24. 5 cents.
No. 3.- An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. , pp. 36. .5 cents.
No. 4- The New Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1859 and 1860. pp. 144. 10 cents.
No. 5.-Daniel O'Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies. pp. 48. 5 cents.
No. 6.- The Right way; the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and else-. Where; By L. MARIA CHILD. pp. 95. 10 cents.
No. 7.- Testimonies of Capt. John Brown at Harper's Ferry, with his Address to the Court. pp.16. 3.cents.
No. 8.- The Philosophy of the Abolition Movements.. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. pp. 47 5 cents.
No. 9.- The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Act An Appeal to the Legislators of Massachusetts. By L. MARIA CHILD. , pp. 36. 5 cents.
No. 10.- The Infidelity of a Abolitionism. By WM. LLOYD GARRISON. pp. 12. 3 cents.
No. 11.- Speech of John Hossack, convicted of a Violation of the Fugitive Salve Slave Act at Chicago, IIIpp. 12. 3 cents.
No. 12.- The patriarchal Institution, as described by -Members of its Own Family. Compiled by L. MARIA CHILD. pp.55. 5 cents.
No. 13.- No Slave-Hunting in the Old Bay-State; An Appeal to the People; and Legislature of Massachusetts. pp). 24. 5 cents.

THE BOSTON MOB.
WHAT WE HEARD IN A DREAM.
BY FRANKLIN
HIS Satanic majesty abdicates his throne, and appoints his successor. Price, 2 cents single, $1 per 100.
Address " Franklin" Liberator office, 221 Washington street
Boston.
P. S. A sample forwarded to any address, post-paid, for one 3ct.act stamp enclosed.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE SHIP OF STATE.
Extract from an unpublished poem, entitled-"The Burning Ship"-founded on the burning of the "Lexington" steamer, Jan. 13,1840, in Long Island Sound.
BY EDWARD R. PLACE.
So have we seen the Ship of State-
Bearing its rich, immortal freight-.
Set sail with breeze and sky so fair,
Men scorned for tempests to prepare.
Yet we behold that stately Bark
Take on a freight of " bark";
We see the laboring stevedores
Pack down between confining floors,-
(Betwixt their fear and their desire-)
Those mortal bales of latent fire.
They know the hazard-know the bales
Full packed with human woes and wails;
Yet fear to Truth's warning voice
On Freedom's part to strike their choice.
The Virgin, whose fair soul of Truth
Had won the ardor of their youth,
Betray they now!-from craven fear
Of men who her sworn foes appear!
They do not fear th' avenging scourge-
Volcanic flames, the tempest-surge;-
Yet dare not trust God's arm of Right,
And calmly rest in Freedom's Might.
Onward she sailed! So calm the seas,
So balmy and so fair the breeze,
So silent and so hush below,
That Etna-load of stifled woe,-
Proclaimed they now, with hearts elate,
Here the ballast keeps her straight!
But soon, a smell of fire the sense
Reports, and hints of danger hence.
Tightly they close each smoking seam,
Through which the fettered foe may gleam;
To make full sure their mad designs,-
In grim, and close, and serried lines,
Each firm set, and clenched each hand,
Upon the heated planks they stand!
A trembling surge beneath their feet!
A quivering of chafing beat!
A moment's fear- start-
A, brief throbbing of the heart,-
Then shouts ascend! loud cheers on cheers,
Derisive of their groundless fears!
The heavens grew black; the storm rolled on;
The quiet and the peace are gone!
The thunder roared, the tempest blew,
Pale terror smote the stalwart crew.
"Open the hatches! quick-we die!"
Not from the Captain comes the cry;
'Tis the voice of wise, true men, who know
That overboard that freight must go,
Or, whether rough or smooth the weather,
They all go down in death together.
"No! cries the Captain-" stand as ye are!
Start not a pound! though every spar,
And every mast and sail, shall fall,
And crew, and passengers, and all.
More hallowed are those bales of sin
Than all the cords of kith and kin;
More claims have they to our protection,
Than heart and home's divine affection."
So, with drawn sword Servilus stands,
To smite who brave his base commands.
"We took this freight in honor; men
Would stain your souls? To duty, then!"
Thus they replied: "No contract holds,
When Right expires within its folds.
When storms o'erwhelm, do true men pause,
To balance gainst Mercy's cause?
When we left port, we did not know
We carried mutiny below.
Off with the hatches, then! let waves
Of Truth pour down where raves!
Back roared " Crazy men!
Read the Ship's papers! learn ye, then,
We did agree, by written oath,
To take-treason and ruin, both!
If we-or this our charge-must die,
Let the Ship burn! who care Not I."
Scarce had his words outraged the air,
When upward burst a red, broad glare,
And roars, like thousand thunders, 
Around the world. And stout men reeled,-
The timid quaked, and called for aid,
Alike on traitors and betrayed.
Too late-too late! a mournful drift,
The once proud Ship lies prone and rift!
O, lovers of the Right and True!
O, men who talk of Freedom's due!Arise! be strong! bow not in sorrow;
The same good sun will shine to-morrow.
Grasp with firm hands the reins of Fate;-
Go, build anew the Ship of State;-
With ribs of Justice, keel of Right,
Bolted and planked with Freedom's Might;
Build her in Honor, build in Truth,
Safely she'll ride the tempest ruth!
I see them lay the ponderous keel;
I hear the workmen's joyous peal-
And the adjusting, sturdy stroke,
On rib and plank of living oak.
'Tis done! She floats!-the bold new launch
Rides on the storm-wave, trim and stanch!
Her freight-all hopes; all human good;
God's love, and Christ's; man's brotherhood;
The knowledge that makes free and wise;
A valor for Truth's brave emprise;
Justice and Honor; Mercy's tear;
The poorest man the rich man's peer!-
Waving in light-in peace unfurled-
"Friendship!" her flag bears round the world.
Sail on, O Ship for Freedom built!
Joy to all lands! Oppression's guilt
No more shall claim, sweet Liberty, 
Alliance, or, with thee!
From Life Illustrated.
THE SWORD AND THE PEN.
BY MRS. SARAH S. SOCWELL.
Say not the glittering, blood-stained sword
Is mightier than the pen,
Or wields a deeper, stronger power
Over the hearts of men.
The sword is mighty to destroy,
To shroud the earth in gloom,
To crowd with legions, red with gore,
The pathway to the tomb;
To crush the lonely widow's heart,
To wake the orphan's cry,
To fill the earth with wretchedness,
And crime of deepest dye.
But mightier far the peaceful pen,
Scattering the gems of mind,
Like precious seed throughout the earth
To save and bless mankind.
And when from its destroying work
The gleamingsword shall rest,
When with sweet peace and righteousness
The blooming earth is blest-
Then shall the pen assert its power,
And then mankind will feel
That mightier is its influence
Than the sword's glittering steel.
La Prairie Centre, III.

MINISTERING SPIRITS.
There are, who the seers of old
Can see the helpers God has sent,
And how life's mountain side
Is white with many an angel tent!
They hear the heralds whom our Lord
Sends, down his pathway to prepare:
And, from others hidden, shines
On their high place of faith and prayer.
WRITTIER.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE SLAVEHOLDER'S PRAYER.
O Lord God of Israel, the Almighty, covenant with Abraham thy friend and the father of the faithful; we acknowledge thee as "our Father, who art in heaven."
First of all, we adore thee as a Being of infinite greatness and excellence. Thou art no respecter of persons; art supremely just; thou art good and doest good; and thy tender mercies are over all thy works. WE are hence the recipients of thy mercy continually, in all our domestic relations and interests; especially in that "peculiar," patriarchal institution, which thou hast ordained and vouchsafed to us, for our own advantage and comfort, and to be perpetuated from generation to generation.
We thank thee, that, in thy holy sovereignty, thou hast distinguished us from the beasts of the field and fowls of the air; and from all those "goods and chattels personal," which we are permitted and feel it our duty to hold in servitude. We thank thee, that thou hast "made of one blood all nations of men," for the very purpose that a part might obtain the absolute mastery and ownership of the rest Thus we have, O God, in thy kindness, equity, and impartial, disinterested love, secured to us the holy and blessed institution of Master and Slave. It is meet, O kind Parent, that thou shouldst ordain this distinction in thy family, and in our favor; for thou art the common Father of human race. In this great brotherhood thou hast displayed thy wisdom and universal benevolence, not by creating all men equal, but that some are born to rule, and others to serve. Hence thou hast established, upon a foundation as immutable as " the everlasting hills," the right of man to hold property in man Most devoutly do we thank thee, that, inseparable from this ancient patriarchal institution, we have perpetuated to us the equally ancient patriarchal institution of We cannot be sufficiently grateful, O God, thou God of infinite purity, that our flows in the veins of a multitude of our servants. Surely, with these living memorials in our kitchens, parlors and drawing-rooms, and upon our wide-spread plantations, we must be exceedingly criminal if we are ever unmindful of our privileges and indulgences! Wilt thou, our infinitely and heavenly Parent, incline such as may have the present or future ownership of our offspring, to treat them with due benevolence and equity. Render, we pray thee, all our kindred slaves the most faithful of servants, that they may never disgrace their paternal ancestry. We cannot consistently pray that they may be instructed to read thy Holy Word; but we do pray that their owners may faithfully enforce upon them the apostolic injunction: "Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh." It is also our earnest desire, O God, that those who have purchased, or may hereafter inherit our offspring, may apprehend the import of another apostolic command: "Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal." This is necessary in order to keep such in due subordination; for thou knowest, Heavenly Father, that mixed blood is inclined to be restiff.
We are not ignorant, Divine Parent, that numbers of our sons, not a few of our fairest daughters, some of our grand-children, and many of our brothers and sisters, are widely scattered. Some of us have been unfortunate; and adversity has brought such near relatives to the auction-block. Others we have been forced to sell for insubordination; and we have parted with others, because they had stealthily gained some "vague ideas of freedom." Whether these near relatives have fallen into the hands of kind, or of cruel masters, we cheerfully and submissively commend them to thy kind, protective Providence.
We beseech thee, also, O our God, to sanctify and repair unto us our frequent losses, sustained by the elopement of our slaves. Not a few of them were among the best, because the most intelligent, of our servants. To suffer such damage is, to us, exceedingly grievous and deplorable. We stand in need of much patience, self-denial and Christian fortitude, to endure such retrenchment upon our rights and wealth. Wilt thou grant these graces in large measure; and in proportion as we lose, by those who run away, may our servants, that remain, be prolific and lucrative. We need the more grace, O God, when we consider the base ingratitude of those fugitives, who have been treated by us with the utmost kindness. When some kinds of riches " take to themselves wings and flyaway, as an angel towards heaven," we can cheerfully submit. But when our goods and chattels take unto themselves feet, and walk away towards Canada and the North Star, our hearts are in danger of murmuring and rising in rebellion against thy mysterious Providence. While, in these perilous times, O God, we entreat that, by thy " impartial hand, the dogs of war may be held in leash "||; we implore thee to render our blood-hounds quick-scented and swift to pursue, overtake and tear the faithless flying vassal.
Be not angry with us, Heavenly Parent, while we express in thine ear another of our grievances. We are constrained to plead against those, who, if they do not actually interfere to entice away our slaves, will yet do nothing to hinder their escape, and even rejoice when they run away. Do thou destroy their influence for mischief, and speedily return their evil desires, unanswered, into their own bosoms. Convince them that, according to the doctrine of our greatest Doctors of Divinity, the apostolic command, which they profess to obey, "Remember those who are in bonds as bound with them," does not apply at all to the slaves, but to us, who are under imperative " bonds" to preserve and extend the institution of slavery. Do thou, also, rebuke and punish, as they deserve, those who utterly refuse to return our fugitives; but against "law," and the principles of equity in other kinds or property, even conceal and aid them on their way to a land of freedom! Suffer them no longer, O Lord, to insult and outrage us, by citing as authority that stale and obsolete prohibition, "Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee: he shall dwell with thee, even among you in that place which he shall choose, in one of thy gates, where it liketh him best: thou shalt not oppress him Wilt thou, O righteous Father, send those flagrant violators of the " Fugitive Slave Law " to the feet of our pro-slavery Gamaliels, that they may learn the true "exegesis" of such passages.
We have reason to be filled with grateful astonishment, our Heavenly Father, in view of the great prosperity of this blessed institution. Thou hast, in thy holy, kind and benevolent Providence, in the space of two hundred and forty years, increased the number of our slaves from a single score to four millions! Surely, thou hast not dealt thus with any other people. "What shall we render unto the Lord, for all his benefits," in giving us the power and the privilege to chattelize such a multitude of men, women and children? We acknowledge, with heart-felt thanksgiving and praise, that even the flocks of Jacob, at Padan Aram, did not multiply like our human cattle; and the ring-streaked, speckled and spotted, among his goats and sheep, did not exhibit so great a variety of complexions as our field-hands and house-servants. Such is the fruit of amalgamation, in our eyes; and more potent than the 'pilled rods of hazel and, in the watering-troughs and gutters,' among the cattle of the patriarch! Yet, thou knowest, O Lord, that a class of fanatics are constantly prating against amalgamation; and they would entirely and for ever abolish this "bleaching process," by the
Adapted to Public Worship; Family Devotion; and to the Closet, by using the first person singular.
"The best blood of Virginia PROVERB.
This was characteristically true of slave "Fred. Douglass. So inveterately stubborn was that bright but dangerous mulatto, that "just and equal" chastisement or even the severest correction, would not render him subordinate; and he at last ran away.
Address of the Clergy in Wilmington, N. C.
<c03>
fruits of which our servants and fugitives are so easily described. Wilt thou circumvent them in their machinations, and defeat all their evil designs
But, our Heavenly Father, we have to confess our multiplied and aggravated sins! It is of no merit of our own that we are enriched with herds of human cattle, while others are deprived, even by law, of the blessings abounding with We have nothing that we did not receive. Thou hast loaded us with these riches; but we have requited the evil for good. We have not valued our blessings, especially those of slavery and, as we ought. We have, until a very few years, been so very wicked as not duly to apprehend that slavery is a divine institution! instead of feeling and acknowledging, as we ought to have done, that the whole system is ordained of God, and even superior to the marriage relation; we have practically admitted that it is a mere overture of statute and police-regulation! In a great many instances, we have heretofore allowed that slavery is a great evil; and some of our weak brethren have thought that it is even a sin! Thus have we given to its enemies, and even infidels, great advantage; and we are now deservedly reaping the fruits of our folly. We thank thee that more enlightened and orthodox views are now prevailing. May they become universal! Will the Lord forgive our past sin and incredulity! Produce, in all our minds, the firm, unwavering conviction, that Slavery and are indeed a Divine Institution. 'Lord, we believe; help thou our unbelief!'
Some of us, O God, are troubled with the arguments of Fanatics. They insist that, because thou hast made of one blood all nations of men," we have no right to reduce any part of them to vassalage. Those troublesome sophists also urge-upon us our Savior's "golden rule "; and are constantly prating that thou, O Lord, hast required us to "break every yoke," and " let the oppressed go free." Just as if any of African descent could have been included in this injunction; or any one born of a slave mother, though our own blood flow in his veins, can be oppressed by reduction to a brute and a chattel! In addition to this, such pestilent fellows throw in our teeth the "rhetorical that " all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
Such arguments, our Heavenly Father, do not, indeed, greatly perplex strong-minded and stable Christians; but they do disturb our feeble brethren, whose "conscience, being weak, is defiled." We pray thee, therefore, to give us wisdom, skill, and logical acumen to answer and for ever to silence all such sophists, and to vindicate the holy institution of slavery and concubinage against gainsayers and blasphemers.
Some things, O God, we do not so clearly understand as we desire. Wilt thou enlighten our minds. If it could not have been right, but a sin in itself, for Shem and Japheth to enslave their brother Ham, we beseech thee to instruct us when it became right, and no sin in itself, for the descendants of Shem and Japheth to enslave Ham's posterity? Wilt thou also aid us to discriminate between the wrong and the cruelty of enslaving Hebrews in "the land of Ham," and of the Jews by the Romans, after the destruction of Jerusalem, and the right, justice and benevolence for Jews and Gentiles to enslave Africans? Wilt thou, moreover, cause our weak brethren" to understand why thou didst say to the Hebrews, " He that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death"; while our "peculiar," "patriarchal" institution renders it all right, just, benevolent for us to buy, sell, steal, catch and enslave as many as we can of the one hundred and forty million of the earth's present population.
We gratefully acknowledge, Parent of all good, that our excellent Chief Justice has made these distinctions partially plain by affirming that "the African has no rights which the white man is bound to respect"; but thou knowest, O God, that some are not exactly satisfied with his decision. We pray thee, therefore, enlighten their minds, and settle them in the truth of this great principle.
We thank thee, O thou sovereign Ruler of heaven and earth, that thou hast raised up some of the most learned, able and popular Divines in our country, to defend our "God-given right" to hold slaves and perpetuate slavery. Wilt thou reward them ten thousand fold in this life, for their "labors of love," and " recompense them in the resurrection of the just Wilt thou also abundantly bless the Editors and Proprietors of that veteran, religious periodical, which, for a long series of years, has done more to make money and strengthen the holy institution of slavery, than perhaps all other weekly papers in the land. We pray thee, continue to the conductors of that journal all wordly wisdom, prudence, "cunning craftiness and sleight of men, necessary to increase its circulation and influence among slaveholders of the South and proslavery men of the North.
We live, O God, as knowest, in "perilous times." A party has sprung into power, and wrested from us our right to rule the nation. That right we have enjoyed for more than sixty years, and to it we are perpetually entitled by virtue of our property in slaves. This usurpation of the now dominant party has stirred up our holy indignation; and it has endangered, if not practically dissolved, the confederacy. Will the Lord interpose, and disperse these threatening clouds. We pray thee, cause the actual secession of several States to accomplish what bare menaces were, formerly, sufficient to effect. Then will leading politicians of other States be disposed to yield and "compromise." We rejoice and thank thee that this yielding spirit is already being developed; and that even the Premier of the incoming Administration, notwithstanding his speeches upon the "higher law and the "irrepressible conflict," is leaning toward an acknowledgment of our rights and demands. Let us not, O our God, be disappointed. May those men, who now have the power and influence, be so far disposed to yield and abandon their "platform," "for the sake of the Union," as to amend the Constitution by an unalterable guaranty for the perpetuity and universality of our heaven-born institution. Then, surely, O God, throughout this great country, " the wrath of man shall praise thee; the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain," until it break out anew, to be pacified only by additional concessions.
We also beseech thee, O thou Ruler of nations, to bless our late venerable President, just retired from office. Although, officially, he can serve our cause no longer, may he live the hearts of all slaveholders and pro-slavery Democrats. Like a woman mentioned in ancient history, he hath "done what" he "could." To the extent of ability, without exposing himself to impeachment or to hemp-which we could not ask-he has, for the sake of our holy institution, complicated with those who have risen up in rebellion against the Federal Government While we " take the will for the deed," wilt thou, O God, richly reward him for what he earnestly desired to do, but was too imbecile to accomplish. When will prove true the divine maxim, "If there be first a willing mind, it is acceptable, according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not."
Moreover, do we most earnestly beseech thee, our Father and our God, to interpose and prevent, what we have reason to fear, servile insurrections. Wilt thou immediately quench those sparks, which, from the anvil and hammer of truth and free discussion, expose our magazines to explosion. Already, says our beloved, retired President, "do the slaves begin to cherish vague ideas of freedom." From the overshadowing calamity and ruin of such ideas expanded and matured, "good Lord, deliver us!" We thank thee for the firmness and decision imparted to a high functionary in the capital of an Eastern State. With his promptness and pro-slavery patriotism he was able, by the assistance of a mob, recently to break up a meeting of fanatics, and close the dangerous free discussions in which they were engaged. May the name of that illustrious and brave civic officer descend, on the page
New York Observer.
<c04>
of truthful and impartial history, in. Roman capitals and German black letters, as worthy to be enrolled with the "five thousand" "of property and standing," who, some years since, succeeded in dispersing a score of females engaged in a prayer-meeting!
O God-"for we are not heard for our much speaking"-we entreat thee to hasten the millennium of our patriarchal, patriotic, philanthropic and heavenly system of Slavery and Concubinage! Let it soon be extended throughout our land, and throughout the earth! Then shall come to pass that for which we have so often and so devoutly prayed, and for which many of our Divines have so earnestly pleaded. There will be no North no South, no East, no West. There will be neither free labor nor free laborers, " bleached or unbleached "; for capital shall swallow up the whole, and all the " mud-sills " of our political edifice will be forever removed. Then shall the blessing of the Patriarch come upon all nations; and Thine shall be the glory and praise, so long as heaven and earth and slavery and concubinage shall endure. AMEN!
THE BOASTED "LAND OF THE FREEEXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM A LADY.
I listened, not long ago, to the sermon of a Boston clergyman. He had just returned from a tour in Europe. His text was Paul's declaration to the magistrate, that he was a free-born Roman citizen, and the sermon was to show the inestimable blessing it was now to be born an American citizen, instead of a subject to any European State.
This was the great lesson his visit abroad had stamped his mind with ineffaceable impression. Even in England, he said, you could not be, for a single waking hour of your stay, without in some manner or other being reminded of the authority and presence of government. While in America, he had made a journey of two thousand miles by railroad, steamboat, canoe and on foot, and no where, in the most populous city or distant prairie, was he in a single instance aware of the presence of a government official.
The theory of European government is, that the people are to be taken care of-to do nothing but what the government permits. In America, the theory is, that every body may do any he can, but what is forbidden, and the people are to take care of themselves. The result is, we gain immensely in larger activity, and every species of improvement. And, altogether, the freedom of this country was beyond all price, both civil and religious.
He told us of the despotic nature of Romanism, and what a burden and hindrance it was to the exercise of the best powers of the human soul. Even Uncle Tom's Cabin could not be read by any child of the church of Rome. And as he went on, the fine rhetoric and affluent illustration, the zealous enthusiasm, kindled a glow of just pride in the hearts of his numerous hearers, or made them tremble with devout thankfulness at the mercy of God, which had cast their lot in this highest favored land.
The ablest historian of Civilization, in his work so widely read just now, had declared Massachusetts to be the seat of the finest culmination of civilization yet reached in the progress of human society. And he himself believed the hundred liberal churches of New England, one of which he then addressed, to be the brightest examples of religious freedom yet known in the world. Thus pleased and flattered, the congregation rose to receive the almost superfluous benediction of the minister, and went out to smile and congratulate each other on being the very elect in the kingdom of Liberty!
Throughout this long and elaborate sermon, there had not been a hint that any thing remained to be accomplished, or even desired, to complete in this country the perfect triumph of the sacred justice we call freedom!
All had been honestly gained; and we sitting there in the luxurious enjoyment of such liberty as made us the envy of every foreigner. It was wonderful how the great clement of despotism in this country was utterly ignored. Had not these people read their Saturday's newspapers with the dozen fresh outrages in as many Southern States, upon unoffending New England citizens, whose only crime was being Northerners, with an odious adjective prefixed Did this Christian (?) minister fail to blush for his country when he heard in London, how his respected country woman, Miss Remond, a free-born American, -yes, a Massachusetts citizen,-was refused the ordinary protection and civility of a passport to the Continent by the representative of the American government, solely because she belonged to a race which the Supreme Court of the land declares has no rights white men are bound to respect? Did he know of any proscription in Europe quite so bad as that, even in Russia? Had he forgotten how not only a single citizen of Massachusetts, but the State, was insulted, when, in the language of Mr. Emerson, the mob of Charleston assembled in the streets, before the door of the Commissioner of Massachusetts, and a deputation of gentlemen waited upon him in the hall to say they had come with the unanimous voice of the State (South Carolina) to remove him by force, and the carriage was at the door, and he said, ' Well, gentlemen since it is your pleasure to use force, I must go.'
Should you not suppose the lawyers, merchants, and mechanics of that assembly, liable to be driven by stress of business on a Southern instead of a European tour, would have felt compelled to receive the praises of American liberty with some abatement? Had this minister made a discriminating comparison of New England and European liberty, instead of extending the tribute to America in general, and speaking throughout of the American government, instead of Massachusetts government, his sermon would have seemed more justified. But even then, an Abolitionist would have remembered that Massachusetts gave up Anthony Burns, while England would have been a safe shelter for John Brown as for Kossuth and Mazzini.
But to fancy a South Carolinian sitting in the next pew to the son of the Hon. Samuel Hoar, and sharing an equally ardent patriotic pride, suggests the propriety of a more qualified reference to American liberty.
Do you regard this as the captious criticism of the Abolitionists, and ask what is the use of forever lugging in this question of negro slavery? (which is simply the question of human freedom.) I would ask in reply, what is the use of this sermon? Why English, French, German and Italian institutions, and challenge a comparison with our own as so much freer? Because by this we gain a higher estimate of the value of freedom; we learn to appreciate universal and impartial justice more; and the conviction of our souls is deepened, that the welfare of man is paramount to the safety of any throne, parliament, congress, or ecclesiastical power whatever, that hinders and opposes.
It is well to contrast truly republican and democratic institutions with despotic and illiberal ones, that we may wisely understand our gain, and go on to new achievements; but when the very institutions we admire and cherish are threatened by a tyranny as insolent as that of Hapsburg-as cruel as ever that of Naples -as insidious as Louis Napoleon's-as cheating and mocking to the light of conscience and reason as is Rome itself-it strikes me that a faithful preacher could not fail to lift up a warning of so great a danger, lest our boast of freedom prove one of vanity, and not of fact. If our candlestick is now tall enough to send its light over the sea to comfort and rejoice struggling philanthropists, then how much clearer would be its shine with this hideous black snuff, slavery, taken out from the heart of its flame!
He spoke of the Lancashire man who comes to New Hampshire, and, in his better recollections of privation and want, curses his mother land, England. But he did not remind his hearers of the FORTY THOUSAND fugitive slaves who have taken refuge in the mane of the British lion from the pitiless talons of the American eagle, and who think over the scenes of their Southern bondage with no very eminent feelings of love and respect for the land of their fathers."
<c05>
NEW DEMANDS FROM THE SOUTH.
Freemen of the North! Slaveholders demand of you that they shall be allowed to carry their property into all the Territories of the United States. We, the Slaves, demand that we be allowed to carry our property into all the Territories of the United States. Slaveholders demand of the General Government constant and complete protection in the use and enjoyment of their property. We demand as constant and complete protection in the use and enjoyment of our property as shall be allowed to them. Slaveholders demand that government officers, and you, shall stand guard over their property, to keep it from running away. We will not insult government or people by asking that for ours. Slaveholders demand to be permitted to take their colored servants wherever they please, in NorthernStates, cities, towns, villages, hotels, or churches, without objection, or interference. We demand permission to take our colored selves wherever the slaveholder can take his servant or himself, or we may choose to go. Slaveholders demand that they shall be allowed to import as many negroes from Africa as may be convenient for them to hold as property. We demand to be allowed to export as many white men-stealers to the islands as may be necessary to rid this country of tyrants, and to enable us to establish here justice and liberty. Slaveholders demand to be allowed to manage their own personal and domestic affairs in their own way. We demand to be allowed to manage our own domestic and personal affairs as independently as they. They demand that the General Government shall assist them to maintain their despotism against all who may attempt its overthrow. We demand that the government shall assist us to maintain our rights in defiance of all who may combine against us. Four hundred, thousand tyrants demand of Christians and Republicans new concessions to crime and despotism. Forty hundred thousand slaves claim the right to life and liberty. If the right to life and liberty is from Heaven, the demands of enslaving despots are from hell. "Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide!"
Freemen of the North - choose! Christians, for you there can be but one side! May the watchword of freemen be, "No Concessions to Tyranny!" - the Christian's shibboleth, " No Compliance with Crime
We have "fallen among thieves." Brothers, we call upon you to assist us; Woe will be to all who assist the robbers, and condemnation to those who "pass by on the other side." We have waited long: our sufferings are beyond endurance.
Know ye, O Christians and brothers, that, in this land of the oppressor, the number of our dead equals every seven years the number of the living? O, terrible are the crimes of those who despoil us and murder us! But so insatiate is the avarice of our tormentors, and so hardened and brutal have their souls become, that even all this robbery and murder will not suffice them. They cause the dead bodies of their victims, men, women, and children of our race, to lie thick on the African sands; and they strew with corpses the depths of the sea. 
Men and brothers! you know these things to be true; and yet you choose to honor those robbers and murderers as Christians, and desire a union with them, as brothers, even while they persist in their crimes. You know that some of these men are so hardened in wickedness as to sell their own children. You know that others are so as to buy, and sell, and enslave the children of others. You know that they are all thieves and robbers the sight of God, and according to all just and equal laws among men. Will you, for the sake of power or pelf, or for any other earthly interest, unite with the perpetrators of these crimes? Will you, men of the North, join with us, or with the oppressors? The choice is before you, and you can no longer evade it.
 In mercy to your children, as well as to us who suffer now, may you choose the right. "With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again." Whileyou join hands with the wicked and the spoiler, the prayers of the aggrieved ones shall rise up to Heaven against you. 
You have agreed together to keep us in bondage. You have joined with the wicked to insult the weak. Together you betray us-you abuse us-you rob us! Many long years have you denied to us all privileges as citizens; but now, in the name of the Almighty Judge and Father of us all, we demand our rights as men! FOUR MILLION VOICES.

THE MOB AT THE TREMONT TEMPLE.
NORTH BROOKFIELD, March 1, 1861.
I have been much dissatisfied at the tone assumed by the press, and by the legislative committee, in regard to the affair at Tremont Temple of Dec. 3d. Although spoken of as an outrage on the principle of free speech, it has been too generally conceded to have been cloaked under legal forms, and with a show of parliamentary proceeding. On the contrary, the evidence is, to me, strong and clear, that it was at once a violation of personal liberty and personal property; in fact, a, under the jurisdiction of the criminal and civil courts. Indulge me with your space for a few remarks. It appears to me that it may be asserted as a principle of law, that every meeting must be conducted under the call of the meeting-within the scope, towards the objects, and in line of that call. Surely this is law, if there is any sacredness in property rights. Nor is it possible to divert the meeting from that course. For any other purpose, there is no meeting, no recognized voters, no legal authority. Who could direct the proceedings of the meeting? What enfranchises the voters at the meeting, beside the call? What other basis is there for representation? No man, unless recognized in the call, unless applying himself to the principles of that call, can have a legal, a parliamentary existence in such assembly. What is there to determine who has the power to vote aside the objects of a legally called meeting? Have a hundred boys? Is mere manhood sufficient? Suppose a thousand North street roughs should attend the session of the Historical Society, vote to burn the records, and appropriate the funds to a good time. Would it be right? But you say, that society is incorporated, has a constitution, and elected members. But every assembly of men, for a legal purpose, is as truly organized, though not as extensively or formally, as the closest corporation in Massachusetts, and has as thorough and complete legal rights. The right of self-preservation, to protect itself from outside influence, is the simplest right of anybody. The man who would interfere against the purposes of a society has no legal ground to stand upon, no legal weapon to lift, and no legal existence himself.
In fact, the secessionists have acted only on this Boston principle of property rights, as controlled by the majority of a mob. They have merely introduced large bodies of voting men into the forts and arsenals of the federal government, and then, you see, by the popular voice, by the will of the majority, they legally took possession of the thing in question. Suppose the possession of that little citadel in Charleston harbor were submitted to a popular vote. But Fort Sumter as much belongs to the mob of Charleston as did Tremont Temple to the Boston mob on Dec. 3d. Would to God the right of possession had been as bravely defended in the one case as it will be in the other!
But further, a fortiori, a meeting, for any purpose, must be organized under the call of the meeting. On a principle so simple and strong as this, the affair at Tremont Temple was clearly a riot, having no other legal name. The mock organization by the rioters was in open defiance and outrage of parliamentary law. A committee of the meeting had already reported a list of officers. Without a reconsideration of the appointment and authority of such committee, without a vote to reject their report, any motion for any election of officers was impertinent and illegal. Nay, as a motion, it was impossible. Such an attempt was made by a person not recognized by the Chairman, and was put by himself. Was ever a farce more gross, ever an outrage on popular rights more infamous? But the rioters say we were not acting under Cushing's manual, or strict parliamentary forms, only taking the general sense of the assembly. But why allow the general sense of an assembly to be in that assembly? That is as strictly arbitrary as a vote for reconsider-
<c06>
ation, as truly a parliamentary fiction. But I will not trouble you further. F. A. W.-Daily and Bee.
ETHAN SPIKE'S PLAN OF COMPROMISE.
Ethan Spike, the regular successor to Major Downing, has issued his plan of compromise, which he proposes to send to Washington by the hands of George Lunt, of the Boston Courier. The essential items of the plan are: "The removal of the Missouri line as north as the St. Lawrence river, all south of that to be devoted to slavery; a declaration by the Republicans that they are sorry they elected Lincoln, and are willing to be forgiven; the public burning of the Chicago platform, and such portions of the Bible as seem to conflict with slavery; the removal of Bunker Hill Monument to South Carolina; the immediate massacre of all negroes in the Northern States; the perpetual banishment of Garrison, Phillips, Abby Foster, Daniel Pratt, Mrs. Bloomer, and Caleb Cushing, to Liberia; E Pluribus <illegible> to be amended so as to read E Pluribus Carolina; the turkey buzzard to be substituted for the American eagle; Major Anderson to be hung; the stars to be obliterated from the national ensign, and a bale of cotton to be substituted; Howell Cobb to be proclaimed President, and Gov. Floyd Secretary of the Treasury; only two newspapers to be allowed in the free States-the New York Day Book and the Eastern Argus; the New England pulpit to be controlled by Censors appointed by Senator Wigfall; the old hats of Iverson, Jeff. Davis and Yancey shall be set up in the market places of the more rebellious Northern cities, and every person refusing obeisance shall have his nose flattened, be painted black, and sold into slavery. If after this liberal offer our Southern brethren shall continue contumacious and insist upon cutting our throats, then, in the spirit of '76, let us muster in our strength and-run away."
CONDITION OF THE COLORED 
True to its pro-slavery spirit and purpose, the New York Observer, last week, gives the following malicious and insidious, but perfectly characteristic thrust at the Anti-Slavery movement:-
"Disguise it as we will, shut our eyes to the truth of it as we may, the cruel strikes us as with a knife, that the anti-slavery agitation of the last quarter of a century has not elevated, but has depressed the colored people of this country. It is a fact, incredible to foreign admirers of free and enlightened America, that whole States have shut their gates against the admission of the race as residents among them, and that in every state, section, and community, they hold a social position that annihilates their hopes of ENJOYING the privileges of citizens, as if they had been born without brains. And more wonderful, still, the spirit of modern philanthropy is resisting all measures of and cable adjustment of our national troubles, at the risk of rending the Union, making slavery perpetual, re-opening the slave trade with all its horrors, and without the slightest possible reason to suppose that disunion will be of the least advantage to the African race, bond or free! This is overlooking the greater result for the sake of the less. This is straining out a gnat, and swallowing a prodigious camel. This is setting fire to the barn to expel the rats. This is the policy that makes the Louisville negro cry out in despair, "Save me from my friends!"
A truthful and triumphant refutation of these defamatory charges is, by a singular coincidence, furnished us in the following extract of a letter from our colored fellow-citizen, Mr. GEORGE T. DOWNING, published in the New York Anglo-African of last week:-
Who that can run back, say twenty years, can fail to observe the most hopeful changes Then, and before then, if ever, was the time to flee the country. Then a colored man had to take the gutter-side of the pave, and dared not show his face in a concert, lecture, or library-room; schools, colleges, and literary associations closed their doors against him; he had to pace the all night howling storms, with his wife and little ones, while going up or down the rough, Sound; among drunkands and lewd, dirty persons in Jim-Crow cars, while passing from city to city; spit on upon the highway, his presence everywhere the signal for contumely and insult, even unto blows; enjoying any, but poor, educational privileges, the teachers teaching the children "no hope in this country," instructing them to be good menials, and whipping scholars for calling a decent-looking colored parent visiting the school, a gentleman. All of this was then too tamely submitted to. Now colleges and schools are alike open to all on equal terms, as also the lecture, the concert, and the library-room; railroads and steamboats are free to him; "see him in legislative halls, in person or by petition, standing erect and boldly demanding his every right; see him elected by the suffrages of the people to respectable positions of trust, participating at the bar, a justice of the peace, in the work-shop, in the studio, occupying professorships, and then say, if you can, there is no hope in the future. I give incident that came under my notice a few days ago. A little colored boy attending one of the public schools in this city had done some mischievous act provoking the ire of the white man, who reproved him, and threatened to arrest him. The little fellow, in a manner evincing dignity and a consciousness that he had rights which would be respected, responded, "Show me your authority" I very much question if the fitting words, spoken in that fitting manner, could have been heard in the streets of Boston, coming from a colored man, twenty-five years ago. It is the infusion of this spirit into the rising generation that strengthens my hope.
PRAYERS ALTERED TO SUIT POLITICAL CHANGES.-The following circular has been issued by the Bishop of the Diocese of South Carolina:-
CHARLESTON, Feb. 19, 1861
To the Clergy of the Episcopal Church in the Diocese of South Carolina:
BELOVED BRETHREN:-South Carolina having now become one of the "Confederate States America," a Provisional Government having been established, and the President inaugurated, permit me to request that hereafter, in the prayer for "all in civil authority" now used, you substitute for the words "Governor of South Carolina," the words "President of the Confederate States of America and that in the "prayer for Congress," instead of the words "United States," the words "Confederate States" be used, and the words "Senate and" omitted.
I remain very truly, your Brother in Christ,
Bishop of the Diocese of South Carolina.
THE WRONG MAN HANGED. In April, 1859, John Stephens, alias Cyphus, was hanged in Baltimore for the murder of <illegible> colored man named William King, in the preceding September, protesting his innocence to the last. It now appears that a man named George Orem, not <illegible> Cyphus in appearance, died on Sunday afternoon last, 3d inst., in Wagon alley, near the scene of the murder of King, and before his death confessed to a number of persons that he, and not Cyphus was the author of the death of King. He also confessed having cherished an animosity against King, because the latter had married a woman whose hand he himself had sought. He also confessed to having been the first who intimated that Cyphus was the guilty party.
COMPLEXION OF HUMAN RACE. Mr. Abodie, a learned French, declares the complexion of the human race to be so entirely dependent on the mode of nourishment, that he has beheld in Nubia whole races of negroes who, from the entire of animal food, present as fine carnation as the inhabitants of southern Europe. In Algeria it has long been the subject of remark, that the butchers, generally negroes of Kalu, are as fair in complexion as the European settlers, although still preserving their wooly hair.
Mrs. J. C. Higgins, living near Bridget Creek, Wisconsin, one evening a few weeks since, heard an unusual noise at the calf-pen, and upon going out found that something like a dozen wolves were contemplating an attack upon the calf. Upon her approach, they retreated a short distance. Mrs. H. is a good shot with a rifle, and she first determined to shoot at least one of the intruders with her husband's loaded Upon reflection, she concluded to put upon some meat she had in the house, and give it to her unwelcome visitors. She did so, and upon the return of her husband, who was absent the fore-part of the evening, he found twelve lying dead within a few rods of the house.
SEVEN <illegible> IN A FAMILY. A family named Pate, residing in Spotsylvania county, Va., near the Orange count line, has lost seven children by within the last three weeks. The father and mother have thus been bereft of their entire offspring, the youngest an infant, dying last.
