THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARROSON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind. 
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 26. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 26, 1863. WHILE NO. 1690.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
SPEECH OF MONTGOMERY BLAIR,
U. S. POSTMASTER GENERAL.
The following is the principal portion of the speech sale by Hon. Montgomery Blair, at the loyal mass meeting of the sons of the Granite State, at Concord, on the 17th of June —a speech as inopportune to the occasion as it was disgraceful to the speaker:—
There are two knots of conspiring politicians, at opposite ends of the Union, that make slavery a <illegible>, on which they would play see-saw with the Government, and willingly break it in the middle, and demolish it to make experiments with the fractions in reconstructions suited to their designs, which are only known as hostile to the well-balanced constitutions inherited by our fathers. The Calborn and Wendell Phillips Juntas have both sought the accomplishment of their adverse ends by a common means-the overthrow of the Constitution. Calboun’s school would destroy every free principle, because repugnant to the perpetuity and propagation of slavery universally as the only safe foundation of good government. Phillips's school would subject all our systems of government to the guillotime of revolutionary tribunals, because they recognize the existence of different races among us-of white, red and black; because they repudiate the idea of equality and fraternity in regard to citizenship that <illegible> to produce that amalgamation, personal and political, which would make our government one of mongrel races; and because they authorize legislation-State and National-which may exclude them from taking root in the soil and government of the country. The white man has extruded the Indian race from dominion on this continent, its native born aboriginal inheritor. The African was introduced on it, not as its owner or to give it law, but to be owned and receive law, and under this aspect the white man as a conqueror has accommodated the constitutions of the country to his own condition-that of the ruling race. The ground which Wendell Phillips and his followers take is not merely to alter the law and enfranchise the races held under it as inferior to that holding the dominion by right of conquest, but to abolish the constitutions which recognize that right as established, and admit to equal participation those races hitherto excluded as inferiors.
The people who hold the sovereignty in the United States equally abjure the Calhoun and Phillips doctrine, both looking to a radical revolution to accomplish their opposing schemes. The platform of principles which put Mr. Lincoln at the head of the Government explicitly denounced both; and every State paper from the hand of the President, referring to it, proclaims a policy at war with that of the partisans of Calhoun on the one hand, and of Phillips on the other. Providentially, the treason hatched under the incubation of Calhoun has destroyed the whole progeny of mischiefs by means of which he sought to work the overthrow of the Government. Rebellion to overthrow the Constitution compelled the exertion of its war power, under which has fallen in the rebel States that local institution employed by the assailants of the national system for its ruin. The bondage which rendered the slaves subservient for this purpose, is declared by the President’s proclamation to be broken, and if the arms of the United States can maintain its authority, the servitude which the Constitution once made it a duty to tolerate, now becomes, by the fiat of its war functionary, the malady that must be thrown off for self-preservation. The life of the Constitution is now the death of slavery. The weapon used to destroy the Government is wrested from the hands of traitors, and is a forfeit. The slavery abolished under the proclamation is the rightful conquest as it is the salvation of our free institutions. It can never be restored but through their supervision. Into this practical issue Calhoun’s State right doctrines resolved themselves. If the people of the United States constitute a nation-have a national Government, and can maintain it, his so-called State rights, exerted to destroy it, conclude in treason.
To what better result do the abolition doctrines of Wendell Phillips come? Slavery is abolished, as I have shown, by the rebellion and its consequences—by the war and the constitutional means accorded to the Government for its defence. The abolition of slavery does not content one class of anti-slavery men. The Wendell Phillips school, to arrive at the consummation of their wishes, demand the same sacrifice that Calhoun’s proselytes make war to obtain-the abolition of the constitution of the United States. They demand that the different races on this continent, marked by the very terms of the constitution and the laws made under it as subordinate to the white race asserting full sovereignty over this country, shall be elevated to equality with the race holding it by conquest, and whose constitution and laws specially ordain its appropriation to themselves. This amalgamation in races is more than a revolution in government. It is an attempt to make a fundamental change in the laws of nature, and by blending different species of the human race create a hybrid nation. This will prove to be an impossibility. The red, white and black races have mingled very freely on this continent, but the hybrids gradually wear out, while the old stock preserves its original type. The French, from the infancy of discovery on this continent, intermarried with the Indian tribes-but where is the French tribe of Indians to be found? They made the same experiment with the blacks in St. Domingo, and a mongrel race appeared for a time of various tints, but it is gradually vanishing. So the old Spanish Amercia, has almost run out, and Indians and Spaniards are as incongruous with each other as in the beginning, and the fatal result of this attempted amalgamation is shown in the degradation of both races, and in the instability of their governments.
If the history of the world and the present aspect of both hemispheres did not make manifest the absardity of the proposed system of mixing the black and white races in the management of a common Government, and blending the two colors to make a third, or rather a piebald people of all colors, the repugnance of caste which has grown up in this country, on the part of the white freeman to the black man, contrasted by his servile condition from his first appearance among us as strongly as by his ebon skin and curled hair, certainly shows that nothing short of insanity could hope to reconcile the dominant, and I might say, the domineering race, to such a conjunction. When the Northern free States have framed laws prohibiting the colored freedman from obtaining a foothold on their soil, upon what terms can it be supposed the master race, in the slaves States, would consent to associate with negroes, made free by the hand of war? They would see their State laws and their State rights, as they insist, set aside by the deprivation of their ownership in slaves. This would be just forfeiture. But while the free States of the North excluded the manumit-
<c02>
ted slaves from their soil, avowing the abhorrent feeling of caste as an insuperable bar to the association on any terms, much less of equality, how could it be asked of the Southern States that this excommunicated race, surrendered by them as slaves, should be retained, nevertheless, among them, and admitted as equals and as partners in political power, in defiance, of the Constitution of the United States, and the laws even of the Northern States, which brand them with the badge of inferiority and political disability? What would be the attitude of the Anglo-Saxon and the African toward each other in such relations, produced by the triumph of the free States over the slave? Would the white man of the South live to bear subjugation to such fellow-ship? Would not the inextinguishable, memory of wrongs on one side, and of admitted mastery on the other, make patient acquiescence on either side impossible? All the bloodiest revolutions of ancient and modern times have been those broached by slaves against enslavers.
Our civil war, closing in the manumission of four million of slaves, to take equal rank with six million of enslavers, would be but the prelude to a servile war of extermination. Can any one doubt that the military skill and desperation of the master race would reduce the negroes again to subjugation, unless the freemen of the North made common cause . with them against their white brethren? The bare statement of this complication makes it apparent that there can be no peace on this continent on the basis of the ultra abolitionists, who insist on the abolition of existing constitutions to establish negro amalgamation, liberty, fraternity and equality. Yet, I have long ago proclaimed myself unalterably the friend of the liberty, equality and fraternity of the African race, but not in this region, which is devoted by constitutions. laws and fixed usages to the liberty, equality and fraternity of the race of pale faces. Such commingling of blood, of domestic intimacies, of social, civil and political interests, between the white and black castes, is unnatural, and fatal to the welfare of both, and, therefore, impossible.
The advocates of this hybrid policy know this, but they think the negro so essential to the selfish purposes of their political ambition, that, like Calhoun, they are willing to make him, as well as those who hold him in durance, the victim of their policy. I advocate the President’s plan of saving both, and ministering to their prosperity and to their elevation in their respective spheres to power and greatness as a people.
This may be done by a gradual segregation of the two races, and assigning to each the regions on this continent and adjacent isles congenial to their natures. The old Roman policy of spreading their institutions and influence abroad in the world, by providing homes for new people drawn into their service, and whom it was not politic and safe to settle in Italy, should be accepted in favor of the unhomogeneous dependent people of African descent, whom this war will throw upon the hands of the Government as freedmen. Many of them will enlist in the army—multitudes will be employed on the waste lands of the Government in providing for their own subsistence. All should be drawn together in military camps on the Roman plan—put under the control of public officers, instructed in the business of self-government, self-defence, and self-support, and when employed in the public service, amply compensated. Thus they would be in a state of probation, while the Government would have opportunity to provide for their settlement in the suitable regions to which they are invited as colonists. When peace comes, and this liberated multitude seek other employment than that servitude under former masters who would render it more intolerable than the slave system, which, while it extorted labor without compensation, yet created such an interest in the bodies of the slaves that they were cared for on economical principles, the Government must necessarily become their patron. Placed in this relation, the Government must provide them compensated employment, until they are ready to assume the character of an independent people. This might be done advantageously in the Southern States by opening into ship canals those communications which the enterprise of individuals and the natural aqueducts from the Mississippi have to a great extent opened up from the great artery of our continent around the shores of the Gulf, through the Hudson to the lakes. What a glorious result of the war for North and South, especially the latter, would be the completion of this bond of commercial brotherhood—this interception of the waters of all our rivers and bays before they reach the Atlantic, and opening them up to each other out of the reach of the hostile navies that might endanger our commerce, or bring foreign power to the invasion of our homes! The great wall of China—the prodigious military highways through which Rome united her empire over Asia, Africa and Europe, were the works of populations whose necessities placed them as a charge on the government.
By such means, the process of liberating four millions of bondsmen, and then preparing them to assume the attitude of a self-governing nation, might be made to secure to the United States forever their Union, their domestic peace, and immunity from foreign. invasion.
Instead of the mutual benefits which the President’s plan proposes to draw out of our present adversity, by making the Afric-American race a nation in a fruitful, congenial clime, protected in all their rights under the American flag, opening the way to people of our own race to fill their places, and putting an end to the anomalous character of our institutions which destroys our peace, what do those ultra humanitarians offer? They profess so much philanthropy in the abstract, and such perfect impartiality in judging of human affairs, that they seem to think the millennium come, and invite the lion and the lamb to lie down together. They would break up all constitutions, laws and usages, assuming that all antagonisms of interests, of prejudices, of passions, were at an end in a land of fetters and whips, of swords, guns and bayonets in the hands of six millions of incensed masters, and that four millions of their manumitted slaves might be safely trusted to their tender mercies. This is a practical illustration of the Wendell Phillips love for the! down-trodden African!
But the Phillipeans probably do not expect the amalgamation, liberty, equality and fraternity theory to be acceptable to the present ruling class, but intend that the Northern white man, while rejecting it for himself, shall enforce it on the Southern white man. Unfortunately for this scheme, the Northern soldier intends becoming a Southern white man himself, and he wants the lands be redeems from nullification for himself and his posterity, and as an inheritance for his race.
The scheme is another birth of that monstrous philosophy which would have discarded the Slave States from the Union and delivered the negroes to perpetual bondage, on the pretence that the conscience of the North might no longer be burdened with responsibility for the crime of Slavery.
All the propositions of the abolition faction which is warring on the President come to these conclu-
<c03>
sions: Destruction of the Constitution, and of the white and black races, or incessant wars after the example of the Moors and Spaniards, until the expulsion of the former from Spain. All the early patriots of the South-Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, Jackson, Clay and others, wore were the advocates of emancipation and colonization. The patriots of the North concurred in the design. Is the faction now opposing it patriotic or philanthropic? Are they not rather, like Calhoun, working the negro question to accomplish schemes of selfish ambition, and after his method making a balance of power party of a phalanx of deluded fanaties, keeping the Union and the public peace perpetually in danger, and seeking power in the Government through its distractions?
The author of the Declaration of Independence and his associates declared equal rights impracticable in society constituted of masses of different races. De Tocqueville, the most profound writer of the Old World on American Institutions, predicts the extermination of the blacks, if it is attempted to confer such rights on them in the United States. It is obvious that an election would be but a mockery in a community wherein there could be no other than black and white parties. In such communities, reason and experience show that one or the other race must be the dominant race, and that Democracy is impossible. This is not less obvious to the Phillips school than it is to the Calhoun school, who concur in opposing the policy of Mr. Jefferson, adopted by the President, intended to effectuate the design of our fathers to establish popular government. They concur in pressing here the antagonism of races and only differ in looking to different races to give them power. The result of this antagonism, so far as popular government is concerned, would be the same if either could succeed in their schemes, and you would scarcely have much preference between being governed by Jeff Davis as the leader of the slave power, and Wendell Phillips as the leader of the enfranchised blacks. But neither can succeed. Even the Calheun scheme, matured through so many years of intrigue by men versed in public affairs, and attended with a temporary success, is a failure as a governing contrivance, though potent still to spread ruin widely through the land, and especially to desolate the homes of his deluded followers. The Phillips scheme is the dream of visionaries wholly unskilled in government, and will be a failure from the start. He may in turn make victims of the negroes, as Calhoun has of their masters. But I think not. They are not ambitious of ruling white men, and will, I believe, be contented to set up for themselves in some neighboring and congenial clime, on the plan of Jefferson and Lincoln. Here is the real issue with the President. Emancipation is a fixed fact. What next? Shall we take Phillips for a guide, or Jefferson and Lincoln? The people will, I am sure, answer wisely.

FREMONT AGAIN IN THE FIELD.
What man in the country has such devotion to its interests as John C. Fremont? He has been disgraced two or three times as a military leader; but his patriotism cannot be repressed; and, in spite of disgrace—spitting disgrace in the eye—he is now entering the field again at the head of a division of negroes. This is the sublimity of patriotism. It is the most astounding exhibition of self-denial for the public good on record. No man, not a hero by the decree of absolute destiny, could do such an act. Disgrace abashes most men. It has elevated Fremont. He may be congratulated on his disgraces, since he has triumphed over them so grandly. His incompetence to lead white men to battle for his country, and his disregard for honesty in the commissariat of those men, sink for ever out of sight in view of the patriotism that has made him put himself at the head of the negroes. To fight in companionship with negroes to restore the endangered Republic, is an extraordinary act of public virtue; but for a disgraced Major-General of white soldiers to put himself at the head of a negro brigade, or division, or army corps, or whatever it may be, is a super-extraordinary act of public virtue. But if John Charles has not been able to lead white men to victory, what assurance have we that he can lead the blacks? There need be no difficulty on this point, The military capacity of the blacks is the brightest in history. The annals of the principal portion of Africa are made up chiefly of their glorious exploits in war. Intelligence, courage, endurance, bravery, are their characteristics. So that, though John Charles has sublimated patriotism by putting himself at the head of the negroes, there can be no apprehension for the result. With such, soldiers, he cannot but win victories. He failed ingloriously in the Shenandoah Valley against that poor commander, Stonewall Jackson, because he had not black soldiers. It is now ever to be lamented that he had not. But his star is once more in the ascension, and under the most promising circumstances; and it would be absurd to doubt the issue. He cannot fail. That is impossible. But should he fail; then he should never afterwards aspire to military distinction. He ought to make Horace Greeley his A. D. C. With such, an assistant, the insurance companies would give any amount on his name.— Boston (Irish) Pilot.

THE NEGRO IN BATTLE.
The negro troops have been at last in regular action, and Major General Banks bears testimony to their soldierly qualities, and pronounces the experiment of a black brigade a complete success. Let the abolitionist rejoice and be glad: a prime fighting material has been found on which to shove the responsibility of saving the country. For these prudent people do their patriotism and fighting by proxy, and a negro that will stand fire is a trump card in their hands—a poor one, it may be, but if not good enough to take a trick, at least good enough to save trumps like them from being sacrificed for nothing.
Can we give these abolitionists credit for any better feeling when we find the negro troops pushed mercilessly into the lion's mouth, and then left there unsupported? The poor wretches were placed between two fires; to advance or to retreat was equally dangerous; and urged on by relentless Federal bayonets in their rear, they desperately faced the soldiers of the Confederacy, with what result our readers know. Three-fourths of them were annihilated, shot down, cut to pieces, or strangled by the infuriated Southerners. Two hundred out of the eight hundred flung upon the rebel works at Port Hudson escaped by a precipitate flight from certain and inevitable destruction. During this contest, the negro proved unmistakeably that now, as ever, his courage is ferocity; and his history will record as harsh a sentence against the Government that employed them, as she has done against the men who incited the Red Men of the forest to take up arms against the patriots of '76.
We know not with what feelings our brave soldiers saw their Southern brethren attacked by half reclaimed savages, but we know that the mere ac-
<c04>
count of it caused a thrill of horror throughout the North. Mingled with this natural feeling was one of pity for the poor wretches who are at once the sport and capital of all sections of the abolition party, for we know well that though this war may be of their causing, it certainly is not of their making. From the bottom of their hearts they may exclaim, “Save us from our friends!” for to their soi disant friends they owe the degradation in which they are sunk in the North, and the restraints to which they are subjected in the South; to them they owe the opportunity of dying on the field of fame, but they will never be indebted to them for living in a post of honor. Enticed from happy dependence to fancied freedom, kept by laws more inexorable than ever framed by legislatures below the lowest strata of white society, and now forced to fight for a cause called theirs, but the success of which will have no more influence on their destiny than it will have on that of the subjects of the King of Dahomey, we cannot avoid a feeling of commiseration for those unfortunate creatures whose worst enemies are their friends.— New York (Irish Catholic) Metropolitan Record.

Selections.
WILL THE NEGEROES FIGHT?
The recent terrible fighting at Port Hudson has put to rest—we trust forever—the miserable prejudices of a class of mean white men in regard to the courage and prowess of the Blacks. Notwithstanding the multiplied facts of history—the desperate valor displayed at St. Domingo, the Blacks who fought at Bunker Hill and under Washington; and later, the heroes at New Orleans, who received the praises and thanks of “Old Hickory,”—the usual obstinacy of our “Young American “statesmen and heroes in patent leather and yellow lace have constantly assumed—nay, taken for granted—that “the niggers couldn’t be made to fight!” And from the Satanic New York Herald down to the whirling Boston Journal has this idea been disseminated, until the stubborn facts have come officially and otherwise from the battle-fields that overturn, as in a moment, all the sage predictions of our modern Solomons. The truth is, there is such an abominable prejudice against the Black man, as such, that our soldiers and editors, generally, did not wish them to succeed in anything that should evince their equality with the won Saxon race. Hence, “the wish being father to the thought,” the Boston Post and other. Hunker prints long since reported that Higginson’s colored regiment of South Carolina had been “gobbled up” by the rebel forces—the phrases used clearly showing that they were glad of it. But Higginson’s regiment was not “gobbled up,” but it “gobbled up” a good many rebel Slaveholders instead,—whereat the Post and its sympathizers refused to be comforted.
But now we have the testimony from the correspondents of those very Hunker papers, of the valor and heroism of the Negroes who fought under Banks at Port Hudson. Let it be remembered that these Black troops had already been cowed down in slavery, that they were raw and undisciplined, and that this was their first engagement. General Banks, in his official report, speaks of these Black troops as follows: They answered every expectation. Their conduct was heroic. No troops could be more determined or more daring. They made during the day three charges upon the batteries of the enemy, suffering very heavy losses, and holding their position at nightfall with the other troops on the right of our line. The highest commendation is bestowed upon them by all officers in command on the right. Whatever doubt may have existed heretofore as to the efficiency of organizations of this character, the history of this day proves conclusively to those who were in a condition to observe these regiments that the Government will find in this class of troops effective supporters and defenders. The severe test to which they were subjected, and the determined manner in which they encountered the enemy, leave upon my mind no doubt of their ultimate success. They require only good officers, commands of limited numbers and careful discipline, to make them excellent soldiers.”
There it is, from the clear-headed and sagacious Banks—“No TROOPS COULD BE MORE DETERMINED OR MORE ”DARING.” Let this be an answer to the miserable quibbling and caviling of the sleek and dapper chaps who never raised an arm in their country's defence, and to the ignorant horde of roughs and rowdies who have declared it was a disgrace to fight with “niggers,” but who have themselves done nothing but discourage white men from engaging in the war, and whose cowardly souls would succumb to any dishonorable “peace,” rather than risk their precious bodies in the strife!
Do the Post, the Herald, the Barn stable Patriot, and all that class of papers that have persistently denied the courage and- prowess of the despised Blacks, now come it frankly, and do them justice in the premises? Of course not. It is not their mission to foster the truth. But facts are stubborn things. The Negro is yet to play a most important part in this great conflict. His success as a soldier will lift him into the confidence of the Government and the People. It is esitmated that 35,000 Blacks are already in the Government service. The number must and will be indefinitely increased. Hundreds of thousands of them must be drilled and armed to occupy the “waste places” the war is creating in the South. They are equal to the climate, equal, man for man, with white soldiers and sailors, and every one adds to the ties and the strength of the Union.
When the Fifty-fourth Regiment (colored) passed through Boston, recently, we noticed a touching scene “in their midst,” as the phrase is. On the way from the Common, the Regiment halted a few minutes on account of the crowd in the streets. The men grounded arms, and were receiving the parting salutes of their kindred and friends. Suddenly three yellow women brushed by us, and pressed a farewell shake of the hand and kiss upon a sable volunteer close to us. Perhaps they were his mother, wife, and sister. Ah! he was leaving these dear friends and the ties of home, perhaps never to return. One presented to him a neat cambric handkerchief, to wipe the sweat from his brow. He turned from them as they withdrew, leaned his head upon his musket, and wept like a child. “Poor fellow!” said an Irish woman near by: “they have their feelings as well as white people! —my own husband has come home to me with the loss of an arm, —and I know how to sympathize with them!” Thus it is that a “ fellow-feeling “ marks the chain of sympathy through all mankind. The Negro has not only the force of the brute, when aroused, but has heart, soul and affections, just like common people! That Negro will fight none the less bravely, because of his tenderness. For always,
"The tenderest are the bravest,
The loving are most during!”
—Harwich Republican.
<c05>
BRAVERY OF THE COLORED TROOPS.
The New York Commercial Advertiser, a journal always very moderate, has the following remarks on the conduct of the black soldiers,—a class of fighters who are thought by a few Northern copperheads to be guilty of great impertinence in presuming to shed their blood in defence of the country:
“It is not alone over rebels in arms that the colored troops have won victories. They have 'conquered the prejudices’ which two centuries of slavery have wrought into the fibre of our American thought. They have stricken down the fallacy that the black man is fit only for menial service, and has not capacity for progress and improvement. They have shown that ages of degradation and enforced inferiority have not utterly quenched the vital spark of manliness. They have accepted the severest and highest test to which men are accustomed to subject themselves, and they have not been found wanting. Last, but not least, they have baffled the insidious thought that their presence would demoralize the white troops with whom they fought as comrades. By these their courage is acknowledged, and little will be beard now of the ‘nigger’ question in the army. A few hundred black men filling soldiers' graves in behalf of a flag which had its stars for the white man and too often its stripes for the negro, are an unanswerable argument; for the chivalrous white race, conscious of its own superiority, may graciously recognize valor wherever it is found.”

THE DEMOCRACY AND FREE SPEECH.
The Democratic party, or at least a portion of it which sympathises with traitors, are making a loud clamor about the restraints imposed by the Government upon freedom of speech. This new-born zeal of the copperhead Democracy for the freedom of speech is of quite-recent date. When the national Democratic party was in power—when it held the reins of the Government in its own hands, it was the enemy of free speech. In proof of this assertion, let the record be produced. The National Democratic Convention which assembled in Baltimore in 1852, and which nominated Franklin Pierce for the Presidency, adopted the following resolution:
“Resolved, That the Democratic party will RESIST all attempts at renewing in Congress, OR OUT OF IT, the agitation of the slavery question, UNDER WHATEVER SHAPE OR COLOR THE ATTEMPT MAY BE MADE.”
Four years afterwards, the National Democratic party assembled in Convention at Cincinnati, and nominated James Buchanan for the presidency. At this Convention precisely the same resolution was passed as in 1852, declaring the determination of the party to resist all discussion or agitation of the question of slavery. Here, then, in times of profound peace, when not a speck of war was to be seen in our American horizon, the Democratic party being in the full tide of power, boldly and deliberately declared its purpose to the world, to suppress discussion on the subject of slavery, “under whatever shape or color the attempt might be made.” And how did the Democratic party propose to carry out its determination to resist and throttle the freedom of speech, as declared in its National Conventions of 1852 and 1856. There was no law in the free States inhibiting free speech on any subject, although repeated attempts had been made by the party in Congress to procure national legislation for that purpose. The country was at peace at home and with all nations abroad; therefore no military order could be expected to be brought to bear in the matter. It is true, a Democratic Congress had denied to the people the right of petition, and silenced discussion on the subject of slavery in the National Capitol; still there had been no laws passed to punish the exercise of free speech out of Congress. How then were the resolutions of the Democratic National Conventions to be enforced Evidently there was but one way to do it, in the absence of law; that was, by brute force. And most zealously did the party set about the work of suppressing the freedom of speech by violence. It is a matter of familiar history, that during many years when the country was under Democratic rule, no toleration of public discussion of the subject of slavery was allowed in most of the principal towns and cities in the Northern States. Wherever anti-slavery men sought to assemble peaceably, to deliberate on the evils of chattel slavery, their meetings were broken up by insult and violence. No matter how respectable or how honorable the positions those may have occupied, who attended those gatherings; they were denied the privilege of free speech by the ruling Democracy. It is a notorious fact also, that many of the leading Democratic presses of the country approved of their riotous proceedings in the dispersion of anti-slavery conventions and meetings.
A great political change has come over the country; the copperheads are now in the minority; and since they cannot indulge in their old practices of breaking up anti-slavery meetings, they complain bitterly of being restricted in the freedom of speech themselves. When there was no war—no imminent danger from foes without or foes within—it was proper enough, in their judgment, to disturb and maltreat assemblies of the people, peaceably convened to discuss acknowledged national evils. But now, when the country is in the midst of a terrible civil war; when our national life is in peril, these copperheads are excessively aggrieved, because they are not allowed the full license of speech in traducing the Government, creating disaffection in the army, encouraging desertions, and giving aid and comfort to the enemy. The Government now exercises restraints on the freedom of speech and the liberty of the press, according to the usages of civilized nations, when in a state of war. No man's liberties are interfered with, except in conformity to law, and from military necessity. The modern copperheads, who a few years ago were called Democrats, used to interfere with the freedom of speech and the liberty of the press in a time of peace, without the shadow or color of law, and when no military necessity whatever existed.
No man who regards the welfare of the Union, and who is in earnest for the suppression of the rebellion, feels his liberties at all restrained, in consequence of any existing law or military order. The first loyal man is yet to be found, who utters any complaint because he cannot say or do all that he desires in respect to the war, for fear of the Government. The clamor about abridging the freedom of speech and the press; about military despotisms and the unconstitutional prosecution of the war, comes from the sympathisers with the rebellion. When a man is heard finding fault—pretending the constitutional rights of the people are being invaded by the Government, in proscribing free speech, he may be safely set down as an unmitigated copperhead. Loyal men feel no improper restraint; the disloyal, whose propensities are to embarrass the war and make mischief, generally, of course feel restive; they denounce laws and orders for the punishment of treason; verifying the old adage-”No rogue e'er felt the halter draw, with good opinion of the law.” 
—Kenosha Telegraph.
<c06>
THE “LOYAL” DEMOCRACY.
The Democrats of one of the imperial Northern States have vindicated their peculiar title to loyalty by nominating Mr. Vallandigham for Governor. The vote for him was nearly unanimous—showing how well the “Knights” had organized their campaign. Without entering upon the question whether he was patriotic, or prudent, or wise, when he counseled resistance to the war policy of the Government, the democracy of Ohio take him as he stands, “purple with his sins.” Somebody in New England—the Post, we believe—who had not vetyet taken the cue of the Golden Circle, compared Vallandigham to John Wilkes, and cautioned the Government to take warning from the fate of the British ministry in its treatment of the Theorites. Unlike the Democracy of Ohio, however, the eloquent Pitt, when he came down from his chamber, limping upon crutches and bandaged in flannels, to protest against persecuting a man for opinion's sake, was bound to say that Wilkes' sentiments were “ illiberal, unmanly and detestable,” that “he didn't deserve to be ranked among the human species,” and that he (Pitt) regard him in the light of a “ libeller of his country and a blasphemer of his God.” Vallandigham is a kind of burlesque John Wilkes, with all his malice but without his wit, or sentiment, or honor, or virtue, or self-respect. He has made himself more obnoxious to the loyal sentiment of the country than John Wilkes ever dreamed of being to that of his time and his country. Yet his partizans have taken him as their representative, without qualification and without apology—with the purpose of placing themselves and him in direct antagonism with the Government. Will they succeed? It is not impossible. The Democracy have the advantage of a large resident population, who have taken no active interest in the war, and who have naturally fallen into the ethics of that class of demagogues of whom Vallandigham is a fit type and representative. They have also the advantage of a positive declaration of political faith, supported by a compact and consolidated league, from which dissent is not tolerated, and nonconformity is treason. Still, all political issues, however promising, are contingent on the fate of our arms. Let the rebels triumph in the Southwest, and the Mississippi remain, as now, closed to the trade and commerce of the land—Gen. Bragg will as surely send his guest home, and triumph in the coronation of a traitor-governor over that imperial commonwealth, as the October sun rises and sets upon its borders. But, on the other hand, let the army of the republic, the veterans of Grant and Rosecrans, and the fresh troops under Banks, achieve the success which is their duty, win the laurels to which they are entitled, there will not be left a State in the Union where these partizans of disloyalty can find a hiding place or a refuge.— Worcester Spy.

THE VALLANDIGHAM ISSUE.
We notice that some of the copperhead journals hope to conceal the treason for which they make themselves responsible, by endorsing Vallandigham. It is impossible to hide what be has said and done; it is impossible to hide the traitorous conspiracy which he and others have organized to resist the law for raising troops; it is impossible to hide the fact that his followers in some of the Western States have already begun to mob and shoot provost marshals and enrolling officers; it is impossible to put out of view that he has from the beginning opposed every effort to crush the rebellion, just as the traitors themselves did the same thing while they still lingered in Congress. Yet some of those who endorse the nomination of Vallandigham for Governor of Ohio hope to have all this forgotten, while they talk of that active and malignant friend of the rebels as a “martyr.” A “martyr” indeed!
The rebels also earnestly hope that Vallandigham will be elected Governor of Ohio. They predicted his nomination, and proposed to have him go from the South to Nassau, and then to Canada, where he can open communication with Ohio. His election in Ohio would be celebrated in the South as a great rebel victory. He will lack no help that they can give him. If some loyal man, like Gov. Andrew or Gov. Tod, were in their power, he would have hard usage and small hope of liberty; but Vallandigham belongs to them, serves them, and wages war against the Federal Government; therefore Vallandigham moves among them in honor, and will have any aid they can grant. The Richmond Whig maintains I that Vallandigham and his associates ought to have the sympathy of all rebeldom, “because“ they want to prost rate Lincoln who is the insuperable obstacle to peace.” Those who feel as the rebels do, and aim to make their conspiracy successful, will uphold Vallandigham, and become as furious as possible against the Government. Those who aim to crush treason and save the Republic will do otherwise.
The issue before the country is a plain one; and its importance is so much greater than that of any other that can be raised or imagined, that no loyal man is likely to forget it. The present struggle will determine the fate of the nation for all the future. The issue before us is the issue of life or death to our Government, our Republican institutions, and our national welfare. We must consent to give up the Republic for disunion and chaos, or we mast subdue the rebellion by force of arms. The supporters of Vallandigham would have us give up the contest, make confession to the rebels, sue for peace, and submit to disunion. It seems to be their theory that the Federal Government has treasonably rebelled against its rightful lord and master, the slave power; and that, instead of making war against the Southern traitors, it should repent, abdicate, and put on sackcloth and ashes. The rebels themselves hold this theory; but it will not be adopted by the loyal people of the North, as the infatuated copperheads will at length discover. The struggle is grave and costly, and it is made more difficult by disloyalty at the North; but the people will save the Republic, and give it permanent security. — Worcester Spy. 
Although we think it would have been politic to let Vallandigham talk and spout without interference from the Federal Government, it is certain that no one who is not an irredeemable ass or an irredeemable liar can say that his arrest and banishment have endangered the legal rights of any citizen. The very language which is employed by the copperheads in speaking of Val's treatment, shows that not only is liberty of speech secure here, but that its utmost latitude is in no danger of being interfered with. It is a pity that these copperhead complainers couldn't live for a year or two under the mild rule of Napoleon III. When eating their soup spiced as hot as Cayenne could make it, they'd come to the conclusion that “the tyrant Lincoln” wasn’t so bad a fellow, after all. In fact the President's only great fault is, that he has been too mild with rebels and their scoundrelly allies of the North. He is one of the best natured of men, and dislikes suffering even in a rebel or a rebel sympathizer. He would gladly forgive his worst enemy, but even he cannot spare the enemies of the country Traveller.

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes for the time, the place of all municipal institution, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY CIPATION OF THE SLAVES FROM the instant that the slaveholding States becomes the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAR INCAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRT IT ON ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TARES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.” J. Q ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
102
THE LIBERATORE.
JUNE 26.
SPEECHOF HON. DANIEL S. DICKINSON.
The Copperhead politicians, like their Confederate- military friends, are about to make a change of base. [Renewed laughter.] Liberal propositions of peace are to be suspended for a season to make way for free speech! They tell us they are Union men, and are for free speech. They have been for peace and for settling this terrible war, while they know the rebel leaders will not lay down their arms until their independence, as they term it, is acknowledged and the Union dissolved! They declare they are for the reconstruction of the Union by peaceful means; yet they know that if we lay down our arms and close this war and patch up a peace, we are at, the mercy of the most hellish despotism on earth. But, finding that this old idea is pretty much played out, and that they must have a new one, they want something that will draw. [Applause.] You will not hear any more about "liberal propositions of peace" in a long while. Now, it is all "free speech!" A noisy, blurting braggart and gassy traitor, named Villindam, [roars of laughter and applause,] or Vallandigham, late a member of Congress from Ohio, who has offensively opposed the war and justified the rebellion from the beginning— who has been openly claimed by the rebels as their friend; who strenuously opposed supplies for the war; who was drummed out of a camp of volunteers in his own State. [applause—" Good for him—be ought to be hung,"]— who, in his last race for Congressional honors, was allowed to remain at home by the loyal people of his district; who resides near the borders of Kentucky; has been arrested by General Burnside, in whose military department he is; ["good "]—and the moment he is arrested for some alleged offence in that military department—we don't know for what, and his admirers here don't know for what—but by consent they set up a howl from Richmond to Canada in behalf of—" free speech!" Poor Vallandigham! arrested in the night-time, and at his own house! as though he ought to have been arrested in somebody's else! [Laughter and applause.] He has been tried by court martial—he be had the assistance of counsel and the attendance of witnesses in his behalf. The evidence has not been published, nor do we know what it was. It is said he was sentenced by the court to imprisonment in Fort Warren, but there is no authority for this declaration. No nation can exist in time of war without the war power. You can't make a woman school of a great war. [Renewed laughter.] It does not proceed according to statute or the code! There are great principles which civilization has established for their guidance between civilized nations and people, but martial law is bounded only by discretion of the Commander-in-Chief. It is from the nature of the case despotic, for war is little else. 
Liberty of speech is one thing. Liberty of treason is another. The liberty of speech is sacred; but this does not include the right to act as a spy and convey intelligence to the enemy, which may destroy thousands of the lives of our soldiers, endanger our army, and jeopard the existence of government. [Applause.] Swords and knives are free; but this gives no one the right to murder. Fire-arms are free, and exempt from seizure on execution, and yet no one has a right to discharge them at his neighbor. Fire is free; but the one who should employ it to destroy the dwelling of his neighbor would be the subject of an "arbitrary arrest" in his own house," if he should be found there— "in the presence of his wife and children," if he had them. And these "arbitrary arrests" in criminal law are of daily occurrence, and in martial law of not unfrequent occurrence in all wars,—especially such a war of rebellion as this, with spies and traitors hatching treason and aiding rebellion all along the border. Any lawyer who cannot discriminate between civil law and martial law should be treated for simplicity on the brain. [Shouts of applause and laughter.] The functions of martial law, and the authority upon which it rests, were freely stated by me last fall in a speech made at the Cooper Institute. It is a dangerous power, but its absence would be more dangerous. It is liable to abuse, but no war can be conducted without it—especially such a war as this. Whether it was judiciously exercised in this case, and whether the paltry fellow was worth arresting, I do not know, and do not, for all present purposes, care. All we can inquire of is, does the power exist, and if it does, was it exercised in good faith? If it was, even though General Burnside was mistaken, he is to be encouraged for his watchfulness and commended for his vigilance. 
Two great and hasty noisy meetings have been held, one in New York, at which Captain Rynders and others spoke, and even the late Thomas H. Seymour, of Connecticut, preached, (laughter.) and one at this Capital, where his Excellency Governor Seymour administered upon the wrongs of Vallandigham by letter. The Governor says this arrest is full of danger to our homes. Who is in danger in his home, pray tell? No one, unless he has done something to put himself in danger. The pious thief and burglar, Gordon, of Brooklyn, who attended conference and prayer meetings with the young ladies, discovered where they kept their jewelry, and then entered their houses and robbed them by night, was a long time in danger in his home, (roars of laughter,) and by and by the police went in large numbers, with their murderous clubs, and in the night time, too, and "arbitrarily arrested" him and put him in prison, and the Court sent him to State prison for twenty years, all for stealing a few trinkets. Yet Gov. Seymour says nothing. Had he connived with rebellion for the overthrow of the only great free government on earth, and he had been detected and arrested, it would have been "arbitrary." But it interfered with the "freedom of speech." How? Who has objected to the freest possible discussion? Freedom of speech does not confer the right to go before an enemy, and stimulate mutiny and disobedience, and recommend desertion. It does not justify anything which, in a time of war, is calculated and intended to weaken the military arm of the Government. The Governor complains that the Governors of some of the Western States have sunk into insignificance. It is certainly time to be on the lookout. I hope, whatever may become of other States, New York may not find herself in the same pitiful category. (Laughter.) It is certainly a humiliating position for the first State, of the Union, when the scales of our being as a nation are vibrating,—when our children are dying by thousands in defence of the Union,—to see the Chief Magistrate turn from contemplating the picture with anxious solicitude, to denounce the Government and encourage the rebellion, because a ranting, loaming, frothing, gasconading traitor has been charged with an offence cognizable by martial law, arrested and after a full and fair trial, convicted. This is the species of support which Gov. Seymour, and those who are with him from the beginning of the war, have given to the Administration, and this he calls a "generous" one! They now propose to "pause," as he tells us; and if they will but "pause" in their assaults upon the Administration—in their proclaimed sympathy with traitors, and in their encouragement to rebellion—they will confer a favor upon the present and coming generations. (Applause.) The people cry "pause," but it is to those engaged in assaults upon the Administration, not to those who are striking death-blows at the rebellion. They cry "pause," but they cry to those who give aid, encouragement and comfort to the rebels. The soldiers are among us here, and they cry "pause," but it is that you pause in stimulating the rebellion. They have perilled their lives in defence of the Government. With heads uncovered and with bosoms bared, they have met the enemies of free institutions upon the battle-field, (vociferous cheering,) and they cry "pause" to you who are encouraging this rebellion. The wife and the mother cry "pause," to you who, by sympathizing with traitors, encourage resistance to the Government and its institutions; they conjure you to pause—pause in your mad career; the husband and son have been slain; your partizanship gives aid to the rebels. The father cries "pause" in your encouragement to rebels in arms. "Joseph is not, Simeon is not, and you would take away Benjamin also." There are others who cry "pause" I adopt the language of his Excellency, the Governor, and cry "pause." Our sons and brothers sleep in death. Tongues which are silent in death, could they speak, would cry "pause"— they would say you have marched us here—we come to defend our  country's flag—we come to vindicate the honor of our nation—we come to preserve the holy memories that cluster around the banner for which our lathers fought; you have lent hope and encouragement to the rebellion; "pause" in your course. Yes, I say "pause." When you sit down at your table, "pause."—set a vacant chair there— a skeleton will be at your side. When you  proceed to your chamber, "pause"; death will be there. At the hour of midnight "pause"; the pale face and skeleton finger will point to the record of aid you have given the rebels in arms against the Government.
<c02>
SPEECH OF GEN. BUTLER AT CONCORD.
Gen. Butler commenced by declaring that the 88th anniversary of the battle of Bunker Hill, suggesting such glorious recollections of the past, should teach us that we are a free people, responsible only to God and our own consciences. In the past two years, we have lived more of history, and made more progress, than has been given to any other race of men on the globe. Within two years a country, prosperous beyond all precedent, rich in everything that went to make human happiness, had been deluged in blood. From that time, all the old questions of United States banks, tariffs, and whatever raised issues between parties, have disappeared, and the question is, what shall be our country—whether the tomb of Washington shall be within the United States, or be wrested from us—whether the fair domain of Louisiana and other portions of our country bought by us and paid for by our money shall be taken from us? These questions are not to be settled by public discussion, or by the general voice of the people at the ballot-box, but by the cannon’s roar and by the bayonet. The issues of the past are of no consequence to us, but the great issue to us to-day is, how at this time and hour, with the enemy thundering at the gates of the capital, the integrity of the Union can be preserved. The General continued-I have no political thought, and, as a patriot, can have no other but that; and I assume that the descendants of Langdon, of Stark, of McCleary, of McNeil, of Pierce, will stand upon this platform with me, consulting together as to how the integrity of the Union shall be preserved.
I find two questions are now agitated; on one side the question is what shall be done, or what is to be the condition of the negro in regard to slavery, and the other side is set forth in the platform of that portion of men in Ohio, who put Vallandigham in nomination the other day.
And let me tell you here, in my deliberate judgment and of those associated with me, from observation and experience, the question of negro slavery is to-day as much a dead issue of the past as is the United States bank. Whatever may be the future of this country, that thing is ended, and no man, except those who go back to pick up that which is left behind, need trouble himself upon that issue. (Applause.) 
What are the issues pressed upon us on the other side? The first issue, as I understand it, is that the sacred writ of habeas corpus, received from King John by his barons, and sent through a long line of English statesmen down to us and embalmed in our Constitution—that that great writ shall be preserved. To that I answer: Who doubts it? Who proposes to take away the writ of habeas corpus? I here desire to give to my friends the words of that Constitution: "The writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, except when public safety demands it; in case of war or invasion." I re-echo it as my creed—the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, except in case of war and invasion, when public safety demands it. The writ of habeas corpus has never been suspended but once in the history of this Government up to the present time. It has been recommended once to be suspended in the history of this Government beside. Who first recommended its suspension, I ask you old Democrats? Thomas Jefferson. And upon what occasion? The treason of Aaron Burr, which was only a flash in the pan compared with this rebellion. Who was the man that did suspend it? Why, my friends, do you remember Andrew Jackson at New Orleans? He suspended it the only time in the history of this country up to the present time. That was because a British army of some 13,000 men were threatening this great country. May not the habeas corpus, in the language of the Constitution, be suspended when an army under Lee of 100,000 men is thundering at the gates of the capital? No political party can stand on the question whether the writ of habeas corpus shall or shall not be suspended. You might as well raise a political question upon whether gunpowder shall be fired off in war times so as to kill a man. Let my Democratic friends go forth with me to put down the rebellion, and there will be no further suspension of the writ of habeas corpus.
What is the next issue forced upon us? It is, looking to the platform of the men in Ohio who have nominated a man for Governor who is somewhere between Nassau and Shelbyville, that of arbitrary arrests. Gen. Butler argued that if there were equal earnestness manifested in putting down the rebellion as in caviling at the Government in this particular, the rebellion would be driven back, and there would be no further occasions for these arrests.
Gen. Butler next considered the issue that military law should be subservient to the civil, and said that the arts of peace were of greater consequence than the arts of war, and the time devoted to them was many times that devoted to the arts of war. A military despotism, he said, could never be possible in this country until to be in the army is better than to be a private citizen. What army, he asked, could overrun this great country of ours? We have hardly found a General to deal with 100,000 men in a given place. Where can we find a man, he inquired, with sufficient breadth of intellect and scope of brain to deal with 500,000 men, and bring this nation into subjection? He argued further that our military chieftains always have used their military position for the purpose of getting a high position in civil life. 
Gen. Butler proceeded to demolish the other copperhead arguments against the Government with irrefutable logic, and then considered the rights of the South and the way it should be dealt with, and deduced from his remarks, the duty of every individual to support the Government and spare no effort to suppress the rebellion. His speech was received with repeated rounds of cheers, and he closed with the happiest effect, amid enthusiasm.

THE TRAITOR VALLANDIGHAM.
Those who think that Vallandigham is a "good Union man," had better read the following. The Copperheads may see good loyalty (to the Southern Confederacy) in it. It shows, too, how "free speech" is suppressed in the North! The following is a specimen of his "free speech," and shows conclusively his "good Unionism!" The "Lincoln Government" could not have been very "tyrannical" when it allowed him to make this speech:- 
"Shall the Democratic party be induced, for one moment, to strike hands with those who desire to change the purposes of the administration, and bring it back again to a war for the Union, when the whole people united cannot accomplish anything before the 4th of March,1865? Will the war continue during that time? ("Never never," from all parts of the room.) Will you send your sons again to the battle-field? (Overwhelming, enthusiastic and unanimous cries of "No, no, never, never," "God forbid," "Not if I know myself.") Shall they be conscripted to carry on this war two years more, and for the negro? (Tremendous outbursts, yells, cheers. Cries of " No, never." " Let them try it." "See them d—d first." "We defy them.")
If there ever was anything in Jeff. Davis's message that contains more treason in it than this does, we have never seen it. In fact, there wants nothing more than this one speech to convince any person, even one who has never before heard of Vallandigham’s political character, to convince him that he is a traitor to his country. But this is not all. He boldly argues in favor of the South marching into his own State, (the State which has entrusted him as their representative in Congress,) with fire and sword! We clip the following from the same traitorous speech:—
"It has been proclaimed that it never was their purpose to invade the Northern States. It is very true that, if this war is kept up, battles fought, no relenting spirit, no prospect of peace, no concord to reach their ears, they ought to be induced to make that invasion."
Of course, the present rebel invasion of Pennsylvania must be highly pleasing to this renegade!
FREE SPEECH. The recent New York meeting based its opposition to the arrest of Vallandigham mainly upon the ground that it was a violation of the right of free speech. Yet the meeting was very largely composed of the lowest classes who have been relied upon in times past to repress free speech in anti-slavery meetings. Some curious incidents illustrating the regard of these Vallandigham sympathizers for the right of free speech occurred at the meeting. Capt. Rynders, in his speech, described his successes a few years since in breaking up abolition meetings, and "kicking Wendell Phillips out of the Tabernacle." At another time, an aged citizen among the crowd, having expressed his disapprobation of the. ribald abuse of President Lincoln, was immediately attacked by some of the ardent peace men, and suffered considerable injury at their hands.
<c03>
The Liberator. 
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 26, 1863.
FOURTH OF JULY!
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION.
The regular annual Mass Meeting of the Friends of Freedom will be held under the auspices of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, at the Grove in Framingham, SATURDAY, July 4th, 1863. 
This annual gathering of the tried and unfaltering friends of universal emancipation,—and, consequently, the truest and most reliable friends of our common country in every hour of peril and suffering,—has never failed to bring a host together from all parts of the Commonwealth; and in such a crisis as the present, while the struggle between the forces of freedom and those of slavery continues to alternate and linger with such uncertainty, it surely cannot be necessary to make an urgent appeal to secure the largest attendance at the Framingham Grove on the approaching anniversary. It will be a celebration worthy of the event it commemorates, and worthy of this eventful and momentous period, in the highest degree. The place of meeting is a consecrated one, and hallowed by heart-stirring memories of the past. 
Among the expected speakers are WM. L. GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Rev. Mr. RICHARDSON, of, Worcester, WM. WELLS BROWN, CHARLES LENOX REMOND, A. T. FOSS,E. H. HEYWOOD, CHARLES C.BURLEIGH, F. B. SANBORN, Esq., and others. 
Trains will be run on the Boston and Worcester’ Railroad, and Branches, as follows:—Leave Boston at 9.15, and Worcester at 9.40 A. M., stopping at Way Stations; Millbury, regular train; Milford, at 7.10 and 9,45: Northboro’ at 7; Marlboro’ at 7.15. 
Fare to the Grove and back:—From Boston, Wor-cester and Millbury, 80 cents for adults, 40 cents for children; from Grafton, adults, 70 cents, children, 35 cents; from Milford, Milford Branch, (except Holliston,) Northboro’, Marlboro', Wellesley, Grantville, Cordaville, Southboro', and Westboro', 60 cents for adults, 30 cents for children; from Natick, Holliston and Ashland, adults, 45 cents, children, 25 cents.
Returning, leave the Grove for Boston, Milford and Worcester, at 6, P. M. For Way Stations above Framingham, (except Westboro’,) 4.45. For Northboro’ Branch, at 5.30 P. M. 
Admission fee to the enclosure of the Grove, for those not coming by the cars, adults, 15 cents, children, 10 cents. Those who come by railroad admitted free. 
No Fireworks allowed in the enclosure of the Grove.
The House at the Grove will be open for Refreshments.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Waverley Hall, opposite the Railroad Depot at South Framingham.

SPEECH OF MONTGOMERY BLAIR.
On the 17th of June, an immense gathering of the loyal people of the Granite State was held in Concord, to give expression to their sentiments in support of the Government, and in execration of the Southern rebellion for the overthrow of the Union. It is estimated that at least twenty thousand were drawn to-gather from every part of the State, the procession having been nearly two miles long. Of this number, a large portion came expressly to see and to hear John C. Fremont, who was announced to be among the speakers, but who, to their grievous disappointment, (for no public man has such a magnetic hold upon the popular feeling as himself,) felt compelled to remain at home, in consequence of the daring rebel raid into Pennsylvania, to be ready at a moment’s notice to obey any summons of the Government, in case his services should be needed. There was also a strong desire to hear Gen. Butler, who has so thoroughly sunk the partisan in the patriot, whose military administration at New Orleans was characterised by such wisdom, energy, discretion and success, and who sees in the utter overthrow of slavery the only path to peace and national unity. In this they were gratified, as he was present, and made an eloquent and stirring speech. 
But the principal speaker on the occasion was the Hon. Montgomery Blair, the present Postmaster General of the United States. Instead of making a speech such as the day, the occasion, the state of the country, the spirit of patriotism demanded, and thus to energize and inspire the vast assembly that waited for the quickening appeals from his lips, he grossly abused the opportunity, insulted the general intelligence and moral feeling of his hearers, indulged in a vulgar exhibition of senseless colorphobia, and occupied nearly all his time in a tirade against Wendell Phillips (finding in him the counterpart of John C. Calhoun!) and the Abolitionists as visionaries, fanatics, and fit associates for the rebellious crew under the leadership of Jeff. Davis! Think of a member of President Lincoln’s Cabinet coming all the way from Washington to New Hampshire, on such a day, to deliver such a personal diatribe! Was ever speech so ill-timed, in such bad taste, and so utterly uncalled for? The courtesy and forbearance of the multitude who gave him audience must have been severely taxed, and that he was not hissed down was a proof of extraordinary self-control. 
What this official libeller said of men, the latchets of whose shoes he is not worthy to loose, and of a race who are his equals by birth and immortality, may be seen by the extracts we have made from his speech, and placed in the proper department on our first page. It is discreditable alike to his head and heart—marked by a total lack of discrimination and disregard for the truth. We propose to substantiate this charge by a brief examination of some of its positions.
Mr. Blair first speaks of "two knots of conspiring politicians, at opposite ends of the Union, that make slavery a fulcrum, on which they would play see-saw with the Government, and willingly break it in the middle"—" the Calhoun and Wendell Phillips Junta"!! There is a cluster of absurdities about a statement like this. In the first place, the Union is already dissolved, the " Government broken in the middle," (of which fact this sagacious member of the Cabinet appears to be oblivious, though the rebel army is at this hour thundering at the gates of the Capital!) and, therefore, there is no occasion to "play see-saw " in order to effect what has for more than two years been accomplished! In the second place, nothing can be more untruthful or more ridiculous than to accuse Mr. Phillips and the Abolitionists of being "conspiring politicians." From the beginning till now, theirs has been a philanthropic and religious movement, lifted far above all political or party considerations, divested of all personal ends, requiring constant self-abnegation and self-sacrifice, and seeking, by the dissemination of light and truth, only the peaceful emancipation of a fearfully oppressed race; so that the land might find repose, and the union of the States be bated on liberty and justice for all the people. Daniel Webster, in a speech made by him at Niblo’s Garden, in New York, said of it—"It has struck a far deeper chord than that of politics; it has arrested the religious feeling of the country; it has taken strong hold of the consciences of men. He is a rash man indeed, little conversant with human nature, and especially has he a very erroneous estimate of the character of the people of this country, who supposes that a feeling of this kind is to be trifled with or despised." For more than twenty years, both Mr. Phillips and the Abolitionists with whom he is associated, instead of acting the part of "conspiring politicians," have disfranchised themselves for the slave’s sake, and refused to cast a ballot stained (in their conviction) with his blood. All political parties have, in turn, been criticised and censured by them with unsparing impartiality and unexampled fidelity. Their only instrumentalities have been speech and the print-
<c04>
ed page, protesting against blood-red crime and heaven-daring iniquity; bearing testimony after the manner of prophets and apostles, of the martyrs and saviors of every age, and being willing to be "made of no reputation," aye, "counted as the filth of the earth," so that the oppressed might go free, and the land be saved from its terrible curse. Now, for Mr. Blair to put them into the same category with the Southern fire-eaters and traitors of the Calhoun school, is to evince on his part the most disgraceful ignorance, or the greatest possible moral obliquity of vision. 
Mr. Blair says that "Calhoun’s school would destroy every free principle, because repugnant to the perpetuity and propagation of slavery as the only safe foundation of good government." Mr. Phillips occupies precisely the opposite ground: he would destroy every slaveholding, man-imbruting principle, because repugnant to the perpetuity and propagation of freedom as the only safe foundation of good government. But it would not suit the evil purpose of Mr. Blair to make this very creditable admission; therefore he deals in vague circumlocution and perverse misrepresentation, as follows:—"Phillips’ school would subject all our systems of government to the guillotine of revolutionary tribunals, because they recognize the existence of different races among us—of white, red and black"—&c., &c. This method of suppressing the simple truth reveals the political demagogue. Mr. Blair is morally incompetent to understand either the principles or the purposes of what he chooses to call the "Phillips’ school." The son of an old slaveholder, and probably a slaveholder himself—an aspiring politician, bent on accomplishing his own selfish designs—infected in his blood and bones, in his education and habits, by the depraving influences of slavery—what can he comprehend of justice to an oppressed and outcast race, or of fair-dealing towards those who dare to advocate their cause in the face of universal proscription? Is it for such a man to assume to sit in judgment upon one of the noblest men to whom the human race has given birth, and pronounce sentence against him as a visionary and factionist? No—his own doom is announced and secured in the unchanging declaration, "The memory of the wicked shall rot "; whilst to the object of his malevolence may be safely applied the glorious assurance, "The righteous shall be held in everlasting remembrance." But this is neither the place nor the time to measure the services or to do justice to the life and character of Wendell Phillips. All things considered—his high and honorable birth, his finished education, his rare scholarly culture, his splendid intellect, his unsurpassed eloquence, his statesmanlike capacity, his philosophic acumen, his power of popular appeal, all placing within his easy grasp any official station to which he might aspire in the gift of the people, yet all generously offered upon the altar of bleeding humanity, made subservient to the rescue and elevation of the most despised of mankind, and devoted to the general welfare, and the glory and stability of the republic—there is no parallel to the case of Mr. Phillips in American history. No man has had at once such powerful temptations to seek popular acclaim, and such qualifications to win it, and yet has given such proof of entire self-abnegation in his efforts to lift up a down-trodden race from a brutal condition to a humane civilization, as himself. And what parade has he ever made of his services? What hint given of his wide-spread munificence? What claim advanced for public consideration or reward? Whose fidelity to an unpopular but righteous cause, in every emergency, has been more uncompromising than his own? Who has ever surpassed him for courage of personal rebuke, whether as applied to erring friends or bitter foes? What public man, or political party, or religious sect, has he failed to commend or denounce, according to his conviction as to their actual deserts? To " remember those in bonds as bound with them," though it may seem a very vulgar and fanatical thing to Mr. Montgomery Blair, is nevertheless the purest patriotism, the surest test of reverence for God and regard for man, the highest love of country. 
Mr. Blair is cursed with a vulgar conceit of the superiority of race—his race, of course—as if he or they were of any more account before God, or in the sublime destiny of a common humanity, than the most degraded negro slaves at the South! Hence he exultingly assumes that "our systems of government repudiate the idea of equality and fraternity in regard to citizenship that tends to produce that amalgamation, personal and political, which would make our government one of mongrel races." How is it that a slaveholder, or the son of a slaveholder, in attacking abolitionists, always parades his disgust at " amalgamation"? Mr. Blair may be an exceptional case, almost as rare as that of a white blackbird—we know nothing of his early history or habits—but it is no defamation to say that, from boyhood to mature age, slaveholders are steeped to their lips in licentious amalgamation, and revel in uncleanness of the flesh. What is their slave system, on the score of purity, better than was Sodom or Gomorrah? Why does it recognize no marriage, no parental or filial ties, no human relationship, among its victims? Why may not a slave mother, wife or daughter raise her hand in defence of her chastity, except at the peril of her life? Whence came such multitudes of —slaves with blue eyes, straight hair, and the fairest complexion? All slavedom is made up of debauchery with the "negro wenches;" and the children thus illegitimately begotten are constantly in the slave mart, or on the auction-block, for sale to the highest bidder, for the pecuniary benefit of their lustful fathers, who are never weary in bawling "Amalgamation! amalgamation!" when denouncing Abolitionists, who would put an end to such profligacy forever. 
Mr. Blair speaks contemptuously of "mongrel races." Those races constitute but one human race created by the same God, amenable to the same divine tribunal, under the same eternal law, and endowed with the same immortality. Is diversity of complexion or condition a warrant for pride and oppression on the one hand, or for abasement and servitude on the other? "We that are strong should bear the burdens of the weak," and not make those burdens heavier. In the mutations of ages, races ascend and descend in the scale of existence,—as if to pour the infinite contempt of a common Father upon ever special assumption of one tribe of people to superiority over another:—
"Assyria, Greece, Rome, Garthage, what are they?" 
And who shall presume to doubt or deny that, in the lapse of time, "Ethiopia shall stretch out her hands unto God," or may yet be the focal point of the world's intelligence, prosperity and glory? There is no distinction of races in Massachusetts—all are equal before the laws—her colored citizens are voters, and help to determine who shall be Governor, who President of the United States, and, through him, who shall be Postmaster General! Is Massachusetts thereby degraded, or misgoverned, or cursed by rival factions? Or does she not lead the van? Can her example be too widely imitated?
It is a new chapter in moral philosophy to make original wrong-doing the basis and justification of a perpetual ostracism of those "whose skins are not colored like our own"! But this Mr. Blair very coolly does. "The while man," he says, "has extruded the Indian race from dominion"—meaning by this, has hunted it well-nigh to extinction—"on this continent, its native born aboriginal inheritor. The African was introduced on it"—meaning by this, was piratically kidnapped and brought here—" not as its owner or to give it law, but TO BE OWNED and receive law; and under this aspect "—meaning by this, in consequence of this high-handed villany — "the white man as a conqueror has accommodated the constitutions of the country to his own condition, that of the ruling race." Mark the subtle phraseology of this extract! " Extruded "—"introduced"—" "—" accommodated"! And because of all this cruelty and oppression, therefore it is right and proper that the descendants of the " native born aboriginal inheritors," and of the kidnapped children of Africa, should enjoy neither liberty nor equal rights on this continent!
<c05>
Mr. Blair claims to be in favor of the emancipation of the colored race, but only on condition of their ultimate expatriation. True, this is their native land, the soil of which has been moistened with their tears and reddened with their blood, through generations of uncompensated labor, and therefore is theirs by a higher title of equity than can be shown by any other class; but he cannot tolerate them in a state of freedom here, and deduces from that state the most dreadful consequences Now that the rebellion has made their liberation a matter of self preservation, and therefore of overwhelming necessity, on the part of the nation, he pronounces it wild and dangerous to think of allowing them to remain as a constituent portion of the American people. Against their enslavement he he has never protested—it has given him no uneasiness—it has never suggested the incompatibility of "mongrel races" living together, so long as the negroes could be deprived of every right, and subjected to every outrage. It is their freedom,—and with freedom, education and mental development and moral improvement,—that excite his apprehension and rouse his enmity, unless they are colonized afar off in some foreign country. True, the Government is enrolling them among its soldiers, and looking to them to act a brave and patriotic part to prevent its overthrow; but, after they have poured out their blood like water, vindicated their manhood by the most heroic deeds, and helped to save the liberties of their native land, then—in accordance with the scheme of Mr. Blair— they are to be banished therefrom as a measure of beneficence  and safety! It is Mr. Montgomery Blair who ought to be banished, if any body.

THE "CLAIM" TO SERVICE OR LABOR.
When the phraseology of the Constitution of the United States was under debate, and in process of formation, a few of the persons concerned in framing that instrument were resolutely determined that the words slave and slavery should have no place there. The persistency of these persons compelled their associates to choose circuitous forms of expression whenever these things were spoken of. Thus it came to pass that the Constitution speaks of certain persons as "held to service or labor," and declares that these, when they run away, " shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due."
 The anti-slavery persons in the body that framed this Constitution were well content with the phrases in question, because they expected slavery soon to die a natural death, and because they saw that these phrases, being accurately descriptive of apprentices and properly applicable to them, might continue to have significance and use after the cessation of slavery, without any appearance of holding complicity with that wickedness. The pro-slavery persons in the same body were content with them for a very different reason, namely: because their " claim " to slaves would thus be put on a par with the just and valid claim of a master to the labor and service of his indentured apprentice; and because the labor extorted by unjust force from the slave, without the pretence of any contract on his part, would thus be ranked as equally "due" with the labor of the apprentice, whose father or guardian had made a bargain in his name, and for his benefit.
The notion that slavery would disappear of itself proved to be erroneous, and so the good intent of those Abolitionists who had devised this double-barreled phraseology bore no fruit; whereas, on the other hand, the ill-intent of those who had admitted the phrases in question for the benefit of slavery bore fruit a thousand fold, corrupting the nation as much as it has injured the slaves.
Corrupting the nation! The great mass of our people have received such detriment, intellectual as well as moral, from their veneration for the Constitution as wise and just, their perception of the fact that it was intended to favor slavery by putting it on a par with apprenticeship, and their habit of seeing slavery treated by the Government and the nation as a fixed, normal, legitimate institution, that they long since came to regard the slave’s labor as really "due" to the master, and the "claim" of the master as just and valid over the slave. And this injurious influence operates not merely upon the uncultured and unreflecting, but upon persons in the highest grade of intelligence. Even in the excellent article of Robert Dale Owen, in the July number of the Atlantic Monthly, on this subject, though the admission is once incidentally made that slaveholding is "always a moral wrong," the writer speaks directly, in half-a-dozen places, of the "just compensation" properly due to the slaveholder when a third party helps the slave to his natural freedom. As if the slaveholder’s claim were any other than that of a robber! As if the assumption of owning a slave, in consequence of having paid a thousand dollars for him, was different from the claim to any other article that had been bought and paid for, the purchaser knowing it to be stolen, and knowing that the seller was the thief!
Mr. Owen, by an ingenious process of argumentation upon the phraseology of the Constitution, has satisfied himself that that instrument does not recognize the ownership of human beings, but only the ownership of the slave’s labor, for life, by the slaveholder. Having premised this, he goes on, throughout the article, to speak of the slaveholder’s property in his slave, and of a just compensation to be paid him if the slave is made free without his consent, and of a resemblance between the condition of the apprentice and that of the slave, both of them being "bound to service," 
Now, the claim of ownership in the labor of a slave, though less comprehensive than that of ownership in his body and soul, is no less unjust, no less impudent, no less utterly groundless. In both these cases alike, the seller has stolen the article which he offers for sale; and whoever buys it knows that it was stolen, and thus acquires no just title to it by the money he pays. The slaveholder’s claim,  that the slave is “bound" (otherwise than by the application of unjust force) to labor for him for life, is nothing but a monstrous lie. A man owes no labor but that which he contracted to perform. A minor owes no labor to any one but his parent or guardian, except on the contract of that parent or guardian, made in his name and for his benefit. And the only compensation really due, on a forced dissolution of slavery, is that which is expressed in the spirited words of Mr. Emerson:—
"Give the owner compensation; 
Fill up the bag to the brim.
Who is the owner? The slave is owner!
And ever was! Pay him!" 
Such is the decision of equity in this matter. Let it never for a moment be admitted that the slaveholder has any amount or any kind of right to control the slave. Every act, and every species, of such control, is the exercise of unjust force. And it is the slave who should receive compensation, both from the master who has oppressed him, and from the government which has been the master's accomplice. 
This being clearly expressed and clearly understood, we may properly agree, in the peculiar circumstances in which our nation is now placed, to the expediency of paying a bonus to any slaveholders who can truly claim to have remained loyal, to purchase the relinquishment of all further claim on their part to the ownership of slaves, and to buy their goodwill to the establishment of universal freedom. Expenditure in this form is cheaper, better, and less objectionable every way, than in the form of war. Be liberal also here, if you will. Only do not forget the far greater claim that the freedman has upon us all, to have justice, liberality, the most generous consideration in every way, extended to him also—C.K.W.
COLORED CONVENTION POSTPONED. The mass of Convention of Colored Citizens which was to have been held on the 25th and 26th of June inst. at Poughkeepsie, in behalf of the "Fremont Legion," is postponed until the 15th day of July, on account of the impossibility of completing the preparation  within the proposed time.
<c06>
MASS MEETING OF THE COLORED PEOPLE OF NEWBERN, N.C.
A large and enthusiastic meeting of the colored people of Newbern, North Carolina was held at the African Church in Newbern, on Monday, June 8, 1863, commencing at 2, P.M. Joseph E. Williams was unanimously elected President of the meeting Francis Moore and C. Butler, Vice Presidents, and A.T. Fisher, Secretary. Addresses were made by Brig, Gen. Wild, Dr. Mann, Assistant Surgeon  1st N. C. (colored) Regiment, Lieut. Bachelor, Joseph E. Williams, Thomas Felton, and others. The speakers were frequently interrupted by applause.
The following resolutions were then introduced and unanimously adopted:- 
Resolved, That it becomes the people of this nation to see and acknowledge the hand of God in the great events which are now taking place. His laws have been transgressed, justice and mercy have been forgotten oppression has prevailed, and now God calls the nation to account. The day of reckoning his come. The great lesson is once more taught that there is a God who judges the world.
Resolved, That we, the colored and oppressed people of this land, are now called by the signs of God’s providence to take courage, to lift up our heads, for the day of our deliverance has come. The God of the oppressed  has fulfilled his promise; He casts down the proud; He exalts the humble; He breaks the bow of the mighty; He leads forth his people with a strong hand and a stretched out arm.
Resolved, That we will trust in the Lord, and be of good cheer. He has multiplied us, and made us strong. He teaches our hands to war and our fingers to fight. He has raised up friends to help us. He has caused confusion and dismay among our enemies. He bids us no longer to serve the Egyptian (slaveholders) taskmaster, but to serve Him. He bids us smite the oppressor. We will obey His voice We will come up to the help of the Lord against the mighty. We will enlist under the banner of Freedom. We will show to the world, and especially to our friends who have come to help us, that they shall have no reason to be ashamed of us; that we are worthy of freedom; that we do belong to the brotherhood of mankind, and have God for our Father.
Resolved, That the hour has come and also the man. We welcome the brave leader whose history is a guaranty of victory. Let us respond with one heart and voice to the call of Brig-Gen. Edward A. Wild. Let every man among us who has a strong, arm and brave heart join Wild’s African Brigade. Let those who are weak  or fearful—our old men, our women, and our children—work for us and pray for us. And let us all bear in mind that the world is looking on; that it is better to die as heroes  than live cowards; that we must not disappoint our friends nor disgrace ourselves; and that the time has now come to teach tyrants a lesson which, like that of Pharaoh shall last thousands of years, while our children’s children shall rise up, and love and bless our memories.
Resolved, That our old men, and those of us who are not able to do service on  the battle-field, will assist and perpetuate the organization of the Colored Ladies’ Union Relief Association, of Newbern, for the benefit of Wild’s Colored Brigade. We will aid those noble women in the laudable duty they have undertaken, and contribute to their association for the purpose of ameliorating whatever suffering may be occasioned in the struggle for liberty against tyranny and arbitrary power. 
Resolved, That we, the colored people of North Carolina, will hereafter celebrate this day, the 8th of June, A.D. 1863, as the anniversary of the freedmen of North Carolina; this era to be continued on the 8th of June, every year henceforward.
Resolved, That we believe in God our Father, the Ruler of the destinies of nations, and entrust our cause to his favor and protection.
Resolved, That we will for ever honor the illustrious  name of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, the great founder of freedom to our race, by his grand Proclamation, and through his invincible soldiers of liberty.
Resolved, That we pledge our lives to maintain the Proclamation of January 1, 1863.
Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded for the benefit of our rising generation.
Resolved, That a copy of these proceedings be sent to the editor of the Christian Recorder, to be published for the benefit of the Church and State throughout the world.
JOSEPH E. WILLIAMS, Chairman.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
From the American Reform Tract and Book Society, 28 West Fourth Street, Cincinnati, we have received—
THE FUTURE OF THE FREED PEOPLE. By  Rev. James A. Thome. pp. 47.
PREJUDICE AGAINST COLORED PEOPLE. By Rev. B.P. Aydelott. pp 21.
These timely tracts will lend efficient aid to the present revolution of public sentiment in behalf of the negro, and are worthy of extensive circulation  Natural causes may in great measure be left to settle the question, What shall be done with the freedom? but there is no doubt that we shall need vast organization of effort to educate the new-made citizens up to the requirements of republicanism and civilization. This work, toilsome as it may seem, and tardy of fulfilment, is the penance of submitting so long to barbarism, and must have a salutary effect upon teacher as well as pupil. The first-named tract is sold "in is book form, neat paper covers, 5 cents single, or $400 per hundred." In  tract form, $2.00 per hundred. The second may be had at 3 cents single, and $2.50 per hundred, or 80 cents per hundred, in tract form.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for July, commences its twelfth volume, and has reached its sixty-eighth number—sustaining throughout the highest reputation for literary ability and faith in impartial liberty as a principle. All the best known writers in American literature are among its contributors. The present number is very readable. Contents:—1. Doings of the Sunbeam; by Oliver Wendell Holmes. 2. The Wraith of Odin. 3. Gala- Days; by Gail Hamilton. 4. The Fleur- de-Lis at Port Royal. 5. Her Epitaph. 6. Outside Glimpses of English Poverty; by Nathaniel Hawthorne. 7. Paul Blecker. 8. By the River.  9. The Growth of Continents; by Professor Agassiz. 10. The Musician 11. English Naval Power and English Colonies. 12. Our General; by an Officer of Gen. Butler’s staff at New Orleans. 13. The Claims to Service or Labor; by Robert Dale Owen-a very ingenious and important paper, containing a Bill for the total abolition of slavery by Congress. 14. Reviews and Literary  Notices, and Recent Publications.
Ticknor & Fields, Publishers, 135 Washington Street, Boston.
HARPER’S MONTHLY, for July, and the second number of the twenty seventh volume is now at hand. Its illustrated papers are a second article on Harrison’s Campaigns, by B. J. Lossing and an American Family in Germany , by J. Ross Browne. In addition to these Miss Nora Perry contributes a story, Margaret  Meyer’s Heart; the Rev. Dr. Osgood, Easter Flowers Miss Prescott, Rosemary; Miss Caroline Cheesebro, a story entitled Forward and Back; and J. T. Trowbridge,  Mr. Blazay’s Experience. Romola and The Small House at Allington are continued. Prof. Draper has a paper on England in Good Old Times, and Miss Austen one on the Rosetta Stone. Prof. Henry Rogers writes on Coal and Petroleum, and Frances T.S. Pratt inquires Why Aunt Dilly never Married. A paper on Sign Language, the Monthly Record of Current Events, Editor’s Easy Chair, Editor’s Drawer, two pages of funny illustration of the Age of Iron and two of Fashion Plate, conclude the number.— For sale by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GREAT MEETING IN MANCHESTER.
Effects abroad of the Emancipation Proclamation-What British Workmen think.
[Correspondence of the New York Evening Post.]
MANCHESTER, Jun 4, 1863.
Last night there took place at the Free Trade Hall in this city one of those remarkable demonstrations in favor of the North, by which the working classes of England have so often shown their appreciation of the true merits of the struggle between Federal and confederate power. Fully six thousand persons met in one of the finest public rooms in the world, to give, by their presence, a solemn record against the hated slavocracy.
The Free Trade Hall is already an historic place. It was erected in commemoration of the passage of the Reform laws, and took the place of the original edifice wherein had occurred the discussions which led to those laws. It is an enormous place, lighted from thirteen clusters of gas jets in the ceiling, and provided with a wide gallery, running around three sides of the building, while the other end is occupied by a large organ, a speaker's desk, and a platform for the use of musicians at concerts. When filled, as it was last night, by a large and excited audience, the scene is at once grand had singular.
ADDRESSES IN RELATION TO AMERICAN SLAVERY.
During the day, there had been convened in Manchester a Conference of anti-slavery clergymen, met to receive the report of a committee who had the reply to the address forwarded by the clergy of France to their English brethren in regard to American slavery. This letter of the French pastors-chiefly Protestants-had seven hundred and fifty signatures, and was addressed to the ministers of all evangelical denominations in England, Scotland and Ireland, urging them to "take the lead in a great and peaceful manifestation of sympathy for the colored race."
In accordance with this document, the Conference prepared an address "to the ministers and pastors of all Christian denominations throughout the States of America," which will appear in full in the American papers. It is rather a verbose document, and begins by stating the facts to which I have just alluded. It then gives a statistical review of the condition of slavery in America; rehearses some of the enormities of the institution; gives a tribute to the enterprise of the American nation, whose only blot is that of slavery; quotes the authority of Confederate Vice President Stephens to prove that the Confederate government is unblushingly based on the perpetuation and extension of human slavery; congratulates the statesmen and Christians of American on the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and the suppression of the slave trade, and, in conclusion, thus protests against any reaction of the emancipation movement:
"We read with deep and prayerful interest the Proclamation of Emancipation by the President, and rejoice that, notwithstanding the fears entertained by some good men, the results have been so beneficial. It has already brought liberty to myriads who were held in bondage. The first day of 1863 will be identified with the name of Abraham Lincoln in the history of many future citizens of the United States. If the opinion of Mr. Attorney General Bates by established as law, that any man born within the recognized territory of the United States is a citizen, then we must anticipate that henceforth even the negro, who is a man and a brother, will be also able to say, 'I am an American,' in the hour of threatened bondage. May not the day soon come, as longed for, when the President's counsel will be accepted, and the measure he recommends be made law, that all loyal States may emancipate their bondmen, and the whole Union be willing to share the responsibility and expense? Even now, hundreds of thousands of negroes, slaves when Mr. Lincoln first occupied the Presidential chair, are not only freedmen, but also servants of the State, and actively co-operating for the redemption of their native country. They are Americans, though colored men, and ready to make every sacrifice for the restoration of peace, the establishment of liberty, and the triumph of equitable government. Men they are whom the diplomatic representatives of Hayti and Liberia, now admitted to the brotherhood of American nations, when associated with the ambassadors of imperial sovereigns, need not fear to recognize as kindred people, at the capital of the American republic. Let the rulers and statesmen of the North persevere in such policy, pursue the course of equity, freedom and universal liberty, and especially endeavor to requite the African people by a godlike benevolence for the ten thousand wrongs which have been inflicted on them, and they will find it both more pleasant and more safe and easy to do justice, to love mercy, to undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free, then it is to do evil with both hands. With what renovated energy, with what moral power, with what hallowed consistency and honorable courage will the whole nation then be able to rise to their highest destiny! Then will the work of righteousness be peace, and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever; and the people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, in sure dwellings, and in quiet resting places. The greatness of the country will then be identified with goodness, and its name will be as ointment poured forth. It will have wiped from its banner every stain inconsistent with liberty, to which heretofore the finger of derision has been pointed, and will have established for its leaders a claim to the admiration of all enlightened men, as the benefactors of a long oppressed and injured people. It is the duty of American statesmen and Christian ministers (which all these considerations emphatically enforce) to guard against any reaction in the policy of emancipation, when arrangements consequent on the termination of the present war may come under discussion. A retrograde course would assuredly give a triumph to the adversaries of freedom, and put to shame all who have sympathized in the progress of the cause of the slave.
RICHARD SLATE, Chairman.
The Emancipation Society of this place thought the presence of so many clergymen of influence, identified with the Anti-Slavery cause, could be turned to good account, and so organized the great public meeting of last night.
THE MEETING.
It was currently reported through Manchester during the day, that a disturbance would take place in the evening. The Southern Club and the secessionists emissaries openly boasted of the coming "row," but all this talk did not prevent the six thousand people-about one fifth of whom were ladies-from attending.
Mr. T. B. Potter was Chairman, and Rev. Dr. Massie, an orator of considerable fire and eloquence, made the first speech. Hen enunciated the boldest sentiments about slavery, and the Confederacy as allied to it. He said that he and his fellow laborers were present to-night in the name of God-in the same of Him who had, as he believed, permitted a negro to help him carry His cross to Calvary; and in His name he stood forward to ask his audience to denounce American slavery, and brand its crime with the anathema of the people of God. He stated that 3860 ministers in England, Ireland and Scotland had signed the address to the American pastors. This document he asked permission to read, but the unruly element in the audience objected, and hisses and groans interrupted the reading.
Rev. Marmaduke Miller, the next speaker, quoted Richard Baxter, Dr. Channing, Thomas Fuller, Horace Smith and others, on the evils of slavery. He denounced the London Times as "infamous"-a verdict which the audience heartily supported.
Rev. Dr. King urged the advantages of emancipation. He defined the negro as one in the image of God, with the image and superscription trampled on, but not trampled out.
Rev. Dr. McMichael, a Professor of Ecclesiastical History, from Dunfermline, Scotland, brought forward a number of arguments against slavery, which are too familiar in America to demand rehearsal here. During his remarks, the secession element became still more noisy, and at times the speaker was inaudible, but the disgraceful tumult was somewhat calmed when Mr. Baptist Noel announced.
The Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel, who at public meetings is always announced with these preliminary titles, is one of the leading dissenters of England. Of a rich and noble family, he entered the Church, and became on of its most noted clergymen; but some ten years ago, he created a great excitement to the religious community by joining the Baptist persuasion. He is now about fifty years old, something
<c02>
like Lord Palmerston in personal appearance. As a speaker, he is quiet and sarcastic, rather than noisy.
But with such an unruly element to work against a noisy speaker was needed last night. The Southern disturbers knew that if Mr. Noel's remarks could be really heard, they would tell upon the audience, and thus they tried their best to drown him. They gave cheers for Jeff. Davis, which incident the speaker happily turned to account by asking his audience to give cheers for Lincoln; whereupon a tremendous shout, the wild waving of hats and handkerchiefs, and the most genuine enthusiasm, showed how vast was the majority in favor of the North.
Mr. Noel's main argument in his able though interrupted address was, that there is no hope for emancipation in the success and independence of the South. He said that the interruptions to which he was subjected were also experienced by Fox, when describing in the House of Commons the mischiefs of slavery—and he adopted Fox's reply: "You cannot bear to hear these things, but you can bear to let them be done." Mr. Noel proceeded to describe the Slave Power, and then directly addressed the Southern sympathizers present, quoting from the writings of secession leaders, and giving a scathing recountal of the deeds of Jefferson Davis. He concluded by urging every patriotic Englishman to speak, think and talk when he can, and read when he can, in favor of emancipation, reunion and peace.
Mr. J. H. Rylance, a young man from London—an earnest, noisy, attractive speaker, as animated as if fresh from an American "stump"—appealed to the audience as a Manchester man to be heard without interruption. He had visited America, and spent some time in the slaveholding States, and he now made his chief point,—and a good point it was, too,—in addressing four or five thousand workingmen on the desire of Southern capital to own laborers. He maintained that it was not a question of color, but one affecting the rights of workingman every where. He said that in the South the slave owners told him, in plain terms, that they pitied England for her social troubles and strikes, but that the only way to avoid them was to own the laborers, and not let them contract at all with the capitalist. "Would you, Lancashire mechanics, allow your mill-owners to possess you? to stand you in a row in the market place, and feel your muscle, and order you to open your mouth and show your teeth? Yet this is what the Southern slave-owner taunts and pities rich Englishmen for not doing." Altogether, Mr. Rylance's speech was the most effective of the evening. It was rude, almost coarse, yet it told immensely, and the secessionists at the doors did not dare to interrupt it.
Rev. Dr. Parker, of Manchester, made a final speech, after which Joseph Barker, a leading secessionist, tried to get on the platform, but was not allowed to address the audience. 
THE SECESSION CHAMPION.
This Barker is well known in America. He entered public life as a Methodist minister, then turned Unitarian, and afterwards an avowed atheist and a prominent atheistical writer. Of late, he has claimed to have returned to the Christian Church, and to be strictly orthodox. He is tall, has gray hair, and speaks with great glibness and facility. He has been giving lectures in this city on behalf of the South, and the Northern sympathizers do not emulate their Southern opponents by attempting to raise "rows" and break up meetings. 
MORAL OF THE MEETING. 
It should be borne in mind, that this monster meeting was an expression of public feeling on the emancipation movement, and had a philanthropic rather than a political aspect. Loud cheers were given for Mr. Lincoln, as an apostle of emancipation more than as the President of the United States, while the cause of the North was warmly espoused, because it is the cause identified with anti-slavery. The Emancipation Society here is very active. Immense placards hide the walls, giving choice extracts from previous speeches of secession leaders against secession. Stephens's anti-secession protest against withdrawing Georgia from the Union, delivered at the Georgia State Convention in January, 1861, has been plentifully distributed, and a plum from the London Times is appended thereto, the plum reading thus:—
"TESTIMONY OF THE LONDON TIMES. 'The North is for freedom, the South is for slavery. The North is for freedom of discussion, the South represses freedom of discussion with the tar brush and the pine faggot.'—Times, January 7, 1861."
THE WORKING CLASSES 
in Lancashire—and I can say it after pretty extensive travels through the cotton districts—maintain through all their troubles, in spite of all the artful representations of the secession agents, their warm sympathy for the North. Where a British workman defends the South, it is not her cause nor her institutions, but her generals that he praises. The character of Stonewall Jackson was one that could not but inspire admiration in a pluck-loving people; and this pluck and dash and energy of certain Southern leaders make some people overlook the wickedness of the cause for which they fight. But the moment some bold Northern military leader wins genuine successes, and not merely drawn battles, this same minority will transfer their admiration to the winning side, and with double zeal, for they can then, unreservedly, applaud both men and measures. W. F. W. 

AMERICAN DEMOCRACY.
The Democratic party of the United States is synonymous with the despotic party of Europe, and has stolen the appellation "Democratic," to allure and beguile a class, mostly emigrants, that, with righteous indignation against every thing monarchical and aristocratic, is not sufficiently cultured to distinguish names from principles, and is therefore made a prey to a party whose real principles it heartily abjures. It is the party of massacre, assassination, desperation and crime, combining every shade of vice and intolerance, every thing loathsome, nauseous and disgusting in its filthy and fetid nest. Who fill your Northern jails and penitentiaries? Men calling themselves Democrats. Who commit nine-tenths of all your murders? Men calling themselves by a name which indicates justice, equality and freedom. Who assassinate in cold blood a man who ventures to express an opinion differing from theirs? Men who claim the right for themselves to advocate treason, disunion, slavery, and every thing, and curse all men who dissent! Who flay alive, burn, hang, and quarter men—brand, whip, torment men in every conceivable devilish way for seeking their God-given right of personal liberty? Professed Democrats! men who profess to believe in liberty, equality, justice! Who are your traitors, conspiring against the inalienable rights of men? Men, for shame, calling themselves "Democrats"! O, what a horrible misnomer, assumed by men practising every infernal device to betray the cause of liberty, and drive humanity back to the barbarous ages!—practising that which is a negation of everything democratic, and upholding principles which, if imbibed by all, would reenact the accursed reigns of Nero, Caligula and Commodus! Who were so elated when the sacred rights of man were spit upon, and an armed bully in Congress attempted to assassinate a United States Senator for uttering his honest convictions as became him? "Democrats"! Who grinned so horribly the other side of the mouth, and had so much holy cant about "the right of speech," when the miserable Vallandigham was sent home among his own class, unto his own place, without insult or danger? "Democrats"! Be cautious, or you make the word "Democrat" a hissing and a by word to future generations, if that name must represent,—instead of justice, fraternity, equality, liberty,—slavery, massacre, assassination, crime, corruption, abominations of every hue and kind. H.ELKINS.
Gen. Hunter has arrived at New York. He is succeeded in command by Gen. Gilmore, the officer who took Fort Pulaski 
<c03>
HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.
"If Caesar does a deed, 'tis always praised;
But if the act is by a common man,
‘Tis thought of no account. The deed's the same,
But not the men.”
—The King's Judgment, Act 5, Scene 3.
Among the old standing topics of discussion used to be the questions, "Who struck Billy Patterson?" and "Will saltpetre explode?" These mooted points finally gave way to another, which has for a long time occupied the public attention, and that is. "Will niggers fight?" That inquiry had really been answered on the soil of the United States during "the times which tried men's souls." It was answered when Crispus Attucks became the first martyr of the Revolution, when his blood was the first to flow for liberty. It was answered in many a fort and on many a battle field, where deeds of heroism and prodigies of valor were exhibited by negroes, worthy of any Paynim or Christian knights whose prowess has been sung by minstrels, or set to harmonious numbers by admiring poets. It was answered during the war of 1812, when the slaveholding Jackson, and others like him, were obliged to confess that though skins might differ, yet courage, honor, patriotism and bravery glowed in the black man's heart as brilliantly as in that of his pale-faced brother.
It has been answered, too, in the various islands of the West Indies, where the maroons, in their mountain retreats, like liberty-loving eagles in their eyries, defied the power and the arms of Great Britain, France, Spain, Holland, and other smaller States—maintaining their freedom in their clefts and defiles against all the force that was brought against them—maintaining it for years, and always successfully, against the tried veterans and scar marked soldiers of the Old World. It was answered in Hayti, where for the first time in the history of man, the slaves of a country became a nation, took up the sword, and by their own right hands achieved their liberty. They met the victors of Napoleon's Italian and Austrian campaigns, and the heroes of a hundred fights quailed and gave way to the indomitable courage of black men in arms for liberty.
Yet, notwithstanding all this, cowards and traitors sneeringly ask the question,. "Will negroes fight? Set these inquirers out before the effulgence of a negro soldier's eye. and its very light would make them cower and tremble. But the courage of black men is no longer to be a subject of doubt, even to traitors. The events of the present war are settling that matter now and for ever. History is writing the, names of black men over the entire scroll of heaven, alongside of the bravest and best in this holy contest for humanity, civilization, and equal rights. Poetry and romance, as well as history, are to become resplendent with the same noble theme. Sculpture and painting, too, will contribute their perpetuation of the inspiring acts of negro and white man alike under the same glorious flag, now that it floats for liberty, and on the same ensanguined field.
Tennyson sung "The Charge of the Six Hundred," and Christendom has rung with their bravery. But was their courage greater, their heroism nobler, or their fear of death less than the black regiment of Louisiana, at the late attack on Port Hudson, when, out of a thousand, six hundred were left dead on the field? There was no recoil to those brave men—onward, to do or die!
"And the bright bayonet,
Bristling and firmly set 
Flashed with a purpose grand
Long ere the sharp command
Of the fierce rolling drum
Told them their time had come,
Told them what work was sent
For the black regiment."
Peace to the heroes! They did not die in vain. Their blood will wash out the prejudices so long existing against their oppressed race. The noble offering of their lives for freedom which they never enjoyed will vindicate the right of their brothers and kinsmen to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
Nor is it at Port Hudson alone that negroes, during this war, have proved themselves to possess the highest qualities of warriors and of men. On sea and land, in fortress and on plain, on the stream and in the forest, their record is the same—faithful, bold and true. As sailor and soldier, as scout, pilot, guide or laborer, they have shown themselves high-minded men. Daniel Webster said to New England, "Conquer your prejudices!" and he said it in behalf of slavery. Now let the same watchword sound out over the land, and let it ring for justice and for freedom. No more let the mean pride of color obscure worth and trample merit under foot. If it is a Christian land, and Christians believe their own Bible, let them remember "God has created of one blood all nations of the earth," and let them tremble in view of the wrongs they have heaped upon their brethren. The black man "must and shall" have his rights, and let the white man take care lest, in the career of honor, devotion to country, heroic bravery, and a courage that turns not back at the cannon's mouth, he finds the negro not merely his compeer, but his superior. ARION. 
Washington, D. C, 16th June, 1863. 
SUBSTANCE AND SHADOW: or Morality and Religion in their Relation to Life: An Essay upon the Physics of Creation. By Henry James. Boston: Ticknor and Fields. 1863.
A careful reading is necessary to a proper notice of this elegantly printed volume, which must accordingly be deferred to a later day. 
"THE HOUSE THAT JEFF BUILT" is a graphic pictorial illustration of slavery, by D. C. Johnston, of this city—beginning with the slave pen, and representing king cotton, the field chattels, the slave auction, the shackles for the slaves, the slave buyers, the slave-breeder parting with his own flesh, the lash, the slave-driver and his victim, the arch rebel Jeff, ending in his execution, and giving the cheering assurance—
But Jeff's infamous house is doomed to come down—
So says Uncle Sam, and so said John Brown—
With slave pen and auction, shackles, driver, and cat,
Together with seller, and buyer, and breeder, and that
Most loathsome of bipeds, by some called a man,
Whose trade is to sell all the chattels he can,
From yearlings to adults of life's longest span,
In and out of the house that Jack built.
We hope it will find a quick sale in every city, town and village. 
THE BOSTON BUSINESS AND COPARTNERSHIP DIRECTORY, for 1863-4, just published by Dean Dudley, 89 Washington Street, makes a neat and highly useful volume of 356 pages, and contains the names and locations of all firms and individuals doing business in Boston, including the full name of each partner in the firms; all in alphabetical order, under appropriate headings, which are alse arranged alphabetically; with a complete alphabetical index, referring to every name and place of business mentioned in the book. Also, a fine map of Boston and vicinity, a register of Municipal, State and United States officials holding office in Boston, a summary of historical events, a pleasure directory, post-office guide, &c. 
OLIVER DITSON & Co., 277 Washington Street, have just issued—
The Dew Drop. Polka Redowa, by A. E. Warren.
Cricket Polka. For the Piano, by Wm. Withers, Jr.
Diamantina Polka. From the Ballet "Diamantina," by Giaquinto.
Cradle Song. Words by J. G. Holland. Music by Jane P. Titcomb.
Our thanks are due to Hon. Henry Wilson for the Preliminary Report of the Eighth Census, and to Hon. Charles Sumner for the Report on the Conduct of the War—both valuable anti-slavery documents from the national printing-house. 
EMANCIPATION. Rebel reports allege that three thousand negroes left Hinds county, Miss., after Grierson's raid. 
<c04>
LETTER FROM GEN. FREMONT. 
Gen. Fremont sent the following letter to the New Hampshire Mass Union Convention held on the 17th inst.
NEW YORK, June 16, 1863.
MY DEAR SIR:—I find that I must give up my hope to be with you to-morrow. The engagements of which I told you have, as I anticipated, obliged me to remain here. To this is now added the critical condition of our national affairs. If I had been able to attend the meeting, I should have adverted mainly to he point which recent events in the West have made the uppermost question of the day; and which the people consider so vital that in Ohio they are in danger of accepting as its representative a man who uses the doctrine of free speech as a defence and a shield, and not the flag under which he has served; and the conduct of whose life shows that he is not willing to accept it as the complete principle comprehending all cases and covering all territory. In this country men will go with principles, and if you allow false leaders to assume yours, the people will go with them, because he principle carries them. I should have urged the Republican Democracy of New Hampshire to assert distinctly their old principles, and to maintain the noble position which belongs to them. 
I hope, my dear sir, you will insist upon this, and not allow men who are openly thwarting the objects of the Government to wrest to their aid the vital principles of your party, and use them in the Confederate fashion to mislead our own people and to dishonor our old flag with its inscription, "free speech and free press." But while re-asserting those principles upon which the Administration went into power, and against which the South rebelled, I trust your people will mark plainly the boundary line which separates the former and men who are really opposing the war, by making equally distinct their determination to support the Government in putting down the rebellion. This done, free speech would be secured; free speech for Wendell Phillips as well as for Mr. Vallandigham.
Since I saw you, events have brought more peremptory duties. Your people will feel that they have more need for action than discussion; but whatever they arrive at, I trust that they will recognize that while we have rebels in the field or in elections at home, there is neither victory nor safety in half-way measures or compromises. Very truly yours,
JOHN C. FREMONT.
His Excellency Gov. GILMORE.
FURTHER PARTICULARS OF THE FIGHT AT MILIKEN'S BEND. 
TWENTY-SECOND DAY IN REAR OF VICKSBURG, 
JUNE 9th, 1863.
Two gentlemen from the Yazoo have given me the following particulars of the fight at Miliken's Bend, in which negro troops played so conspicuous a part.
My informant states that a force of about one thousand negroes, and 200 men of the 23d Iowa, belonging to the 2d brigade, Carr's division, (the 23d Iowa had been up the river with prisoners, and was on its way back to this place,) was surprised in camp by a rebel force of about 2,000 men. The first intimation that the commanding officer received was from one of the black men, who went into the colonel's tent and said: "Massa, the secesh are in camp." The colonel ordered him to have the men load their guns at once. He instantly replied: "We have done did dat now, massa." Before the colonel was ready, the men were in line, ready for action. As before slated, the rebels drove our force towards the gunboats, taking colored men prisoners and murdering them. This so enraged them that they rallied, and charged the enemy more heroically and desperately than has been recorded during the war. It was a genuine bayonet charge, a hand to hand fight, that has never occurred to any extent during this prolonged conflict. Upon both sides men were killed with the butts of muskets. White and black men were lying side by side, pierced by bayonets, and in some instances transfixed to the earth. In one instance, two men—one white and the other black—were found dead, side by side, each having the other's bayonet through his body. If facts prove to be what they are now represented, this engagement of Sunday morning will be recorded as the most desperate of this war. Broken limbs, broken heads, the mangling of bodies, all prove that it was a contest between enraged men; on the one side from hatred to a race, and on the other, desire for self preservation, revenge for past grievances, and the inhuman murder of their comrades. One brave man took his former master prisoner, and brought him into camp with great gusto. A rebel prisoner made a particular request, that his own negroes should not be placed over him as a guard. Dame fortune is capricious! His request was not granted. Their mode of warfare does not entitle them to any privileges. If any are granted, it is from magnanimity to a fellow foe.
The rebels lost five cannon, 200 men killed, 400 to 500 wounded, and about 200 prisoners. Our loss is reported to be 100 killed and 500 wounded; but few were white men.
THEN AND NOW. The Boston Transcript has this comment upon the reception and departure of the 54th colored regiment:—
Since Massachusetts first began to send her brave troops into the field, no single regiment has attracted larger crowds into the streets than the 54th. The contrast between the present and a few years since could not fail to be noticed. It requires only a small effort of memory to revert to the time when the power of the city, State and country, united to force back a forlorn and almost friendless bondman to the fetters he had broken. Now a thousand men of the same race march proudly through our avenues, to fight under the protection of the State and nation, against the defenders of the institution which has imbruted so many of their own blood, and now threatens the very existence of the government.
In view of the splended reception of this regiment, to day, in Boston, and the different treatment it would have met a few brief months ago, who shall aver that the community has not made sufficient progress, in a short time, to allow the confident belief that the full consummation of the most ardent hopes of the philanthropist will speedily be attained, in regard to a formerly despised and oppressed people?" 
THE REJECTION OF COLORED TROOPS. We regret very much that General Couch did not, could not legally, it is said, accept the services of the company of colored men which volunteered for the defence of the State. It was composed of eighty of the best colored citizens of Philadelphia, who answered at once the urgent call of the Governor. They armed themselves, elected white officers, and asked no favors. All they wished was an opportunity to aid in the defence of their State. They even paid their own way to Harrisburg, not being able to obtain transportation, and when they reached that city, their services were declined. When brave men are thus tied up with red tape, something must be wrong.
General Couch, we believe, stated that technical provisions necessitated the refusal of the company. We know, however, that had technical orders been generally obeyed, Harrisburg would have had very few defenders. The organization of colored troops will probably meet with other difficulties, but it should not discourage those engaged in a work so honorable and important.—Philadelphia Dial. 
COLORED TROOPS IN THE FIELD. The number of negro soldiers already raised and in the field is reported as follows: General Thomas's recruits on the Mississippi, 11,000; under General Banks, 3,000; in Kansas, 1,000; in South Carolina, 3,000; in North Carolina, 3,000; under General Rosecrans, 5,000; under General Schofield, 2,000; Massachusetts regiment, 1,000; in the District of Columbia, 800—total 29,800. There are also 5,000 colored men in the navy.
Rebel accounts of the destruction of Darien, Ga., on the 11th inst., by Col. Montgomery's negro regiments, state that " all the churches, the market house, court house, jail, private houses, stores, and even stables were burnt, the soldiers putting turpentine on the floors, and setting fire to it. The soldiers engaged in this outrage were negroes, officered by Massachusetts and Pennsylvania men. A letter says: "They have left nothing but the chimneys standing in all Darien. They took every negro that was in the place, forcing some to go with their guns pointed at them all the time." 
How far the copperhead movement in the North invited and encouraged the present rebel invasion of Maryland and Pennsylvania, it is impossible to say, but there can be no doubt that the speeches of Vallandigham and Wood have encouraged the rebels with the idea that they have friends in the North who would offer them sympathy if not substantial aid. The doctrines of these men tend most directly to weaken the Government in its efforts to subdue the rebellion by force of arms, and of course tend to the same extent to strengthen the rebels in their attempt to achieve independence by the same instrumentalities.
JOHN A. JACKSON—the American sculptor whose busts of Ly man Beecher, Wendell Phillips, and Wm. Lloyd Garrison have been so generally admired—is now in Florence, engaged on three portrait busts of private gentlemen, and on an ideal work to he called " Eve and the Dead Abel." Eve is in a kneeling posture, lifting up her slain son. We learn from a private letter that the artist is working with great enthusiasm over this last conception, and that the result is likely to be his masterpiece.—N. Y. Independent. 
HORRIBLE. On Sunday last, a black man in the Orange County (N. Y.) jail at Newburg, on suspicion of rape, was forcibly taken from his prison by a mob of Irishmen, who pounded him almost to death, and then hang him on a tree until be was finished. 
<c05>
A captain in the army writes to the Boston Transcript that Major Winthrop, killed at Great Bethel, was shot by a negro. The writer says: "I have it from a member of the Wythe Rifles, of Hampton, Va., who wan present at the fight and saw Winthrop fall, that he was shot by a negro at the suggestion and command of the captain of the Rifles, who said to him substantially: 'These Yankees will take you to Cuba, and sell you. If you wish to stay with your wife and children, drive them out of Virginia.' The negro fired, and unconsciously to him, there fell one of the earliest and best friends of the race to which he belonged." 
WELL PUT. The Louisville Journal says if anybody dissatisfied with Federal money, let him go South and get Confederate money. If anybody is dissatisfied with United States taxes, let him go South and pay Southern taxes. If anybody is dissatisfied with the United States enrollment, let him go South and enjoy the benefits of the Southern conscription. 
THE REBEL GENERAL FORREST REPORTED KILLED. A special dispatch to the Missouri Republican, dated Franklin, Tenn., .June 16, says: 
"Two prisoners just brought up to Col. Baird's headquarters state that rebel Gen. Forrest was shot on Saturday by Lieut. Gould, rebel. Forrest having accused him of cowardice, he resented it. Forrest struck Gould several times with a bowie knife, inflicting very severe wounds. Gould then turned on Forrest, and shot him. They believe the wound mortal."
JEFF. DAVIS'S PLANTATION PILLAGED. The Murfreesboro' correspondent of the Cincinnati Commercial writes:—
A body of Federals are reported to have pillaged the plantations of Jeff Davis and his brother Joe, destroying every implement of husbandry and all the household and kitchen furniture, defacing the buildings, and driving off every negro on the estate. 
THE KILLED AND WOUNDED. The Cincinnati papers come to us with nearly four solid columns, in small, solid type, of the killed and wounded before Vicksburg. The victims appear to be, for the most part, from Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Iowa, and other Western troops.
Admiral Porter reports officially the loss of the gunboat Cincinnati, sunk by the Rebel fire. The killed and wounded were 25, and 15 are missing. 
Ex-Governor Robert C. Wickliffe was taken prisoner at his residence in Bayou Sara by some of General Banks's forces. He was Governor of Louisiana previous to the election of Thomas Overton Moore, he present incumbent.
Capt. Semmes has destroyed seventy-four American vessels. Had proper measures been taken, his ship would have been destroyed six months ago.
There are now six rebel privateers, four steamers and two small vessels, at sea, committing their depredations upon our commerce.
Two spunky Union ladies, revolvers in hand, arrested a guerrilla in Andrew county. Mo., a few days since, and marched him to prison.
The rebel conscription law exempts from military service every owner of a negro. In Georgia the law has been interpreted to include even overseers, and in the Baker County courts a man so employed has been discharged from arrest on this ground.
The yarn from Port Royal about a mutiny among black soldiers is a fiction; the immense mutiny consisted of a temporary fuss made by one man only, during which a musket was accidentally fired, and one person thereby killed—this man was not a relative of the officer in command.
The Ohio State election takes place in October. Those who fancy that Vallandigham stands a chance of being chosen Governor, must take into their calculation the fact that all Ohio soldiers in the army are allowed to vote. There are eighty thousand of them, and the extinguished copperhead will get very few of their votes. 
THE BLACK FLAG. Col. Mower, in command at Milliken's Bend, made an expedition to Richmond, La., and drove the rebels from that section. He burnt the town, and brought the women and children to Milliken's Bend. He states positively that the rebels carried the black flag with skull and cross-bones in the recent attack on Milliken's Bend. 
The New York Tribune's Washington letter of the 22d says—"Senator Sumner is to present to the President, to-morrow, a memorial from respected citizens of Massachusetts, asking from the government an authoritative declaration of purpose to protect the colored soldiers, and a letter from Governor Andrew heartily endorses the prayer."
A "NIGGER HATER" BANISHED. Secretary Chase, upon being informed that a certain clerk in the Sixth Auditor's Office had expressed the hope that if Lee did come into Washington, he would kill every "nigger and every man who helped in the organization of nigger regiments," summarily dismissed him.
PRESENTATION TO A COLORED CHAPLAIN. Rev. J. N. Mars, a colored Chaplain in Gen. Wild's brigade, was the recipient, from a number of friends who gathered at the Zion's Herald office on Monday, of a complete oufit for his rank in the army, besides a purse containing a liberal sum of money. Interesting speeches were made on the occasion. 
Recent foreign papers give the particulars of a severe earthquake experienced at the Island of Rhodes in April last. A number of ancient buildings were badly damaged. Several hundred lives were lost, including nearly the entire population of one town who were buried alive. The earthquake was followed by heavy rains, which destroyed a large portion of the provisions of the peasantry, who are suffering severely for the necessaries of life.
By an explosion of a magazine in Fort Lyon, near Alexandria, Va., on Tuesday, 20 men of the 3d N. Y. Battery were killed, and as many more wounded.
"NOSES"—THEIR SIGNIFICANCE.—Illustrated with engravings of Roman, Grecian, Indian, Negro, Celestial, Aqueline, Turn-up, and Pug Noses, with the Character revealed by each. EYES—blue, black, or gray. LIPS—thin and pale, or full and red, prim or pouting, scolding or loving. MOUTH—large or small. HAIR—light or dark, coarse or fine, straight or curly. CHEEKS—thin or plump, pale or colored. TEETH—Regular or irregular. EARS— large or small. NECK—long or short. SKIN—rough or smooth. All to be amply illustrated with engravings. The walk, talk, laugh and voice, all indicate character. We may know an honest face from a dishonest one, and we will show how. Besides the above, we have to treat on ETHNOLOGY, or the Natural History of Man; of PHYSIOLOGY, and the Laws of Life and Health; of PHYSIOGNOMY, or Signs of Character, and how to read them; of PHRENOLOGY, the Philosophy of Mind; and of PSYCHOLOGY, the Science of the soul. MAN, with reference to all his relations of life, social, intellectual, and spiritual, and what each can do best, will be elucidated in the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL AND LIFE ILLUSTRATED. New volume commences July 1st. A handsome quarto monthly, at only $1 50 a year. Sample numbers, 15 cents Please address FOWLER AND WELLS, 308 Broadway, New York.
THE "PECULIAR INSTITUTION" ILLUSTRATED.
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great well and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running cross wise and lengthwise—the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. "This card photograph," says the New York Independent, "should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stow cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye. Price 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp, Seven copies for one dollar, or $l,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR or THE LIBERATOR, Boston, Mass.
A PICTURE FOR THE TIMES.
For sale by R. F. WALLCUT, at the Anti-Slavery Office 221 Washington Street, a well-executed photograph of remarkable drawing by Mr. CARLTON, one of our resident artiste, called " Watch-Meeting, Dec. 31, 1862—Waitin for the Hour "—representing a scene " way down South in Dixie," on last New Year's Eve, where some thirty or forty slaves seem to be waiting with great anxiety the hour which, by President Lincoln's proclamation of the 22d of September, shall make them " henceforth and for ever free. "Large size, suitable for framing, $2.00. Second size, $1.00. Card photograph, 25 cents.
AGENTS WANTED in every county in the Free States for the sale of Wendell Phillips Speeches and Lectures. Large commissions allowed. The book will be issued June 15. Price $2. Sent by mail on receipt of retail price. Address JAMES REDPATH, 221 Washington st., Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases Women and Children.
References—Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
<c06>
DIED, at Easton, Washington Co., N. Y., May 30, of consumption, LYDIA G. PECKMAN, daughter of Joseph and Elizabeth Peckham, aged sixteen years.
The deceased was one of those rare and beautiful human flowers that are transplanted to the garden of the spiritual life at an early period of their existence. She was remarkable for sweetness of spirit and excellent qualities of mind. She was dearly beloved, not alone by her fond parents, sisters and brothers, but by many friends and acquaintances, a large concourse of whom assembled at her funeral to commingle their sympathies, and to offer their tribute of affectionate remembrance.
She was one of whom, in the words of Whittier, it may be said:
"The blessing of her quiet life
Fell on us like the dew;
And good thoughts, where her footsteps pressed,
Like fairy blossoms grew.
Sweet promptings unto kindest deeds
Were in her very look;
We read her face as one who reads
A true and holy book."
Believing that, though "gone," she is not "lost," that though changed, her relation to us is still one of conscious nearness and sweet sympathy, uniting with her beloved home circle, again we may say:
"Fold her, Oh Father! in thine arms,
And let her henceforth be
A messenger of love between
Our human hearts and Thee. 
Still let her mild rebuking stand 
Between us and the wrong,
And her dear memory serve to make
Our faith in Goodness strong." A. M. P 
IN MEMORIAM.
Respectfully dedicated to the Parents of Lydia G. Peckham.
Sadly our human hearts will yearn;
We cannot say farewell.
We cannot pangfully give up
Our darling loved so well.
Though on the other shore she walk,
A spirit robed in light,
Though endless day hath broke for her,
We're shrouded in the night. 
And by our hearth a vacant place
Stands silent day by day;
We know our dear one nevermore
Shall cheer our earthly ray.
Only in spirit shall we feel
An angel hover near— 
Strange precious thoughts will come to-day,
To check the rising tear 
We still must shed—though, Father God,
We give her up to Thee—
A human blossom plucked from earth
For immortality. ANNA ALDRICH
DIED— In Boston, on the 23d inst., GEORGE A. OTIS, Esq., aged 81 years, 10 months.

TWO DAYS MEETING OF FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS AT FARMINOTON, MICH.,
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY, June 27 and 28, (in a Grove or Church.)
All men and women who seek a truer life are invited. Subjects of Reform, Freedom and Spiritual Life will be spoken of. THE REBELLION will claim attention.
H.C. Wright, G.B. Stebbins and others will be present.
Homes for strangers provided.
ANDREW T. FOSS, of Manchester, N. H., .will hold meetings in behalf of Freedom, and the Restoration of the Union on a secure and certain basis, as follows:—
East Dennis, Friday, June 26.
Dennis, Sunday, June 28.
SABBATH NOTICE. Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, will preach next Sunday, at Mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4, at half past 10o'clock, A. M., on Psalm 110; its age, authorship, translations, and interpretations, correcting radical and prevailing errors. 
WM. LLOYD GARRIS0N will address the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at the Melodeon, on Sunday forenoon, June 28.

EDWARD M. DAVIS, 
STOCK & EXCHANGE BROKER, 
No. 39 SOUTH THIRD STREET 
(SECOND FLOOR,) PHILADELPHIA, PA.
I HAVE this day opened an office for the transaction of a general EXCHANGE and BANKING BUSINESS, and the sale of Bonds and other Securities on Commission.
Particular attention will be given to Government Securities, as the most reliable investments.
Bonds and Stocks in general will be bought and sold.
Dividends, Interests and Coupons will be collected and remitted.
Railroad, City, County and Township Bonds negotiated.
Quartermaster's Vouchers and Yearly Certificates bought and sold.
Interest allowed on Deposits, and Loans negotiated
Special Collections made.
Coin and Currency bought.
Foreign Exchange sold.
As I have a prompts and reliable correspondent in New York, connected with the Broker's Board, I can execute orders there with dispatch.
Any business entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully. E. M. DAVIS,
SECOND FLOOR, 39 SOUTH THIRD ST.,
Philadelphia, Penn.
Philadelphia, April 1st, 1863.—6m
5-20's The principal on these Bonds can be claimed April 30th, 1882, but is payable at the option of the Government any time after April 30th, 1867. They draw interest in Gold, semi-annually, at the rate of 6 per cent. Per annum, payable may 1st and November 1st of each year at the Mint in Philadelphia. The principal is also payable in Gold. They can now, and until July 1st, be had for legal tender notes at par, thus making Green-backs draw interest in gold, and securing the Principal in gold also. Interest begins the day the money is paid. The Bonds can be had "Registered", or with "coupons." The first are drawn to the order of the buyer. The interest can only be collected by the person whose name is in the bond, or by attorney. For safety, the name and residence are registered in Washington and at the Mint. There is a power of "transfer" on the back of each bond, to enable the original buyer to convey it. The "Registered," for permanent investments, are preferred. The "Coupon" Bonds are drawn to bearer, and have attached to each of them a small "Coupon" or check upon the Treasury of the United States, Payable to bearer for each amount of interest due from the day of issue up to the 1st on November, 1881. The last payment of interest, May 1st 1882, is paid with the principal when the bond is surrendered. By an act of Congress, they are not taxable, and no tax can collected from the holder of them except under the law creating an income tax. Any person owning $10,000 or under will not have any tax to pay on the principal or interest, provided the parties have no other income.
I am authorized, and shall be glad to supply these Bonds at par to the purchaser, until July 1st, 1863, my commission coming from another source.
Look carefully over your "Green-backs." Parties sometimes pass at par those that are equal to gold. They can easily be distinguished from the others, as they have printed on the face "Payable on Demand." They were issued before the general suspension of specie payments, and as Government takes them for duties on foreign imports, they will bring as much as gold in the market. There are several millions still unredeemed. They cannot be reissued.
My business is exclusively on Commission. All orders entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully. Any inquiries answered.
E. M. DAVIS,
EXCHANGE BROKER,
M22 tJ1 No. 39 South Third St. Philadelphia.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
M y 29.6m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO SOJOURNER TRUTH,
THE “LYBIAN SYBIL.”
I give thee joy, my noble friend and true,
Thou who, but yesterday a scorned slave–
Bearing the cross within thy great, brave heart—
Wast scourged and scoffed at by the heartlees crew,
And only pitied by the Christ-like few
Who seek, like Christ, the sorrowing to save,
To-day, forevermore enshrined in art!
(The world grows just at last, for who like thou
E'er wore an aureole on a living brow?)
So thy wronged race, long trodden beneath the feet
Of tyrant lords, and wearing the brand of shame,
Shall yet in manhood's majesty, complete,
Stand proudly in the sacred halls of Fame!
Wisconsin, May, 1863. C. L. MORGAN.

IN WAR-TIME.
[Read before the Alumni of the Friends’ Yearly Meeting School, at the annual meeting at Newport, R. I., 15th 6th mo., 1863.]
BY JOHN G.WHITTIER.
Once more, dear friends, you meet beneath
A clouded sky:
Nor yet the sword has found its sheath,
And, on the sweet spring airs, the breath
Of war floats by.
Yet trouble springs not from the ground,
Nor pain from chance;
Th' Eternal order circles round,
And wave and storm find mete and bound
In Providence.
Full long our feet the flowery ways
Of peace have trod,
Content with creed and garb and phrase:
A harder path in earlier days
Led up to God.
Too cheaply truths, once purchased dear,
Are made our own;
Too long the world has smiled to hear
Our boast of full corn in the ear,
By others sown–
To see us stir the martyr fires
Of long ago,
And wrap our satisfied desires
In the singed mantles that our sires
Have dropped below.
But now the cross our worthies bore
On us is laid;
Profession’s quiet sleep is o’er,
And in the scale of truth once more
Our faith is weighed.
The cry of innocent blood at last
Is calling down
An answer in the whirlwind blast,
The thunder and the shadow cast
From Heaven's dark frown.
The land is red with judgments. Who
Stands guiltless forth?
Have we been faithful as we knew,
To God and to our brother true,
To Heaven and Earth?
How faint, through din of merchandise
And count of gain,
Have seemed to us the captives’ cries?
How far away the tears and sighs
Of souls in pain!
This day the fearful reckoning comes
To each and all;
We hear amidst our peaceful homes
The summons of the conscript drums,
The bugle’s call.
Our path is plain: the war-net draws
Round us in vain,
While, faithful to the Higher Cause,
We keep our fealty to the laws
Through patient pain.
The leveled gun, the battle brand
We may not take;
But, calmly loyal, we can stand
And suffer with our suffering land 
For conscience’ sake.
Why ask for case where all is pain?
Shall we alone
Be left to add our gain to gain,
When over Armageddon’s plain
The trump is blown?
To suffer well is well to serve;
Safe in our Lord,
The rigid lines of law shall curve
To spare us; from our heads shall swerve
Its switing sword.
And light is mingled with the gloom,
And joy with grief;
Divinest compensations come,
Through thorns of judgment mercies bloom
In sweet relief.
Thanks for our privilege to bless,
By word and deed,
The widow in her keen distress,
The childless and the fatherless,
The hearts that bleed!
For fields of duty, opening wide,
Where all our power
Are tasked the eager steps to guide
Of millions on a path untried:
THE SLAVE IS OURS!
Ours by traditions dear and old,
Which make the race
Our wards to cherish and uphold,
And east their freedom in the mold
Of Christian grace.
And we may tread the sick-bed floors
Where strong men pine,
And, down the groaning corridors,
Pour freely from our liberal stores
The oil and wine.
Who murmurs that in these dark days
His lot is cast?
God's hand within the shadow lays
The stones whereon His gates of praise
Shall rise at last.
Turn and o’erturn, O outstretched Hand!
Nor stint, nor stay;
The years have never dropped their sand
On mortal issue vast and grand
As ours to-day.
Already, on the sable ground
Of man's despair,
Is Freedom’s glorious picture found,
With all its dusky hands unbound,
Upraised in prayer.
Oh, small shall seem all sacrifice,
And pain and loss,
When God shall wipe the weeping eyes,
For suffering give the victor’s prize,
The crown for cross!

JUNE.
Spring breathed its farewell to the opening flowers,
The sleeping dew-drop and the growing moon;
Left its rich legacy of budding bowers,
To smile a welcome to the leafy June!
The voice of springing beauties all in tune,
Winged with new life the fragrance-scented air,
And softly blessed the shadows' star-lit noon,
With the sweet incense of their nightly prayer!
No wonder, then, the waking summer morn–
The brightest month of all the fleeting year—
Should blush with living freshness, newly born,
The pure, baptismal gift of Love’s own tear,
The sunshine of its joy and heavenly cheer,
The mirrored image of its rainbow kiss,–
Till heaven itself seems very, very near,
Gladdening the earth with ecstacy of bliss!
And June is here—with all its sweetness here,
Radiant with peerless beauty everywhere,—
<c02>
Flower-woven crown of joy to bless the year,
And with its glory brighten every care.
How bounds my heart with joy to snuff the air
All animate with young life's odorous balm!
How thrills my very being, e'en to wear
The grateful semblance of its blessed calm! 
And yet it is the calm of busy life,
Such calm as woos to rest the panting sea,
With its own music staying all its strife.
To lull itself to sleep with child-like glee!
To mar the peace no discord comes to me,
The grating jars of boisterous life ne'er come;
But birds instead, in carols wild and free,
Mingle their music with the wild bees' hum! 
Beauty and song now keep their bridal day;—
Long like as angel’s gushing melody
‘Mid buds and blossoms charming time away,
And beauty glowing all so bright for me;
Twould seem as if the hosts of heaven, on free,
Unfettered pinions, with a skilful hand
Had pencilled earth with living tints, to see 
It wear reflections of their own bright land! 
And gladdened by it all, still comes the thought,
A crown of blossoms earth not always wears;
Not always with the beauty June has wrought, 
It lives on sweets, and smells the balmy airs;
So life, with golden morn, not always shares 
A June of roses! With its years are given
Many a darkening shadow, and a host of cares,
Till sometimes trembling souls lose sight of heaven! 
And as this dreamy brightness greets us now,
Awakening in the heart joy's summer bloom;
As song-winged breezes for the waiting brow,
And flower-swung censers breathe a sweet perfume;
O may we nerve ourselves for hours of gloom,
When winter winds are shrieking out of tune,
That when Life’s treasures find an earthly tomb, 
Its love may find in heaven eternal June! 

A SUMMER NIGHT.
We sat together, you and I,
That evening in the month of June,
Beneath the porch; the deep blue sky
Held the sharp crescent of the moon.
So mildly shone her silvery light,
On the smooth lawn it seemed to sleep;
Sweet odors filled the summer night,
From fragrant gardens ankle deep.
The honeysuckle, wet with dew,
Scattered her perfume on the air;
Soft gales from spicy woodlands blew,
And toyed each moment with your hair.
And now and then the drowsy herd,
From meadow pastures far and near,
Lowed dreamily; the startled bird
Twittered the while; and sweet and clear
The murmur of the cool, dark stream,
That woo'd with song the heart of Night;
And through the vines a truant beam
Of moonlight kissed your neck so white.
I held your tender hand—we talked
About the future and the past;
Or sometimes down the path we walked
Beneath the lindens: till at last
The moon sank in the violet east,
Gilding the thin clouds as she went;
And on the lawn the shades increased,
Till all in doubtful dusk was blent.
When suddenly upon the night,
Near where the moon had sunk to rest,
Kindled a strange, mysterious light,
Behind the ragged mountain’s mountain's crest.
And up the glittering arch of blue,
And far across the billowy plain,
As through the air the meteor flew,
A ball of fire with streaming mane.
How wildly gleamed your startled eye,
How tight your fingers clasped my hand,
As slowly in the western sky 
It faded, leaving all the land
To darkness and the silent stars!—
That night, upon my restless bed
I tossed, in dreams of cruel wars, 
And field of battle strewn with dead.
—Harper's Magazine. 

The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER XIX.
TO-MORROW.
"For four months, the great marine avenue to the capital of the nation was blockaded, and that capital kept in a partial state of siege by a greatly inferior enemy, in face of a movable army of 150,000 men”— while the General in command waited for to-morrow.
For eight months that army lay along the Potomac, sunning itself in the good-natured smile of the accomplished Engineer, basking in the splendors that were to encircle his name, easy and happy under a scientific discipline and drill which was the initiative, to their minds, of glorious achievements to be—there they lay, supinely, despite the earnest urging of country, Congress, Cabinet, Commander-in-Chief, while the General in command waited for to-morrow.
For an entire month our brave boys toiled in the trenches, and sunk, sunk, sunk by thousands in the malaria marshes of Warwick, while, under pretence of economy of human life, (is it invidious to ask what life was saved thereby?) the General in command waited for to-morrow.
The bloody battle of Williamsburg was lost to us, with all its priceless sacrifice, because fought on unknown ground, the needed reconnoissance having been put off to to-morrow.
But why dwell upon details of that disastrous campaign—so fearfully disastrous to human life, so fatally disastrous in present results to the cause of the nation? What a spectacle it presents to the view of the impartial beholder! An army of upwards of one hundred and fifty thousand—the flower of the free States; organized and drilled by eight months' exercise of the vaunted tactics of its leader; fearless as freemen should be when menaced by tyranny; ready to rush to victory through any amount of dauntless activities—see them! melting away under the influence of circumstances they are not allowed to control; winning fields by valiant endeavor through the day, then retreating, stealthily, at night, from their own victories, in obedience to the orders of a General who made his first appearance on the field when "the principal part of the fighting was over.” Within two hours' march of the object and end of the campaign—the rebel capital—and not permitted to enter it! This the aspect of the army, while the General in command stands helpless, bewildered, alarmed in the midst of the chaos, like a school-boy sunk in the mire, crying impotently for help from Washington! Why, it was not in his nature to use the Present— whether it was time, opportunity, or armies; not those of to-day, but to-morrow.
In a former chapter, we defined "loyalty" in the words of the most approved lexicographer, and started to see the unexpected diminution of civil forces that could stand the test. Treason is a hard term to use in earnest; a cruel term when undeserved; but the same authority says it is “want of fidelity to trusts," and our own Constitution makes one of its specifications “giving aid and comfort to the enemy." Do unnecessary and inexplicable delays in action, faults in strategy that weaken essentially the effective force of an attacking, army, unwarrantable retreats and neglect of momentous opportunities—do these "aid and comfort the enemy”? Is putting off until tomorrow what might have been and should have been done to-day, "want of fidelity to trusts"! Has there not been, then, virtual treason at the head of our armies, whether it was the conscious motive or not? Mistakes, of course, are to be looked for in a nation of extemporized soldiery, learning by actual experi-
<C03>
ence the first principles of war; to be looked for and extenuated by every circumstance that will avail. But constitutional incapacity for rapid and comprehensive analysis and generalization; deliberate, systematic holding back and persistent pausing in the face of events; a weak, middle course of opinion, which has for its base a water-shed of sympathy on one side, and interest on the other—these are, surely, not the characteristics demanded in its leaders by a nation struggling in the tiger-grasp of Rebellion. Never a young man had such an opportunity for undying, world-wide renown and the gratitude of humanity; never a people waited so patiently and hopefully and uncomplainingly in the darkness, for light to be admitted through glorious achievement; everything which could guarantee unparalleled success was his, except—military genius and the enthusiasm which comes of heart interest in the great question at issue. How can a friend and sympathizer with slavery work effectively for freedom? How can he lead the war of action, victoriously, who is in the far rear of opinion and faith? Now is the watchword of conquerors, as of God, whose agents they are. George B. McClellan, the man of talent and scientific culture, merely, knew no now; in thought, he was of yesterday; in action, he evermore waited for to-morrow.
Of all the Peninsula battles, the most fiercely contested was that of Malvern Hill. Subordinate commanders and the soldiery performed feats of almost miraculous valor, in the absence of their General in command, that bloody day. The Hill was gloriously won; the next step was easy to Richmond. Weary and toil-worn as they are, how inspiriting the thought of that forward step! Is it taken? Even the height they have so arduously won from the now flying foe they are not permitted to hold. Backward, not forward, is the order from headquarters! Not Richmond, bravely entered with the ordinary perils and hardships of war, but Harrison’s Bar, as a safe retreat, if the enemy should rally! O, what heroic cheek, although that of woman, has not glowed with shame over the pet bulletin of this indecisive era—"The army of the Potomac is safe!” Great God! where are thy principles, meantime, for whose defence and maintenance these armies are organized? Safe! Go, read at the head of your embattled columns the inspiring proclamation of Him, who, although the Prince of Peace, accepts the sword until the permanent peace is secure— "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it."
Twilight was closing around that memorable first July, and still the contest raged upon the Hill. Again and again the rebels rallied, with desperate endeavor. That point gained, the open door to Richmond was gained, as they fully believed; not doubting, for an instant, that such advantage would be followed up, at all hazards, by the victorious Federals. A kindred conviction seemed to inspire the latter; so near, they must gain the goal. Not in vain the eyes of the country and of Christendom were turned upon them! Blood and wounds and death, even, were incidental trifles; to accomplish was the one thought. If they fell, their bodies should be the triumphant pathway of their comrades' entrance, and their names should become historic with the fall of Richmond! Magnanimous heroism to meet such inglorious reward! In vain were rebel assault, daring and prowess The inspired Federals were invincible; and, under the light of beaming stars, they paused, at length, resting upon victorious arms’ amid heaps of slain and wounded from both sides.
In the thickest of the fight, a Federal officer of inferior grade was remarked by all for signal daring and intrepidity. A rebel life ebbed forth with every stroke of his dauntless blade, which flamed in the sunlight, then gleamed under the stars like a meteor omen of doom. Some one its formidable wielder seemed to seek, dealing death on his right hand and on his left as he mowed a pathway to his mark. Yes, he sees him, through all the smoke and dust of carnage! Sees the handsome, hated rider of that well-known horse! He is, that instant, within rifle-range. Seizing a rifle from a wounded soldier of his command, he takes aim, but too low. The noble animal falls to rise no more. Ere the unhorsed rebel can extricate himself from the stirrup, a sword flashes above his prostrate form, and a familiar voice demands his surrender. "Never!" shouted he ferociously with a frightful imprecation, making a maddened effort to rise. "Take the vengeance due to Huldah Herman’s wrongs!"— the last image before the closing eyes of Belmaine was that avenging sword thrust to his life's centre by the Branded Hand. The next moment, Harry Herman was stretched beside him, pierced by a score of bullets.
Among the windrows of the slain groped a female figure, anguish in every lineament, eyes dilating with the eager, anxious search. How could she identify him she sought in that dim light, in that homogeneous destiny? How? Let the heart answer what the heart only knows.
The corps detailed for that purpose came to bury the dead, and there they found her—seated on the cold, blood-wet ground, folding to her bosom the beloved head that would lift itself no more at her call; kissing the sealed lids that hid forever those eyes that had never turned on her with other expression than that of truest affection, although so often keeping their vigil of suffering for her sake; chafing those precious hands, scarred and marked with her destiny, that had now so fatally avenged that destiny. There they found the desolate, brokenhearted sister—her wordless anguish finding vent in low moans that brought tears into eyes inured to every form of ghastliness and wo. As they approached, reverently, she folded her arms more firmly about the dear form, and shook her bowed head to negative their separation. A soldier stooped and said, gently and low—
“Tell me your wishes, and they shall be obeyed, to the letter, if possible. Where shall we bear your dead? This unwholesome spot will prove fatal to you.”
"O, sir, as you hope for an honored grave yourself, when your hour comes, let me see him laid in earth that is free! In life, he had no right, by your laws, to an inch of earth—he was a slave—he! Look on this noble face—look on this mangled body! He died for Freedom—has he not purchased a right to a place in her soil? O, sir, let me see him laid there! It is all I can do for one who has suffered so much for me." Again her anguish overpowered her. They lifted her from the ground with her precious companion, and, with such conveyance as they could command, bore her to a place of shelter and safety until something could be determined upon. A good Providence brought unexpected aid.
Moving among the mutilated mementoes of that terrible day, on his characteristic mission, Hugh Berkeley encountered Huldah watching by the side of her sacred dead. The meeting was one of deep, mournful thankfulness on the part of both. With the earnestness of grateful, affectionate grief, she urged her heart’s desire. Her sympathizing, generous friend freely promised its full accomplishment. Nor did the promise fail. In the neighborhood of that city where Adela had first breathed freely, in the charming shade of Laurel Hill Cemetery, that harassed body was laid in final repose, and a simple, appropriate monument raised above the mound. In the same quiet household, at Kensington, that had afforded Adela her first secure shelter, Huldah was placed by Hugh Berkeley, until circumstances would enable him to unite the sisters beneath one roof. Here she passed the Summer and a greater part of the Autumn, dividing her time between the care of the sick in hospitals and the cultivation of her mind, by study and reading, under the direction of competent teachers, preparatory to a reunion with her accomplished sister. Effle Lester was again in Massachusetts, and Mr. Berkeley was, therefore, unable to bring the valuable auxiliary of her society to aid in Huldah’s progress; but negotiations were pending, by which, before Winter commenced, she would become an inmate of our charming Cottage in the Valley of the Connecticut.
<c04>
TITCOMB ON JONES.
Mr. Timothy Titcomb has been writing a letter to Benjamin Franklin Jones, Mechanic, concerning his habit of staying away from church. This letter is instructive (in a different way from what Mr. Titcomb supposed) and also somewhat amusing, and it is worth while to analyze it. Whether B. F. J. be a real or an ideal personage does not appear, nor is it a matter of consequence. What we are concerned with is to see how much of Mr. Timothy’s case is fact, and how much assumption; of the inferences he makes, to see which are authorized and which unauthorized; and lastly, to see if more plausible and more correct inferences may, perchance, be drawn from the state of things which gave rise to the letter.
Mr. Timothy starts with this rather strong assumption; that there seems to be something in the constitution of the mechanical mind, or in the nature of mechanical pursuits, which tends to infidelity; and that it is notorious that, as a class, the mechanics of this country are given to unbelief.
The terms "infidelity" and "unbelief" are somewhat vague; but Mr. T. proceeds to make it plain that (in his judgment) mechanics generally are, and, are caused by their occupation to be, "utterly faithless in spiritual things—skeptical on all subjects which touch religion and immortality, and revelation and God," and that the number of "these men" in every New England community is very large.
Mr. T. goes on to state (what may very likely be true) that, throughout New England, not more than one third of the people go to church, or have any thing to do with its support; and, jumping to the conclusion that this proceeds from contempt for religion, he singles out Mr. Jones as a specimen of the assumed contempt in question, states a single fact concerning him as the foundation upon which to write him the letter now under consideration, and proceeds to build upon that foundation a vast structure of hypothesis and assumption.
The single fact which is stated in regard to the assumed infidelity of the intelligent mechanic, Mr. Jones, is in these words:—"You told a friend of mine, the other day, that you had not put your foot inside of a church for ten years. You made the statement, he informed me, in a tone which indicated contempt not only for the church itself and the religion which it represents, but for all the men and women who attend it." 
Mr. T's friend seems as ready at the manufacture of inferences as himself. If we knew the strain of admonition or assumption on his part which brought out Mr. Jones's statement respecting his non-attendance at church, we might form some judgment whether the contempt expressed in its tone was designed for religion or for something else. At present, this point remains doubtful. All that we certainly know of Mr. Jones is that, being an intelligent mechanic, he chose not to go to either of the churches existing in his town or village, and was not afraid to say so.
Mr. T. likes Mr. Jones's frankness, and commends him for it; and he takes the opportunity to pitch into a very different set of people; those, namely, who, spending their Sundays in laziness or pleasure, on being questioned therefor, take the position of culprits at once, and make-excuses, protesting that they have really the most profound respect for religion and its institutions, and implying that the church and the clergy, as we have them, are Christian institutions. People who talk in that way certainly deserve Mr. Timothy's lash, and we recommend him to lay it on unsparingly.
Before proceeding to offer "advice gratis" to Jones, Mr. Timothy undertakes to give a summary of the facts in question. And this is the indictment he makes out:
”You have brought yourself to the belief that Christianity is a delusion—a cheat. You have no respect for religion, and do not hesitate to express your contempt for it. All preaching is blarney and cant to you; all prayer is blatant nonsense, addressed to a phantom of the imagination."
All this, be it remembered, is merely inference of Mr. Timothy from the one fact hitherto presented about Mr. Jones, that he stays away from church, and from the hypothesis of Mr. Timothy’s friend, that Mr. Jones despises religion. "Only one pennyworth of bread to this intolerable deal of sack."
There may very likely be in this country such a man as Jones is here represented to be. There may, for aught I know, be hundreds of such men. Let Mr. Timothy offer them his “"advice gratis,”," when he has found them out. My point is, that his assumptions are not in the slightest degree sustained in regard to Jones by the single fact he alleges concerning him; that his inferences are a kangaroo jump at false conclusions; and that his charges against people who stay away from such church services as exist in our towns and cities, that they are therefore mockers at Christianity, despisers of religion, and disbelievers in “all preaching" and "all prayer," are a piece of stupendous impudence and falsehood.
Perhaps Mr. Jones stays away from church because he found Christianity not to be preached there; perhaps he stays away because he prefers religion pure, unmixed with superstition and the traditions of Hebrew and Calvinistic formalists; perhaps he stays away because he will not consent to hear mean, unjust and dishonorable conduct, and a selfish and cruel system of action, attributed in the pulpit to his Heavenly Father; perhaps he stays away because the long and weary trial that he made of it, ten years ago, showed him that the preaching was empty and profitless, and that neither his intellect, his heart nor his soul was fed by it; perhaps he stays away because the parson's condemnation of sin is chiefly directed at the transgressions of old Pharisees, old Egyptians, old antediluvians, while those of Northern and Southern Americans are sophistically excused; perhaps he stays away because, when pulpit censure is exceptionally directed at doings of the present time, it is pointed at those who are seeking to reform the vicious, to correct the abuses of society, and to inculcate obedience to God's higher law; and perhaps, finally, he stays away because the parson's prayer does not help him to pray, nor accord with his idea of what prayer should be, and because he agrees in opinion with a very different teacher, one who warned his disciples against those who "love to pray standing in the synagogues," and counseled that their prayers should be "in secret "in the closet—with the door shut. Until we know more of Jones, it is at least as fair to guess these to be his motives for avoiding the church as to make the illogical guesses offered by Mr. Timothy, and impudently offered as facts.
Next come Mr. Timothy's advice to Jones, and his reasons for it Whether Jones believes in Christianity or not, he had better go to church regularly on Sundays, T. T. thinks, because—
1. It is a good thing for a man to wash his face, and put on his best clothes, and go among his fellowmen who have polished themselves in like manner, at least as often as once a week; and if he does not do this on Sunday, he is unlikely to do it at all.
2. A man needs intellectual nourishment and stimulus, which he can get only at church. He must go to church on Sunday and hear the preaching, or he will be an intellectual starveling. The adviser, T.T., (even with the advantage of being a literary man, and having other sources of instruction,) has received, for ten years past, more intellectual nourishment and stimulus from the pulpit than from all other sources combined.
3. The pulpit is the spot of all others in the world where the morals of Christianity are taught, and every man needs to he instructed and confirmed in them.
4. It is a man's duty to his children to let them hear instruction from the pulpit, and to recommend that instruction to their notice by respectfully attending upon it himself.
These four points constitute T. T's case. Let us see how many of them are true, and whether the true ones are sufficient.
I concede the advantage of a clean face and clean clothes, and also of association with one’s fellow-men. It is a mistake to assume that these cannot be had
<c05>
without going to church. Whether they can better be obtained in that manner than otherwise, or, to express my thought more accurately, whether the individual will receive more advantage, on the whole, by getting these good things in the church or somewhere else, will depend on circumstances; the very circumstances which I am about to consider, namely, whether the pulpit does, in a majority of cases, give either food or useful stimulus to the intellect, or give sound instruction in regard to morals. 
Mr. Timothy feels no doubt (so he says, at least) on the first point He gets his chief intellectual nourishment and stimulus from the pulpit. At any rate, he has given his Springfield minister what editors call a "first rate notice,” and that Reverend gentleman, no doubt, will be willing to do as much for him. But if the preaching of that pulpit is, intellectually, up to this description of it, is a very remarkable and rare specimen, such as is not within the reach of one man in five hundred, even in New England. As a general rule, it would come much nearer the truth to say that the intellect of the hearer (taking city and country together) is perverted and stunted by the preaching. So many false things are stated there as true, by distinct specification, so many more false things are constantly taken for granted, and, when reasoning is attempted, so much of it is directly sophistical, misleading and deceiving the hearers, that, looking at the intellectual influence of church-going by itself, it probably injures a majority of the hearers more than it benefits them.
Let us take one single specimen of the manner in which Mr. Timothy himself (a man. I take for granted, of more than average intelligence and discrimination in secular matters,) has been injured, intellectually, by his habit of going to church, and believing what he hears there.
His letter speaks of "the Christian Sabbath”; and (incidentally) of “the sacredness of the Christian Sabbath." He evidently believes in these two things, and has not the least idea that he has been cheated and humbugged in regard to them.
Mr. Timothy, no doubt, has read the Bible a good deal. If he had read it without going to church, and without reading the deceptive commentaries with which parsons have befogged its meaning, he was perfectly competent to trace out in that book the history of the Sabbath, and to understand its true relation to Judaism, and also its relation to Christianity. He could have understood as well as Archbishop Whateley himself (for, fortunately, it requires no learning in dead languages to settle that matter,) how the Sabbath was originally instituted among the Hebrews, as a distinctive mark of their Hebrew faith, just after their finding of manna in the wilderness; how they were directed by Moses to observe the seventh day (Saturday) as a Sabbath or rest-day, and to consider its observance as a special sign between their God and them; how the duty belonging to this Saturday-Sabbath, as clearly expressed in the Fourth Commandment of the Hebrew decalogue, was rest, and nothing but rest, without the slightest intimation that any worship belonged to it; how this Saturday rest continued to be commanded by the Hebrew prophets all through the course of the Hebrew Scriptures, and how the severest rebukes of those prophets fell upon! those who violated it, especially by bearing burdens; how Jesus of Nazareth, called Christ, the first teacher of Christianity, set himself in opposition to this sabbatical observance, as to other Jewish superstitions; how he never commanded any one to keep the Sabbath, nor rebuked any one for breaking it; how he was himself publicly known as a Sabbath-breaker, so that devout Jews assumed from this circumstance that he could not have been sent by their God; how on one occasion he expressly commanded the bearing of a burden, without any pretence of necessity, on that day; how, on various occasions, he defended his disciples when they, in accordance with his example, had broken the Sabbath; how, in the writings of those disciples after his death, collectively known as the Christian Scriptures, there is not a single command to observe the Sabbath, nor a single rebuke for violating it; how, on the contrary, several of those writings take strong ground against sabbatical observances, both declaring and arguing that no follower of Christ is bound by them; how, whenever the word Sabbath is used in the Christian Scriptures, it invariably means the Jewish Saturday-Sabbath; and how, finally, that book contains not one particle of evidence that any Sabbatical observance is binding upon Christians, or that God approves, requires or desires it.
Now here is one particular (and many more might be found) wherein Mr. Timothy is a loser and a sufferer in the intellectual department through his church attendance. Through a habit of listening respectfully to the Sunday performances of the pulpit, and receiving as truth the things asserted and implied by its occupant, Mr. T. has been made the victim, in common with his illiterate fellow-hearers, of an enormous deception. He has been drawn into acceptance and belief of the false representations of the clergy, that there is such a thing as “" the Christian Sabbath;" that God requires of Christians the observance of a Sabbath; that this requisition is to be found in the Bible; that Jesus and Paul were Sabbatarians, instead of anti-sabbatarians; that the observance of Sunday, as a day of worship, by Christians, is obedience to a command in the Hebrew decalogue, which, being made for Jews, and for nobody else, required of them nothing but the observance of Saturday, as a day of rest. All this complicated and self-contradictory mass of absurdity is swallowed whole by Mr. Timothy, in consequence of his habit of going to church. The direct result of his habit of receiving the representation of the minister as truth is, that having eyes, he sees not, as far as the statements of the Bible about the Sabbath are concerned. Jones may be far less competent than he to follow the intricate reasonings of a metaphysical work, but when Jones reads the Bible, he can see what it teaches about a Sabbath better than Mr. Timothy can. And this is only one case, out of many, in which Mr. Timothy has been taken in and done brown, cheated out of his eye-teeth and his eyes also, by taking for granted that the staple utterances of the pulpit are true.
I must touch upon Mr. Timothy's two remaining points very briefly.
He represents that the pulpit teaches "all high moralities"; and, going into minuter specification, he affirms that, if the voice of the pulpit were heeded, there would be no slavery, no war, and no cheating in the land. It is pretty plain that Mr. Timothy has learned from his minister the art of making bold assumptions. What is the fact in this matter?
No cheating! I have just stated one case (and there are many more) in which the pulpit itself systematically practises enormous deception upon its hearers. Its sermons, like the tracts of the American Tract Society, (which are fair specimens, in style and substance, of the majority of sermons,) contain a great many directly false assertions respecting God's character, His laws, and His dealings with men; but the number of implications of falsehood, quiet takings-for-granted of things which have no foundation in fact, are so numerous in both the sermons and the tracts referred to, that the unwary hearer or reader is almost sure to be injured by them.
No slavery! Ever since our existence as an independent nation, the church, under the guidance of the pulpit, has been the main bulwark of slavery. If the clergy of this land had turned from their infamous toleration of this sin at even so late a period as when William Lloyd Garrison first appealed to them, slavery would have been peacefully abolished twenty years ago, and not a vestige of it would now remain. To them is owing the chief part of the opposition that this nation has made to the efforts of opposers of slavery. And they have not only practised a systematic and steady resistance to anti-slavery movements, but have preached a very large number of sermons favoring slavery, and published a considerable number of pamphlets and books in direct advocacy of it; and the authors of these books and pamphlets (South-side Adams, for instance,) continue in as good repute as ever with their clerical brethren.
<c06>
No war! The pulpit has always upheld the right and the duty of making war when the Government chose to make it. An elaborate defence of war has been made every year for a century past, in a sermon by some popular clergyman before the "Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company" (so called) of Boston. And most of these have been printed and circulated, without a syllable of dissent from their clerical brethren. The Peace Societies that have existed in this country and Great Britain, for thirty years past, have not only found the pulpit in general opposed to them, but have found their worst opposers among the clergy. And our own country is now engaged in a war of which the clergy are active supporters, often choosing to leave their pulpits to take the office of army chaplain.
Mr. Timothy's case is as deficient on the moral as on the intellectual side. The fact is, that the pulpit does discountenance unpopular vice. This is good as far as it goes, but it does not go very far, nor make a character worthy of our admiration or respect. On the other hand, it has been the direct upholder of some of the worst popular vices, and the harm it has done in making opposition, direct and indirect, to important movements of civil and social reform, is incalculable.
As to Mr. Timothy's last point, the welfare of Jones’s children, all that is necessary to be said is, that systematic deception in religion, and the perversion of religion in aid of popular vice, are no better for children than for men. It is to be hoped that Jones does something better for his children than to take them to church, as he easily may do. But, at any rate, by not going there with them he avoid one dangerous trap for the mind, the conscience and the soul, into which Mr. Timothy has fallen. Praised be God, many people have at length made the discovery that what He requires of them is mercy, and not sacrifice; obedience in daily life, seven days in the week, not an allowance of sin six days, and an attempt at ritual purification on the seventh; a making of their bodies meet temples for His habitation at all times, not a weekly resort to that workshop of the parson, which he impudently calls "the house of God;" and many earnest souls have begun to realize that, under the Christian system, not only is there no such thing as a specially holy day, a specially holy place, or a divinely appointed order of clergy, but that this better thing has been assured to us, the free access of every individual soul, at all times, to its Heavenly Father.—C. K. W.
LONGWOOD ANNUAL MEETING.
BART, Lancaster Co., Pa., June 15, 1863.
FRIEND W. L. G.: It was my privilege to be at the last Longwood annual meeting. Whatever the occasion may have been to others, it was encouraging to me. Two fresh hands, Mrs. Wilhelm and Mrs. Rollins, gave evidence of that which will not long be denied, namely, that women can think—can tell their thoughts before an audience—that there is no impropriety in it, and that, impelled by proper influences, it is their duty to speak. Theodore D. Weld was there, and some of us were glad to hear that his long silence was attributable to sensitiveness of the vocal chords. To speak of his oratorical capabilities would be as superfluous as to say that the sun shines on a cloudless day. Present with us was that blessed woman, Frances D. Gage. Blessed must they be who, possessing enlightened, refined minds, voluntarily forego the advantages and the pleasures of cultivated society to dwell amongst an ignorant, degraded, hated, and, consequently, depraved people. This, F.D.G. has done in an effort to elevate the best she can a portion of a peculiarly abused race; and she will succeed. I feel at liberty to speak with a degree of confidence on this subject, having been many years a night and Sunday school teacher of this class, and the only white stockholder in one line of underground railroad, they holding the balance of the stock, and doing the most of the work, except some engineering which devolved upon me. And they did the work well conductors, firemen and brakemen all at their posts; they never ran off the track, or suffered the freight to be damaged. Baggage-masters were not oppressed.
This noble woman did the best that could have been done for the audience by giving the character of the population where her lot is cast. I appreciated, as none can do who have not had experience, her tact in the management of a people who have almost every thing to learn, subsequent to a wearisome process of unlearning. She illustrated, effectively, by a recital of special cases, the necessity of beginning the work of elevation on their own plain of intelligence and morals. Every lover of liberty rejoices that slaves have become "Freedmen," but the thoughtful philanthropist recognizes a great after-work to be done. The ox feels relieved when the yoke is taken from his neck; but this is not enough, he must be fed. It is well for the slave when his chain is broken; and though it is impossible to liquidate a constantly accumulating debt, (to his race) through centuries, we may do something toward it by raising him to our own, too low, plain of civilization. This much we can do; this is our duty as well as our interest to do, and if we neglect it, we shall one day find it was our necessity to do it. It is very pleasing to believe that many minds are beginning to see the great importance of the work, and though forewarned of its magnitude, and the time and means which will be required to accomplish the desired end, feel it imperative to identify themselves with the cause, in some way. It was truly encouraging to see the interest evinced by hundreds of upturned faces, while the heroine of the cotton island spread out before them a graphic representation of the case. It did not end with looking, listening and admiring; for when it was proposed to something in pecuniary aid of the cause, the expert Secretary was hurried almost to confusion to register the donations as they were handed in, and what decided the question of motive, the Cash family kept throwing in their contributions through the hands of agents. I trust that many who convened on the occasion will not soon forget they were at Longwood in June, 1863.
I thought Non-Resistant Abolitionists felt that their path was a narrow one—bound to rejoice at partial (forerunner as they hope of universal) emancipation, yet distressed at the fearful means by which it is being effected. Some were perplexed in deciding whether to join in the chorus of the hymn dedicated to the memory of the martyr hero of Harper’s Ferry, and some were in the position an ingenious physician once told me he thought it would be well to put a vexed copperhead (not of the modern breed) to that part of a person who was bitten by a rabid animal, that the two viruses might neutralize each other.
What a remedy!
AMOS GILBERT.
A correspondent of the Anti-Slavery Standard, in giving an account of the Progressive Friends’ meeting at Longwood, relates an incident which our venerable and highly esteemed friend Gilbert omits, of course, to mention. He states that a contribution of $150 was made for the support of Mrs. Gage's daughter as a teacher and laborer among the freedmen of Paris Island, and adds:—
"When the contribution was proposed, Amos Gilbert, a man upwards of eighty years old, said:— Friends, you know I have neither houses nor lands, nor much money; but I feel that I must contribute something to this good object. Here is a watch, which I have carried for many years, and for which I feel no slight attachment. I ask Mrs. Gage to accept it as the donation of an old man to the cause in which she is laboring. She may be able to sell it if not, perhaps her daughter may value it as a keepsake. These words, spoken from the heart’s fullness, and in tones tremulous with the infirmity of age, had a powerful effect upon the meeting. A few friends who witnessed the scene, and felt that the generous example of the old man had done its work by inspiring liberality in others, subsequently redeemed the watch and returned it to the giver, paying to Mrs. Gage its full value in cash. The watch, originally a gift to the old man, became thereby doubly endeared to him for the remainder of his life."
In oriental phraseology, we say to our aged friend, "May your shadow never be less!"—Ed. Lib
