THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO .6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT. General Agent. 
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. Yerrinton & SON, Printers.
VOL.XXX. NO. 26. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 29, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1540.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION
<c01>
From the Courrier des Etats Unis, June 6.
(Translated for the LIBERATOR.)
MR. SUMNER'S SPEECH.
When, four years ago, Mr. Charles Sumner was, assaulted with a cane in his senatorial seat, our voice was certainly neither the last nor the least vehement in condemning the act of brutality to which he had fallen a victim. Our language then puts us completely at our case to-day in expressing fully our opinion of the speech with which, on Monday last, the Senator from Massachusetts signalized his return to the congressional arena.
This speech is not one which can be analyzed, for it presents no comprehensible arguments nor tangible conclusions. The orator had no intention of proving or of discussing anything; he occupied himself solely in heaping upon the South all the specious grievances, the hasty accusations and all the unmeasured invectives which the most extreme facts of the present and the most irritating remembrances of the past have been able to furnish him. If one could assign absolutely a political object to this stupendous diatribe, the only admissible one would be, that Mr. Sumner wishes to put the south under the ban of the Union, and incite the North to cast out of the confederation all the Slave States, as so many members irremediably gangrened. If the picture which he has drawn could be considered anything else than the extravagant work of a pencil steeped in gall, the South would be at once the moral shame, the political scourge and the physical cancer of the American Republic.
Spoken ardently, in the course of one of those vehement discussions which sometimes carry overexcited men beyond the limits of debate, we might still find some excuse for a speech like this in the digressions of extemporaneous speaking, and the unguarded heat of the moment. But in this case there is no such palliation to plead. The work of Mr. Sumner has been prepared coolly, in the silence of the study, with the laborious patience of an attorney-general elaborating an address to the court. Each of the virulent phrases that it contains has been re-read and corrected, every one of his oratorical gestures calculated with extended arm, and, if necessary, studied before the glass, like a theatrical recitation. The orator was here only an actor repeating in public a part assumed and prepared can amore.
Thus premeditated, thus previously measured in the extent of each of its effects, the speech of Monday becomes a mischievous performance. Mischievous toward the South, which, with a flagrant injustice, it makes the scapegoat of all the iniquities of the Union, it is equally mischievous with regard to the North, whose every passion and bitterness it excites; it is, in short, mischievous towards the common country,-towards the Union, which it puts in imminent peril.
In almost every country, the law punishes as dangerous to society the incitement of one class of citizens to hatred and contempt of another. Mr. Sumner has done nothing else; only he has done it on a larger scale: he has attempted to embitter one entire half of the confederacy against the other.
Without doubt, the excess, even, in which he has indulged, will contribute towards extenuating the evil of his speech. Already we see the most advanced journals of the Republican party, frightened at the consequences of such a bloody provocation, express regrets which are almost equivalent to a disavowal. But the effect, doubtless, will not be entirely effaced. The time has past when the walls of Congress could tolerate with impunity the harmless thunderbolts of a showy eloquence, or the flashes of a transitory passion. The drop of water falling continually on the same place, hollows the stone and makes a basin in it. So many irritating words, imprudently thrown away during many years, have finished in bringing down a blow; the next day comes, but does not bring upon its wings forgetfulness of the provocations of yesterday. They remain, they accumulate, and some day,—a day not far off, perhaps.—the short-sighted will be appalled at seeing the conflagration spring up from what they believed to be only scattered sparks.
Even the calmness with which the Southern representatives received the philippic of Mr. Sumner is not without significance. During four hours, the senator from Massachusetts poured out his interminable speech, in which, every moment, the accusations were equivalent to an insult, without any voice being raised to protest against or interrupt him. This silence is all the more remarkable as it was a singular provocation to those upon whom it was imposed. One could judge of this when, as the speech terminated, Mr. Chestnut (of South Carolina) rose to flagellate Mr. Sumner with one of the most bitter retorts that has ever been pronounced in a legislative assembly. The South Carolinian Senator clearly understood that a correction, similar to that of Mr. Preston Brooks, would not chastise this new tirade of calumnies and impostures addressed to the Senate, but the blow was not less apparent, and will make itself well remembered.
Putting aside the general aspect of the affair, to come down to the question of party, the speech of Mr. Sumner is still a grand mistake, for which Republicanism will dearly pay the costs. It has in effect annihilated, at a single blow, all the efforts made during the last three months by the Republican leaders, to remove from the presidential arena the phantom of abolitionism; creating thus new embarrassments for his political friends, and furnishing a powerful weapon to their adversaries. In every point of view, and as regards everybody—himself to begin with-the Senator from Massachusetts should have been prompted ten times over to preserve silence. 

MORE SUMNER-ISM.
Notwithstanding the castigation Brooks administered to the back of the notorious Charles Sumner, and the general contempt entertained for his pusillanimity throughout the country for a ribald speech. he had the audacity to inflict upon the Senate very lately a rehash of his former tirade against the South, and more particularly against South Carolins. His school-boy whimpering over the flagellation—his affected reception of serious spinal injuries from it-his protracted absence from Senatorial duty, while drawing pay for services not rendered—all merited, as they received, the reprobation of enlightened public opinion. His mendacity is only equalled by his cowardice and want of manliness-qualities that the American people can never hold in respect, however loud the praises of kindred spirits, and the braying voices of a corrupt, public-and -private-plunder party. He is a fit champion for falsehood-a fit defender of negro-stealing-a proper declaimer in the interests of a party whose accession to power, in every State and legislative body, has been signalized by a corruption fouler than history records in any country of earth.
Senator Chestnut, with an indignation most natural, in a few seathing remarks (printed in another column) explained why Southern Senators could take no other course than treat Sumner with contempt. We regret that even this notice was deemed
<CO2>
necessary; but we suppose it was impulsive, and therefore irrestrainable. 
Referring to this subject, the Washington correspondent of the Columbian South Carolinian says:
'I wish every Southern man could have heard this speech; they would be ready for revolution in the event of Mr. Sumner's party getting possession of the federal government. And yet, this malignant wretch, it is said, will be sent as Minister to Great Britain.
It is to be hoped that a spirit of wisdom may preside over the councils of the South, so that all the Southern States may be united on the great idea of resistance to the election of a Black Republican President. This is the paramount question of the present time, and it will be the greatest misfortune conceivable, if they were to be divided on minor questions. The Southern States must be united, for resisting the danger of a Black Republican President. This should be the firm resolve of the South. In comparison with this great question of existence, how small and insignificant are the party contests now going on over miserable political platforms!”-Carolina Spartan.
Mr. Sumner is so completely a useless and worthless piece of Senatorial timber, that it was hardly worth the time of any Senator to engage in a controversy with him at this date of the world's history His own political friends will take care that he does not again encumber the Senate, after the expiration of his present term of office.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
Mr. Sumner's speech occupied twelve columns. He intended to have it large enough to cover his sores.—Boston Post.

BALTIMORE M. E. CONFERENCE.
The Baltimore Conference of the (Northern) Methodist Episcopal Church lately held its annual meeting at Winchester, Va., and unanimously adopted the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That we sincerely deplore the agitation of the slavery question, both in the Church and State, and earnestly hope and fervently pray that State, and earnestly hope and fervently pray that this discreditable and disastrous strife may speedily cease.
Resolved, That this Conference disclaims having the least sympathy with abolitionism. On the contrary, we are determined not to hold connection with any ecclesiastical body that makes non-slaveholding a condition of membership in the Church, and that we are opposed to any inquisition upon the motives underlying the relation of master and slave.
Resolved, That the subject of slavery should be committed exclusively to the jurisdiction of the respective Conference in which it may be found to exist.
Resolved, That no action of the General Conference can influence us to violate our principles and practices, as indicated in the foregoing declarations; but that we will stand by the rights and interests of our people to the last extremity.
Resolved, That our mission, as ministers of the New Testament, is to preach the Gospel of the Son of God both to master and to slave, and to devote ourselves wholly to our appropriate work of winning souls to Christ.
Resolved, That we solemnly remonstrate against the continual aggressive discussion of the slavery question in the newspapers and periodicals of the Church.
Resolved, That the publishing funds and establishments of the Church are common property, held in trust by the General Conference for our common and equal use.
Resolved, That any such use of our common publishing funds, newspapers, periodicals, &c., as precludes our people from the benefits of them, while they are in no false or illegitimate relation to the Union, but are faithful to its covenants, is an abuse of trust.

BISHOP MORRIS'S WISH.
When the final vote on the slavery question was taken in the General Conference of the Methodists at Buffalo, the President, Bishop Morris, asked if this was the conclusion of the subject, and when answered in the affirmative he said: ’God grant that it may be, world without end!’ emphasizing it by a heavy stroke of the gavel.
In this prayer, the whole church ought to join with a long and loud AMEN. The subject has thus far, in Church and State, been agitated with no good, and immensely evil effects-evil to the Church, to the colored people, and to the country. No man can lay his hand on any good result of the agitation that would not have been far better accomplished without it, and the mischief, past, present and prospective, is too frightful to be contemplated. If we could see with Bishop Morris’ the end of the subject, 'we might bless God and take courage. 
At the Old School Presbyterian Assembly in Rochester, when the resolution was introduced declaring that no further expression of opinion was called for, the Moderator asked if the House was ready for the question. They were all ready. Not a man had anything to say-except, that when the question was put, three hundred men, from every section of the Church and country said, AYE, and that was ’the end of the subject.' This was unity, decision and principle. Let all the churches take the same ground, and a great step will be taken toward the restoration of peace and harmony to our distracted country. 
The New School Presbyterian Assembly at Pittsburgh adopted a resolution that is eminently worthy of wise and good men, conveying also a decided rebuke of the doctrine, that the Gospel must not be preached to slaveholders. A memorial was presented to the Assembly to instruct the Church Extension Committee to extend no aid to churches having one slaveholder or more in their communion. The blindness and sin of fanaticism could scarcely make a clearer exhibition of itself, than in such a petition. Because these memorialists believe slave holding a great sin, therefore they would have the sinners deprived of the Gospel!!! 'No Gospel for sinners' is the motto of these Christians. The Assembly answered, wisely and righteously, granting there are slaveholders in the Church, and that these men are sinners, ’we do not see that this affords sufficient reason for withholding from them the Bread of Life.' Of course not. And this ought to be ’the end of the subject.' The Gospel is the remedy for all sin, and the greater the sin, the greater need of the Gospel. Let us all unite on this ground. Give the Bible and the preacher to the whole world. Teach all nations that love to God and love to man are the fulfillment of the Divine law, and the ills that earth is heir to will disappear just as fast as individual sinners are brought to Christ, and the principles of the Gospel become prevalent in the heart of the human race.
On the whole, we find in the results of ’the subject' in these three conventions of Christians, hopeful indications of the prevalence of a more scriptural, national and patriotic spirit than has marked the meetings of many previous ecclesiastical bodies.-New York Observer.
<CO3>
SELECTIONS.
THE POST'S DEMOCRACY.
Mr. Sumner's speech has answered at least one useful purpose: it has led to an exposure of the shallowness and hollowness of the Democracy inculcated by the Boston Post, as the organ of the Democratic party of New England. We have rarely, if ever, seen the worst doctrines of despotism set forth more boldly than in the following extract from one of the Post's articles on this speech. Mr. Sumner had said that property in man cannot exist, and that there is no sanction under any ordinance of Nature or of Nature's God by which a brother lays violent hands upon a brother. To this the Post replies:-
'With the same propriety this sapient philosopher might ask, why should one man be a king and another a subject; why one a magistrate and another a simple citizen; why some men are rich and others poor; why some should lead a life of ease and luxury, and others be doomed to a life of unremitting toil?-and then demand the warrant from nature for this disparity in their conditions. Such social distinctions are the lot of mankind, and doubtless permitted by Providence for the good of society. They are either founded in nature, result from accident, or are ordained by political communities for their protection, government and general welfare. Men cannot all be rulers, but some must be subjects; and producers and laborers are quite as essential to the economy of society as consumers and capitalists. Yet, according to Mr. Sumner's theory, every man who finds himself in a social position inferior to his just deserts and natural qualifications, has a right to rebel against the order of society and overturn existing forms of government. It is difficult, indeed, in some cases, to assign any reason, other than a freak of fortune or of the popular will, why a certain man should be a potentate, a Governor or Senator-and perhaps as difficult, and discreditable to the creative power, in our Massachusetts Senator's own case as in any other. But if the popular will, however misguided, can create such a potentate, it can, by virtue of similar constitutional provisions, also create a slave. It is no more a violation of the sacred proprieties and ordinances of nature to reduce one man to slavery without personal blame, than to exalt another to power without personal merit.'
We quote this mainly for the purpose of holding it up to public abhorrence. It is an excellent specimen of that 'faith in Democratic principles' in which, according to its prospectus, the Post is edited. A more monstrous and shameful imposture than this sort of 'Democracy’ was never practised upon any people, and the wonder is that it has been tolerated by the people up to the year 1860. It is not likely to be any longer. The ’social distinctions’ of king and subject, magistrate and citizen, rich man and poor man, are ’the lot of mankind, and permitted by Providence for the good of society.' Undoubtedly. So was the relation between the Colonies and the British Government, before the Revolution, ‘permitted by Providence.' Did that prevent the patriots of 1776 from seeking to change the relation? Doubtless the story writers and orators of that day argue as the Post argues now; and we venture to say that any such offensive exhibition of despotic doctrines in Massachusetts, eighty years ago, would have subjected its author to a coat of tar and feathers. The Democratic doctrine of 1776 was stated thus: All men are created equal, and are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness; to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. The men of the Revolution held that the existing relation between the Colonies and England was subversive of their rights, and they proceeded to dissolve it. The consent of the governed; this was the key-note of the demand for human rights which Jefferson and his compeers made. They did not pretend to interfere with the social relations which the Post pretends to class with the institution of slavery, except in so far as hey affected men who had not given their consent. This element consent is indispensable to make any governmental relation tolerable. The people of England consent to the continuance of the monarchy; the people of France to the continuance of the Empire; the people of the United States to the continuance of the Republic.
Every magistrate of the United States, whatever the tenure of his office, holds his place by consent, for a longer or shorter period. Yet the Post sees no difference between the power of a people to elect a governor and a senator, and the power of one set of men to make slaves of another set of men. The lawful, regulated rule of the magistrate over the people who elected him to the office, and who agree that he shall remain in office, is, in the estimation of this organ of modern Democracy, to be classed with that system which prevails in the Southern part of this country under which one man, without his consent being given or asked, is subjected to the entire and unlimited control of whoever assumes by inheritance or purchase, to hold a title in him. Can anything be more monstrous than this? Thank God, the people have got thoroughly tired of this sort of Democracy, and are determined to have an end of it.
The witless and senseless taunt of the Post, as to the capacity of the power which elected Mr. Sumner to the U. S. Senate, would probably have been withheld, if the writer of the article had paused long enough to remember that no paper in the Commonwealth did more to elect Senator Sumner than the Boston Post.—Boston Atlas & Bee.
The Southern newspapers give extracts from Charles Sumner's speech under the title of 'Sumner's Revenge.' If the speech was prompted by desire for revenge, Sumner may sit down content, for the effect of his speech will be deep, damning and eternal. Never were words put together more cutting and scathing. None of Cicero's philippics surpass some passages in the ’Barbarism of Slavery.' And what makes it worse for the slaveholders is, that these words are not to perish, but with each succeeding day they will appear more true and more appropriate. Now many dissent from them as too strong, and almost everybody as being impolitic. Hereafter, when slavery dies out and men look back on it unblinded by interest, prejudice or passion, it will be seen in all the deformity in which Sumner has painted it, and his position will be deemed the more heroic and patriotic, as to-day Cicero's denunciation of Catiline is more highly esteemed than when he startled old Rome, and it will live a hundred or a thousand generations hence, to be declaimed by school-boys as a specimen of the eloquence and rhetoric of these times, and to be quoted by writers as illustrating the condition of the races and the world in our day. There will not be space enough between this and the end of the world to blot out that speech, and the slave States will be shaded by it till time ends in the darkness of undisturbed eternity.-Newburyport Herald. 
Senator Sumner made, yesterday, a very long, and doubtless able speech on the Slavery question, of which we give a synopsis in the proper place.
<c04>
We have said that Mr. Sumner's was doubtless a strong and forcible speech;-and yet we wish he had made it on some other bill than that providing for the Admission of Kansas. For we-in common, we trust, with all Republicans-are exceedingly anxious that this bill should pass at the present session, so as to allow the new State to vote for Lincoln and Hamlin next November, as she is known to be ready and anxious to do. But her immediate destiny is likewise known to be in the hands of her enemies in the Senate-that is, of those who would rather she were kept out than let in at present, because they are certain to lose relative weight by her admission. We fear that such speeches as Mr. Sumner's made on this bill will afford a pretext, though no reason, for voting or managing so as to defeat her admission this season-a result which we are sure Mr. Sumner would deplore as heartily as we should. We shall be most happy to learn that our apprehensions are not well grounded; but Mr. Chestnut's abusive retort is not calculated to dispel them. N. Y. Tribune.

LETTER FROM MRS. L. MARIA CHILD. 
WAYLAND, May 25, 1860. 
To the Editor of the New York Bee:
I am very much obliged to you for the friendly remarks in your paper of the 19th, prefacing the story you copied from a Georgia paper, concerning a destitute daughter of mine. In reply, it will be conclusive to say that I never had either son or daughter. Moreover, I never heard of any one connected with me, or bearing my name, who was ill, or in suffering circumstances, in any of the slaveholding States.
The story made its first appearance last January, in the New Orleans Picayune, written by a correspondent, who pretended to have heard it from some Southern lady. As the editor sent it to me marked, I supposed he wished to ascertain whether it was true; accordingly I wrote to him the same statement I have now written to you. I seldom see that paper, but I have been recently told that my answer was published in it. Two other requests from editors of newspapers I also answered, but in all cases very briefly. I make it a rule never to talk to the public about myself. First, because I suppose they have, or ought to have, something more interesting to occupy their attention. Secondly, I consider it a better employment of my time and energies to defend principles of truth and freedom, than to defend myself. I always admired Lamartine's saying: 'Let our names perish, so that our principles remain.'
In addition to my own statement, the story has been contradicted by several editors. But it still continues to be copied by Southern papers, and by Democratic papers of the North. I presume many of the editors know it to be untrue. But falsehood diligently circulated often serves the purposes of politicians. Those who defend a system so bad as slavery have no great choice of weapons at their command. They betray the weakness of their cause by answering to facts and arguments with noisy threatenings and indiscriminate personal abuse. 
Yours, respectfully,
L. MARIA CHILD.

From the Northern (Methodist) Independent.
LETTER FROM DR. BOWEN. 
So, Mr. Editor, the anti-slavery farce at Buffalo has played out. ’A mountain has labored, and brought forth a mouse.' The old chapter on slavery, which contained a little law, and a little penalty, has been changed, by a sort of homoeopathic dilution, to an infinitesimal sugar-pill advice!
Well, they have saved the Border, which for a long time has seemed to constitute the paramount object of all church movements; but whether the great North will consent to lie down under such invidious and disgraceful action, and allow 'the sum of all villanies' to continue among them unmolested, remains to be seen. Had we not witnessed the betrayal of our cause by delegates of high pretensions to the anti-slaveryism many times before, we should have looked for the failure of the Committee on Slavery to do anything to be followed by an effort to procure the adoption of a prohibitory rule by resolutions. As it is, however, we are not disappointed. Our hopes, in regard to any anti-slavery action of the General Conference, gave up the ghost four years ago. We then saw, as we trust all will now see, that prohibitory ecclesiastical legislation is not to be expected.
Methodist slaveholding, with all its concomitant abominations, as slave-breeding, slave-trading and the like-O, how I blush at the very thought!-has long since become a fixed fact, so far as the ministry are concerned; and it is high time we all understood it. Our only hope, which I am sorry needs no little stimulus to keep it alive, lies in the laity. If a sufficient number of these will enter into the anti-slavery movement to make themselves felt, which they are abundantly able to do by the appropriate exercise of the purse-power, we may gain our object. Not otherwise. And I hope they will now take the matter in hand-call a convention to devise ways and means for the execution of their design-and prosecute it to a full and speedy consummation.
There are a goodly number of individual preachers who have independence and conscience enough to co-operate with them in this great and glorious work; and we suggest that a few of our leading brethren-lay and clerical-confer together, and initiate the movement without delay. We have been trifled with by the administration and councils of the Church long enough; and it is due, as well to ourselves, as to the cause of God and of down-trodden humanity, that we take immediate and effectual measures to free the Church to which we belong, of the vilest and most disgraceful sin that ever cursed any people this side of the pit. 
ELIAS BOWEN.

THE NEGROES IN CANADA.
A correspondent who has recently visited Canada, writes as follows concerning the negroes settled there:—'I went with a view of examining the country and the condition of the people of color. It is currently reported all along the southern border, and of course in the ”interior” of the South, that the colored people in Canada are in a suffering and even starving condition. Being a Southron myself, I knew the value of this report to Slavery, and as I am opposed to all lying, I was determined to find out the truth of this matter. And I am prepared to say, from personal observation and from personal interviews with reliable men from different parts of Canada, that the report above mentioned is utterly false! The country is fine; land yielding splendid crops, and many of the colored people are amassing wealth. All parties testify that the colored man's condition is as good as that of any other emigrants. Why should it not be-except slavery has paralyzed his manly energies? There is a prejudice of color among the whites on the ground of social equality; and, so far as I could see and hear, both white and colored discourage any attempts at amalgamation of the races.'
<CO5>
THE LATEST SLAVE CAPTURE. 
The correspondent of the New Orleans Delta, who was on board the United States steamer Crusader when she made her recent capture, gives the following account of the exploit:-
U. S. STEAMER CRUSADER, May 27, 1860.
As the United States steamer Crusader was cruising in the old Bahama Channel, not far from Nuevitas, on the 23d of May, a square-rigged vessel of moderate size was reported from aloft. We immediately stood for her, as no sail is allowed to pass us in these slaver-haunted waters, or even to come in sight, without having her character ascertained. As soon as she found herself an object of pursuit, the strange sail began to behave in such a manner as strongly excited our suspicious, and at length fairly put her helm up and ran in for the shore, thus taking the last and most desperate chance of escape. Unfortunately for her, the wind was so light that she was prevented from effecting her purpose, and we rapidly overhauled her, notwithstanding that she was carrying all her canvas.
The Crusader now hoisted English colors and fired a gun to windward, when, alter some delay, the bark, for such she proved to be, finally displayed the French flag at the peak. By this time, however, we were so near that we were enabled to see that her hatches were all closely covered over, and as we continued to approach, we could even distinguish at intervals the peculiarly loathsome odor of a crowded slave ship. Under these circumstances, it was determined to board her, and accordingly a boat and the English ensign were lowered at the same time, and the American colors were hoisted. No sooner did the Crusader's boat leave her side than the bark hauled down the French colors, and, as we subsequently learned, threw them and her Portuguese papers overboard together; so that, when she was boarded, she had neither papers nor colors, and was confessedly without name or nationality.
For a little while there was dead silence on board both ships, though the increasing odor placed beyond all doubt the fact that the bark had under her hatch a cargo of negroes. And now we began to hear a sort of suppressed moaning, which soon swelled into the unmistakable murmur of many human voices. As our boat reached the side of the bark, and the officer in charge sprang on deck, with a tremendous shout the hatches were forced open from below, and out burst hundreds, the self-liberated slaves. As they caught sight of the stars and stripes floating so near-which no doubt seemed to these poor wretches like a bright rainbow of promise-they became perfectly frantic with joy. They climbed up all along the rail-they hung on the shrouds-they clustered like swarming bees in the rigging, while rose from sea to sky the wildest acclamations of delight. They danced and leaped, and waved their arms in the air, and screamed, and yelled in a discordant but pathetic concert. There was one thing, however, even more touching than all this outcry of barbaric rejoicing. My attention was attracted to a group consisting of somewhat more than a hundred women, withdrawn apart from the shouting and noisy men. Their behavior was in strong contrast with that of the others, and was characteristic of their sex. Entirely nude, but innocently unabashed, they sat or knelt in tearful and silent thankfulness. Several of them held infants in their arms, and, through their tears, like sunshine from behind a cloud, beamed an expression of the deepest gratitude and happiness. The men looked as though they had just been raised from despair to the most exultant gladness.
The scene of confusion on board the bark, when the negroes found themselves released from the accustomed restraint, baffles all description. They had, of course, all been kept on a very small allowance of food and water during the passage. The first use they made of their liberty was to satisfy their hunger and thirst, which they did by breaking into the bread barrels and water casks, and then running about eating, drinking, dancing, and screaming, all at once. It mattered but little to them what sort of vessels they drank from-buckets, boxes and troughs were all brought into requisition. I even saw several fellows, happy and delighted, with a piece of bread in one hand and a wooden spittoon full of muddy water in the other. 
As soon as their appetites were satisfied, the African fondness for finery began to show itself, and all the loose articles in the ship were employed as personal ornaments. Some fastened belaying pins to their wrists, and some strutted proudly about with copper ladles hung around their necks.
By this time, however, a detachment of marines arrived from the Crusader, and order was at once restored, and an organization established. The negroes were clothed with pieces of canvas, and the captain, supercargo and crew sent on board the Crusader as prisoners.
They made no claims or remonstrances whatever, but surrendered themselves as slavers, without nationality. They stated that the bark had no name, and that all their papers had been thrown overboard with their colors. They seemed to bear their loss with philosophical equanimity. Such a contingency had evidently been regarded by them as part of their risk, and they were not unprepared for it. The captain is a Frenchman, as is also the supercargo, and the crew is mostly Spaniards, with a few Frenchmen. The negroes were selected from among 3,000 prisoners of war recently taken by the King of Dahomey. They were brought from Whyda, a large town on the slave coast, in the Bight of Benin, the seaport of the renowned Kingdom of Dahomey. They are much superior to the Congos, who usually compose the cargoes of slavers, not only in physique but also in intelligence. Nearly all are in excellent health, which is no doubt owing to the careful arrangements made for their comfort on board the bark. In number they amount to about 450; and the slave deck affords ample accommodation for them all. During a passage of 45 days from the Gulf of Guinea, seven only have died, which is certainly a very small number.
The Key West (Florida) Key of the Gulf, speaking of the French barque captured recently by , Lieutenant Maffit, in the Crusader, says that she was captured within three miles of the coast of Cuba, and therefore within Spanish jurisdiction, and that the Spanish Consul at Key West has signified his intention to enter a protest against the subsequent confiscation.

TO THE PEOPLE OT AFRICAN ORIGIN OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADAS.
MY DEAR FRIENDS: As thousands of you are waiting for my conclusions of Hayti as a place for your future homes, I hasten to give them to you.-The want of time necessitates me to reply to your many inquiries publicly. I have already given more time and expended more money in behalf of the cause of emigration to this country, than I can well afford.
It is due to myself—in truth, to you and to Hayti-to say there are three things that may make materially against you in emigrating to Hayti. 1.Its military government; 2. Its concordant, or white ministers of the national religion; and 3.The
<CO6>
national lands not being put into market at a definite price. Of the first statement I have to say, I know your education, convictions, and sympathies are not in favor of a military government. You are Republican. A government of the kind may call its citizens from the culture of the soil in the future, as it has done in the past. Such a government was absolutely necessary to drive from this country its tyrants; but it may tend to oppression after people are rid of their tyrants. However, the fault will be yours, if the evils, to you, of a military government shall long continue in Hayti, since her 700,000 inhabitants fraternally invite millions of her republican brothers to become common owners of the country bought with their fathers' hearts' blood, and to aid them to shape its destiny. Of the second suggestion I remark, in view of the false political and so-called religious ideas of the world, as indicating the black man's natural inferiority to the white man, and the white man's right to control and enslave him, oppression is to be feared from white men with such power, and revolution as the result of it. I cannot forget, however, that Haytiens have a just and world-wide fame for their slaughter of tyrants, even among the priesthood. But an extensive emigration would prevent such an evil. Of the third remark, I will add, it is not to be expected that you will sell your estates and comes to this country, while it is uncertain what lands you can buy, and the price of land is indefinite. I make that remark, however, with the honest conviction that both government and private landowners will do in the case what is reasonable and just.
Allow me now to say: 1. That Hayti is unsurpassed by any country in the world for beauty of scenery, for salubrity of climate, and for richness of soil. 2. Hayti is the only country on this continent that makes men of African descent the white man's peer-deny it who dare, dread it who may. Hence it is the only suitable home for him in America.3. God has given to men of the African race in America this government, as a home that they should live in, and take care of it. For men do better by their own, and their own by them, than they will by another's, or another's by them. I thank God, colored men can complain no more for the want of government of their own in this hemisphere. And I hope they are not so ignoble as to want others to do for them what they will not do for themselves. 4. God and oppression have made Hayti impregnable to an invading foe. Her mountains, her harbors, and her munitions of war, defy the enemies of the colored race. Such a government as Hayti will be, will be needed in the tropics to put an end to the black man's bondage in America. 5. If Hayti has not the pious, literary, and scientific institutions of England now, she will have them, for she has an increasing number of them, and they are progressing. 6. Hayti's national religion is called Roman Catholic, but it tolerates all the religions of the world, and approves of Christianity. What country, of our world, does more? 7. Hayti can sustain twenty times her present population; hence , her arms are open to embrace you, as agriculturalists, manufacturer and capitalists, and I can assure you that he who cultivates extensively Haytien soil, will be an Edenic nobleman, and can have no peer outside of his profession. He must have for his dependents the military gentleman, the merchant prince, and the honorable civilian. If God has so made man that he must not only have a place to live in, but also the means of living, believe me, when I tell you both of these are found in the military Republic of Hayti. And, 8. I may add, any parties navigating Haytien waters with small, passenger, trading and towing steamers, will bless their race, and enrich themselves. They who will manufacture Haytien timber into furniture, and her logwood into extract, will be benefactors of Hayti, and heirs to her honors and riches. And they who cultivate and manufacture Haytien cotton and sugar, raise rice, grow corn, &c., will reduce the price of the American slave to a mere cipher, save millions of dollars to Hayti, and will be controllers of her finances and her commercial lords. Is cotton king? He reigns here. 9. Let not pamphlet, published by an unknown, and, of course, unresponsible person, and printed by T.B. Pugh of Philadelphia, 1860, mislead any of you. The author does thus much at least; (1), he slanders Hayti, by trying to degrade the mass of her citizens, especially her black ones; (2), his statement is false in regard to the prejudice of the blacks and mulatoes against each other-the prejudice is for place more than color. I do not believe it to be greater here than it is in the United States and Canadas among the same kind of people; (3), he shows that he is an old wolf dyed in the wool, for he tries hard to convince the world that the negro is naturally inferior to the white man; (4), he is fearful that the Haytien government will be a dangerous element on this continent, if the free blacks come here in mass; hence, he wants them still to degrade themselves by remaining in the United States;(5), he wants Hayti to alter her Constitution, and to allow her enemies to own real property in the country, in order to their becoming our masters. We challenge the author of that book to give his name to the public. 10. Such are my convictions, after having seen the principal parts of Hayti, and examined somewhat into the physical, intellectual and moral condition of the people, the working of the government, the quality and productions of the soil, and the agricultural, manufacturing and commercial advantage of the country. With the government's exemptions to emigrants which I have sent you, I doubt whether even the objections I have mentioned will militate against Christian colonies; hence, my advice to you, if you come here, is, 1st, To have a definite arrangement with government and private land-owners, before you come, about lands; 2d, Then to charter vessels, and come independent of the government aid, or pay it back if you have to take it, and settle in colonies of not less than 100 families each; and, 3d, An duties to you, when you come, will be free, bring with you all the farming, mechanical and manufacturing articles you need, salt provisions for six months, mostly light clothing, bedding, furniture, grape cuttings, fruit seeds, hand grist-mills, portable saw mills, cotton gins, &c. The government will let you have things about in your own way in your colonies, and will give you lands for school and chapels.
Respectfully. &c.,
W.P. NEWMAN.
Port-au-Prince, May 11, 1860.
P.S.-Since the above was written, I have received the following assurances from the government:
1. Not only adult immigrants, but all their children not born in Hayti, shall be exempt from military service.
2. The government is ready to sell lands at low rates to immigrants, and in many cases on a credit of from five to ten years.
3. Applications may be made in person, by deputations of companies intending to remove to Hayti, or through B.C. Clark, Esq., Haytien Consul, Boston, Mass. 
4. The government will defend all Protestants who shall settle in Hayti, in the enjoyment of the largest religious liberty.
W.P.N
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is’' a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' 
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SCENES AT THE NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION AT BALTIMORE.
Mr. Montgomery, of Pennsylvania, desired that the present mode of furnishing tickets should be changed. They were given to others than delegates, and he couldn't obtain his through a third party when it was known that he did not communicate personally with the chairman of the delegation. He asked that half of the tickets should be given to Mr. Cassidy, of the Pennsylvania delegation, for distribution, and half to the chairman.
While Mr. Montgomery was speaking, Mr. Randall, of Penn., approached as near to him as possible, exclaiming excitedly,ï¿½ It's false-it's a base falsehood.' 
Mr. Montgomery, pointing to Randall, said-ï¿½That old manï¿½-
Cries of order; confusion and excitement. Mr. Montgomery exclaimed-' Am I to be protected from these insults?'
Fifty delegates rose to their feet crowding forward.
A son of Mr. Randall struggled bard to approach Mr. Montgomery. 
After several attempts to restore order, Mr. Dawson arose and said: ï¿½Mr. President, if you will give me the floor, I'll get order.' (Laughter.) 
The noise then partially subsided.
Mr. Dawson said he had used every personal effort to distribute tickets to members. A boy applied for Mr. Montgomery's ticket, and he didn't choose to give it to any one but a delegate himself.
A Voice-'That's right!ï¿½
Mr. Dawson, continuing, pronounced the insinuation of Mr. Montgomery untrue in every particular. (Applause and confusion.)
Mr. Montgomery arose excitedly, but his voice was drowned by cries of order, several members endeavoring to address the Chair. All of the Pennsylvania delegates and half the Convention were on the floor, endeavoring to crowd around Mr. Montgomery, who exclaimed in a loud voice, ï¿½He lies! It is a base lie! and the man who utters it is a base scoundrel!' Intense excitement continued, but order was finally restored, and a vote taken by States on the motion to adjourn, which was carried, and the Convention adjourned to 10 o'clock Friday morning. 
As soon as the Convention adjourned, Mr. Dawson left the Hall with friends, Mr. Montgomery remaining behind. Mr. Randall also left the hall, accompanied by his son, proceeding down Jay street to the corner of Fayette street, and was standing there, when Mr. Montgomery approached, accompanied by friends. Robert Randall left his father, and confronting Mr. Montgomery, struck him a powerful blow between the eyes, staggering him back and covering his face with blood. Mr. Montgomery recovered, striking Mr. Randall on the ear, and knocking him down. He was about to kick him when they were separated. Young Randall was not hurt, but proceeded up the street with his father, who displayed much excitement.
Mr. Montgomery is large and heavy; Mr. Randall is small and of slight build. Some say the former drew a pistol, but this is not confirmed. The collision caused great excitement, the streets being crowded.
G. M. Henry, of Pennsylvania, is bearer of a hostile message to Mr. Montgomery from Hon. Samuel Randall, another son and ex-State Senator. Mr. Montgomery has recently been defeated in a struggle for a renomination to Congress.
During the confusion in the Convention, Geo. M. Henry, of Pennsylvania, went to Mr. Montgomery, saying, ï¿½I've a massage for you. Mr. Randall, Jr., desires to know if the remarks just made were intended to apply to his father or Mr. Dawson.'
Mr. Montgomery-'Tell Mr. Randall to go to hell!'
Mr. Henry-I conveyed the message, presuming that you were a gentleman, but I discover that you are not one. I denounce you as low and vulgar, and unworthy of notice. If I had known that you were a blackguard, I would not have conveyed the message.
Mr. Montgomery made no reply.
This led to the assault by Robert E. Randall. At the fight, Mr. Bryan, of Texas, offered young Randall a revolver, but the parties did not come together again.
Correspondence of the Boston Herald. BALTIMORE, June 24th.
The National Democratic Convention has adjourned sine die, after placing in nomination STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS, of Illinois, for President, and BENJAMIN FITZPATRICK, of Alabama, for Vice President, which was done unanimously, after the fire-eaters of the South and the dirt-eaters of Massachusetts had left the Convention.
When Butler and his squad of Massachusetts bolters retired from the Convention, there was an universal shout and hurrah to see them leave, and they made their exit amid the jeers and scoffs of everybody, well deserving a kick at the same time.
When Cushing gave up the Chair, there was tremendous applause at the prospect of getting rid of the presiding incubus. ï¿½His successor, Gov. Todd, of Ohio, in assuming the President's chair, was greeted with rousing cheers, the whole Convention rising.
As soon as the nominations were made and the business of the Convention finished, eloquent speeches endorsing the nominations were made by several who had previously opposed Douglas.
There was an immense Ratification Meeting in Monument Square last evening, the large space being densely packed with the friends of Douglas and Fitzpatrick, who manifested the most intense enthusiasm.
The Bolters' ratification meeting last night was a complete fizzle, the assembly being composed principally of ï¿½Plug-Uglies.ï¿½ They were addressed by somebody from Texas, who advocated the election of Sam Houston to the Presidential chair.
Messrs. Cushing, Butler and Whitney are denounced here in the severest manner, as they will be by the people of Massachusetts and of New England. They have proved themselves traitors of the blackest kind, fit persons for Yancey to do his dirty work, while he has about as much regard for them as he would have for the niggers on his plantation. They have disgraced the people who have lifted them into stations which they have proved unworthy to fill.

From the New York Herald.
THE DYING AGONIES OF THE DEMOCRACY AT BALTIMORE.
ï¿½Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad.' We refer the inquiring reader to our reports of yesterday's proceedings in the Baltimore Convention. They were unique, and in every point of view they are full of instruction. They betray the character of the materials of which these national party conventions are composed, and particularly the predominating element of ruffianism, to the full gaze of the world. We perceive, too, in these scenes of brutal violence, where all should be harmony and conciliation, that the days of this demoralized Democratic party are numbered, and that it is in the agonies of death.
Upon the question of the contested Southern delegations, the New Yorkers asked another night's reflection. They hesitate between the alternative of sacrificing the party for the sake of Douglas, and the expedient of dropping Douglas to save themselves. They fear that, in dropping Douglas, they will array the solid Northwest against the Albany Regency, and they see that, in adhering to him, they only precipitate the inevitable explosion. For once, the wily, plotting Dean Richmond is in water beyond his depth. He finds that all his beautiful arrangements, perfected at Syracuse last September, for dictating the candidate of this Convention, fall short of the necessities, of the case. But he and his delegation do not yet despair, or they would not have asked another night for the purposes of a treaty of peace.
We can tell Master Richmond, however, and Mr. Church, his henchman, that they may as well abandon at once all their delusive hopes of the spoils and plunder of the next administration. They are lost. The Democratic party is destroyed. There is not the remotest visible ghost of contingency for the reunion of the belligerent elements of this revolutionary convention. The moral consequences of what they have already done render it superfluous to speculate upon what they may do to-day or tomorrow. 
Assuming that these fighting factions, cliques and sections may still agree to bury the hatchet, and unite upon a compromise ticket, it will avail them nothing. The party is broken to pieces, and, with one, two or three tickets, it must be superseded. It is too badly cut up, too seriously crippled, and has too many bones broken, to be healed and put upon its legs again in a single day or a single year. It is practically dissolved and disbanded, whatever may be the remedies attempted by this
<c02>
Convention. In brief, the National Convention of the Democratic party, having become degraded to the base condition of Tammany Hall in its worst days of ruffianism, is only suffering the fate of Tammany Hall-discords, divisions, rebellion, defeat and disgrace. 
Were there no other drawback to the reunion of the broken fragments of the party, the fact that this disgraceful Baltimore Convention represents the party will be capital enough for the Republicans. A miracle, and only a miracle, can save the distracted, divided and distorted Democracy from a terrible revolutionary explosion at Baltimore, and we despair of a miracle of this sort from Dean Richmond and his Regency delegation. They are but tinkers, and it is this dirty tinkering that has ruined their party.

FREE SPEECH IN KENTUCKY. 
Cassius M. Clay won another victory for free speech, at Richmond, Ky., the county seat of Madison county, on the 4th inst. This was the day of the opening of the county court, and a large number of people were of course present from the surrounding country. Mr. Clay had publicly announced through both the papers published at Richmond, that he intended to speak on this occasion, and the subject was much canvassed in the streets. The more violent portion of the revolutionary committee, we learn, was for silencing him. At one o'clock, P. M., the large court-house was crowded to its utmost capacity. Mr. Clay took up the Republican platform and read it, making no allusion to the mob, but going on to vindicate the principles laid down in that platform. Finding him prudent enough to avoid any mention of the mob, one of the most violent of them declared that Mr. Clay should be ï¿½shot through the head.'  Mr. Clay said he claimed the same equal rights as were allowed other parties, and that he wouldï¿½ stand or fall there!' The clamor against him continued, but the great mass criedï¿½ Go on!' Mr. Clay then said: ï¿½Gentlemen, I see what you are after. If nothing but a fight will do you, we are ready for you. Now try it. Shall I speak, citizens, or not?' ï¿½Yes, yes; go on!ï¿½ was the response from the great majority of the crowd. A dozen voices cried out,ï¿½ No! no!'ï¿½ To which Mr. Clay replied, ï¿½Then go out! (great applause,) if you don't want to hear!' And they went out, completely foiled in their feeble attempt at assassination. Mr. Clay made a strong speech, which told with great effect upon his large audience.

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, JUNE 29, 1860.
THE INSURRECTION OF 1776! 
The eighty-fifth anniversary of this great American triumph will be celebrated by a grand MASS MEETING, in the handsome and commodious Grove; in FRAMINGHAM, on Wednesday, July 4th. Turning with abhorrence from the mockery of commemorating the achievements of Freedom by servility to Slavery, let all who hate despotism in the garb of Democracy and Republicanism as well as of Monarchy, and would overthrow it by every weapon that may be legitimately wielded against it, assemble to consider , the solemn and pregnant issues of the hour-how we may best preserve the principles of the Revolution, and carry them forward to a speedy and enduring triumph.
Eloquent Addresses from distinguished speakers, with Songs and such Recreation as this attractive place affords, will occupy the day. Among the speakers expected are, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELLï¿½ PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, C. L. REMOND, H. C. WRIGHT, W. W. BROWN, E. H. HEYWOOD, H. FORD DOUGLASS, Rev. J. S. MARTIN, and others.
Special trains will run from Boston, Worcester, Millbury, Milford, and Northboro'.
Leave Boston and Worcester at 9.15, A. M., stopping at way stations; Millbury at 8.80; Milford, 7.15 or 10; Northboro' at 7 or 9.40.
FARES AS FOLLOWS:
Boston, to the Grove and back, 70 cts. for adults.35cts. for children.
Worcester, to the Grove and back, 70 cts. for adults.35cts. for children.
Millbury, to the Grove and back, 70 cts. for adults.35cts. for children. 
Milford, Milford Branch, Northboro', Marlboro', Natick, Needham, Grantville, Ashland, Cordaville, Southboro' and Westboro', to the Grove and back, 50 cts. for adults, 25 cts. for children.
Grafton, to the Grove and back, adults 60 cts., children 30 cts.
Returning, leave the Grove at 5.45, P. M. Admission fee to the enclosure of the Grove, for those not coming by the cars, adults 10 cts., children 5 cts. Those who come by railroad, admitted free.
The House at the Grove will be open for Refreshments. 
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in WAVERLEY HALL, opposite the Rail Road Depot at South Framingham.
FRANCIS JACKSON. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, E. H. HEY WOOD, HENRY O. STONE, .CHARLES A. HOVEY, .GEO. W. STACY, Committee of Arrangements.
THE AMERICAN INSURRECTIONS. 
The believers in the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence, and of that Method of proclaiming them inaugurated by Gen. Warren at Bunker Hill, and continued by Capt. Brown at Harper's Ferry, are requested to meet at NORTH ELBA, Essex Co., N. Y., on the FOURTH OF JULY next, to re-affirm, over the grave of THE MARTYR OF VIRGINIA, their unabated faith in the truth of those principles, and the wisdom of that time-honored policy.
The survivors of the family of Capt. John Brown will attend the celebration. 
John Brown, Jr., the eldest son of Capt. John Brown, will read the Declaration of Independence; and Solomon, his youngest son, will read the Sermon on the Mount.
The following persons have been invited to be present and speak:
Rev. Highland Garnett, of New York;
Thos. W. Higginson, of Worcester, Mass.;
Miss Ellen Frances Watkins, of Philadelphia;
Thaddeus Hyatt, late of Washington Jail, D. C.;
Richard J. Hinton, of Kansas;
Frederick Douglass, of Rochester, N. Y.;
Rev. George B. Cheever, of Rochester, N. Y.;
Henry D. Thoreau, of Concord, Mass.;
Judge W. M. F. Arny, of Kansas;
and many others.
It is confidently expected that the majority of these speakers will attend.
By request, 
JAMES REDPATH.
Boston, June 26, 1860.
FOURTH OF JULY. 
Next Wednesday is the anniversary of American Independence. The wisest, best, most suitable celebration of that great historic event will be that which has direct reference to the emancipation of the enslaved millions in our land, whose cries for deliverance from their galling fetters should be heard on that day above the clang of bells, the roar of cannon, and the shouts of the multitude. Let every one who respects himself, despises cant, abhors hypocrisy, and loves impartial liberty, be careful not to give any sanction or countenance to any hollow observance of the day, but endeavor, in some way or other, to bear his protest against our great national iniquity. Let as many as possibly can rally at the Framingham celebration.
Rev. Thomas M. Clark, Bishop of Rhode Island, will deliver the oration at the municipal celebration in Providence; Rev. Jacob M. Manning, of the Old South Church, Boston, that at New Bedford; S. C Newman, Esq., of Pawtucket, that at Seekonk; Hon. C. F. Adams, that at Fall River; and Hon. Edward Everett, that at Boston. Shame upon Boston!
<c03>
ANOTHER MEETING OF THE NATIONAL DEMOCRACY-ANOTHER SECESSION.
Up to the hour of holding the National Democratic Convention at Charleston, S. C., last month, the Democratic party had acted with invincible determination and entire unity in the endorsement of all the designs and demands of the Southern slave oligarchy; but, then and there, Divine Providence sent confusion into its ranks, baffled every effort to secure a Presidential nomination upon the two-thirds rule, and caused a portion of the Southern delegates to secede. The Convention was compelled to adjourn until last week, when it assembled at Baltimore, and, after a stormy session of a week, nominated as its candidate Stephen A. Douglas, not by a two-thirds vote, but by a very large majority,-about forty of the delegates (chiefly Southern) withdrawing in a contumacious spirit, and organizing themselves as the genuine Simon Pure, National (!) Democratic Convention-choosing the infamous Caleb Cushing, of Massachusetts, very properly to preside over them, and nominating, as their candidates for the Presidency and Vice Presidency, John C. Breckinridge of Kentucky, and Joseph Lane of Oregon. 
In the Douglas Convention, on the first vote, Douglas received 173 votes, 202 (two-thirds) being necessary to a choice. 
Mr. Hoge, of Va. moved to ballot again, and if any refused to vote, and Mr. Douglas having two-thirds of the votes of those voting, he would move that he be declared nominated. The result stood-Douglas, 1801/2; Guthrie, 51/2; Breckinridge, 7. The resolution was then put, and passed amid a hurricane of applause-and Stephen Arnold Douglas was declared the nominee for the Presidency by the National Democratic Convention. Banners were unrolled, promising 40,000 majority for Douglas in Pennsylvania, and the band played ï¿½Hail to the Chief.'
On the second ballot for President, the following vote was cast for Mr. Douglas: Maine 7, New Hampshire 5, Vermont 5, Massachusetts 10, Rhode Island 4, Connecticut 3 1-2, New York 31, New Jersey 2 1-2, Pennsylvania 10, Maryland 2 1-2, Virginia 3, North Carolina 1, Alabama 9, Arkansas 11-2, Missouri 4 1-2, Tennessee 3, Kentucky 3, Ohio 23, Indiana 13, Illinois 11, Michigan 6, Wisconsin 5, Iowa 4, and Minnesota 4.
For Mr. Breckinridge, Pennsylvania 10, Connecticut one-half a vote.
For Mr. Guthrie, Pennsylvania 2 1-2, and Kentucky 1 1-2. Seven of the Pennsylvania delegates declined voting.
It will thus be seen that New England, New York, and the Northwest were nearly unanimous for Mr. Douglas.
A two-thirds vote would have been 202. Mr. Douglas received 180 1-2, or 21 1-2 short of that number.
Senator Fitzpatrick, of Alabama, received the vote of the Convention for the Vice Presidency. Declining the nomination, Hon. Herschel V. A. Johnson, of Georgia, was nominated in his stead, and has signified his willingness to stand. He endorses the platform, and declares that the South will sustain its principles. The breach, however, is complete.
THEODORE PARKER.
Mrs. CHILD writes to us thus:-
A friend of mine, a most excellent, religious-minded, and learned lady, little more than seven years ago, received a letter of expostulation from one of her neighbors, who thought she exerted an injudicious, if not dangerous influence, by expressing her hearty approbation of Theodore Parker's preaching. She replied as follows:-
'In defence of my Parkerism, I refer you to that strong sense of justice, which phrenologists find bumped on my cranium. Mr. Parker was a total stranger to me, until his Unitarian brethren so bitterly attacked an ordination sermon, which he preached at South Boston. Every word of that sermon I slowly read to our friend P-, who, with me, cordially admired the whole of it, and conceded that its boldest assertions admitted of a highly favorable construction. This was a year ago; and from that day to this, the persecution and denunciation of Mr. Parker, on the part of the brethren of his own denomination, have not ceased. While, at this very time, the venerable Dr. Beecher visits him so often, and is so fond of his society, that Henry Ward Beecher laughingly says his father is about to adopt him as a son. And a most respectable deacon of one of the orthodox churches in Worcester declared, the other day, that he wished there were fifty Theodore Parkers in the city of Boston. My sense of justice has been roused in his behalf, by finding that the Unitarians have practised toward him very act of which they them selves most bitterly complained against the Orthodox; refusing him their pulpits, branding him as an infidel, and withholding from him the common courtesies of society. And this in utter violation of their own boasted liberty of judgment; while the Orthodox justly plead their conscience in all similar acts, guided as they were by a stern, uncompromising creed. So much for the beginning of my interest in Mr. Parker. Its continuance is due to the rare excellence of the man himself. My jest about his big ideas as food for my big brain I find has misled you into the supposition that he is one of those who deify the intellect, at the expense of the other faculties of the soul. But, so far from it, he invariably subordinates the understanding to the moral and spiritual powers. His hearers are not gathered out of the most refined and cultivated classes, but chiefly consist of the common people, as did those of one greater than he. I dare say scoffers and infidels are sometimes found among them, allured by the stigmas so industriously cast upon him; but they either soon leave him, or cease to be scoffers and infidels. Those who constitute his regular society consist, I firmly believe, of as exemplary persons as are to be found in any Christian church whatsoever. You ask if I would be willing to leave young people to his influence. I would wish all, whether young or old, to preserve an independent judgment, and call no man master. But I know of no more admirable, high-principled, consistent young people, than some who recognize in him their only religious teacher. A lady, no longer young, has resided for years in his family. She is a leader in all good words and works; one of those real saints, who unite the suffrages of all denominations of Christians in testimony of their unmistakable excellence; and to her Mr. Parker is a spiritual father. His occasional severity I dislike, but his untiring philanthropy commands my reverence. No hiding-place of neglected poverty is so obscure as to escape his notice. His house is the constant resort of needy foreigners, in want of succor and encouragement in a strange land; and victims flying from the wicked slave-law never appeal to him in vain. It is my honest belief, that no four Unitarian ministers perform so much work in a year as he does. You never hear of him at the tables of the rich and fashionable; but he is up early, and out late, assisting the needy and afflicted. His only recreation, apart from his books, seems to be found in his love of nature. Flowers are his passion; and the green fields and wooded hills of mother earth open to him a paradise of enjoyment.
I never attempt to proselyte any one to my tastes and opinions; but, so long as Mr. Parker is the minister, who most enlightens my understanding, quickens my conscience, elevates my soul, and warms my affections, both toward God and toward man, so long, I am sure, he ought to be the minister of my choice.' 
Congress-to the great relief and entire satisfaction of the country-finally adjourned on Monday last. Before the adjourment, Mr. Sumner presented petitions from citizens of Massachusetts for the prohibition of the inter-State slave trade, and abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. Laid on the table. 
<c04>
THE BOBBIN BOY. 
This book is deserving of a notice-not as a literary work,-for it has no literary merit; nor as a biography of Gov. Banks,-for his organ repudiates it; but as an insidious attempt to corrupt the morals of the rising generation of New England. It purports to be a memoir of the youth of Gov. Banks. It is advertised as such; and its author (p. 308) makes similar claims for it. The Daily Advertiser says that there are only a few incidents of the boyhood of Gov. Banks in it,-not enough to give it, we infer, a right to the title of a fiction founded on fact. This pretence, then, of its reverend author, is a lie. Wm. M . Thayer, its author, is a clergyman, we are told; and yet we thus find him guilty of an ï¿½extended' falsehood to promote the sale of his book!
But this is not why we deem ï¿½The Bobbin Boy' worthy of a notice. It is the author's false ethics, rather than his false pretences, that deserve to be promptly gibbeted.
The back of the book bears a gilded symbol of its spirit. It represents a boy at the foot of a ladder, at the top of which is-the State House! This is our modern Nat's ladder, which a clergyman offers to our children as a substitute for the ancient Jacob's! Be true, and you will yet see angels ascending and descending, and the third heavens opened to receive you-this the old scriptural teaching, has been done away with, and a very different command, with a far different promise, has been instituted for it. Be industrious, teaches Thayer, and you may yet be-Governor of Massachusetts! or if not that, then, ï¿½agent of one of the wealthiest and most celebrated manufacturing companies of New England, commanding a salary of THREE THOUSAND AND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS!' (The small capitals are the author's own.) 
The spirit of the book cannot better be illustrated than by quoting its closing paragraph:-
'And Nat-what and where is he? He is now known to fame as His EXCELLENCY, the Governor of-,the best State in the Union, which is only one remove from the Presidency of the best country in the world. By his own diligence, industry, perseverance and self-reliance, he has fully earned the confidence of his constituents. No lucky stars, no chance game or accident, can make a governor out of a bobbin boy; but the noble qualities named can, as if by the power of magic, achieve the wonderful transformation. It is true of him, as the poet has said of all distinguished men,-
"The heights by great men reached and kept
Were not attained by sudden flight;
But they, while their companions slept,
Were toiling upward in the night."
And now, ere the youthful reader closes this volume, let him stop and resolve to imitate the bright example of him whom we never more shall dare to call Nat. His business now is so different from that of carrying bobbins, and his position and character so far removed from that of student-boy in his father's attic, that we can only call him His EXCELLENCY, as we reverently tip our hat! But the leading characteristics of his youth are worthy of your imitation, whether you desire to pursue the path of knowledge or any other honorable vocation. Are you poor?  So was he; poorer than hundreds of the boys who think that poverty stands in the way of their success. Are your advantages to acquire an education small? So were his: smaller than the opportunities of many youth who become disheartened because they are early deprived of school. Are you obliged to labor for a livelihood, so that your odd moments are few and far between? So was he; and if ever a lad could be excused from effort on this plea, it was he who toiled fourteen hours per day in a factory to earn his bread. There is no excuse for non-exertion that will stand before the Bobbin Boy's example-not one. Imitate it, then, by cultivating those traits of character which proved the elements of his success.'
Success! There it is! The worship of success is the religion of the book. Gain position, (not character,) is the lesson it inculcates. 
Old people, well instructed, will smile at this effort to set up Gov. Banks as a model for the rising generation; but no attempt of the kind on the plastic mind of the future State should be merely laughed at by any of us. It is misfortune enough to have such a person as Mr. Banks our Governor, instead of having him exhibited as a model man to our children also. If Christianity is worth anything at all, why should our children be taught to imitate Gov. Banks? why should weï¿½ reverently tip our hat when we meet him'? What noble cause has he ever been the champion of? what lesson of self-sacrifice does his history teach? Who is better for his having lived? What real services to the world has this man rendered? Not one. Byï¿½ bobbin' roundï¿½ he has gained place, and what bats call power; but if he should die to-morrow, the slave, the pauper, the unfortunate woman, the cause of reform, every really noble movement of the age, would feel no loss whatever. Of course, I speak of him as a public man; of his private character I know nothing whatever. 
The true lesson of Gov. Banks's career is this: that with talent, industry, tact, a plausible address, pliability and perseverance a poor Massachusetts boy may become the Governor of the State. Well, what of that? What is it to be a Governor? It is no longer to be a ruler of men, as in ages past, but simply to be the chief recording clerk of a community.  Mr. Thayer speaks of Mr. Banks's distinguished services.' The distinguished services of a politician are of vastly less value to the country than the honest services of a mechanic or an agricultural laborer. There is not a good farmer in this State who is not of more real importance to it thanï¿½ His EXCELLENCYï¿½ Gov. Banks. Our children should be taught this truth; not advised to emulate the tortuous ascensions of a politician to place. They should be taught to cultivate many of the very virtues which would forever debar them from rising as Gov. Banks hasï¿½ risen'; and above all, they should early learn that it is for their own sake, not for the sake of external reward attaching to culture, that we should develop every faculty that God has given us. Has Gov. Banks done all this? God gave him, undoubtedly, the power of uttering the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth; and yet who does not know that he oftener uses language for the purpose of concealing his thought than in order to proclaim it? 
Upon the whole, I prefer the Sermon on the Mount to Poor Richard's Almanack; the success that led John Brown to a Virginia scaffold to the success that conducted Gov. Banks to ï¿½only one remove from the Presidency'; and I would infinitely rather ï¿½tip my hat reverently' to Mother Moses, a poor uneducated negress, but the liberator of two hundred slaves, than remove it when Gov. Banks passed by me. Tip our hat reverently to Gov. Banks! Ye gods! if never nap comes from it except when it is tipped as a demagogue passes by, never while the everlasting mountains stand, or the billows of the great deep heave, will we expend another dollar or run up another bill at our respectable hatter's! 
Bring the tongs! Bridget! and fling the ï¿½Bobbin Boyï¿½ into the dust bin! Like to like! No boy of mine shall ever be polluted by its teachings. 
J. R. 
Rev. SAMUEL MAY, Jr., the faithful and untiring Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, having seriously impaired his health by his long-continued and valuable services in the cause, has been compelled to take a respite from his labors during the summer. We trust it will prove of great service to both body and mind. Mr. E. H. HEYWOOD will act as General Agent pro tem., to whom letters should be addressed until further notice. 
'NEARER, MY GOD, TO THEE!' The beautiful and well-known hymn with this title, which we have inserted in our poetical department, was a special favorite of the late THEODORE PARKER, and, therefore, as very appropriately read and sung at the commemorative services in Music Hall, on the 17th inst. 
CORRECTION. In the Treasurer's report last week, <illegible> Cunningham, Mass., read Cummington, Mass.<illegible> are desired also to say that the $5 received in <illegible> should have been credited to Hiram <illegible>, Jr., to redeem a pledge. 
<c05>
LETTER FROM A.T.FOSS.
CLINTON, Clinton Co., (Iowa,) June 19, 1860. 
DEAR GARRISON: 
We have just closed our Convention at DeWitt. It was in all respects successful. It was feared by our friends that the death of our dear and noble friend Judge Graham, who brought to the cause of humanity great ability, weight of character, and as true a heart as ever throbbed in a human bosom; together with the terrible tornado which, as you are aware, has is swept this section of the country as with the besom of destruction, would greatly lessen the number and interest of the Convention. But, thank God, neither death nor hurricanes can stop the blessed work of human reform. But our friend C. B. Campbell will, I trust, inform you of the particulars of our meetings.
I have never been in the West before at this season of the year. The West is grand in the fall, when the wide, wide prairies are being mightily, swept with fires. No where does the heart swell with deeper' gratitude to our dear old mother Earth than here, where are seen the mighty grain stacks and corn heaps that a New Englander beholds for the first time with bewildering, grateful amazement.
But now, in June, that these mighty land-oceans are covered with wild prairie flowers, and with wheat and corn, and herds of cattle, no tongue, or pen, or pencil, can convey an adequate idea of their magnificence and beauty-they must be seen to be felt.
Never was the prospect better for an abundant harvest than now, all the way through Michigan and Illinois, and, so far as I have seen and heard, in all the West. I know not how to express the emotions I feel as I gaze upon these almost boundless fields of wheat and corn, dark, vigorous and luxuriant. I think, of course, of the great white loaves of sweet, nutritious bread in relation to personal want and pleasure, and am comforted. I think, too, of the equal pleasure and happiness which will come to the great masses of hungry humanity, and I feel a strong emotion of joy. Then I think of the great relief which the price of this magnificent crop will bring to the needy people of the West, whose pecuniary affairs have been and are still in a very embarrassed condition. Oh, what an amount of human happiness is bound up in this great crop! Not one hungry mouth in all the land need be unsatisfied;-and I am filled with worshipful gratitude to the Father and Mother of all our mercies. But then I think, too, of the villany and cupidity of soulless speculators, who, to fill their own pockets, would willingly waste this bread of life, and leave millions to starve. Then, that millions of bushels of this heaven-and-earth-sent bounty will be worse than destroyed by the infernal process of the distillation destroying all its life-giving power, and perverting it to the work of destruction and death. When I think of the manhood destroyed, of the domestic wretchedness engendered, of weeping, heart-broken wives, and suffering, depraved children, all the fruit of this devilish work of turning these golden grains of mercy into scalding drops of wrath, I am exceeding mad-I burn with indignation. And if any of my brethren think this is not Christian, I can't help it. It is at least Paulinic; for Paul said, with fervent heat, ï¿½Who is offended, and I burn not?' God have mercy on those souls who always keep cool! 
If there is any province on earth for statute law, it is to stop the infernal practice of distilling the bread of life into the burning, damning liquid of death, and to put an eternal stop to the enslaving of human beings. Neither of these has it ever done. But both has it protected, and now protects and upholds; and, with a few noble exceptions, priests and people love to have it so, or at least seem content with this state of things. 
You have read much of the effects of the recent tornado, the track of which I have traced for about sixteen miles. I can assure you the half has never been told, nor can it ever be. Think of the hardy pioneer who has toiled for years till he has erected a comfortable roof over his head, built him barns, and reared him fences, planted him fruit trees and shade trees, and convenience and comfort at last crown his toil. Just at the close of the day, in the calm of a Sunday eve, the family are sitting in quiet repose, or are in joyful glee, with visiting neighbors, when the attention of one of the number is attracted to a singular appearance of the clouds, or, as in other cases, the first notice is the awful roar of the Storm King. Those who have earliest learned its appearance betake to their cellars, and are mostly saved, but the great majority remain unprotected, and hence the fearful destruction of human life. 
Scarcely was the warning given till the crash came. The house flies in a million pieces over their heads, and its inhabitants are borne away with it. Stoves, furniture, beds, everything is scattered, torn into shreds. Barns, sheds, fruit and shade trees are destroyed; the very bark blown off clean from-top to root; fences and farming tools, even heavy strong wheels, torn in pieces, tearing the spokes from the hubs. In three minutes' time, homes of heauty and comfort are gone-the desolation has passed over them, and they are not. And, most fearful of all, was the destruction of human life. I saw one ruin, and picked up a part of a child's dress, where nine were slain. I saw one little girl of six years of age, whose father and mother were both killed. One of her own feet was smashed, and I learn was yesterday amputated. She remembers distinctly the whole scene. She was blown some eighty rods from her home. She remembers to have seen her mother when her head struck against a fence post. She says, ï¿½I was close to her. I spoke to her, but she didn't answer me, and then I knew she was dead.' And the poor little child tried to hobble away on her smashed foot to some people she saw in the distance. One little boy, of perhaps nine years, was carried for a quarter of a mile over the tops of forest trees,' as he passed over, and that just before him he saw a feather bed, but heï¿½ couldn't overtake it.' You have read of limbs torn from human bodies, of one poor infant's bead torn from its body and found alone-of a child found the next day in the mud, where it lay all night, and was yet alive, and is now well. This is all true, but, ah! how little of the tale of horrors! I saw Camanche, a beautiful village on the Mississippi, all torn to pieces, the ruins so covering the streets that it was almost impossible to tell where the places were. In this village that was, forty-three new graves show where the remains of the victims lie. But there are others missing, who were doubtless blown into the river. 
The clergy, as usual, are trying to make some capital out of the whirlwind. They are telling the people of the wrath of a great and terrible God, instead of trying to awaken sympathy and kindness in behalf of the suffering. To my apprehension, a little girl only two years of age, whom I had the pleasure of seeing and conversing with, spoke more wisely on the matter. She said, ï¿½The naughty Hurricane stept his foot on our house, and broke it all to pieces.' One of the clergy of Chicago-Rev. Mr. Potter-denounced a meeting to raise funds for the relief of these sufferers as ï¿½an insult to the whole religious community,' because it was on the same night of the prayer meetings of the churches. He exhorted his people not to attend. Oh! what an utter curse is a sectarian, commercial, bigoted, pro-slavery religion! The hurricane comes, does its work of destruction, and passes away, but this blighting religion is ever present, wasting the life of humanity. But even this is beginning to pass away before the genial rays of the sun of Righteousness. 
One good, great and blessed effect has come of this disaster. It has unsealed the fountains of human sympathy, and many for the moment forget their creeds and sects, and in the spirit of a genuine, noble 
<c06>
humanity, are doing all in their power to comfort and relieve their suffering neighbors. The immediate wants of the sufferers-so far as human power can do it-are abundantly supplied.
One incident of my journey out I think worth recording. I had a battle with a Southern slaveholder, three hundred and fifty miles long. He exhausted the Bible and constitutional argument in support of slavery, and finding that would neither satisfy himself nor anybody on board, he resorted to the final and conclusive argument of the slaveholder, 'A d-d nigger is fit for nothing but a slave.' This is exactly the argument of Northern Lord D. D. and other D. D. ï¿½s who defend slavery, only the statement of the Reverends is vastly the most profane and dangerous. These smooth and sanctimonious ï¿½men of God,' with lengthened face and pious tone, tell you thatï¿½ the true condition of the colored man-as indicated by the providence of God-is that of a servant.'
Our discussion drew the attention of all in the car, and as the platform was entirely free, nearly all present took part. Your own name was frequently pronounced, and I will not conceal the fact that some widely varying opinions were expressed in regard to your work and deserts. One very clerical looking young man took occasion to protest against such a debate in a public car. He was informed that if it displeased him, he could relieve himself by changing cars, as pro-slavery men do sometimes by changing churches. He said he did not speak for himself but for the ï¿½ladies.' Now the ladies I had noticed were the most attentive and interested listeners, and often the most effective speakers too in the cause of the right. I asked, ï¿½Have the ladies authorized you to speak for them, or is your gallantry wholly spontaneous?' The laugh of derision that came to his ear from the lips of these noble women silenced the young prelate for the hour. No doubt he found his tongue ï¿½next Sunday.' I have put that down as one of my best anti-slavery meetings in this tour.
I am now with our excellent friends, C. B. and Phoebe Campbell: they are doing an excellent work in the West.
To-morrow we go to Cambridge, Illinois, where the friends of reform are to have another Free Convention. It is not the best season of the year for labor, yet there is more demand for my labor than I can supply.
There is very little excitement as yet on political matters. I almost doubt whether it will rise very high. Sure I am, there is little except the spoils of office to awaken enthusiasm. But, then, I do not forget that the great debauch is not yet fairly open.
Yours, truly, A. T. FOSS.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN AND THEï¿½IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT,'
NORTHERN EGYPTIAN LINE, Ill June 14, 1860.
MR. EDITORï¿½I find the following passage in the Anti-Slavery Convention speech of Wendell Phillips, as reported in your paper of the 8th inst.:-He (Lincoln) had never said, he had never even condescended to consider whether there is an irrepressible conflict.'
Mr. Phillips here speaks with more confidence than correctness. Mr. Lincoln did enunciate the same doctrine four months earlier than the distinguished Senator from New York. In his first speech of the campaign ofï¿½58, made before the Springfield Convention in this State on the 16th of June, he said:-
ï¿½A house divided against itself cannot stand. I believe this government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free. I do not expect the Union to be dissolved-I do not expect the house to fall; but I do expect it will cease to be divided. It will become all one thing, or all the other. Either the opponents of slavery will arrest the further spread of it, and place it where the public mind shall rest in the belief that it is in course of ultimate extinction; or its advocates will push it forward, till it shall become alike lawful in all the States, old as well as new-North as well as South.'
On the 25th of October of the same year, Mr. Seward delivered his Rochester speech, enunciating the same doctrine. Thus Mr. Lincoln takes precedence of Mr. Seward just where Mr. Phillips would place him lowest.
I may add, that Mr. Lincoln has defended and fought the doctrine through, without flinching or qualification. I do not understand even Mr. Seward to have done as much. Most men thought his last speech very mild.
I enclose the proceedings of our convention, containing the entire speech, to which I beg leave to call your attention, and that of Mr. Phillips.
Truly yours, A REPUBLICAN.
THE LITTLE MUSICAL WONDER FROM ESSEX. Our readers will observe, by an advertisement in another column, that Miss Story, the little girl of three years whose amazing precocity as a performer upon the melodeon and piano-forte has attracted so much attention in Salem and other parts of Essex county, is soon to visit Boston. We doubt not that her entertainments will be attended by large numbers of appreciating listeners. As the Daily Bee, of this city, truly remarks:-
ï¿½A child of three years playing not merely the air of a tune, but the complete harmony, bass accompaniment, &c., and doing this without seeming conscious of the slightest effort, being able to play equally well in the dark or blindfolded, is a parallel! to anything recorded of Mozart in music, or Zerah Colburn, or young Safford in mathematics. And, what is the more singular, we are informed that the performances do not appear to task the brain of the child in the least degree, any more than if she were an automaton. Those who have seen her say she is remarkably well-developed and healthy.'
ATLANTIC MONTHLY FOR JULY.-The following is the table of contents, together with nearly all the authors:-Meteorology, by D. W. Blood good, New York; Treasure-Trove, by Leonard Case, Jr.; A Legend of Maryland, by E. G. Squire; The Cattle to the Poet; More Words About Shelley, by William Dowe; Clarionï¿½s Picture, by Edward Spencer; Spring; Rufus Choate, by Horatio Woodman; To the Cat Bird; The Professor's Story; Galleries of Art, by James Jackson Davis, Florence, Italy; Darwin on the Origin of Species, by Prof. A. Gray; Vanity, by Aubrey de Vere, London; Reviews and Literary Notices.
QUAKER QUIDDITIES; or Friends in Council: A Colloquy. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee, & Co.
The author of this little volume believes that Quakerism, to be saved, must ï¿½show its right to a distinctive place in the world's civilization, by something more significant and progressive than a formless method in its meetings, and a uniform costume. It must in some way grapple with the world, and show its potency by helping the world on ward.' This opinion is set forth in a Colloquy in blank verse, very creditably written, and very sensibly argued.
THE CROWN OF THORNS. A Token for the Sorrowing. By E. H. Chapin. Boston: Published by A. Tompkins, 38 and 40, Cornhill. 1860.
To the sorrowing, this little volume is tendered, with the author's sympathy and affection. Upon its pages he has poured out some of the sentiments of his own heartfelt experience, knowing that they will find a response in theirs, and hoping that the book may do a work of consolation and of healing. Sad and severe bereavement is every where and of daily occurrence, and we commend these eloquent and sympathetic discourses to those who have already suffered, or who may be called to suffer, by the sundering of the dearest ties of life. The following is the list of topics discussed:-The Three Tabernacles; The Shadow of Disappointment; Life a Tale; The Christian View of Sorrow; Christian Consolation in Loneliness; Resignation; The Mission of Little Children; Our Relations to the Departed; The Voices of the Dead; Mystery and Faith. The volume is handsomely printed.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MR. SUMNER'S INCONSISTENCY.
In his late speech, Mr. Summer asserts, and, in substance, several times repeats-
‘The pretension that man can hold property in man was carefully, scrupulously and completely excluded from the Constitution, so that it has no semblance of support in that sacred text; nor is this pretension, which is unsupported in the Constitution, helped by the two arguments, one in the name of State equality, and the other in the name of Popular Sovereignty, both of which are properly put aside. Sir, the true principle, which, reversing the assumptions of slave-masters, makes Freedom national, and Slavery sectional, while every just claim of the slave States is harmonized with the irresistible predominance of Freedom under the Constitution, has been declared at Chicago. Not questioning the, right of each State, whether South Carolina or Turkey, Virginia or Russia, to order and control its own domestic institutions, according to its own judgment exclusively, the convention there assembled has explicitly announced freedom to be the normal condition of all announced freedom to be the normal condition of all the Territories of the United States, and has explicitly denied the authority of Congress, of a territorial legislature, or of any individuals, to give legal existence to slavery in any Territory of the United States.
If, as is here asserted, slavery 'has no semblance of support in that sacred text,' what sense is there in the phrase, ‘the irresistible PREPONDERANCE of Freedom under the Constitution'? Can one thing be said to have a preponderance over another, where that other has no semblance of existence? Again: what sense is there in this favorite phrase, ‘Freedom national, and Slavery sectional'? Is Freedom national in fact: Go into any one of the fifteen Slave States, and see if you find even the semblance of freedom there. Is the black man free there? No; four millions of these wear chains. By what power? The national, which struck down John Brown. Is the white man free there? Try it. Is the black man free in any one of the seventeen other States? Go to Canada, and ask him, where? Who put the court house, the very arsenal of liberty, of Mr. Sumner's own city, in chains, and stifled free speech in the Athens of America? The nation. What free State is as there in this Union not disgraced by the indictments or imprisonment of white men for speaking, against and resisting national tyranny? How can liberty be sustained in the freest of all the free States? Only by mob law! Ask Sanborn, of Concord, if it is not so. And where is even the mob in the National District-the place where the Federal Government becomes the direct legislature-where is even the mob of Freedom at the National Capital? Ask Hyatt, whom the highest legislative body in the nation have made a slave, as far as it is possible for any human power to do it. And is he the only national slave? Is ‘Freedom national, and Slavery sectional, in fact? No; in fact Slavery is national, and Freedom only fractional. Freedom is not even sectional in this country. But how is it in principle? All natural principles are, of course, universal. They are not national in any proper sense of that term, unless they are nationally sustained. According to the Chicago 'true principle,' each State is perfectly free to have slaves or not. Fifteen States choose slavery under the same national sanction that seventeen States choose freedom. And if that 'true principle' accepts the fugitive slave law, then the nation rather inclines to slavery, there being naturally more slavery in the 'free States' than freedom in the slave States, as the class doomed to slavery are nationally free no where. Hence, in principle, (i.e., according to the true principle,') as well as in fact, Freedom is less national than Slavery; certainly not more national. The Republican interpretation of this favorite motto, as ever maintained by that party, and as distinctly announced at Chicago, is,-Slavery in all the States that prefer it, but Liberty in the Territories; Liberty there, however, for none whom the States may doom to Slavery. Slavery in the nation proper, Liberty outside the nation proper; and really not even Liberty there, so long as any State chooses to doom any portion of its citizens to Slavery, and the Federal scent is keen enough to track the fugitive.
How can slavery be even sectional in principle, except it be constitutional? How constitutional, if it 'has no semblance of support in that sacred text'? 
According to Mr. Sumner's 'true principle' announced at Chicago, which 'makes Freedom national and Slavery sectional,' 'each State has the right to order and control its own domestic institutions according to its own judgment exclusively’—that is, each State has the right to establish and perpetuate Slavery, if it choose to do so. What right has it? Has it a natural right? Has it a constitutional right? Where, then, is the sanction of this pretension, by which a brother lays violent hands upon a brother? To ask these questions is humiliating. But it is clear there can be but one response. There is no sanction for such a pretension; no ordinance for it, or title. 'The pretension is as much without foundation in the Constitution as it is without foundation in nature.' Ah, here it is! 'STATE RIGHTS!' State rights to do what the Constitution forbids-what natural justice forbids! But Mr. Sumner says, 'State equality is properly put aside.' How?
'Assuming the pretension of property in man under the Constitution, you slap in the face the whole theory of State equality; for you disclose a gigantic inequality between the slave States and the free States. And, assuming the equality of the States in the House as elsewhere, you slap in the face the whole pretension of property in man under the Constitution.'
So, 'State equality is properly put aside' to make room for 'the pretension of property in man'! But, then, that Chicago 'true principle' restores State sovereignty, by which 'every just claim of the slave States is harmonized. under the Constitution, not questioning the exclusive right of each State to establish and perpetuate slavery!'—though, 'it is not too much to say that there is not in the Constitution one sentence, phrase or word—not a single suggestion, hint, or equivocation, even—out of which any such pretension can be justified; while great national acts and important contemporaneous declarations in the Convention which framed the Constitution, in different forms of language, and also controlling rules of interpretation, render this pretension impossible'! 
If the right of property in man is equally repugnant to nature and to the Constitution, as Mr. Sumner claims, where do any people of any State obtain the right to exercise this prerogative, if they choose to do so?
Mr. Sumner says:—
'Looking juridically for one moment at this question, we shall be brought to the conclusion, according to the admission of the courts and jurists, first in Europe, and then in our own country, that slavery can be derived from no doubtful word or mere pretension, but only from clear and special recognition. “The state of slavery," said Lord Mansfield, pronouncing judgment in the great case of Somersett, "is of such a nature that it is incapable of being introduced on any reasons, moral or political, but only by positive law. It is so odious, that nothing can be suffered to support it but positive law."—that is, express words of a written text; and this principle, which commends itself to the enlightened reason, has been adopted by several courts in the slave States. At the adoption of the Constitution, this rule, promulgated in the Court of the King's Bench, by the voice of the most finished magistrate in English history, was as well as known in our country as any principle of the common law; especially was it known to the eminent lawyers in the Convention; nor was it too much to say, that the Constitution was framed with this rule on slavery as a guide.’
There being no such positive law in the Constitution, by what principle can there exist any slavery under it? 'The Constitution is the supreme law of the land, anything in the Constitution or law of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.' Both the people and the States are subject to the Constitution and the laws passed in conformity therewith; consequently, neither the people nor the State under the Constitution can establish slavery.
That which cannot be without 'positive law,' and which is not included in positive law, cannot be 
<c02>
at all in a legal sense. All State laws are subordinate to the Federal Constitution, as much so as are all individual or corporation laws in each State subordinate to the State Constitution. Individuals or corporations cannot do what the State Constitution does not sanction, and what cannot be done without that sanction. No man can in any State do what cannot be done without the sanction of the Federal Constitution, except that sanction be given; as to establish or continue slavery. 
The English Constitution probably did not expressly prohibit slavery, but slavery was of such a nature that nothing could be suffered to support it but this supreme positive law. Of course, this could not, for God's law of natural right cannot be aside by positive or expressed human law; but we are dealing with Mr. Sumner and the admitted principles of a Christian people, and cannot ask them to come up to a standard they ignore. 
The Somersett decision was a statement of English common law, then (1772) as much in force here as there. By it slavery was there abolished: was it not equally so here? All the Colonial charters expressly stated that the laws of the Colonies should ' not be repugnant, or contrary to, but, as nearly as circumstances would allow, conformable to the laws, statutes and rights of out Kingdom of England.' (See Spooner's Unconstitutionally of Slavery, Chap. III.) Had slavery any legal existence in 1776, the Declaration of Independence would have abolished it; for that was, I virtually, the constitutional law of the people. But slavery has never had the sanction of positive law in any State of this Union. Calhoun so stated; Senator Mason in 1850, in the Senate, so declared; and Mr. Sedgwick, of New York, in his late speech in the House, said the same had been repeated a day or two previous. It is a fact of which Mr. Sumner cannot be ignorant. There being, then, no positive law for slavery in the Federal or State Constitutions, where is the right of each State to establish or continue it? No where. The Republican party, at Chicago, knew it was recognizing a base falsehood, and betraying the dearest interests of humanity, when it asserted that 'right.' Mr. Sumner knows it, and states it in this speech, when he goes out of his way to endorse that Chicago platform. He repeats it as follows:—
‘Claiming for all the largest liberty of a true civilization, it [the Constitution] compresses all within the constraints of Justice; nor does it allow any man to do what he pleases, except when he pleases to do right.’
It may be that this language is meant to apply only to the Territorial question, and not to the Constitution of the United States proper. But if the Constitution does not permit any man in the Territories to do what he pleases, except when he pleases to do right, how does it permit any body of men in the capacity of a State to do what they please, except they please to do right? It emphatically declares itself to be the supreme law of the States, no matter what may be their will, constitutionally or otherwise expressed. There is no decent evasion of the fact, that whatever the Constitution of the United States, ‘the supreme law of the land,' makes impossible in the Territories, it makes equally impossible in the States. The same is true of the law of natural right. It is also true of the natural law and the Constitution together. The sphere of the natural law is universal humanity; the sphere of the Federal Constitution is the whole country. In these two spheres, these two laws are supreme. The Constitution declares itself the supreme law in the States; it cannot be any more than supreme in the Territories; therefore, I repeat, what the Constitution prohibits in the Territories, it also prohibits in the States. The only constitutional difference between a Territory and a State is, that, in the former, 'Congress may make all needful rules,' while in the latter it can make those only which come within the special expressed provisions of the Constitution; others being left to the States themselves. But neither Congress for a Territory, nor for a State, nor any State legislature, can pass any law, or make any provision contrary to the Federal Constitution. What that forbids Congress to do for a Territory, it forbids a legislature or any other body to do for a State. The same is true of the prohibitions of the common law of nature. 
Mr. Sumner says,
‘If the Barbarism of Slavery, in all its five-fold wrong, is really embodied in the Constitution, so as to be beyond the reach of prohibition, either Congressional or local, in the Territories, then, for the same, reason, it must be beyond the reach of prohibition or abolition, even by local authority, in the States themselves; and just so long as the Constitution continues unchanged. Territories and States must alike be open to all its blasting influences.' 
This rule is two-edged. If slavery is really so prohibited by the Constitution as to place it beyond the power of Constitutional or local law to establish it in the Territories, then, for the same reason, it must be beyond the power of establishment, or continuance even, by local authority of the States themselves. If the Constitution, being pro-slavery, carries slavery wherever it goes, then, being opposed to slavery, and in favor of freedom, it necessarily carries freedom wherever it goes, whether into States or Territories. 
Now, the Chicago platform, endorsed by Mr. Sumner as his 'true principle,' has explicitly 'denied the authority of Congress, of a Territorial Legislature, or of any individuals, to give legal existence to slavery in any Territory of the United States'; and Mr. Sumner adds, 'Thus the normal condition of the Territories is confirmed by the Constitution, which, when it is extended over them, RENDERS SLAVERY IMPOSSIBLE, while it writes upon the soil and engraves upon the rock everywhere the law of impartial freedom, without distinction of color or race.' If the Constitution confirms the natural law or condition of a Territory, and makes slavery impossible there; if neither Congress nor a Territorial Legislature, nor any individuals, can give legal existence to slavery in any Territory, being prohibited by the laws of Natural Justice and by the Constitution of the United States; how can a State, which grows up out of such Territory, solely by virtue of these two ordinances, Nature and the Constitution, do that thing? And what becomes of the slavery established in all those new States which were once Territories of the United States? What becomes of the other part of this 'true principle,' that each State has a right to establish slavery at its own option exclusively? And when, as Mr. Sumner well knows, and indirectly affirms, slavery had no legal existence in any one of the thirteen original States when the Constitution was adopted, how could it, under such a Constitution and such restrictions, get any legal existence in any part of the country, at any subsequent period? Manifestly, it never could, and has none to this day; therefore, the recognition of the right of each State to establish it, or to continue it, is a base surrender of the natural and constitutional rights of a large class of the citizens of this Republic. 
Mr. Sumner says, ‘It (the Constitution) surrounds all persons with the highest safeguards of a citizen.' He knows that those safeguards are all practically struck down by the government of which he is a high member, and to which he has repeatedly voted supplies. Why, in behalf of the four millions in bonds, has he never demanded their restoration? Can he think of nothing, can he do nothing, to restore those natural and constitutional rights? Can he do no more than make such speeches as this, inconsistent and confused, and ending with endorsing, as the ‘true principle,' States rights to perpetuate 'the sum of all villanies’ as long as they choose? Then let him resign his seat to some one who has the ability to propose some measure for the removal of this curse which is 'sanctioned by nothing,' or who has the meanness to submit to it with some show of consistency. 
I presume Mr. Sumner is naturally an honest man and friendly to humanity; but he is a member of 'the white man's party’—the party which is ready to
<c03>
sacrifice the negro, at any moment, for the sake of political success; and which makes a little mean show of being friendly to freedom, but has its white victim in Washington jail, and is ready to fill all the prism of the free States with those who resist the Fugitive Slave Law, while it pronounces among the gravest of rimes the invasion of the slave States to give just liberty to those held in cruel bonds there! This party is corrupting the men whom the Democratic party could not reach.
J. H. FOWLER. 
Cambridge, June 11, 1860. 

MR. SUMNER'S ARGUMENT.
I would say much in relation to the merits of Mr. Sumner's great argument of June 4th, but even a brief note from an obscure source will stand little chance enough for being inserted, amid the press of matter. 
When we consider what Senator Sumner has endured in his own person from the embodiment of the malice of the Slave Power, one cannot but wonder at the entire absence in the tone of his speech of any thing like a retaliatory spirit. 
Most of the thoughts in this great argument are not new, but the forcible and logical manner in which they are presented by this greatest of jurists and statesmen impart to them a power entirely new. 
In regard even to thinking men, some of the thoughts contained in this argument had before but a sort of vague existence; but this master mind has imparted to them tangibility, as we may well enough say; the same as some hitherto faint ideal is realized to us in all its symmetrical proportions by the originality of some master of art. 
It is difficult to decide as to which most excites our admiration in Mr. Sumner, the head or the heart. His comparisons, at once so apt, classical, and dignified, by which the picture of slavery is so truthfully and faithfully executed, combine a degree of ability and high moral courage possessed by no other member of the present Congress. 
It was eminently fitting that Mr. Sumner should portray the barbarism of slavery; and yet one could not infer from his speech that he had ever been personally involved in the consequences of the barbarism of that system. Impelled by a love of truth and by a high-toned philanthropy, his speech was made the pure manifestation of a sense of the barbarism of slavery, brought home to him by years of terrible physical prostration. 
This speech, under the circumstances, is the proudest laurel that could be placed on the brow of mortal man, and will secure for Mr. Sumner the highest eulogium of posterity. It will be the text-book of 
statesmen in coming ages. 
A. HOGEBOOM. 
SHEDS CORNERS, N. Y., June 22d, 1860. 

TRIBUTE OF COLORED CITIZENS TO SUMNER AND PARKER. 
Pursuant to call, a meeting of the colored citizens of -Boston was held in the Joy-Street Church on Monday evening, June 18th, 1860, which was organized by choice of JOHN J. SMITH as Chairman, and CHARLES P. TAYLOR as Secretary. 
The Chairman stated the object of the meeting to be an expression of thought and sentiment with reference to the recent speech in Congress of their illustrious Senator, Hon. Charles Sumner. He then introduced William C. Nell, who submitted the following resolutions:— 
Resolved, That true to those impulses for freedom which were the choice inheritance of Hon. Charles Sumner, its characteristic fruits blossomed out in his efforts for equal school rights of the colored children of Boston, and through many other channels of benevolence and reform, here in his native city; elsewhere, and in Congress, culminating in that eloquent and noble speech delivered in the United States Senate June 4th, 1860. 
Resolved, That our past and every-day experience, both as enslaved and nominally free colored Americans, confirms the graphic truthfulness of said speech —the barbarism of slavery. But passing by the facts of Southern slavery, so abundantly cited by him in illustration, the speech has a special significance for us at the present time, inasmuch as prominent Senators and Representatives from Northern States, claiming Republican majorities, are directly sustaining the institution of slavery by gravely discussing the banishment of colored citizens as a prospective feature in their party programme; and the Executive of our own beloved Massachusetts interposes a second gratuitous veto against our exercise of rights freely enjoyed by all other citizens, native and adopted; while this great speech of our distinguished Senator not only portrays and denounces the outrages of Southern slavery, but is redolent with recognitions of our manhood and citizenship—our 'equality before the law'— a speech, though too radical for politicians and parties, is loyal to humanity and God; for all of which we tender to Hon. Charles Sumner the grateful homage of our hearts. 
Mr. Nell said,—From these resolutions, complimentary to the living orator, he felt that it would not be deemed an inappropriate transition to award a brief tribute to a recently departed friend, who, if now in the flesh, would have promptly enunciated from lips of glowing rhetoric an earnest commendation of Mr. Sumner's speech; and he would, therefore, submit for endorsement of the meeting a resolution relative to the late Rev. THEODORE PARKER:-
Resolved, That in the death of Rev. Theodore Parker, we mourn the loss of an ever-vigilant, devoted, noble-hearted friend. Independent of his multifarious offerings for the good of mankind, we remember, specially, (for how can we forget?) his Herculean and complicated services in the trial-hours of 1850, '51 and '54, when the Fugitive Slave Law established a reign of terror in Boston and throughout the country. As President of the Boston Vigilance Committee, he was as watchful as Argus with his hundred eyes, and as executive as was Briaereus with as many hands. The scenes consequent upon the hunting of William and Ellen Craft—the rendition of Thomas Sims and Anthony Burns—his words and deeds at Faneuil Hall, Music Hall, United States Court House, &c.;—in the highways and byways of the city and suburbs, or protecting the flying fugitive in his own house, in times of imminent personal peril. Indeed, wherever his voice or hand could assist those who would escape, or foil the attempt of those who would betray, there was he sure to be found, abundant in resources, and ready for any emergency. His letter from Rome, in approval of the purposes of John Brown and party at Harper's Ferry, completed a public record consistent with his own chosen language,— 'I love my God, Father and Mother of the white man and the black; and am I to suffer the liberties of America to be trod under the hoof of slaveholders and slave-drivers?' These doings and sayings now; well up to the surface of our memories, invoking the tribute due to him, who, though dead, yet speaketh to encourage all who would be faithful in the battle between Freedom and Slavery. 
William Wells Brown, Robert Morris, Esq., Dr. John S. Rock, and Rev. J. Sella Martin addressed the meeting in support of the resolutions—when, on motion, they were unanimously adopted, copies ordered addressed to Hon. Charles Sumner and to Mrs. Parker, and their publication solicited in newspapers of this city and elsewhere. 
JOHN J. SMITH, Chairman.
CHARLES P. TAYLOR, Secretary. 
A procession of nine wagons, one carriage, a dozen yoke of oxen, and several spans of horses, recently passed through Keokuk, Iowa, bound for Madison county in that State. The people were exiles from Kentucky, and were in pursuit of homes where they can enjoy the blessings of freedom and a genuine popular sovereignty. 
<c04>
WHITE GIRL KIDNAPPED AND ENSLAVED.—One of those outrageous occurrences that disgrace humanity, occurred at St. Joseph, Missouri, on the 12th inst. The facts in the case are these: Miss Mary Jane Robinson, an orphan girl about eighteen or twenty years of age, light auburn hair, light blue eyes, light, fair complexion, has been living at the Belmont House, in Balmont, Kansas Territory, for the last ten months doing work as a free white servant girl. On the 12th inst., with a portion of her hard earnings, she crossed the ferry to St. Joseph to do some trading. Soon after landing, she was watched by two men who know her, and who had often seen her at Belmont. They went before an officer, and made affidavit that she was a slave, and belonged to one Mr. Trott, of Lexington, Mo. A warrant was issued, but the officer, after seeing and talking with Mary, was convinced that she was not a slave, and refused to make the arrest. The Marshal was then sent for, who performed the humiliating and degrading act, and she was lodged in jail. Mr. Trott was telegraphed to, and came on, and claimed that she was a slave, and belonged to the estate of one Mr. Counsellor of Lexington, Mo., of which he was administrator. He then paid Messrs. Tools and Evins for their services, and without trial, save the affidavit of these two men, he started with her for the interior of the land of whips and chains.
—Correspondence of New York Tribune.

THE FATE OF A RETURNED FUGITIVE SLAVE.-A Richmond (Va.) correspondent sends the following account of the sale of a slave, just returned to that city from New York, under the Fugitive Slave Law:
'At Sullivan & Co's auction rooms I noticed an unusually intelligent appearing darkey awaiting his turn to come under the auctioneer's hammer, and upon inquiry I was informed that he was a fugitive just returned from New York city, and was the property of Mr. Christopher Satchell, of Accomac. His owner was present, and upon being introduced to him, he informed me that 'Jim' was one of thirty in his ‘family,' and is the only one that ever deserted him. It seems that he, unbeknown to his master, could read and write well, and that he had for some time been in correspondence with a free colored woman in New York, with whom he had arranged to make his escape to Canada. The old man discovered Jim's absence, learned he had fled, and, exceeding wroth, pursued him to New York, easily and quietly recaptured him, and returned with him in care of a U. S. Marshal to Richmond. Runaways bring small prices generally, but Jim was knocked down for $1,330, and he now goes to Tennessee. Satchell is a man well advanced in years, of large wealth, has no family or near relatives, and intends, as he told me, at his death to free all of his slaves, and give each sufficient to start himself in the world.'
THE CAPTURE OF SLAVERS. Our steamers stationed off the coast of Cuba have lately been doing an active business in the line of capturing slavers. In the months of April and May, the following captures were made: 
April 26, Bark Wildfire, 519 negroes.
May 9, Bark William, 550 negroes. 
May- French Bark, 500 negroes.
Total, 1569
This certainly indicates that the slave trade in Cuba is in a very flourishing condition, for it is not to be supposed that these captures form any large proportion to the steady current of importation. At the same time, well informed men agree in saying that the fitting out of slavers in the port of New York is now going forward with unusual activity. The two-fold necessity of preventive and remedial measures, in reference to this monstrous traffic, was never more urgent than at the present time. The subject has no sectional bearings, but involves the interests and the good name of the whole country. If indifference on the part of Congress should be shown much longer, the evil may intrench and extend itself entirely beyond control, and the full re-opening of the traffic in this country become inevitable. 
FREEDOM OF SPEECH SOUTH.—A straggling fellow, passing himself off as a white man, but believed to be a free negro, was soundly whipped at Kingsville, yesterday, between two and three o'clock, in the afternoon, by Mr. B. Franklin Cole, from the firm of Strous, Hartman, Hofflin & Co., of Baltimore.
Mr. Cole overheard Hare say that Maryland was an Abolition State, in a boastful way. He immediately gave it the lie, and made toward him. Some words ensued, during which the true-hearted (!) Baltimorean manfully stood his ground, and the straggler gave abundant evidence of his being an Abolitionist of the most low and dirty character. Soon it was suspicioned that he was but an impudent free negro, from some Northern locality. This he acknowledged, upon being pushed up a little. Mr. Cole then took him aside, into an apartment of the Kingsville Hotel, made him peel off, and gave him the limit of the law, well filled, pressed down and shaken together, upon his bare back.—Sumter (S. C.) Watchman, May 7th.
On the 25th ult. Lord Brougham visited the Free Library Building in Liverpool. The clerk of the works having intimated to Lord Brougham that he, perhaps, could present to his Lordship an instance of the results of his Lordship's labors on the slave-trade which very likely he had not seen before, the noble Lord said that he should be much gratified in availing himself of the opportunity, whereupon Mr. Cririe introduced to his Lordship an intelligent African, who, many years ago, was released from Slavery, and, coming over to this country, eventually served a seven years' apprenticeship to a bricklayer, and was now employed in the building as an intelligent and active artisan in that capacity. Lord Brougham warmly shook the man by the hand, and entered into an animated conversation with him, expressing the delight and gratification it afforded him to see him as a free artisan from Africa among English laborers. He again cordially shook the man by the hand, and made him a present in money. The latter replied in simple but exceedingly grateful terms, stating that had it not been for the exertions of his Lordship, he should very likely not have been in his present position.
ANOTHER ARCTIC SEARCH. Mr. William P. Snow, an Englishman, announces his intention to make a summer search for further evidence as to the fate of the Franklin expedition. He wishes to find what became of those who landed under Crozier's command. He has much encouragement, many offers of assistance, and several volunteers. His plan is to go round the Cape of Good Hope, thence by way of China, and on his return to come through Buffin's Bay, and so carry the British flag round the globe by the Arctic route.
A VIGILANCE COMMITTEE IN VIRGINIA. The Washington Constitution gives currency to a statement that a vigilance committee, composed of one hundred and fifty persons, has been formed in Orange county, Virginia, for the purpose of ridding the county of certain disreputable characters who are suspected of various crimes, the principal being dealing with slaves, and inciting the latter to steal. Several of the suspected persons were arrested last week, and ordered to leave. One of them was first publicly whipped.
The Japanese, when in Baltimore, were rudely treated by the mob of rowdies who rule that city. They were assailed with cries of ‘Nigger,' that being a term which in Baltimore embodies more contempt than any other. The Embassadors drew the curtains of their carriages to shut out the vulgar abuse of the crowd. At the fire engine display they were hustled and elbowed into the rear of the platform, where they could not see. While they were at the fireworks in the evening, two swords were stolen from the rooms of the Embassy. These bore the insignia of the rank of the owners on the scabbard, and the loss of them endangers the life of the owners on their return. The Mayer of Baltimore has offered the enormous reward of $50 for their recovery. All these things are in character with the pro-slavery metropolis of Maryland. It was there that a Republican meeting was broken up by the same mob that shouted 'Nigger' to the Japanese. In Maryland, said Mr. Butler, in his speech at the Charleston Convention, ‘men cannot vote their sentiments without fear of the pistol and bludgeon.' The only freedom allowed there is the freedom of abuse, vulgarity and mobocracy.
The telegraph the other day announced that a slave had just been burned at the stake, in Georgia. From the Atlanta Intelligencer we learn the particulars of the affair, which of themselves, however, contain nothing especially worthy of notice. The negro murdered his master, and the people murdered him. But a remark by the editor of the paper named is suggestive. After saying that ‘Mr. Smith'—the master—'had treated this negro with great kindness, had raised him and never struck him a lick,' he thus goes on: 'He was doubtless demented, and instigated by the devil. He is now in eternity, no doubt, and his fate should be an awful warning to others of his color who are alike ungrateful.'—New York tribune.
Dean Gilbert, a resident of Prescott, Mass., about 50 years of age, balanced a rock, weighing nearly a ton and a half, and propped it up with a piece of board, on the 10th instant. He then crawled under, kicked away the board, and the rock, fell, crushing him to death.
<c05>
FILLIBUSTER WALKER. The New Orleans Delta says that Gen. Wm. Walker has gone to the island of Rustan, whose inhabitants are greatly dissatisfied with the recent cession of the Bay Islands to Honduras, for the purpose of putting in train another expedition to Nicaragus. Companies of ‘emigrants' are constantly leaving New Orleans to co-operate with him.
Mr. Lincoln has written a letter to Hon. Geo. Ashmun, (published in the Springfield Republican,) in effect, that the question as to the spelling of his name appears to vex the public too much. He therefore desires it to be understood that the correct version is Abraham, not Abram.
The outfit of Dr. Hayes' Arctic Expedition has been nearly completed. It is being done in Boston, with the exception of the concentrated meat, which is in course of preparation in Philadelphia.
Another slaver has been captured off Cuba with 400 negroes on board, making a total of over 2000 at Key West.
A colony of fifty-seven persons will sail from New York for Africa in a few weeks, with the requisite machinery for raising and preparing cotton in the Uplands of Western Africa. A subscription of $10,000 had been made in London, to be paid them as soon as the Colony is established.

A CARD—The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfumes, &c., for the past seventeen years, now offers (free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples, Blotches, Tan, Freckles, Sallowness, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin, leaving the same—as Nature intended it should be—soft, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage). JAS. S. MARSHALL,
Practical Chemist,
No. 32 City Buildings, New York.
New York, June 6. 3m
40,0000 COPIES OF CHARLES SUMNER'S GREAT SPEECH! The undersigned has determined to supply the Clergy of the country, each one of them, with a copy of this,
THE GREAT SPEECH OF THE COUNTRY!
ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS is required for this purpose. Such friends of freedom as desire to share with me the pleasure of this undertaking, may enclose their subscriptions to my friend, the Hon. SAMUEL E. SEWALL, No, 46 Washington street, Boston.
THADDEUS HYATT.
Washington Jail, June 13, 1860.

TIME EXTENDED.
The $100 and $200 Prizes!!
In consequence of the limited notice through the press of the above offer, I am now taking measures to thoroughly ADVERTISE the same, and of consequence extend the time, which is hereby extended to the 10th day of August, 1860.
The following distinguished gentlemen have accepted the duty of making the awards:—
John Jay, Esq., Hiram Barney, Esq., and Edgar Ketchum, Esq., of New York; the Hon. S. E. Sewall, John A. Andrew, Esq., and the Rev. John Pierpont, of Massachusetts.
My offer is $100 for the best POPULAR ESSAY and $200 for the best LEGAL ESSAY on the following questions, viz.:—
1. In what, if any, cases, does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to coerce witnesses for information to merely aid legislation? 
2. In what, if any, cases, does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to seize and force witnesses from their States to merely aid legislation?
3. In what, if any, cases, does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to investigate alleged crime to merely aid legislation?
Essays not to exceed 40 pages octavo, long primer.
The POPULAR ESSAYS to be sent to the Hon. S. E. SEWALL, No. 46 Washington street, Boston. The LEGAL ESSAYS to EDGAR KETCHUM, Esq., No. 79 Nassau street, New York.
Each Essay to be submitted with a motto attached. The name and address of the writer to be in a sealed envelope, bearing the motto of the Essay.
THADDEUS HYATT.
Washington Jail, June 5, 1860.

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
Wendell Phillips, for pledge of May, 1859, and also for pledge of May, 1860-$100 each, $200 00 Francis Jackson, for pledge of May, 1860, 200 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
MILFORD. H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Milford, (Mass.) Sunday, July 1st.
MILFORD, N. H.-PARKER PILLSBCRY and H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Milford, N. H., Sunday, July 8.
VERMONT.—WM. WELLS BROWN is now on a lecturing tour in the State of Vermont, where he intends remaining, and will visit the principal towns. Friends of the cause, wishing him to lecture in their localities, can write to Rev. N. R. Johnston, Topsham, Orange Co., Vt.
Miss SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture in the lower Town Hall, at ANDOVER, on Sunday, July 8th, at half-past 1 and at half-past 5, P. M.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Dodsworth Hall, New York city, on Sunday next, July 1st. He will also lecture in MILFORD, Mass., on Sunday, July 8th.
E. H. HEYWOOD will address the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society at Music Hall, Sunday forenoon, July 1.
All letters, &c., for the undersigned, should be addressed to Leicester, Mass. SAMUEL MAY, JR.
TO THE FRIENDS OF FUGITIVE SLAVES. 
A place is wanted for a fugitive slave, just in from the South—an able-bodied man, about 34 years of age. He has long been used to the care of horses, and is expert in managing and driving them, and can also work on the land. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street, or by letter to FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston. 

FOR A SHORT TIME!
MUSICAL PRODIGY.
MARTHA S. P. STORY, of Essex, aged three years!.
There will be an exhibition of this little Musical Genius, at Mercantile Hall, Summer street, Boston, for a few days, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and 3, P. M. Commencing on TUESDAY, July 8. 
All who desire to see rare musical gifts developed in mere infancy, should visit this exhibition. The proceeds to be used for her musical education.
Admission, 25 cents; children, 10 cents.
Tickets to be had at the bookstore of TICKNOR & FIELDS, corner Washington and School streets; at DITSON & Co's Music Store, 277 Washington street, and at the door of the Hall.
DIED—In this city, June 18, Mr. RICHARD BRUCE aged 60.
June 24, Miss SUSAN JOHNSON YORK, aged 34.
In Kingston, R. I., June 21, Miss RUTH BABCOCK BANNISTER, aged 29.

PARKER AND PHILLIPS.
MINIATURE Photographs of THEODORE PARKER and WENDELL PHILLIPS, executed in beautiful style, have just been published. Price only 15 cts. For 30 cents in stamps, one of each will be sent in a letter, post-paid, to any address. Liberal discount to those who desire to aid in circulating them.
Address R. THAYER, at this office.
June 25.

Anti-Tobacco Publications.
THE Publications of the American Anti-Tobacco Society are for sale at Nos. 5, 9 and 13, Cornhill, Boston, and also at the Depository, Fitchburg, Mass.
Among them are the following:—
Six Tracts for Young America, or Boys.
A variety of Tracts for Raisers, Sellers, Smokers, Chewers, and Snuffers.
A variety for Ladies, Clergymen, Physicians and others.
The Zoological Temperance Convention; The Rev. Solomon Spittle; Uncle Tobey’s Stories about Tobacco, for Youth and Schools of all sorts; Anti-Tobacco Envelopes, and a variety of handsome Cards, large and small, for Bands of Hope. June 22.
<c06>
BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L. I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any 'Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.

READ THIS.
THE subscriber will furnish copies of the following Likenesses in response to orders accompanied with the cash, viz.:—
Lithograph of THEODORE PARKER,
Lithograph of JOHN BROWN,
Lithograph of WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
ALSO,
Lithograph of WENDELL PHILLIPS,
Lithograph of THADDEUS HYATT,
now in press, and soon to be published by C. H. Brainard, both in the highest style of the celebrated artist D’Avignon, each of these for one dollar.
Also on hand, a few copies each of the Photographs of John Brown, Lydia Maria Child, and Theodore Parker, each for 50 cents. These will be safely mailed without additional cost.
Send your orders to WILLIAM C. NELL, 221 Washington street.
June 15. tf

'A thing of beauty is a joy forever.'
THE LIGHT OF OUR HOME.
A BEAUTIFUL picture of a beautiful female child, drawn from life by Thomas M. Johnston, and photographed by Black & Batch elder. Price, One Dollar. 
Sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of the price.
Published by C. H. BRAINARD,
322 Washington street,
at the store of Elliot & White.
June 15. 2wis

WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY
E. A. TEULON,
1491-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
—ALSO—
WEDDING BILLETS, 'At Home,' &c.
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety.
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles.
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES.
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES.
May 18. eop6m.

PROUTY & MEARS'S
CELEBRATED.
HOT-AIR FURNACES.
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the 'Clipper Improved,' 'Mount Vernon,' and 'Gold Medal.'
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the ‘Beauty,' of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron 'Parlor Oven Stove' ever introduced into this market.
-ALSO-
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS'S Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c.
AT
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
BY
ALLEN S. WEEKS.
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,)
BOSTON.
June 1—eoptf

CARPETING
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING,
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
New Edition of a Great Work.
HELPER OUTDONE BY JUDGE STROUD
IN HIS MASTERLY Work.
'A SKETCH OF THE SLAVE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.'
EVERY man should own and read this book. Rev. Dr. Wayland says of it, in a letter to the author, 'I wish there was a copy of it in every family in the United States. No work could be more timely, or better serve the purposes of humanity.'
We want 500 Agents to sell this work during the present Presidential campaign. No more effective document can be circulated. Price, $1. Large discount to agents.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
May 11. 2mos

THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch16 tf BOSTON, MASS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE SLAVE-DRIVER TO HIS SLAVES.
BY REV.J.T.POWERS.
Work, ye slaves! from night till morning,
Goaded by our rod; 
We may kill you without warning; 
Where now is your God?
Work, ye slaves! obey your masters;
Work while ye can stand; 
Curses on ye, all disasters,
In this slave-tilled land!
Work! or, on your backs still falling,
Stripes shall bring the gore;
Think not while on God ye're calling,
Blood shall flow no more!
What to us ate God and Heaven?
What are shows like these? 
What care we for sins forgiven?
We do as we please!
Work, ye slaves! aye, work on faster;
Serve our royal will; 
Bow the neck; behold the master;
He's the power to kill!
Right is come; leave off till morning;
Be here at break of day; 
Hear us now; we give fair warning;
See that ye obey!
Carlisle, Mass.

For the Liberator. 
TO THEODORE PARKER. 
Servant of the Lord, well done!
Thou hast uttered life's last prayer! 
Thou the Christian race hast won! 
Rest from earthly toil and care!
Thou a brother and a friend
Wast to all the human race,-
Thy great influence didst lend
Each to make an heir of grace.
Thou a mighty work hast wrought,-
Taught the world what it should know,-
Stirred the human mind to thought,-
Made things dark with light to glow.
Nobly thou life's storms hast braved, 
'Borne the cross, the shame despised';
Many an erring soul hast saved-
Bigotry's strong hold surprised.
Scribes and Pharisees have scorned,
At their fathers did of yore; 
But a brighter day has dawned,
And is' shining more and more.'
Though thou sleepest far away,
Thou art speaking to us still,-
Urging us, in wisdom's way,
Life's great duties to fulfill. 
Boston, June, 1860.JUSTITIA.

From the Boston Traveler.
THEODORE PARKER'S LAST THOUGHTS.
'God knows I'm not afraid to die,'
The sage of Nature sighs,
As waning life bedims his eye,
And wafts him to the skies.
'My work on earth seems but half done,
My talents half employed;
And yet, before this setting sun,
Life will be null and void.
'I've asked my conscience what to do,
And what to leave undone; 
That, I've endeavored to pursue, 
While this, I've tried to shun.
'Of course, I've erred. And who has not?
Say-Christian, Jew, or Turk! 
Our faults are of one common lot-
Around each one they lurk.
'They're of the head, not of the heart:-
My love to God and man 
Has made my aim, my earthly part. 
To end ac I began.
'My body leave upon these shores,
This ancient, classic land. 
Which from its ample, liberal stores 
Has reared a mighty band.
'To Heaven my soul its way will wend,
Whence it received its birth, 
And came with this frail frame to blend, 
This organ built of earth.
'Let no procession tramp behind
My soul-deserted vase: 
Humility best suits my mind; 
A pageant's out of place.
'May no carved monolith up rear
Its crest o'er my remains; 
A eulogy may no one hear 
Pronounced in fulsome strains.
'Read at my grave the promises
To meek, pure hearts alone;
Only my name and age inscribe
Upon the grey, plain stone.
'And now, my friends, adieu! adieu!
Let pomp be far removed!
Remember me to all the true,
The loving and the loved!
'My mind its mission will complete
Beyond the ocean wave; 
Twill hover o'er the old retreat-
For that there is no grave.
'Then, give them all my last farewell.
Till we can meet again, 
Where there can be no funeral knell. 
No sorrow, tears nor pain.'

NEARER, MY GOD, TO THEE!
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee!
E'en though it be a cross
That raiseth me; 
Still all my song shall be,-
Nearer, my God, to Thee, 
Nearer to Thee!
Though, like the wanderer,
The sun gone, down, 
Darkness be over me,
My rest a stone; 
Yet in my dreams I'd be 
Nearer my God, to Thee,-
Nearer to Thee!
There let the way appear
Steps unto heaven, 
All that Thou sendest me.
In mercy given; 
Angels to beckon me 
Nearer, my God, to Thee,-
Nearer to Thee!
Then with my waking thoughts,
Bright with Thy praise, 
Out of my stony grief's.
Bethels I'll raise: 
So by my woes to be 
Nearer, my God. to Thee,-
Nearer to Thee!
Or if on joyful wing,
Cleaving the sky, 
Sun, moon, and stars forgot,
Upward I fly;
Still all my song shall be,-
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee!
<C02>
THE LIBERATOR.
JOHN BROWN'S MEN.
BOSTON, Mass., June 1, 1860. 
EDITOR OF LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR-In a back number of the Anti-Slavery, Standard may be found, in a letter from Philadelphia, these words, written in relation to John, Brown's men,-those heroic hearts that ceased to beat at Harper's Ferry:-'What an extraordinary group of men was that of which that still more extras ordinary man, John Brown, vas the center! The more we hear and know of them, the more we find, -in these people to admire. Each one was a hero in himself, and worthy of a special chapter in the great record which history will make up of this transaction. 'We were forcibly struck with the truth of the above, having just turned from the perusal of the letters and papers of one of the best and bravest of that braver band, viz.: JERMIAH GOLDSMITH ANDERSON. There was so much of striking and original matter in the composition of this young soul, it seemed that a few gleanings from letters, &c., might not be uninteresting.
One rather remarkable circumstance has become known in the course of gathering up the biographical materials of our noble friends and comrades, and that is that but one of the seventeen white men who fought or fell at Harper's Ferry, Va., was of alien birth or parentage.
Stewart Taylor was that exception. Born in Canada West, Oct. 29th, 1836, killed on the 18th of the same month, 1859; he was therefore not quite 23 years of age. He went to Iowa in '53, and Kansas in'55. This young man was the only one of the party, black or white, who was not born in the United States. All of the whites, so far an we have been able to trace their parentage, were of revolutionary stock. Many of the grandparents were soldiers and actors in the American struggle. Several of them were of Southern descent.
J. G. ANDERSON, who fell by the side of Capt. Brown, was born April 17th, 1833, in Putnam Co., Indiana, and was therefore twenty-six years and six months old when he died fighting for human freedom. He was the fourth in command at Harper's Ferry, and had charge of the bridge when the train was stopped on the night of the sixteenth.
This young man seems to have possessed rare qualities of both head and heart. Said Capt. Brown, last summer, while staying with a noble man, in response to a remark made to him about Anderson, who was traveling with him: 'My friend, sir! my friend! he's more than a friend, sir! he's a brother!-and more than a brother!' Capt. Montgomery, under whom Anderson served through all the later troubles, said, a short time since-'Anderson was one of the bravest of my men, and modest as brave. Sincere, truthful and courageous, no man in camp inspired more respect, or won more quickly the confidence of his comrades.' These are proud words for so young a man to win from men like Capts. Brown and Montgomery.
The maternal grandfather of J. G. Anderson was Col. Jacob Westfall, of Tygert's Valley, Virginia. He held that rank in the State militia, and has left the records of brave service, during that struggle, behind him. After the war was over, he removed to Harden county, Ky. Here his second daughter, Anna, married John Anderson, the father of our hero. The father of John Anderson was a slaveholder, but his son did not like the contagion of' the sum of all villainies,' and after living on the' dark and bloody ground' till eight children were born unto him, he removed to Putnam county, Indiana. At the same time, he persuaded his father to liberate his slaves, and follow him to free soil. Jeremiah Goldsmith, his sixth son, was born after the removal. He was the youngest son. The family again removed to what was then called Black Hawk Territory, of which Wiscon-1 sin, Minnesota and Iowa formed portions. The family settled in the village of Kossuth, Desmoines Co., Iowa.
An elder brother, John Q. Anderson, with the aged mother, now over seventy years of age, resides at Eddyville, Iowa. The father of Anderson died in 1847. The Rev. D. G. Cartwright, of the Methodist Episcopal Church, residing in Kossuth, Iowa, says in a letter to the writer, of the Anderson family:'In'43, I left the M. E. Church, and joined the Wesleyans. I traveled two years more in the same neighborhood, (Desmoines county,) and Uncle John and Aunt Anna, (as they were familiarly called,) and all their children, sympathized with the Wesleyan movement, being decidedly anti-slavery. They were of the Old Guard-belonged to the Birney school. Their house still continued to be my home, and a kinder family I have never met in my itinerant life. In'45, I moved into the neighborhood of the Andersons, where we lived several years. I found them to be kind neighbors and good citizens, and although their anti-slavery sentiments were unpopular at the time, yet their character for truthfulness, uprightness and purity of intention was never called in question.'
Such were the home influences which surrounded our youthful soldier of freedom. Is it any wonder that the descendant of the Virginia 'Marion' and the Kentucky Abolitionist should have begun manhood in defence of the same principles in Kansas, and that he should fall fighting for liberty in Virginia, the soil which his maternal grandfather aided to free from British tyranny? The wonder is, rather, that barely eighty year elapse before the grandson of a revolutionary hero should be hung in that soldier's native State, for endeavoring practically to carry out the principles of distinguished Virginia revolutionists. 
Jeremiah G. Anderson, with his brother Harrison, attended 'Academy' at Galesburg, Illinois, for some time. The Seminary being under the direction of the Presbyterians, Jeremiah induced his mother to let him attend a Universalist Institute in the same place. The health of the two brothers failing, they returned to Kossuth, Iowa, where Jeremiah attended a Presbyterian Assembly for some time longer. An incident occurred at the close of the term which illustrates the moral courage and mental vigor of this youth, then about eighteen years of age. He was chosen to deliver a valedictory address at the public examination. The religions sentiment of the community was generally in accordance with that of the Presbyterian teachers. Jeremiah, having reasoned on these subjects, had become a liberal on matters of religion, and was a decided believer in the doctrines of Universal Salvation. In the address, he took bold ground in favor of his views. The boldness of his sentiments were such as to cause the principal of the school to come forward, after the delivery of the address, and, while complimenting the author, to disavow any fellowship with his views, declaring Mr. Anderson alone responsible for them; to which the young student, sitting on the platform in the face of a large audience, audibly responded' Amen!'
Anderson left school, and embarked in various pursuit!; farming, peddling, and running a steam saw-mill, in which occupations he does not seem to have been pre-eminently successful. 
In 1857, Anderson went to Kansas, settling on the Little Osage, Bourbon county, in the month of August of that year. He took a claim in the very heart of what has since been the scene of Montgomery's defensive operations. It is very evident that Jeremiah went to the Territory with no intention to take part in any disturbances. Like all with a love of freedom and hatred of oppression, who have gone to that Western land, this young man found himself obliged to take arms for the defence of himself and neighbors.
The Southern Kansas difficulties broke out in the fall of 1857. Anderson, living neighbor to Mr. Stofne, the man who was first attacked, was early drawn into the field. He was active in the squatter Court of November of that year. With preacher Stewart and 
<c03>
McCauley, Anderson was seized and confined in Fort Scott for several weeks without any pretence of law. Finally, a charge of rebellion was tramped up against Anderson. The prisoners eventually made their escape. Anderson was arrested a second time in March of'58. In the interim, he had been actively employed with Capt. Montgomery, acting in the capacity of Lieutenant in that leader's corps. Anderson witnessed the brutal murder of old Mr. Denton, who was shot down at his own door in his night clothes, while civilly answering the interrogatories of his murderers. 
Visiting Fort Scott one morning with Capt. Montgomery and company, in search of some stolen property, the U. S. Deputy Marshal, John Little, asked Anderson if he was come back to give bail. 'Yes,' was the reply, 'but I do not believe you will like the kind' -at the same time pulling out a Sharp's rifle cartridge, and exhibiting it to the Federal official. It is almost needless to say, respect for authority was very little about that time. Anderson was one of the five to whom, under Capt. Montgomery, is due the honor of first firing upon Federal troops, while employed in the service of slavery.
Throughout this exciting period, it is on record that Anderson was desirous of avoiding difficulties, and that nothing but his principles, and the necessity of self-defence, drove him to take up arms. Like peaceable men generally, he used them effectually when compelled to. During a period of six months, Anderson was twice imprisoned in Fort Scott, in all about ten weeks. Several times, during that imprisonment, were his and his fellow-prisoners' lives attempted, But for the friendly feeling of a couple of Free State Dragoons, these attempts would have been successful. Nearly all the Federal soldiers were recruits from Buford's ruffians.
Anderson, worn down by sickness contracted through exposure, left Kansas for Iowa, in the summer of'58, where he stayed till fall. He returned to the South, and again was compelled to take arms. He was one of the party which, under Capt. John Brown and Aaron D. Stevens, first opened the cycle of Anti-Slavery warfare, by marching into Missouri, and forcibly emancipating eleven of God's poor children. From that time, Anderson devoted himself to the slave. He was Capt. Brown's attendant through all the months that followed. He visited the East with his martyred leader-was in Boston, New York and Ohio during the summer of'59. During this time, he corresponded with his mother and brother in Iowa, though he did not tell them of the objects for which he was laboring. His last letter to his brother is here inserted. It gave that brother the first inkling of the plans entertained which he had received. The document is a remarkable one. It fully substantiates the statement of their plans set forth in the 'Public Life of Capt. John Brown.' By the date it will be seen it was written eighteen days before the Harper's Ferry outbreak.
SEPTEMBER 28th, 1859.
DEAR BROTHER,-I received yours of September 8th to-day, and was extremely glad to hear from you once more, and hear that you were all well, and that our friends were doing well as far as you know, with some exception-I except Harrison's ague. I am not surprised to hear they have it. It is very healthy here. You say you expect J. King to visit you this fall. I wrote him a letter a few days ago, and told him to write, but I fear I shall not get his answer, as I expect to leave here soon. 
Our cooks are going to start back to Essex County, N. Y., in the morning. They are-'s daughter and daughter-in-law. The old man (Osawatomie) has gone to Philadelphia for a few more hands, and will be back in a few days, and then we will commence digging the precious metal, some time next week without doubt.
Our mining company will consist of between twenty-five or thirty, well equipped with tools. You can tell Uncle Dan that it will be impossible for me to visit him before next Spring. If my life is spared, I will be tired of work by that time, and I shall visit my relatives and friends in Iowa, if I can get leave of absence. At present, I am bound, by all that is honorable, to continue in the same cause for which I left Kansas and all my relatives. Millions of fellow-beings require it of us. Their cries for help go out to the universe daily and hourly. Whose duty is it to help them? Is it yours-is it mine? It is every man's! How few there are to help! But there are a few who dare to answer their calls, and answer them in a manner that will make this land of Liberty and Equality shake to its center! If my life is sacrificed, it cannot be lost in a better cause. Our motto is-We go in to win, at all hazards! So if you should hear of a failure, it will be after a desperate struggle, and loss of capital on both sides.
But that is the last of our thoughts. Everything seems to work to our hands, and victory will surely perch upon our banner. The old man has had this I operation in view for twenty years, and last winter was just a hint and trial of what could be done.
Inclosed, I send you a picture which is a very good likeness. This (Harper's Ferry) is not a large place, but a precious one to Uncle Sam, as he has a great many tools here. I expect to (when I start again traveling) start at this place, and go through the State of Virginia, and on South, just as circumstances require; mining and prospecting, and carrying the ore along with us. You can just imagine, while you are reading this, what we are doing, and see how near you guess the truth when you see in your papers-Great Excitement!-New Gold Discoveries in Virginia! I judge the excitement will be so high that the slaveholders will have all the darkies out digging gold for themselves. I believe it. A hint to the wise is sufficient. I suppose this is the last letter I shall write before there is something in the wind. Whether I will have a chance of sending letters then, I do not know'; but when I have an opportunity, I shall improve it; but if you don't get any from me, don't take it for granted that I am gone up till you know it to be so. I intend to be as careful of my scalp as I would of my wife. Tell mother not to worry herself, because she thinks she may not see me again on earth, for we all must die sooner or later. See! your neighbors have dropped off, and I am still alive. I consider my life about as safe in one place as another.
Farewell till you hear from me, or see me, and hope for the best!
Yours, for Liberty and Equality,
J.G. ANDERSON.
The use of certain terms in the above will be generally understood, as also the jubilant tone in which it is written. It argues, not that Anderson did not perceive the momentous and dangerous character of the enterprise, but rather that he wished to prevent friends from feeling too anxious.
The remainder of this story is well known. The blow was struck. The call of the poor was answered 'in a manner that' did 'make this land of Liberty and Equality shake to its center.
J. G. Anderson, the young and brave, fell by his heroic leaders, side in the engine house. Fell, People of the North, by the hands of the hirelings you help to pay! He was shot down in the assault by the U. S. marines. The following letter was written by Captain John Brown, in answer to one by John Q. Anderson:-
CHARLESTOWN, Jefferson County Prison, Va.,
29th November, 1859. 
J. Q. ANDERSON ESQ.:
MY DEAR SIR,-Your letter of the 23d inst. is received; but notwithstanding it would afford me the utmost pleasure to answer it at length, it is not in my power to write you but a few words. Jeremiah G. Anderson was fighting bravely by my tide at Harper's Ferry up to the moment when I fell wounded, and I took no further notice of what passed for a little time. I have since been told that he was mortally wounded at the same moment, and died in a short time afterwards. I believe this information is correct; but I have no means of knowing from any acquaintances, not being allowed intercourse with other prisoners, except one. The same is true as to the death of one of my own sons. I have no doubt but both are dead. 
Your friend,
JOHN BROWN.
Jeremiah G. Anderson was tall, and of rather slender bat well-knit frame, small head and face, the latter oval-shaped, with dark beard, hair and eyes. He had a bright intelligent look, was quiet in his manners, rather retiring in disposition, and modest in speech.
Such is a very slight sketch of one of John Brown's 'Boys. Materials are in our possession for their biographies, which will be forthcoming during the summer. The details of Anderson's Kansas life are 
<c04>
very interesting and exciting. The narration will show clearly by what processes the major portion of that heroic band of Harper's Ferry were, educated to take the position they then so gallantly assumed. The Southern Oligarchy are but reaping the whirlwind they hare town. Their 'bloody instructions' do but s return to plague the inventors.'
The writers desire to obtain all the materials possible relative to the different members of the Harper's Perry company. Persons having acquaintance with or possessing letters from any members of the party will confer a favor on us by sending such information to us, care of Messrs. Thayer & Eldridge, Boston.
R. J. HINTON,
JAMES REDPATH.
IS THE GOVERNMENT 'DIVINE' P
I heard in this city a Fast Day sermon, on which a word should be said.
The morning papers had brought us the stirring news of a cowardly attempt, on the part of paid officers of the Federal Government, to arrest and drag away our fellow-citizen SANBORN.
I well knew how delicate the American pulpit is in regard to touching any topic less than eighteen centuries old; how apt it is to enshrine a mummy from the dead past, whose main business is to stand pointing to 'the years beyond the flood'; but I thought some one might at least allude to the stirring events of the times, and, possibly, discuss the new duties imposed on us as citizens of a State called tone reign by courtesy, and inhabitants of a country called 'the land of the free, and the home of the brave,' only by a poetic license bordering on the bitterest irony.
So I sat down in Mr. Richardson's church, and was not disappointed.
He alluded to the atrocious deed in Concord, read copious selections of Scripture beating upon the duties of rulers, and the right of a people to resist the government. He then proceeded to discuss the abstract right of the individual to rebel against the government, which was fully conceded, and then turned to a view of the question which may be stated in his own words, which were substantially these:-
'But the great lesson to be taught always, and every where, is obedience to the laws, and the divinity of government. Government is necessary to the welfare of men, and therefore divinely ordained of God.'
Our own form of government was pronounced 'ten times the divinest of all,' and he was very severe upon those who would assail it, and 'spit upon the Constitution' He said, as a sort of capstone to this edifice of sophistry, alter having referred to Garrison by name, 'These men who refuse to take a part in the government should not open their mouths against it,' and 'if a man refuses to vote, and will not fight, he has no right to agitate'!
Now, it is not what Mr. Richardson or any other man says, that is of great moment. I have lived long enough to know that the religious, and even political leaders, as a class, say about that which the people will be glad to hear: they are merely prominent spots, sometimes, alas! only blotches, upon the current of the world's thought, convenient for looking at to help us judge which way and how fast the current is running; most of them counting success, not truth, as of the first importance. 
So I would treat Mr. Richardson merely as a representative man; and while I would show the fallacy and folly of some special ideas in the discourse alluded to, I would disclaim all personal feeling, only having a desire to expose the unparalleled sophistry and the astonishing capacity for moral thimble-rigging practised in and exhibited by the best and most liberal pulpits in the land.
So I will address myself directly to him.
You say, sir, that government, or the government, is divine. I deny it. There is no sense and no degree in which this is true.
But you say-to illustrate your statement, and render it at once plausible and palatable-'agriculture is divine. It is necessary for man to till the soil. He finds Indispensable means of support in so doing; therefore, agriculture is divinely ordained, or of God, in the same sense that I claim the government to be.' 
But this is not saying anything-it is only teeming to do so; it is only a blinder for stupid people. Whether you consciously intended it so to be or not, I will not say. But, let us apply this idea of 'divinity' in another direction. Commerce is 'divine'; it is a necessary means of human progress, in all except the savage state. Navigation is divine; it is necessary. Sleep is doubly divine-an institution of the very first necessity: in this it takes precedence of commerce, navigation and agriculture combined: it is even more 'divine' than any government.
Give us a sermon, some afternoon, on this, and illustrate it by the drowsy hearers you would have; and any one of them can excuse himself on the double ground of the necessity (divinity?) of sleep, and the unutterable folly and dullness of a sermon trying to prove it so.
Fishing is divine; and he who goes out to fish merely for sport, can excuse his needless and cruel act in the same way that the pro-slavery Border Ruffian, with the government arms in his hands, can excuse his infernal deeds, because he acts in the name of 'law and order,' and under the sanction of a 'divines institution-the Rev. Mr. Richardson being witness. 
So, to speak of a government as being,' divine,' in this sense, is altogether 'stuff and nonsense.' 
I know you go on to say, 'But I am not claiming any particular form of government to be divine; only the substance or essence thereof is so.'
This, again, is a second method of saying nothing, and teaching a falsehood at the same time. For what does your Border Ruffian know about government in the abstract, or government merely as a conscious idea? Government to him is the government with some corrupt Buchanan at the head, and some drunken Atchison at the tail. I do not wish to say you mean a falsehood; but you know, and I know, and the world knows, that whatever freight of idea leaves the storehouse of your mind, nine-tenths of your hearers will only receive what the Border Ruffian receives, the idea that 'law is law,' and 'order is order,' and that whatever claims to be the government is divinely ordained, and must be obeyed. But this is an intolerably, unscrupulous and wicked lie. It has been uttered by the priest, and responded to by the king, till it is threadbare, and it is time to nail it to the wall forever.
But what do you mean by the substance of government? You are not an idiot-I am not vain enough to suppose further or faster than you. And you know better than I, that a last analysis of government gives you the naked, simple law of individual responsibility, by which one feels constrained to do certain things, and not to do certain other things; something that only says, 'Obey,' and disdains alike to coax, argue, or scare. That indefinable something is 'divine,' is it?
I deny it. It is human, wholly and only human. So far as you or I know anything or can feel anything in regard to it, it is, a human condition; an indispensable adjunct or inseparable part of human nature, and is not divine in any sense or degrees that human feelings and emotions are not so.
And all forms of government hitherto prevalent are only more or less insufferably bungling attempts on the part of the governing classes to secure recognition of and compel obedience to that simple law. 
But, admit that this is 'divine.' What follows but that this law of responsibility, moral sense or inner light being divine, from God, and of ultimate authority, your own faith in God may be truly measured by your trust in this moral tease of man? Dare you fall back on this? It is the sum, essence sad substance of your "divine" government. Will you trust it to preserve your person, protect your property and collect your debts, under all conceivable circumstances, without resorting to the tedious, circuitous or wicked
<c05>
Process of gallows, jail, jury, court and the cumber, some machinery of compulsory law? If not, where is your confidence in the 'divine' substance of government? Will you then rely on shadows, and let-the substance go?
It is time to leave off such nonsense. As one man said of the idea of this sermon, so say I. Let us' then hare a decently respectable human government;' we have borne the s divine' long enough.
The fact is, we are using words at random, and in a dishonest way. Anything thought to be specially worthy and pleasant we call 'divine,' and this way of using the word makes every crime, curse and shame in the land 'divine,' for there is always somebody to think it a necessity. And, if such views are not essentially Pantheism, in the very worst form, I know nothing about it.
Now, friend Richardson, you know that in this country every seventh man is a slave-that 'respectable white' men are thrown into prison without 'due process of law'-that this 'ten times divine' government (I hope you are sick of the term) is not strong enough to prevent a poor book-peddler from being dipped in tar and burned to death at the nod of the Slave Power, on suspicion of having done something against their 'divine' institution.
And I claim that for a professed Christian minister to preach a sermon advocating such ideas as I have commented on, maintaining his position by a manipulation of words used in several senses, and in no sense at all, however neatly and elaborately performed, is wholly uncalled for, and calculated to do no good, but harm; to strengthen the chains of the slave, and hinder the general progress of the community toward individual self-government, the ultimate of democracy.
And I claim that a large proportion of the religious teaching of this slavery-ridden, war-making land is of a character no better than this, while very much of it is even worse. 
And I ask all men whom this may reach to take notice, carefully observe and weigh every thing in this direction that comes within the range of their observation, to see whether these claims are unfounded, hasty or unjust. Serious and severe I know they are; bitter in spirit I know they are not. And, having borne the testimony of my convictions against what I conceive to be your errors, I can hear you again. A. P. B.
Worcester.
THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT.
LETTER TO A FRIEND.
Knowing that you are much interested in whatever pertains to the irrepressible conflict, and not being entirely indifferent thereto myself, I take pleasure in giving you the earliest information of a new outbreak, in an unexpected quarter, of this vexatious visitation, which, like the frogs of Egypt, seems destined to overspread and affect everything in the land, coming up even into the very 'kneading-troughs,'-that is, into the troughs needing it. Probably it is a longtime since you have read that piece of ancient history which tells of the troubles that once befell the people whose land was watered by the Nile.
Allow me, therefore, to suggest that you turn to it at your earliest convenience, and read it. You will find that sundry plagues, including the frog visitation, were let loose upon that people on account of their slaveholding-because their ruler refused to let the slaves go free. You will also find that there are some striking coincidences between the state of things that then existed in Egypt, and those that obtain at the present time in this country. Now, who knows but that the whole thing is typical, and that the slaves of this Christian land will, ere long, go out free, taking with them much substance, including jewels of silver and gold borrowed of their oppressors? In regard to this visitation of ours, called the irrepressible conflict, under which & considerable portion of our people are now suffering, the moral doctors. I am told, differ as much as do the M. Ds. about the cattle disease; some claiming that it is contagious; others, that it is purely epidemical; and there is a right smart chance for much clever argument to be wasted on both sides, as is usual in such cases. There is one fact, however, that seems to give the epidemical some advantage: it is this-the conflict not infrequently breaks out and rages most violently where the quarantine measures have been the roost stringent. But, without troubling you with my reasons for so doing, I will just say that I have cut the Gordian knot of the difficulty, and hold that the irrepressible conflict visitation is both epidemical and contagious, and, being thus doubly endowed, is bound to spread; and all those who fear its approach, and wish to 'have it as lightly as possible,' had better begin without delay 'to diet' for it. Although it rages overtimes in persons who have previously been inoculated with a similar, but less virulent malady, still, when those who have not thus protected themselves come in contact with those who are laboring under the modified disease, if they become affected therewith at all, they are cure to take and develop the worst virus of the malady; and you will see in the information that follows, that which seems to confirm the truth of this statement.
I am told by reliable persons, who assume to know whereof they affirm, that the irrepressible conflict is raging, at this present writing, in one of our city churches here in Springfield,-a church, which, from its location, necessarily takes a Southern view of the city, and by virtue of the instincts of most of its leading members, has hitherto taken a 'South-side view' of slavery. Not long since, one of its officers, who has all along been a hunker Democrat, and is a relative of' J. B.,' commenced agitating the church on the subject of slavery, very much to the surprise, grief and mortification of the solid members of the church; insisting, at their missionary meetings, on the impropriety and inconsistency of laboring for the heathen abroad, while professed Christians all around us consent to the forced heathenism of four millions of slaves in our very midst.
This necessarily created no. small stir under the communion cloth; the elders and minister insisting that 'the agitation must cease,' and the refractor member as resolutely insisting on being heard. Thus it appears the irrepressible conflict is fairly launched where little danger of that sort was apprehended either by the profane without, or by the elect within, and by an individual, too, who, until within a short time ago, was supposed to be perfectly 'sound on the goose.' Circumstances, which I will not stop to narrate, had, more than a year since, somewhat predisposed this member to take the infection of anti-slavery into his system, under the influence of which, after a time, he gave up the New York Observer, and took the Independent instead, and from the mile and modified type of anti-slavery developed by that sheet, he is supposed, by some, to have caught what is feared, by others, may prove to be unmitigated Abolitionism.
I shall watch this speck of the irrepressible conflict with interest, and if anything more, worthy of note, transpires, will endeavor to keep you advised of the same. 
Yours, truly,
Springfield, Mass. E. W. T.
A PROPER SENTENCE. Our readers will remember the last fugitive slave case in Philadelphia, in which the decision for rendition of the alleged slave Honor was succeeded by a Might riot. This exhibition of unruliness was too ill-timed and insignificant to merit the title of a real attempt at rescue.
It was, however, necessary that the majesty of law and order should be vindicated by the trial and punishment of the guilty.
Judge Cadwallader yesterday disposed of the motion in arrest of judgment in the cases of the accused negroes, thus taking away the last chance for legal acumen in behalf of the defense. The sentence was then pronounced that each should undergo an imprisonment of one month in the Eastern Penitentiary and pay a fine of twenty-five dollars-Philadelphia Bulletin. (A proper sentence, forsooth!!)
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a
EUROPEAN REPUTATION. 
Warranted not to contain deleterious substance.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried al the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.
IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative?'
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.' St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass:
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christine Chronicle.
'Incomparably the beat preparation we have ever used.'
N. Y. Evangelist.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.'
N. Y. Independent.
'MRS. S. A. Allen's world's hair restorer has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.'
Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.'
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.'
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way 
to hate gray hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye- Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U.S. Journal. 
In these times, when every cosmetic it warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which a what it PRETENDS to be A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S 
HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning gray or losing its color, and who are opposed to unit a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. Allen's world's hair restorer a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, sod at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF DYE. Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. Allen's world's hair restorer. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensile, and we begin to think that it in denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S world's HAIR RESTPRER' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated. Rahway Register.  Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S world's HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable. 'Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the caw with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.'
St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.-As we were traveling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when there was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribune.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' 
Norfolk Argus.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny it excellence would be deny the assertion made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register. 
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S AIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.'
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest lines. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.'
Mercury, Philadelphia.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' 
Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be.'  Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but of not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT 355 BROOME STREET, N. Y.
where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Beware of counterfeits. 
See next issue of this Paper for more information or send to Depot for Circulars.
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
