THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON SRTEET, ROOM No, 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance. 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLAR, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID.) to the General Agent
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 25. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 21, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1591.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
SPEECHES OF JEFFERSON DAVIS AND GOV. WISE.
On the evening of the 1st of June, Mr. Davis and his wife were serenaded at the Spotswood House, Richmond. Mr. Davis responded as follows:-
SPEECH OF PRESIDENT DAVIS.
FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CITIZENS, I thank you or the compliment that your presence conveys. It can indication of regard, not for the person, but for the position which he holds. The cause in which we are engaged is the cause of the advocacy of rights to which we were born, those for which our fathers of the Revolution bled the richest inheritance that ever fell to man, and which it is our sacred duty to transmit untarnished to our children. Upon us is developed the high and holy responsibility of preserving the constitutional liberty of a free government.(Applause.) Those with whom we have lately associated have shown themselves so incapable of appreciating the blessings of the glorious institutions they inherited, that they are to-day stripped of the liberty to which they were born. They have allowed an ignorant usurper to trample upon all the irrigative of citizenship, and to exercise powers ever delegated to him; and it has been reserved <illegible> your own State, so lately one of the original thirteen, but now, thank God, fully separated from them, to become the theatre of a great central camp, from which will pour forth thousands of brave hearts to roll back the tide of this despotism.
Apart from that gratification we may well feel at being separated from such a connection, is the pride that upon you devolves the task of maintaining and defending our new Government. I believe that we shall be able to achieve this noble work, and that the institutions of our fathers will go to our children as sacred as they have descended to us. (Applause.) In these Confederate States we observe those relations which have been poetically described to the United States, but which there never had the same reality States so distinct that each existed as a sovereign, yet so united that each was wound with the other to constitute a whole; or, as more beautifully expressed “Distinct as the billows, yet one as the sea.” (Applause.) Upon every hill which now overlooks Richmond, you have had, and will continue to have, camps containing soldiers from every State in the Confederacy; and to its remotest limits every proud heart beats high with indignation at the thought that the foot of the invader has been set on the soil of old Virginia. (Great cheering.) There is not one true son of the South who is not ready to shoulder his musket, to bleed, to die, or to conquer in the cause of liberty here.(Cheers.)
Beginning under many embarrassments, the result of seventy years of taxation being in the hands of our enemies, we must at first move cautiously. It may be that we shall have to encounter sacrifices:-but, my friends, under the smiles of the God of the just, and filled with the same spirit that animated our fathers, success shall perch on our banners. I am sure you do not expect me to go into any argument upon those questions which, for twenty-five years, have agitated the country. We have now reached the point where, arguments being exhausted, it only remains for us to stand by our weapons.(Cheers and cries of ”we will!”)
When the time and occasion serve, we shall smite the smite with manly arms, as did our fathers before us, and as becomes their sons. To the enemy we leave the base acts of the assassin and incendiary, to them we leave it to insult, helpless women: to us belongs vengeance upon man.(Tremendous applause.)
Now, my friends, I thank you again for this gratifying manifestation (A Voice “Tell us something about Buena Vista.”)
Well, my friends, I can only say we will make the battle-field's of Virginia another Buena Vista, and drench them with blood more precious than that which flowed there. We will make a history for ourselves. We do not ask that the past shall shed its lustre upon us, bright as our past has been, for we can achieve our own destiny. We may point to many a field, over which has” floated the flag of our country when we were of the United States-upon which Southern soldiers and Southern officers reflected their brave spirits in their deeds of daring; and, without intending to cast a shadow upon the courage of any portion of the United States, let me call it to your remembrance, that no man who went from any of these Confederate States has ever yet, as a general officer, surrendered to an enemy.(Great applause.)
Pardon me if I do not go into matters of history, and permit me, again, to thank you for this kind manifestation of your regard, to express to you my hearty wishes for the individual prosperity of you all, with the hope that you will all pray to God to crown our cause and our country with success.
The crowd now called for Robert Toombs, John P. Benjamin, Col. Wigfall, and ex-Governor Wise. Wise and Wigfall responded:-
SPEECH OF HENRY A. WISE.
MY FRIENDS, You all know that I am a civil soldier only, and that in that capacity I was nearly worn down in the siege of the” Virginia Convention. Thank God, however, that with a little rest, some help, and some damage from the doctors, I have been enabled to recruit my exhausted energies.
The time of deliberation has given place to the time of action, and I have taken up my bed as an individual, in common with others, to march to Richmond, to meet the President of our now separate and independent republic. I am ready to obey his orders, not only with pride, pleasure, and devotion to the cause and respect to the office he fills, but with respect to the man himself, as one who has our fullest confidence. You have to meet a foe with whom you could not live in peace. Your political power and rights, which were enthroned in that capitol when you were united with them under the old constitutional bond of the Confederacy, have been annihilated. They have undertaken to annual laws within your own limits that would render your property unsafe within those limits. They have abolitionized your border, as the disgrace of the North-west will show. They have invaded your moral strongholds, and the rights of your religion, and have undertaken to teach you what should be the moral duties of men.
They have invaded the sanctity of your homes and firesides, and endeavored to play master, father, and husband for you in your households; in a word, they have set themselves up as a petty Providence, by which you are in all things to be guided and controlled. But you have already declared that you would not be subject to this invasion of your rights. Though war was demanded, it was not for you to declare war. But now that the armies of the invader are hovering around the tomb of Washington, where is the Virginian heart that does not beat with a quicker pulsation at this last and boldest desecra-
<c02>
tion of his beloved State? Their hordes are already approaching our metropolis, and extending their folds around our State as does the anaconda around his victim. The call is for action. I rejoice in this war. Who is there that now dares to put on sanctity to deprecate war, or the “horrid glories of war"? None. Why? Because it is a war of purification. You want war, fire, blood, to purify you; and the Lord of Hosts has demanded that you should walk through fire and blood. You are called to the fiery baptism, and I call upon you to come up to the altar. Though your pathway be' through fire, or through a river of blood, turn not aside. Be in no haste-no hurry and flurry.
Collect yourselves-summon yourselves-elevate yourselves to the high and sacred duty of patriotism. The man who dares to pray, the man who dares to wait until some magic arm is put into his hand; the man who will not go unless he have a Minie, or percussion musket, who will not be content with flint and steel, or even a gun without a lock-is worse than a coward-he is a renegade. If he can do no better, go to a blacksmith, take a gun along as a sample, and get him to make you one like it. Get a spear-a lance. Take a lesson from John Brown. Manufacture your blades from old iron, even though it be the tires of your cart wheels. Get a bit of carriage spring, and grind and burnish it in the shape of a bowie-knife, and put it to any sort of a handle, so that it be strong ash, hickory, oak. But, if possible, get a double-barreled gun and a dozen rounds of buckshot, and go upon the battle-field with these. If the enemy's guns reach further than yours, reduce the distance; meet them foot to foot, eye to eye, body to body, and when you strike a blow, strike home. Your true-blooded Yankee will never stand still in the presence of cold steel. Let your aim, therefore, be to get into close quarters, and with a few decided, vigorous movements, always pushing forward, never back, my word for it, the soil of Virginia will be swept of the 

PROCLAMATION OF GOV. JACKSON.
JEFFERSON CITY, June 12. 
To THE PEOPLE OF MISSOURI:-A series of unprovoked and unparalleled outrages have been inflicted on the peace and dignity of this Commonwealth and upon the rights and liberties of its people by wicked and unprincipled men, professing to act under the authority of the United States” Government. The solemn enactments of your Legislature have been nullified, your volunteer soldiers have been taken prisoners, your commerce with your sister States has been suspended, your trade with your own fellow-citizens has been, and is, subject to increasing control of an armed soldiery, peaceful citizens have been imprisoned without warrant of law, unoffending and defenceless men, women and children have been ruthlessly shot down and murdered, and other unbearable indignities have been heaped upon your State and yourselves. To all these outrages and indignities, you have submitted with patriotic forbearance, which has only encouraged the perpetrators of these grievous wrongs to attempt still bolder and more daring usurpations.
Fellow-citizens, all our efforts toward conciliation have failed. We can hope nothing from the justice or moderation of the agents of the Federal Government in this State. They are energetically hastening the execution of their bloody and revolutionary schemes for the inauguration of civil war in your midst; for the military occupation of your State by armed bands of lawless invaders; for the overthrow of your State government, and for the subversion of those liberties which the government has always sought to protect; and they intend to exert their whole power to subjugate you, if possible, to the military despotism which has usurped the powers of the Federal Government.
Now, therefore, I, C. F. Jackson, Governor of the State of Missouri, do, in view of the foregoing facts, and by virtue of the powers vested in me by the Constitution and laws of this Commonwealth, issue this, my proclamation, calling the militia of this State to the number of 50,000 into active service of the State for the purpose of repelling such invasion, and for the protection of the lives, liberties and property of the citizens of this State; and I earnestly exhort all good citizens of Missouri to rally to the flag of their State for the protection of their endangered homes and firesides, and for the defence of their most sacred rights and dearest liberties.
In issuing this proclamation, I hold it to be my most solemn duty to remind you that Missouri is still one of the United States; that the Executive department of the State Government does not arrogate to itself the power to disturb that relation. That power has been wisely vested in the Convention which will, at the proper time, express your sovereign will; and that, meanwhile, it is your duty to obey all constitutional requirements of the Federal Government. But it is equally my duty to advise you that your first allegiance is due to your own State, and that you are under no obligation whatever to obey the unconstitutional edicts of the military despotism which has introduced itself at Washington, nor submit to the infamous and degrading sway of its wicked minions in this State. No brave hearted Missourian will obey the one or submit to the other. Rise, then, and drive out ignominiously the invaders who have dared to desecrate the soil which your labors have made fruitful, and which is consecrated by your homes.
(Signed) 
CLAIBORNE F. JACKSON

THE VILE YANKEE WRETCHES.
To be conquered in open and manly fight by a nation of gentlemen, and subjected to their sway, might not drive us raving distracted with rage and shame; but for Yankees-the most contemptible and detestable of God's creation-the vile wretches, whose daily sustenance consists in the refuse of all other people-for they eat nothing that anybody else will buy-for them to lord it over us-the English language must be enlarged, new words must be invented, to express the extent and depth of our feelings of mortification and shame. No, it is not possible that we can be reduced to a state which there are no words to describe. Instead of this, we must bring these enfranchised slaves back to their true condition. They have long, very properly, looked upon themselves as our social inferiors-as our serfs; their mean, niggardly lives-their low, vulgar, and sordid occupations, have ground this conviction into them. But, of a sudden, they have come to imagine that their numerical strength gives them power-and they have burst the bonds of servitude, and are running riot with more than the brutal passions of a liberated wild beast. Their uprising has all the characteristics of a ferocious, servile insurrection. Their first aim is demolition-the destruction of everything which has the appearance of superior virtue, which excites their envy and hate, and which, by contrast, exposes the shameful deformity of their own lives. They have suggested
<c03>
to us the invasion of their territory and the robbery of their banks and jewelry stores. We may profit by the suggestion, so far as the invasion goes-for that will enable as to restore them to their, normal condition of vassalage, and teach them that cap-in-hand is the proper attitude of the servant before his master. A cock for a sailor, a goose for a soldier a Yankee for a gentleman-images incongruous and unnatural!!!-Richmond Whig.

SELECTIONS.
THE WAR IN AMERICA.
From the London Herald of Peace, June 1.
Seven years ago, when England was in the delirious crisis of the war fever with Russia, we were very much struck with the fact, that our American kindred not only regarded the conflict with a much more calm and Christian feeling than the great majority of Englishmen did, but that they really had formed a far soberer and sounder estimate of the merits of the questions in dispute. No doubt many of our countrymen would have passionately denied the competence of Americans to have any judgment in the matter at all, and resented any opinion of theirs, however moderate and respectful, which did not fully endorse their own one-sided view of the absolute righteousness of England's cause. But the best proof that our Transatlantic friends were right in the more temperate tone they took, is to be found in the fact, that what they thought then, is becoming more and more what all intelligent Englishmen think now, as to the character and issues of the war with Russia. Far from deeming it” sheer impertinence,” (as an American religious newspaper is pleased to characterize the Address of the Peace Society to the People of the United States,) that our fellow-Christians in that country should speak to us words of peaceful and affectionate counsel, at a moment when it was so imperatively needed, we did our utmost to bring their impartial opinion to bear upon the judgment and conscience of our countrymen. In an article which appeared in the Herald for July, 1855, introducing a number of extracts from American journals, we made these remarks:-“It seems quite hopeless at present to look anywhere among ourselves for such a calm utterance on the subject of war, as would be befitting the dignity of rational and Christian men. It is some consolation, therefore, to turn from that fierce strife of tongues, which prevails in this country, to listen to the more dispassionate voice that comes from the men of other lands, who, not being themselves in the feverish tumor, are <illegible> more sober and collected mood. We, therefore, transfer to our columns a series of extracts from American newspapers on the subject of the present war, that our countrymen may see a little how the thing looks at a distance."
On the same principle, we sincerely believe that, now, we, on this side of the Atlantic, are better able to form a clear and correct Christian judgment of American affairs than the American people themselves, whirled about as they are in the mad maelstrom of the fierce political excitement, which seems to have sucked almost everybody into its vortex. There is nothing really absurd or presumptuous in saying this. It is only applying to nations what, as regards individuals, the common sense and observation of mankind have embodied in such proverbs as these:-No man can be a judge in his own case. "Whoever attempts to be his own lawyer, is sure to have a fool for his client," &c. Every one, even, superficially acquainted with history, is well aware that communities of men are liable to paroxysms of passion, which as completely cloud their mental and moral vision, and as completely disable them for a time from acting with wisdom and dignity, as is the case with the most choleric man who ever sacrificed his interest to his temper. In such circumstances, the words of Lord Bacon are as pertinent to nations as to individuals, where he says that ”Dry light is ever the best; that is, that the light which a man received by counsel from another is drier and purer than that which cometh from his own understanding and judgment, which is ever infused and drenched in his affections and customs." Nor is it any impeachment of this truth, but quite the contrary, that those who need such counsel may vehemently and scornfully repel it, and declare that they are acting, not under the impulse of passion, but under the inspiration of Heaven.
We do not, however, propose to enter upon the political aspects of the question debated between the North and South. We give no opinion as to whether the Union was a confederacy of sovereign States or one homogeneous commonwealth, in which the States had no more independence than a French department or an English county-whether, the seceding States had, if not a constitutional, at least a revolutionary, right to withdraw and organize themselves into a separate body, as their forefathers did, when they were colonies of Great Britain-whether, if the latter right be conceded to them, they have exercised it in a legitimate manner, by conventions properly called and constituted-whether, if they have failed in that respect, it is indispensable, in order to satisfy the dignity of the old Union or the requirements of custom, etiquette, or international law., to fight desperately for a certain time, before the two parties agree to separate, even though that must inevitably tome at last. All these moot points we leave.
But there is one point, at least, on which even our American brethren must admit that British Christians are quite as competent as they are to form and to pronounce a judgment, and that is, on the principles which Christianity teaches, and the spirit it enjoins upon its disciples as respects those with whom they are at variance. For this purpose, at any rate, we need not be adepts in the Declaration of Independence, or the Constitution of 1787, or master the writings of Chancellor Kent and Judge Story. With the open Gospel before us, we have all the materials necessary to qualify us for the investigation. And having carefully, and somewhat extensively, read the American journals for the last two or three months, we are bound to say, that the spirit which is now abroad in all parts of the Union, in the North no less than the South, is not the spirit of Christ. Ever since the capture of Fort Sumter, the people seem, almost with one accord, to have said, as respects the Prince of Peace, and all the restraints which his blessed and benignant religion has imposed upon the malignity of human passion,” Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us."
Our readers shall judge for themselves. First of all, President Lincoln declares war against the South as rebels. To this, Mr. Jefferson Davis responds by authorizing privateers to go and prey on the commerce of the North. Forthwith, Mr. Lincoln brands his opponents as pirates, every one of whom he holds himself at liberty to hang at the yard-arm. The Southern merchants repudiate their debts to their Northern creditors. The Northern oraters
<c04>
and journalists threaten wholesale confiscation of Southern property, advise ”setting free the Southern slaves, and raising them against the Southern rebels,” and speak of sweeping the South clean away into the Gulf of Mexico, and “wiping it from the face of the earth," &c. We prefer not citing the wild, frantic language which both parties hurl against each other from platform, press and pulpit. Let us hope that a good deal of it is to be ascribed to inordinate fondness for that kind of “tall talk," (to use one of their own expressions,) in which our Transatlantic cousins are such wonderful adepts, and the unlimited effusion of which is, among far greater evils, one of the afflictions which human nature will have to bear, while this conflict lasts. If we are not to believe this, if we are to regard the language held on both sides as soberly interpreting the sentiments and purposes they mutually cherish, then we may look for a war more ferocious and sanguinary than any which has dishonored the world for ages; a war which will convert one of the most civilized and Christian nations of the earth into a mere horde of savages, biting and devouring one another. But after every allowance is made for rhetorical extravagance and bombast, there is enough remaining of a spirit which we say, again, is not the spirit of Christ, but of quite another than Christ's, to fill with sorrow and dismay the heart of every good man. And we say this none the less, but all the more, because the spirit in question profanes the language of the Bible to its own use, prostitutes and travesties the solemn words of inspiration into a vehicle for giving vent to the hot and hissing anathemas of human hatred and revenge. Nothing, indeed, is more revolting to a dispassionate observer, than the way in which the most sacred names and symbols of religion are bandied and tossed about between the parties, as if, in some of those terrible feuds into which the beleaguered Jews fell among themselves, in the last days of Jerusalem,
they had broken into the temple, and used the sacred vessels of God's sanctury as instruments wherewith to brain and batter each other. Of course, each claims the divine sanction for its own side, with an unwavering confidence.” In this great struggle," says Dr. Palmer, of New Orleans, "we defend the cause of God and religion. To the South the high position is assigned of defending, before all nations, the cause of all religion and of all truth.” “You go forth," says Henry Ward Beecher, addressing two companies of volunteers in uniform, in his church, on Sunday evening-“you go forth, called by the trust of your countryman, and by the Spirit of your God, to take that trailing banner out of the dust and out of the mire"; and so on, with the usual tawdry rhetoric about the American flag floating and streaming in the air. <illegible> universal war-spirit which has sprung up in the North, says:-“It is of God. Men are inspired. His Spirit has breathed upon them," &c. But might we not say to Dr. Palmer, on the one hand, “Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty"; and to Messrs. Beecher and Stone, on the other hand,” The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." And is it not most certain that the Great Master, if he had been on earth, would have sorrowfully said to all three, ”Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of"?
We observe, with inexpressible sorrow, that many of the leading anti-slavery orators and journals are plunging into the war spirit with a headlong violence which almost leaves all competitors behind. The very men who, for years, proclaimed aloud that theirs was a moral warfare, and disclaimed the use of carnal weapons as only sure to stain the sanctity of their cause, when the hour of temptation came, have yielded with scarcely a struggle, and take the lead in inflaming the passions of their countrymen, and hounding them on to mutual slaughter. That they are making an enormous mistake, we no more doubt than we doubt our own existence. We need not say to any of our English readers, that the members of the Peace Society are the very last persons in this country who can be suspected of sympathy with or tenderness for slavery. The supporters of our Association have been, and still are, the most strenuous, consistent, and persevering foes of that great abomination to be found in these islands. Not even in the ranks of American Abolitionists, we will venture to say, are there many who have made greater exertions and sacrifices for the emancipation of the slave throughout the world, than those which have been made by our Sturges, Gurneys, Forsters, Bowlys, Coopers, Richardsons, &c. We feel, therefore, that we can bear testimony which is beyond all suspicion on this subject. And we say again, that, infinite as is the iniquity of slavery, the attempt to abolish it by war is only an attempt to cast out devils by Beelzebub, the prince of the devils. The Anti-Slavery party in America seem to us to commit two capital errors in the course they are, now taking, and errors, too, not of policy merely, but of principle. First, they act on the immoral and unchristian axiom, that, in order to punish or to destroy one crime, we are at liberty to commit another; that they can consent to sacrifice one great principle to ensure the triumph of another. They lend their sanction to the plea that the end sanctifies the means-that we may do evil that good may come. Admitting, nay, emphatically declaring, as many of them have done hitherto, that all war is wickedness, an outrage upon man, and a sin against God, no less surely than slavery, they now hail it with enthusiastic welcome; and, because the demon they have so long denounced has mounted the car of popular favor, they attend upon its wheels, and swell the pomp of its march with louder huzzahs than any of the populace. They hope thereby to direct its infernal agency against the other, the twin-spirit of darkness which they hate. But they forget that the two spring from one source, muster under one banner, and are intimate allies; that the Prince of Evil, to which they both owe allegiance, will take care that they don't damage each other; for ”if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself; how, then, shall his kingdom stand?" They may depend upon it, that ”this kind, "with which they have been so long contending,-“goeth not forth but by prayer and fasting.”
Then they commit this other error, against which they should have been on their guard, were it only from the example of their opponents, namely, to accept as of divine origin and sanction, events, merely because they occur, without caring to ascertain whether they bear any marks which indicate the probability of such a source. They see the universal outbreak of the war-spirit in the “North against the South, and they straightway exclaim, ”This is of God." How do they know that it is of God? Is it because it has happened? Why, then, slavery is also of God. And have they not been throughout the years protesting against the blasphemy of laying at the door of the Supreme an iniquitous institution, because He has permitted it in his Providence to come into existence? What indications are: there, about this uprising of the North, that should entitle them to trace it to a di-
<c05>
vine source? Has it sprung from sympathy with the oppressed, from righteous indignation against wrong? They cannot pretend to believe that it has. They know, none better, that it is, to a large extent, the mere offspring of national pride and bellicose passion, and if they trust to this as a means of abolishing slavery, as sure as they are living men, they will find that they are ”trusting in the staff of a broken reed, whereon if a man lean, it will go into his hand and pierce it."
For let not the friends of the slave on this side of the water be deceived. This is not an anti-slavery war. That slavery is remotely the cause of it, is beyond all question. But the great bulk of the men who are now swelling the war-cry, and rushing into the ranks to fight, are men who despise the “nigger" and hate the Abolitionists as cordially as ever. The fact mentioned in some of the anti-slavery journals of America, that the very same men who mobbed and hooted Wendell Phillips in the streets of Boston after an anti-slavery oration, a few weeks ago, were with difficulty restrained, only a fortnight later, from carrying him on their shoulders in triumph to his house, after a pro-war lecture, ought surely to have opened the eyes of our anti-slavery friends to the quality of that sort of excitement over which they so prematurely triumph. Already, indications are appearing, which begin to awaken, as they well may, ominous misgivings in their hearts. The first act of General Butler, of Massachusetts, was to offer the use of his troops to suppress an insurrection of slaves in Maryland. Another Northern officer, Col. Corcoran, has, we are told, given” assurances that he and his command would as readily march down to South Carolina to put down an insurrection of the slaves, as they were now doing to suppress a rebellion of the masters." “It is reported," says a Northern Republican paper,” that Governor Sprague has returned to their owner at Washington three slaves that followed the Rhode Island regiment some ten miles, hoping to-escape. We have also heard a report from Fort Monroe, that they are much annoyed by fugitive slaves seeking refuse there, but in all 
cases they are returned.”
And what are the comments of this Republican journal on the facts it cites? Here they are:-
"This action, and the proposition of Gen. Butler to suppress a negro insurrection, may seem monstrous to some harum scarum zealots, who regard this as an opportunity to perfect what John Brown failed to accomplish; but if there is one duty we can owe the South now, or that we do owe the world and each other, it is to show that our sole and only object is the maintenance of the constitutional government, and that we will not war upon any local institutions that do not stand in hostility to the government, and least of all will we turn barbarians, and incite slaves to the murder of women and children. To do that would sink <illegible>butchering hordes of Syria No-none of this; we go to war to sustain the national banner and the national government, and our own acts must show, and will show, how deluded has been the South in supposing that we wish to violate their rights, disturb their property, or interfere with their local customs and habits."
Very significant, also, is this fact mentioned in the American. Baptist, that, two or three weeks ago, the colored people of New York met at the Assembly Rooms, for the purpose of forming a regiment, and tendering their services to the Government, during the present war. When they arrived at the Hall, they found a police officer at the door, who informed them that Superintendent Kennedy sympathized with their movement, but could not allow them to open the house, lest it” might lead to some unpleasantness in New York, as well exasperate the South." 
The people of this country ought to know that there were nearly a million of adult males in the North, who voted at the last election for the pro-slavery candidate against Mr. Lincoln, and that by far the largest proportion of those who voted in his favor went no further than the principle of free-soilism; that is, resistance to a further extension of slavery, with no purpose or wish whatever to promote its abolition where it already exists. The genuine Abolitionists, in truth, are a small minority. Do we say this in disparagement or contempt of them? So far otherwise, that there are no men living whom we hold in sincerer reverence. They are a minority, simply because they hold a position which it requires a degree of public virtue, of moral courage, and of self-denial, to occupy, which few can attain to. But, in proportion as we honor these men, do we grieve to find them quit the high ground of moral influence on which they have hitherto planted their foot, to mingle with the howling multitude who are now clamoring for war; throwing aside the” peaceful, moral, rational, legal, and constitutional" means they have hitherto boasted of using, to finger eagerly those carnal weapons which are not mighty through God to the pulling down of the strongholds of evil. “We rejoice, indeed, to find the able editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, who, like the rest, was for a time swept away with the torrent, now begin to resume the possession of his own sound judgment on this matter.” So far," he says,” from expecting a sudden anti-slavery millennium, we think that the present excitement against the South will very likely be followed by a strong pro-slavery reaction."
In truth, it is difficult for us, who look at the matter calmly from a distance, to resist the impression that the fierce war excitement, now raging in the North, is far more a matter of pride and passion than of any principle whatever. Even that vehement zeal for the integrity of the Union, of which we now hear so much, has to a great extent sprung into existence since the capture of Fort Sumter. Before that time, we heard little of the inviolable sanctity of the Constitution, of the impossibility of suffering the South to secede, without relinquishing, at the same time, the very foundations of all government. On the contrary, many of the leading journals strenuously advocated the separation. It is not many weeks since the New York Tribune, which is now the very Coryphaeus of the cry for war to the knife, in order to coerce the South back into the Union, wrote these words:-
"If the Cotton States unitedly and earnestly wish to withdraw peacefully from the Union, we think they should, and would be, allowed to do so. Any attempt to compel them by force to remain would be contrary to the principles enunciated in the immortal Declaration of Independence-contrary to the fundamental ideas on which human liberty is based.”-New York Tribune, November, 1860.
“We repeatedly ask those who dissent from our view of this matter to tell us frankly whether they do, or do not, assent to Mr. Jefferson's statement in the Declaration of Independence, that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed; and that whenever any form of government becomes destructive to these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute a new government, &c., &c. We do heartily accept this doctrine, believing it intrinsically sound, beneficent, and one that, universally accepted, is calculated to prevent the shedding of seas of human blood. And, if it justified the secession from the British Empire of three millions of colonists in 1776, we do not see why it would not justify the secession of five millions of Southerners from the Federal Union in 1861."
<c06>
THE SERVILE POPULATION AND THE WAR.
EDITOR UNION The horror of war cannot well be made polite and acceptable, in the best of hands; but these may be mitigated somewhat, when controlled by wise and humane Generals, who understand the ends sought in the contest, and will rest satisfied when those ends are attained.
You hence do well to shrink from the terrible idea of stimulating a servile demonstration upon our deceived and erring fellow-citizens of the South, and would be justified in excepting everybody of the North from all such wanton blood-thirstiness. No rational being among us all would encourage or countenance a proceeding so horrible to contemplate, and so hopeless of good results.
The real danger on the contrary is, that our whole people would do as Gen. Butler has already done in Maryland, should a slave revolt take place-that is-suppress it at all hazards, and thus procure a compromise of our present troubles without doing anything effectual toward preventing their future recurrence.
Would not such an event be far more fearful to contemplate, than even the worst that might attend a servile revolt, with our present number, of this class of people?
The present is a contest, irrepressible and inevitable, between antagonist ideas of government and right, and it can end-however it may be delayed-only in the destruction of the one, and the supremacy of the other, of these principles.
The entire thing is concentrated in a single fact: Pennsylvania is loyal to the General Government, and desires the perpetual peace of the country, while Virginia is in arms against the Government, and bent on the destruction of the entire fabric, rather than live as she has lived for these eighty years, part and parcel of a great whole. She can't” tell why she, thus acts, nor in what she would be better off, could she do exactly as she would, without molestation.
And yet, she raves and rages like a suicide, and will destroy herself at least, if not restrained by those who can see her difficulty, and are strong enough to save her from destruction.
Now what would save this old State to herself and to the whole country, and make her what her climate, her material resources, and geographical position all indicate she should have been from the first? Why, just give her the institutions of Pennsylvania, and she would be like that great Keystone of the good old arch at once, and in all things essential. Were all the people of Virginia free to-day, rebellion, would cease there on the instant-nobody would want any better government than the old one, and everybody would light to preserve that-and when once safe and at peace, all would go to work improvement <illegible>-churches and school-houses, placing the State at the head of our great constellation of empires, and making her a bulwark and shield on which the central government might rely, should any future emergency require the arming of the people for the protection of their rights.
Is not this a consummation devoutly to be prayed for? Incidentally, if you will, because of the blessings thus secured to Virginia herself, but first of all as the means of restoring peace to the country, and making the foundation of the Government so strong that no human power could disturb it in the future.
Can this be done? and is it right or desirable to do it?
Here is a problem that should be discussed, solved and proved, and as before intimated, must be thus met, before the difficulties we are now in are finally adjusted. Slavery has made the rebellious States what they are at this time. Remove the cause, and the disease will cease. Permit or perpetuate it, and you have no end to seditions, strife and anarchy, except in ultimate and remediless destruction.
Under ordinary circumstances, this whole question of slavery would be quite properly left to the control of the States tolerating the iniquity. But these are not ordinary circumstances; the interests of freedom and slavery are in hostile array; the Government itself is imperilled thereby, and in self-preservation it must exercise its power for the destruction of that which has caused the commotion and danger.
While it would be reprehensible and wicked in the extreme to incite unrestrained and vindictive slaves to insurrection and rapine, and no one could be found to justify the act-would it not be wise, prudent, and generalship, such as the whole country should rejoice at, to possess Virginia by military power, and thus for the time being supersede her local laws and institutions, and by proclamation give freedom to every inhabitant of the State?
Such an act need include no violence, no lawlessness, no danger to any one; as the power to abolish could be exercised to restrain and direct in freedom far better than in slavery; and the motive to vengeance and blood, which inheres to the latter State, would thus be entirely removed.
Nor need there be even a seeming injustice to the patriotic citizen in such a summary act. He should be indemnified, and could well be, out of the money thus saved by terminating an otherwise protracted war. While persistent rebels would merit no sympathy for the loss of their slaves, and should part with their lands also, for the good of the true and loyal citizen.
You are expected to reject these views, Mr. Editor, as both novel and Utopian, and doubtless most of your readers will share in your opinions.
Well, what then? The present contest must have some basis of settlement. What is the programme? Will the North consent to recognize the institution as a right of the South, and share the territory, the government and the honors of the country with it, and forever after hold its peace? Or will the South agree to “no more Slave States” and the rest of the Chicago platform, as they and all other good citizens doubtless should? Or, both parties adhering to their several views, is the war to go on interminably, with nothing positive on the part of Government calculated to bring it to an end, or remove the cause of our most calamitous difficulties?
Yours,
IRON POINT.
Union and Advertiser.

WE SHALL GO THROUGH.
It is the settled determination of the people of the United States that this war shall go forward until the Rebellion is crushed, the theory of Secession annihilated, and slavery effectually crippled, if not abolished. This end may require years for its accomplishment, and hundreds of millions of money; but there will be no faltering, no abandoning of the war. The people demand that the issue between freedom and slavery shall be decided, now and forever. Says the Christian Advocate and Journal:-
“There is not an island in the sea, nor a hamlet on the broad continents, that has not, stake in the issue. It is not New England and, the Middle and Western States, with their manufacturing and commercial 
millions alone, that are to be affected; but men of all climes and through all times. The causes
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics; was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of leas than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding, of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can he likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this Convention."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
at work go into history, and sooner or later must be prolific of consequences over the entire race. Great as present effects are, they are comparatively nothing. Who can measure the effects of the war of the Revolution? In the righting up of the nations, God has ordained that this nation should have a part; and it is no vanity to say a conspicuous part. We dare not disappoint the decree. Woe be to the hand that attempts to arrest the fiat of Heaven!
That hand has been lifted! Men in the South have proclaimed with oaths that the government shall be abolished; have banded together, that the stars and stripes shall be stricken down; that, dishonored and degraded in the eyes of other nations, and distracted and demoralized among ourselves, our power shall be broken, and the hopes of the world blasted. To accomplish this, they hoist the flag of rebellion and sound the bugle of war! With words of defiance they come to meet us and execute their threat. The interests in behalf of which they make war upon us are mammon and slavery: they offer us an overthrow, that they may extend and establish forever the enslavement of millions of human beings! This is the issue. There are two alternatives. One is to submit, to bow down, and make no resistance; to say to them, Gentlemen, have it your own way; we are men of peace, and do not believe in bloodshed. If we take this course, we shall save the lives of our sons, and the immediate horrors of war! Dare we do it? With the eyes of the glorious past upon us, and with the imploring gaze of unborn generations looking to us, under the awful gaze of the Almighty, who holds us responsible for the part we act, dare we do it?
The other alternative is civilized warfare. We must meet them, and say to them, with the thunder of guns, and the gleam of bayonets, Hands off! Dare we refuse? Admit that some, perhaps many, will die; that our land shall be filled with wailings, that our wealth shall be consumed, that most that we loved upon earth shall be lost in the struggle-still, with the awful responsibility resting upon us, dare we refuse? Never! Appealing to the Searcher of Hearts for the justice of our cause, impelled by a sense of our obligations to posterity, we must accept the challenge. We have done so. The nation has risen up as one man, from Maine to our Western border, and said, Ready! The bridegroom has deserted his bride weeping blessings on his bosom; the son has torn himself from the arms of his mother, pronouncing benedictions on his head; and in brave thousands, men have rushed around the standard and capital of the land. May God be with them, and give us soon an honorable peace!ï¿½

REV. DR. TYNG ON THE WAR.
On Friday evening last, a meeting was held by the Bible Society in New York, to devise means for supplying the troops raised in that city with copies of the Bible. Several speeches of great merit were delivered on the occasion; but the following, by the Rev. Dr. S. A. Tyng, is, in our opinion, the very best thing that has yet been said on the subject. We think we never saw a nail hit so squarely on the head as is done in the Rev. Doctor's reply to the question answered by him at the close of his remarks:-
ï¿½Dr. S. A. Tyng next addressed the meeting. Never were a people brought together to maintain dearer rights, or more imperiled and important interests than those involved in the present contest. He could not take a pirate's hand, who was going out to secure a prize of twenty dollars a head for every man he murdered, and put a Bible in his hands, as a sanction for his course. What kind of Union would that be, where the chains of the slave should sound from one end of the land to the other, and the infernal boast be realized that a man should count the roll of his slaves on Bunker Hill? This was not a war of sections; it was not a civil war. He would dignify it by no such name. There were hundreds and thousands in the Southern land praying for the power which should give them help. In Virginia, the scene of eighteen years of his ministry, there were tens of thousands, he believed, who were anxiously waiting for that which is called the army of the North to deliver them from the tyranny that had been usurped over them. He would not condescend to call it civil warfare. He would not meet pirates upon the deck, and call it warfare. He would hang them as quick as he would shoot a mad dog. (Cheers.)
There was one road to peace, and that was absolute and entire subjection. (Cheers.) He did not mean the subjection of the South, but of the riotous mob which there had control of affairs. The sword of justice was the only pen that could write the final treaty. Referring to the troops that had been raised, the speaker asked, who ever saw such an army as has been gathered in our land? He would not except the rare birds of Billy Wilson's Regiment. He might venture to say of them that their salvation might lie in the very consecration they have made of themselves to their country. (Cheers.) Twenty-three thousand Bibles had been given to the troops who go to fight for their country; did anybody believe there were five hundred copies in the army of renegades who are meeting them in the contest? It would scald and singe their polluted hands. We had every cause to be proud of our army. They are worthy of the Bible. How their names will glisten in glory! One of the noblest results he looked for was a land without a slave upon it. (Cheers.) A nation in which no more shall God's image, be sold upon the block by the auctioneer. Said a gentleman, 'The Bible authorizes human slavery; you must acknowledge that slavery is a Divine institution.' The old minister to whom the remark was addressed, gathered himself up and replied, 'Yes, sir; in the same sense in which hell is.ï¿½ï¿½ (Cheers.)

ENGLAND AND AMERICA.
The following letter has been addressed to the Earl of Shaftesbury:-
ï¿½LONDON, May 24.
MY LORD,-I have spent several months in your favored land, travelling extensively and speaking often, in behalf of the Turkish Mission Aid Society, which is honored with your lordship's name as its President. I have everywhere met a warm welcome and the kindest hospitality amongst Christians of at least six different religious denominations; and everywhere have I witnessed a very deep sympathy and interest in the present distressed state of America. Indeed, nothing could be more delightful than the general tone of this Christian regard for the welfare of my country, as well as the deep interest evinced in the American missionaries and their work in the distant East.
In now taking a grateful and very filial leave of our 'Fatherland.' to set my face toward my native country, I would beg to express to your lordship and other British Christians my earnest hope that they will not, in this crisis of America, forget the fact that the present struggle there is far more a moral than a political one. That God has taken the monstrous evil of sin and slavery in hand, and designs to shake it down by civil war, as the proximate, if not the immediate agency, I have not the shadow of a doubt. It is an issue inaugurated and precipitated by the slaveholders themselves, in their wild infatuation. And yet, for the present state of things in America, England is immensely, though indirectly, responsible. I say this with no purpose of reflection, but in grateful acknowledgment. The noble lessons on freedom and right, and on the abominations of American slavery, which our ï¿½Fatherland' has faithfully given us. year after year, from the pulpit, the platform, the press, and the forum,- among them, many ï¿½thoughts that breathe and words that burnï¿½ from your lordship's own glowing lips and pen,-have worked in our Northern States corresponding sentiments and principles, till, after exercising unparalleled forbearance under equally unparalleled injury and abuse, they have risen in their might to stay the wrathful tide, now surging and vaunting itself in open rebellion and wholesale systematic piracy. On the moral countenance, by prayer and sympathy, which England shall give to the American Union in its present struggle, may greatly depend the length and the severity of that struggle, and the character of its issues. Let me, then, implore that your countrymen may in no way weaken the hands of their American brethren, who are so ready to pour out their treasures and their blood for the cause of God and of man, which you have so long and so effectively called on them to assert and maintain.
With profound respect, I am your lordship's most obedient servant,
JUSTIN PERKINS,
Thirty years a Missionary of the A. B. C. F. M. in Persia."
Lord Shaftesbury is reported-we trust falsely- to be inclined to favor the Southern Confederacy.

<c02>
SLAVERY THE CAUSE OF THE WAR.
[In reply to a speech of Rev. Dr. Guthrie, of Scotland.]
The cause of this war is simply the fact that, in the natural progress of our free institutions, the sceptre of the slave-trading and slave-holding power in the United States has been at last broken; and the people of the free states have proclaimed unequivocally, through the forms of the Constitution, their determination that slavery shall no longer be propagated under the authority and patronage of the Federal Government. Instead of recognizing the present war as a most atrocious attempt of traitors to subvert our Government by insurrection, to destroy our Constitution, to extinguish the principle of popular sovereignty, and to make the bullet and the bayonet supreme over the bullet and the free press in all the future of our civilization, and all for no other reason than that freedom in the United. States, like David in Israel, grows stronger and stronger, and slavery, like the house of Saul, grows weaker and weaker,-good Dr. Guthrie, as if incapable of any sympathy with freedom, or of any joy in the great fact that freedom is at last and is to be henceforth victorious, talks whiningly about ï¿½the wretched cause of this war."
The idea of war-civil war-a war between the insurgent slave-power and the Government and people of the United States-is shocking to our Scotch anti-slavery orator. We beg leave to assure him that it is equally shocking to us who are so much nearer to the reality. Yet there are worse things for a nation than war-worse things even than civil and fratricidal war. Every loyal citizen in the United States feels at this hour-what Dr. Guthrie seems not to suspect-that a compromise with these rebels, the purchase of a temporary peace with them by shamefully yielding what they demand of us, would be far worse than all the horrors of the impending conflict-worse for us as a nation -worse for the slaves with whom our Scotch friends profess so lively a sympathy-worse for the great interest of righteousness and peace, of government and Christian civilization, of law-girt liberty, and of Christ's holy kingdom now and in all coming ages. Yet because we are determined as a people to defend our Capital, our Union, our Constitution, and our united self-government against traitors who have taken up arms for no other reason than that they, being the minority, cannot rule the country in the interest of the slave-trade, and who began by seizing our national forts, arsenals, ships, dock-yards, custom-houses, and money wherever they were able to do so-because we are determined to have it understood henceforth and for ever, that there is in our political system no right of secession other than the right of insurrection and revolution, (like the right of Ireland, or of Scotland, or of Wales, or of the Isle of Wight, or of the Cumbrays in the Frith of Clyde, to secede from the United Kingdom,) and that rebellion against our free Government is a crime to be signally punished,-our good anti-slavery Doctor whines about ï¿½the terrible spirit of vengeance which men are carrying into this war."
Dr. Guthrie had a very different way of delivering himself a few months ago. Perhaps he has forgotten, what he said at an anti-American-slavery meeting in Edinburgh, on the 20th of December, 1859, where he professed that if he were in the habit of drinking toasts, he would be disposed to give as a convivial sentiment, "The next insurrection of the slaves,ï¿½ with no other qualification than this, ï¿½Under circumstances that promise success." On that occasion, this same orator, who now begins to snuffle as if he were a Quaker at the thought of a free people rising to defend their own Capital and their own Government against an atrocious rebellion, was not at all overcome by the thought of a servile war. He said then:-
ï¿½I hold that by the honor which I render to Sir William Wallace, to William Tell, to the men who broke the Stuart yoke-by the honor which I render to our Covenanting fathers, who took to the field of battle rather than submit to tyranny-I am bound to render honor to the slaves themselves, if they can work out and fight out their freedom in America. (Cheers.) No man under God's heaven has a right to sell me, my wife, or my children; and I say that if a man seizes my wife or my children to sell them, I hold myself justified in using any arms which God may have given me, to resist him to the very death. I premise what I have said by observing that the rising against slavery is a matter of prudence and Christian judgment, and that it should not be done if the end of it was only to rivet the fetters of the slave; but, if there is a fair prospect of the slaves making good their freedom, they are as much entitled to rise against slavery to resist it as are the Italians to resist the Pope of Rome. (Cheers.) I won't blink that question. I would so act if I were a slave; and I would <illegible> stand before my God on the judgement-day, than stand in the place of those ministers of the Gospel who put the lock of silence on their lips in regard to this matter in their pulpits. (Cheers.) "
We are far from denying to the slaves in our Southern states the same right of insurrection and revolution which we concede to any other oppressed people. Dr. Guthrie's principle would be unquestionably sound, if we might understand him as ï¿½premising" that there shall be not only a reason able prospect of the slaves' overcoming in the fight but also a reasonable prospect of their being able to govern themselves, and to establish a better social order after the fight;-but we beg our Scotch antislavery friends to remember, that if a civil war for the suppression of rebellion is a dreadful thing, much more dreadful would be that servile war which Dr. Guthrie blessed beforehand, and which when he suggests it to their Christian sympathies, calls forth their rapturous cheers. Scotchmen ought to have a vivid sense of what civil wars are, for the history of their country, from its traditionary ages down to the time of its final submission to the Hanoverian dynasty, is little else than a record of such wars. Why can they not understand that a servile war-especially if begun with any reasonable prospect of success-must needs be more dreadful every way than any merely civil war can be? Yet it would seem, from their delight at Dr. Guthrie's insurrection speech, that in their view a servile war in America-if only it can have its beginning in a hopeful insurrection-is something to be glad for; though a merely civil war in America to maintain the constituted self-government of the people against a pro-slavery rebellion, is simply dreadful-so absolutely dreadful that Dr. Guthrie is quite astonished at our refusal to let the rebels manage everything in their own way. Mr. Jefferson Davis, the slaveholder, might have his throat cut or his skull cleft by an insurgent slave, and the calcined bones of his wife and children might be mingled with the ashes of their home-and the same horrors might be enacted on every plantation in the slaveholding states, and our Scotch anti-slavery friends, as their cheers seem to indicate, would not be shocked. All that would be no more than a slave insurrection, initiated ï¿½under circumstances that promise success.ï¿½ But Mr. Jefferson Davis, the leader of a pro-slavery rebellion, making war against the American people, and organizing piracy upon the ocean, seems to be regarded at Edinburgh as deserving a much gentler treatment; and because the loyal people of the United States are indicating their purpose to have him taken and hanged for his treason, if he is not killed in battle, the tender-hearted Dr. Guthrie is shocked at ï¿½the terrible spirit of vengeance which men are carrying into this war," and would have us bow down for Mr. Jefferson Davis and his legions to ride over us.
Dr. Guthrie is equally offended at ï¿½the haughty pride" which "flares out and glares out" in Mr. Secretary Seward's answer to Gov. Hicks, who had proposed that the British Minister at Washington should be called in to arbitrate between the United States of America and this rebellion. Suppose that in the days of the Smith O'Brien insurrection, some terrified Dogberry of a magistrate in County Leitrim had proposed to Her Majesty's Government that the whole question of Mr. O'Brien's claims, and of the separation of Ireland from the United Kingdom, should be referred to the arbitration of the American Minister at the Court of St. James,-what sort of an answer would the author of that ï¿½most Christian-like proposal" have received from Downing street? Or when the Sepoy rebellion was raging in British India like an autumnal fire upon our prairies, what if some half-loyal rajah, or some muddled stockholder in the East India Company, had proposed to the Queen's government that the whole question of the peril to the ancient religion of India, and of Nena Sahib's claim to the throne of the Great Mogul, should be referred to the arbitration of a commissioner from the United States, or from some South American Republic? Would that have been pronounced at Edinburgh ï¿½a most Christian-like proposal," and would Her Majesty's principal Secretary of State have given a gentle answer, complimentary to the idea of calling on the representative of an American democracy to arbitrate between the British monarchy and any of its rebellious subjects?-New York Independent.

<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 21, 1861.
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION OF THE FOURTH OF JULY.
The usual Anti-Slavery Celebration of Independence Day, in mass meeting, will be held in the beautiful and commodious Grove at FRAMINGHAM, on THURSDAY, July 4th, under the direction of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. Hitherto, it has never failed to secure a multitudinous gathering of the truest friends of universal liberty, from various parts of the commonwealth; and the circumstances of the times are such as to warrant the expectation, that the number will be largely augmented at the approaching anniversary.
A most cordial invitation to be present is extended to all who love freedom for those who are unjustly deprived of it, as well as for themselves; who desire to witness the immediate and utter overthrow of that hideous slave system, which has so long consigned to hopeless servitude millions of unoffending men, women and children, and out of which all our national divisions and troubles proceed, as deadly waters from a poisoned fountain; and whose hope is to see in the star-spangled banner, ere the present civil conflict terminate, the symbol of unconditional emancipation from ocean to ocean.
Special trains will run from Boston, Worcester, Milford, Marlboro', &c., at half price. [Particulars hereafter.]
There will be no lack of able and eloquent speakers on the occasion. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Committee of Arrangement
SAMUEL MAY, JR., Committee of Arrangement
HENRY 0. STONE, Committee of Arrangement
CHARLES A. HOVEY, Committee of Arrangement
E. H. HEYWOOD, Committee of Arrangement
GEORGE W. STACY, Committee of Arrangement

GRAND ANTI-SLAVERY PIC-NIC IN ROCHESTER, N. Y.-The friends of freedom in Western New York are invited to join the Abolitionists of Rochester and vicinity in celebrating the eighty-fifth anniversary of American Independence, on the fourth of July next.
Addresses will be delivered by PARKER PILLSBURY, FREDERICK DOUGLASS, GILES B. STEBBINS, and others.
The meeting will be held in GREGORY'S GROVE, one mile from the Arcade, at the head of South Avenue.
Carriages will be in waiting at the Depots, on the arrival of all the trains between 9 and 11 o'clock, A. M. The speaking will commence at 11 o'clock, A. M., and 3, P. M.
Let there be a large gathering-all remembering to bring with them "their basket and their store," that the occasion may be made eminently social as well as instructive.

THE LONDON HERALD OF PEACE AND THE WAR IN AMERICA.
In order that our readers may see how far it is possible for the well meaning friends of Peace and Anti-Slavery, in England, to misapprehend the fearful conflict now rending this country asunder, and its bearing upon the cause of civil and religious liberty throughout the world, we copy from the London Herald of Peace, of June 1st, an article entitled ï¿½THE WAR IN AMERICA." It is, in many respects, a very remarkable article; remarkable for its ignorance, suppression, or perversion of facts; remarkable for its confusion of mind in perceiving no difference, in principle or purpose, between the American government and the demoniacal slave oligarchy who are traitorously seeking its overthrow; remarkable for its evasion of the question of civil government, and the obligations to maintain it as against bloody usurpation and merciless oppression; remarkable for its sentimental, untimely and preposterous cry of " peace, peace, when there is no peace"; remarkable for its unwarrantable and wholesale impeachment of the pacific spirit and anti-slavery consistency of American Abolitionists, in this trying crisis; and remarkable for its self-complacency, oracular statement, and ex cathedra tone generally.
It commences with the assumption, that as in the war of England with Russia, Americans ï¿½not only regarded the conflict with a much more calm and Christian feeling than the great majority of Englishmen did. but they really had formed <illegible> sounder estimate of the merits of the questions in dispute"; so, on the same principle, Englishmen "are better able to form a clear and correct and Christian judgment of American affairs than the American people themselves." This is plausible, and would be-forcible reasoning, if the cases were at all analogous; but they are not. The civilized world yet waits to be intelligently informed as to the justifying causes which led England and France to make war upon Russia,-allowing war to be right in any case. It will wait in vain. Unquestionably, Russia was entitled to sympathy and success as against her powerful and ambitious invaders, so far as the justice of her cause was concerned. As between the parties, the American people stood in a better position than either of them to decide upon the relative merits of the controversy; and it is gratifying now to be told, that ï¿½what they thought then, is becoming more and more what all intelligent Englishmen think now, as to the character and issues of the war with Russia.ï¿½
But what is this struggle in the United States? It is confined to our own soil, and concerns the life of the republic; it relates to the supremacy of constitutional government, and the exercise of its legitimate functions, as against the basest conspirators and the most desperate oppressors; it is to determine whether the people shall still hold the sovereignty in their own hands, or be under the absolute dominion of an arrogant and fiendish slave oligarchy, to the subversion of all free institutions. It is a struggle between the law-abiding and the lawless-between the democratic idea and the rule of the slave plantation-between all that is left of the spirit of freedom, humanity and progress in the land, and all that is despotic, barbarous and retrogressive. The facts are patent to an intelligent world, so that blindness is criminal, and even an error of judgment almost inexcusable.
We submit that the people of England are more competent to manage their own affairs, and to decide upon any controversy as affecting the stability of their own government, than those of any other nation; and this is as true of Americans as it is of Britons. The American people cannot be enlightened or guided by any transatlantic criticisms as to the time or mode of terminating the present struggle: it so involves every thing sacred and precious to them, that they need no foreign opinions to enable them to bring it to a speedy and satisfactory conclusion. They know precisely what is at stake, even though they may still delusively hope to see the old order of things restored, leaving slavery untouched within its present limits. They clearly see that it is all resolved into the question of their right to determine their own laws, elect their own rulers, and shape their own destiny; and that question they are prepared to answer in the affirmative, cost what it may.
The real animus of the South is set forth in a recent pamphlet by the Rev. Dr. Smyth, a prominent scholar of South Carolina. "What," he asks, "is the difficulty, and what the remedy? Not in the election of Republican Presidents. No. Not in the non-execution of the Fugitive Slave Bill. No. It lies back of all these. It is found in that Atheistic Red Republican doctrine of the Declaration of Independence. Until that is trampled under foot, there can be no peace.ï¿½ And the same despotic spirit is still further exemplified in the language of the Carolinians, as given in a recent letter by Mr. Russell, correspondent of the London Times-viz.-" If that confounded ship had sunk with those Pilgrim Fathers on board, we never should have been driven to these extremities"! And still more specifically and comprehensively is it displayed in the following diatribe from the Richmond Examiner:-
"We have got to hating every thing with the prefix free; from free negroes, down and up, through the whole catalogue. Free farms, free labor, free society, free will, free thinking, free children, and free schools, all belong to the same brood of damnable isms. But the worst of all these abominations is the modern system of free schools. The New England system of free

<c04>
schools has been the cause and prolific source of the infidelities and treasons that have turned her cities into Sodoms and Gomorrahs, and her land into the common nestling-places of howling bedlamites. We abominate the system, because the schools are free.ï¿½
So, likewise, it is exhibited in the following declaration of Senator Mason of Virginia, the author of the infamous Fugitive Slave Bill:-
"Free society has failed; and that which is not free must be substituted."
And still further is it unblushingly avowed, by the Muscogee (Alabama) Herald-as follows:-
"Free society! We sicken of the name. What is it but a conglomeration of greasy mechanics, filthy operatives, small-fisted farmers, and moon-struck theorists? All the Northern States, and especially the New England States, are devoid of society fitted for well-bred gentlemen. The prevailing class one meets with is that of mechanics struggling to be genteel, and small farmers, who do their own drudgery; and yet who are hardly fit for association with a gentleman's body servant. That is your free society!"
Extracts like these, from Southern journals, might be extended indefinitely. They all indicate the object of the present treasonable outbreak-the universal extension of slavery, and the consequent overthrow of all free institutions.
With marked disingenuousness, the Herald of Peace reprover says-"First of all, President Lincoln declares war against the South as rebels. To this, Mr. Jefferson Davis responds by authorizing privateers to go and prey on the commerce of the North"-&c. "First of all"! As if the President were the aggressor-the criminal cause of all these troubles, by a declaration of war, called for by nothing in his oath of office, or in the exigencies of the government itself! What a perversion and suppression of all the facts in the case! What a disposition, for the sake of peace, (?) to confound all moral distinctions, and to lose sight of the tremendous issue involved in this conflict! Mr. Lincoln takes the first step in wrong-doing, and Mr. Davis takes the next! The former sets a pernicious example, and the second imitates it! This is as bad as any thing to be found in the London Times or Charleston Mercury-and a great deal harder to be borne, coming from such a source.
In the first place, it is not true that "President Lincoln has declared war against the South"-any more than that Queen Victoria declared war against Ireland, during the Repeal movement under the guidance of O'Brien and Mitchell. We mean nothing invidious toward that movement by the comparison, but refer to it only for illustration, and on the argumentum ad hominem principle. We are not aware that, to prevent the effusion of blood, the Herald of Peace urged the propriety and duty of acknowledging the independence of Ireland by the British Crown, or that it remonstrated with Throne or Parliament for suppressing the Repeal movement by force and arms. Nor are we aware that, pacific as may be its spirit and purpose, it has had any controversy with the British Government per se, or evinced any lack of loyalty to it when threatened by traitors and factionists. Where, then, is its consistency in condemning President Lincoln, and accusing him of declaring war, simply for attempting to maintain the Constitution and enforce the laws, in accordance with his oath of office, against the most desperate band of conspirators that have yet found a place in the pillory of the world? What less could the President have done, without being driven from the Capital, and overturning the government in his flight? As the chosen head of the nation, did not his magnanimity and forbearance closely border upon seeming cowardice and imbecility in his dealings with the traitors? For, before his inauguration, had they not violently withdrawn from the Union, organized a separate and fiercely hostile confederacy, and, without the shadow of an excuse, committed all sorts of outrages upon the property and authority of the government, and upon the persons and firesides of patriotic citizens, without even a reprimand from President Buchanan? And after his inauguration, did not Mr. Lincoln allow them to seize one fort after another, one arsenal after another, one custom-house after another-every where to pull down the national flag, and to substitute their own piratical signal in its place-until not a judicial or governmental officer of any grade was tolerated on <Illegible> even so much as a spirited protest against such conduct? Did he and the loyal portion of the nation not wait, with unparalleled patience, until the capture of Fort Sumter proclaimed the alternative of surrendering every thing into the hands of the traitors, or of re-establishing the lawful authority of the government, recovering its stolen property, and vindicating its dishonored flag, however painful or difficult the task? When before did ever a powerful and constitutional administration exhibit to the world such long-suffering, under such aggravations and insults?
Surely, even the most "ultra" friends of peace might find something to commend in such calmness of spirit and reluctance to resort to forcible measures; but the Herald of Peace does not seem to appreciate or even recognize it, but arraigns President Lincoln before impeaching Jefferson Davis!
Once more we assert, that this is neither an offensive nor defensive war, properly speaking, by the government; but a rightful and constitutional attempt, on its part, in the last resort, to suppress a foul conspiracy against its existence, by such force as may be necessary. If the Herald of Peace believes in the duty of the British government to maintain itself against tyrannous and treasonable machinations, let it not be shocked that the American government is doing the same thing. It was driven to the wall before it exerted a particle of its strength, even for self-preservation; and nothing can be more unjust than to represent it as actuated by a passionate or vindictive spirit. Its language is neither ï¿½wild nor frantic," and all its efforts have been characterized by a desire to subdue the conspiracy with the least possible effusion of blood on either side. Who more calm, reflecting, circumspect, and peacefully inclined,-in view of the responsible position he fills,-than General Scott?
It may be very convenient for the writer in the Herald of Peace to waive the question, ï¿½whether the American Union is a confederacy of States, or one homogeneous commonwealth "; but as it involves and determines the rightfulness of the government to exist, it is not thus summarily to be set aside, but decided according to historical verity.
ï¿½With the open Gospel before us," he says, "we have all the materials necessary to qualify us for the investigation.ï¿½ Indeed! Is this a sure and definite test? The Gospel in Russia upholds autocracy; in Italy, papal supremacy; in France, Napoleonocracy; in England, a limited monarchy; in the United States, popular sovereignty. In other words, the Gospel is so interpreted and received as to sanction each of these governmental forms, according to the geographical position of the parties. ï¿½With the open Gospel before " him, does our pacific British censor mean to say, that the English government has not a right to try to sustain itself against such as meditate its overthrow, for a horribly evil purpose, by their perfidious machinations? If not, where is the pertinency of his appeal, or the propriety of its special application to the American government at this perilous crisis? 
"Ever since the capture of Fort Sumter," says the writer, "the people seem, almost with one accord, to have said as respects the Prince of Peace, and all the restraints which his blessed and benignant religion has imposed upon the malignity of human passion, ï¿½Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us.'" If this has any force, it means that the people of this country, in consecrating their lives and property to the maintenance of the government, -a government of their own formation and choice, without any hereditary taint,-deserve to have these severe imputations cast upon them. The patriotism of 1776, for lofty devotion, heroic intrepidity, religious enthusiasm, and generous self-sacrifice, did not surpass, and scarcely equalled, the present popular demonstration. Its spirit was not more humane, nor its purpose more just, nor its weapons any better. We desire to know, therefore, whether the Herald of Peace means to apply the language it has quoted from the

<c05>
psalmist, to the American people, for defending the Constitution and laws which they have adopted for their common security. Will the cause of peace or liberty be advanced by abandoning their principles, stifling their convictions of duty, allowing conspirators and traitors of the worst character to hold the country in abject thraldom, and yielding up without a struggle all that was achieved by their revolutionary fathers?
Quoting one or two violent retaliatory expressions against the Southern rebels by "Northern orators and journalists," (but not one of the ten thousand ferocious utterances against the people of the North by Southern editors and declaimers!) the Herald of Peace assumes that this is the animating spirit of the North, making due allowance for ï¿½rhetorical extravagance and bombast." What, then, are the facts? In the so-called Confederate States, and even in the Border Slave States, thousands of Northern residents have had their property confiscated, been subjected to innumerable indignities, compelled to flee to save their lives, and in some instances horribly lynched, (1) simply because of their unwillingness to fight against their country's flag, or for the avowal of Union sentiments, or in some cases for the sole reason that they were of Northern birth. This terrible persecution is going on continually, and its bloody record is already extended to a fearful length.
On the other hand, not only has no Southern resident or sojourner at the North been outraged in his person or property, but a great many Southerners are sending their families to the North for protection! Is not this the first instance on record where a party at war have sent their women and children to their enemies for safety, conscious that they could do so without hazard or disappointment? This is a practical demonstration of the fact, that there is nothing unkind or revengeful in the general sentiment of the North.
And what has been the behavior of the "invading" army, thus far? The National Intelligencer says, the New York Seventh regiment, of eleven hundred men, was encamped on the beautiful grounds of Mr. Stone, on the borders of the city; and such was the strict regard for propriety observed by the whole corps, that not even a flower was pulled or a fence-rail destroyed by them during the whole time of their stay. The same gentlemanly conduct has distinguished the other regiments quartered in and around Washington, of which the Rhode Island regiment has been particularly named. Does this indicate any disposition on the part of the North to make this "a war which will convert one of the most civilized and Christian nations of the earth into a mere horde of savages, biting and devouring one another"? True, it is more than probable that the most fiendish deeds will be perpetrated by the Southern soldiery; but let the infamy attach to whom it belongs. Here is what the Boston Herald says:-

THE REBEL SEPOYS. At the time of the retreat at Great Bethel, an effort was made by the Federal troops to care for and bring off the wounded; but the rebels raised the black flag, and fired a terrific volley upon the flag of truce. There is no doubt entertained at Fortress Monroe but that the rebels murdered the wounded on the spot, and the prisoners also, if any were taken, which is probable, as some men are missing.
The government forces will find that they are dealing with men who are thoroughly demonized. But we trust they will not be induced, by any consideration, to imitate such barbarous examples. Rev. Mr. Hepworth, of this city, who has just returned from Washington, in his discourse, last Sunday, said,- ï¿½The soldiers, taken from the mass of the people, are earnest and thoughtful, and are inspired with feelings of sterling patriotism and with a conviction of the justice of their cause. They are sober and earnest, and are really exposed to fewer temptations than has been supposed. There is not wanting evidence of a thoughtful consideration of their duty, to God as well as to their country.ï¿½ Confirmatory of this testimony is the statement made by a correspondent of the Boston Journal, relative to the soldiers under Col. Howard, near Washington:-ï¿½ Col. Howard addressed a few brief but earnest words to the men, in which he indicated his warm sympathy with them, his solicitude that they should be actuated by the highest motives-should have the moral preparation by which best to serve God and their country, whether living or dying. Most of the men seemed greatly moved by the appeals of their Colonel, and some of the 2d Regiment who were present I saw in tears."
We cannot but regard it as most extraordinary, that while the South has no justification nor apology whatever for her conduct, the writer in the Herald of Peace has no word of censure to bestow upon her, nefarious as it has been throughout, but pours out the full vials of his condemnation upon the North, as though she alone were to be held responsible for the rupture which has taken place! So morbid, indeed, is his state of mind, that the reading of ï¿½the solemn words of inspiration,ï¿½ from the old Jewish prophets, preparatory to the delivery of discourses on the war, is regarded by him as a profane travesty-ï¿½ a vehicle for giving vent to the hot and hissing anathemas of human hate and revenge "!
He is at utter variance with the truth in asserting that ï¿½many of the leading anti-slavery orators and journals are plunging into the war spirit with a headlong violence which almost leaves all competitors behindï¿½!- ï¿½taking the lead in inflaming the passions of their countrymen, and hounding them on to mutual slaughter"!!-"quitting the high ground of moral influence on which they have hitherto planted their foot, to mingle with the howling multitude who are now clamoring for war"!!!-and ï¿½lending their sanction to the plea that the end sanctifies the means -that we may do evil that good may come "!!!! -Surely, this accuser is beside himself. We will examine these charges in another number.
(1) Here are a few specimens:-
Three citizens of Louisville, detained at Memphis, undertook to walk home. They were arrested twice. They saw near the road a man lying helpless and dying, with his head shaved, and ears and nose cut off. His crime was of being of Northern birth.
Dr. Ogden was assassinated in a disunion precinct within six miles of Baltimore, in less than ten minutes after depositing a Union vote.
A Union man (says the Osawatomie Herald) was hung near Otterville, Mo., last week, for being a little too free in the expression of his devotion to the stars and stripes. He resided near the border when at home.
The Chicago Tribune has the following dispatch from Cairo:- "A man named Johnson, belonging in Boston, Mass., where he has a family, was hung in Crittenden county, Arkansas, yesterday. He had been employed on the steamer Wm. Morrison, now laid up at Mound City. A number of merchants of Memphis, who knew him, tried to save his life, but without avail. His crime was voting for Lincoln. A. A. Jones was also hung yesterday in Obion county, Tenn., opposite New Madrid. His crime was having been opposed to slavery."
The Cairo correspondent of the St. Louis Democrat gives the following shocking particulars:-
ï¿½News has just arrived here of another murderous and horrible outrage by the Secessionists, traitors and rebels, perpetrated at Mound City, Arkansas, this week. An old, gray-headed man, aged over 60 years, a watchman on board of the steamer W. M. Morrison, tied up by the rebels at that place, fet slip some Union sentiments in their presence. He was soon surrounded by ruffians, who told him they were going to hang him forthwith. The poor old man thought they were jesting, and said: 'Gentlemen, surely you don't mean what you say; I am a poor old gray-headed man-always have worked hard, and made an honest living; surely you would not hang me for the expressions of my old honest heart.' The poor old man could not believe that the demons could perpetrate such a murder until he felt the rope round his neck. The end of the rope was thrown over the limb of a tree, and the demoniac crowd of devils pulled him up, struggling and dying, until dead. Several who were commanded to assist, slunk away in horror and dread. All these deeds will soon be avenged. These men regard not even gray hairs, the sacred rights of families, or the tears and graves of widows and orphans. There is no doubt about this fact being true, as it came from an eye-witness."
The City Council of St. Joseph, Missouri, have passed an ordinance, making the act of displaying the United States flag a misdemeanor, and any person so offending "shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit and pay the sum of not less than fifty, nor more than one hundred dollars.ï¿½

<c06>
TREASON IN DISGUISE.
ANGOLA, Steuben Co., Ind., June 8th, 1861.
A few days since a colored woman, by the name of Sojourner Truth, a cross between the Indian and African race, born in the State of New York, and for many years a citizen of Massachusetts, came over the line of Michigan, to pay a visit to some acquaintances of hers, among whom were several of the most wealthy and influential white families residing in the county.
She was a woman of unimpeachable moral character, and though uneducated, was distinguished by the communities in which she had travelled for sagacity and staunch common sense, and had, therefore, enjoyed the unmolested right to speak in public, in the East and in the West, during the last twenty-five years: and as it became known that she was a zealous advocate of the present war, and an admirer of President Lincoln, she was invited to address the people in the Court House.
Hearing that all parties were ignored, and entire unity in support of the Government prevailed, she thought of no molestation, and modestly expressed her expectation of an enthusiastic reception, of the encouragement she was able to give to every lover of his country; and accompanied by several of the most respectable women of the county seat, went into the Court House, and commenced her meeting.
She was just saying that the South was arming her colored people to fight against the North, and she was armed (stretching out her long bony arm) to fight for the North, and if she was ten years younger-(she is now seventy,) she ï¿½would fly to the battle-field, and nurse and cook for the Massachusetts troops, brave boys! and if it came to the pinch, put in a blow, now and then.ï¿½
At this moment, a mob of grocery law-and-order rushed up stairs, and like a pack of hounds, with ears well rubbed, set upon this patriotic, noble woman, and with insolent threats and yells choked her down.
A few men of the place, with better profession and blacker hearts, stood behind the curtain, and sharpened their filthy tools with ï¿½Jeff. Davis,ï¿½ ï¿½Black Laws,ï¿½ and bad whiskey. Threats of tar and feathers, eggs, rails, shooting, and a general blowing up, were heard at every corner. The night following, the house of Judge Gale, one of the oldest and wealthiest men in the county, was surrounded by the same drunken mob, who threatened violence of every kind, and only failed to execute their hellish plan, because their bad whiskey proved to be in the superlative degree, and they were soon too drunk for a riot. Failing to drive her out of the State by threats and mobbing, they next resorted to prosecution under the statute of the State, that ï¿½No negro or mulatto shall come into, or settle in, or become an inhabitant of the State,ï¿½ &c.
Several of the best men in the county have been arrested and tried for the common civility of entertaining her in their houses; thus in the language of the law, as they claim, ï¿½encouragingï¿½ her, and contrary to the ï¿½Dred Scott Decision,ï¿½ recognizing in her the rights of a human being. For ten days she has been dogged over the county in the custody of constables, or on bail of her friends, and at the same time harassed and endangered by threats of personal insult and shooting, by a drunken crew, who, in the language of her attorney, said in Court, were ï¿½not fit for her to spit upon.ï¿½
I am told that papers are also made out for the sheriff, who opened the Court House for her second meeting, at which time, after making her speech, she had to fly, under a guard of armed men, to escape arrest and brutality.
Mr. Chapin, late Prosecuting Attorney for the District, who had nobly defended her cause, and the captain of the ï¿½Home Guard,ï¿½ who, by formal invitation of the citizens, appeared in the Court House, armed and equipped, to defend the Constitution and the rights of loyal citizens, are marked victims of the mob, whose impudence and audacity are unparalleled. It is well understood in the county, and absolutely known in town, that guns have been brought in, and are now stacked in the back part of an old grocery, exposed to the gangrene of whiskey fumes.
Secret meetings have been held, the Chairman, Secretary and Executive of which are prominent actors in this riot and rebellion. The prosecution of some of the most influential and powerful men and loyalists in the county, originated from the decision of their secret meetings, as testified by one of the prosecution, under oath, himself being the Secretary of the meeting. From the same source, an invitation by letter was also sent to the captain of the Scott Township Home Guard, signed by ï¿½numerous citizens," inviting him to report himself at"Poland's Grocery,ï¿½ where the guns are deposited, and to assist with guns, powder, balls and caps, in suppressing the meeting of Sojourner Truth in the Court House on Sunday, which invitation, together with the captainï¿½s loyalty to the Government, procured the appearance of the Guard as above referred to, to preserve order and free speech under the guarantee of the Constitution. How extensive this league may be, or what are their plans, beyond harassing and injuring the honest, patriotic men and women of the county, and supporting public nuisances in the form of grog-shops, can only be ascertained by the proper authority.
The appearance of this colored woman in the county of Steuben is by no means the cause of this rebellion against law and order. She visited this State four years ago, and spoke without opposition in the Court House, and in various parts of the county, when ï¿½Freedom,ï¿½ instead of ï¿½The War,ï¿½ was her subject.
To speak of devotion to the Constitution and laws of the State, by men who openly and willingly violate its highest requirements and provisions, from day to day, is simply absurd.
Sojourner Truth said, in the Court House, to the mob-ï¿½ It seems that it takes my black face to bring out your black hearts; so it's well I came.ï¿½ At another point she said-ï¿½ You are afraid of my black face, because it is a looking-glass in which you see yourselvesï¿½-it might be added, ï¿½as others see you.ï¿½ No intelligent person in the county fails to see that this exceeding sensitiveness, on the part of these old line pro-slavery Democrats, to the violation of the Black Laws of Indiana, is the covert of an opportunity to rally a central idea, striking at the very essence of the Government, and beyond the reach of law-a treason of the highest character.
The hoisting of a Black Flag upon the Court House, and the sending of anonymous cards with the name of Jeff. Davis, indicate the standard to which these men are loyal.
The county of Steuben is, undoubtedly, one of the most intelligent and loyal counties in the State; and, with the proper authority, can speedily put down all such rebellion against Law and Liberty. But the men of the North have been so thoroughly subjugated by mob law, during the past thirty years, that they have almost lost the identity of manhood, and scarcely one man in a million, (and that one is here,) believes he has any authority, apart from the constable or the priest.
It is also true that, barring the county seat, Steuben has less than a fair proportion of Secessionists with the whole State; and if the accursed liquor traffic were put down, would, I believe, have none at all.
During the last twenty-five years of Northern subjugation, it has been the rule, with the bare exception of the Kansas mob, when Missouri and the Federal Government in the hands of the South were despoiled of their prize by a handful of FREE MEN, with the authority of manhood and Sharpe's rifles, that one fullgrown mobocrat ï¿½could chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight.ï¿½
But when manhood shall assert itself, as it must and will do, whether on marshalled or unmarshalled battlefields, by President Lincoln or by Sojourner Truth, the line will be drawn, speedily and unmistakably, between Liberty and Slavery, Victory and Defeat.
JOSEPHINE S. GRIFFING.
We are most happy to announce that LUCRETIA MOTT, of Philadelphia, will speak at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon. Go and hear the noble woman.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
FRIEND GARRISON:
May I say a few words to your public, through the Liberator, respecting my own position and prospects in Kansas?
Four years ago to-day, I landed on the soil of Kansas. I came here for a two-fold purpose. 1. To offer a practical and efficient opposition to slavery, to build up a liberal, reformatory free church, which is of course earnestly anti-slavery; and, 2. to get for my family a secure and happy home.
It does not become me, perhaps, to speak of my own services to the cause of freedom and humanity during? these four years; yet I feel that I can appeal to our truest and best men, such men as brother Brown of Lawrence, Judge Conway, our representative in Congress, Wm. Phillips, Esq., the Tribune correspondent, J.R. Hinton, James Redpath, and all others of a similar character, who fully and practically recognize the manhood and womanhood of the colored American people, to testify that I have always been faithful and earnest in my profession and practice as an Abolitionist in Kansas. Nor do I believe that my efforts to promulgate the ideas of the true reformer's free and liberal Christianity will fail to bear precious fruit.
Your readers all know that my time and strength were devoted, last autumn and winter, to obtaining relief for the starving people of Kansas. I have labored without rest or cessation in this work. At its close, I returned to resume my work in Kansas, about a month since. In regard to the relief afforded by the generous contributions of the East, I can speak positively of its need and benefit. Without this help, not less than fifty thousand people must have endured the last extremity of famine, Some of them could and would have escaped into Illinois and Iowa, but thousands must have remained to a bitter and fearful experience. There has been great suffering, as it is, from the fact that the provisions sent to Atchison were to be taken over land to all parts of the State, to reach the destitude thousands. Deep snows fell, the cattle and horses and men were weak, and the weary tramp of one hundred and fifty miles which some were obliged to make, for food, occcupying, both ways, nearly three weeks, involved toil and suffering which cannot be scribed. Still, the people have been saved, and most of them have been carried through the last terrible winter in comparative comfort, There have been very few, if any cases of actual starvation. The donation of seed made by the States of New York and Wisconsin, and by G. W. Collamore, Agent of the New England Committee, amounting in all to some $75,000 worth, has made our future prospect all that we could ask. I have ten acres in wheat, which the people had put in for me before I returned, from the seed given by the above-named parties, now growing finely, and promising a good crop. With the help of the people, I am planting twenty acres in corn, on the claim which I filed, in Centralia, last summer, the land for which the people plowed for one last autumn. We are all living on hard and scanty fare now, owing to the stoppage of contributions by the war excitement, and the impossibility of getting our own food from the soil before July. Then our wheat will come in, and we shall be once more eating our own bread. On my return here, I found a barrel of flour which some kind friend had sent to me. I shall have the benefit of a part of it. The most will be distributed to the most needy among us. But, notwithstanding present want and hardship, we are all at work with hope and energy. We shall, ere long, have plenty in our humble homes. We have been blessed with abundant rains, and the prospect for our next crop is all that we could ask.
Centralia. or Home Town, which is my field of labor, is sixty miles west of St. Joseph. We have a population of 350. We prohibit and prevent the sale of all intoxicating drinks in our township, and we intend to do this thoroughly, in all coming time, through the operation of a potent public opinion. We have a plan for a Seminary, or High School, which we intend to make as valuable as possible. I expect to open it next September, and to teach some eight months each year for some time, at least. Our whole community is industrious and orderly, and interested in making this a "Home Town." My regular morning meeting is attended by the people. I preach to them the gospel of liberal, reformatory Christianity, and they are interested in it. Notwithstanding their poverty, which is now almost universal, they have subscribed §400 in work and materials to put me up a house, which is to be made ready for my family by next October. They help me freely and generously about my farming work. I preach each Sunday afternoon at Seneca, eight miles North of Centralia, an older and larger place than C., and there I gather a good congregation to hear the "word of life." They will also furnish help about my house. If, then, the reformers of the East, who are interested in such a work as I am here doing, will help me to $200 in money to complete my house, and enough to buy me a horse, which is indispensable in my work, and enough to procure a land warrant for 160 acres, with which to enter my claim by next July, I shall be planted in this place, and henceforth able to carry on my work without help. It seems to me that I am called upon to trust Providence for what I absolutely need in this open and promising field. And with that trust I am at work. I hope to be ready to welcome my family to a pleasant and secure home in Centralia, next autumn. 
Please thank friend Phillips for his admirable sermon on the war for freedom. We all pray here most fervently that it may result in the extinction of slavery. Such is manifestly the only settlement which can be permanent. Then we should indeed have a dear Father-land, and a pleasant Future before us.
Yours, truly,
DANIEL FOSTER.
Centralia, Nemaha Co., Kansas, May 12,1861.

LETTER FROM CHARLES STEARNS.
CENTRAL CITY, ROCKY MOUNTAINS, Colorado Territory, April 25, 1861.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
It is a long time since I have ventured to address a few words, through the Liberator, to my former friends and coadjutors in the glorious cause of human liberty; but I have not, by any means, forgotten them. As long as I remained in Kansas, I had enough to do practically in helping and protecting the poor fugitive; so that I had but little time to write or talk on the subject. But here, we have no fugitives, and I must needs expend a portion of my anti-slavery zeal in words, again.
The momentous interests now at stake in the Anti-Slavery cause seem to call upon me to exert my influence, if I have any, upon the friends at the East, at this critical juncture.
Little have I expected to live to see this glorious day. God be praised! is the unceasing language of my heart. How often have we all labored and fainted beneath the heat of the summer's sun, and had our forms chilled through by the fierce blasts of icy winter, in order that a few more words of exhortation might be dropped into the ear of a "hard-hearted and rebellious people," in reference to the sin of slavery! How true has been the proverb, "Cast thy bread upon the waters, and after many days thou shalt find it"! What an encouragement to all, to continue their labors in every good cause, knowing that "in due time we shall reap, if we faint not"! Often times I have had nothing to cheer me, in my labors in the anti-slavery cause, but that comforting declaration of our beloved friend Wendell Phillips, "God has not sent me into the world to abolish slavery, but to do my duty." We have all endeavored to do our duty, and now behold the glorious result! The whole North in arms, to overthrow the accursed system of American slavery! I never thought they could be induced thus to act. But God has been at work, and the seed sown with almost despairing hands by the Liberator, and the earnest corps of despised and hated anti-slavery lecturers, has sprung up, and become a wide-spreading tree. "The little stone, cut out of the mountain
<c02>
without hands, has become a great mountain, and filled the whole earth." Even the mighty Seward, and the hitherto unflinching Adams, and the formerly fearless Cassius M. Clay, could not deceive the people, and blind them to the real issue. God, or justice and right, has signally triumphed.
I know you will smile at my words, and say, "He is as enthusiastic as ever"; but is it not so? To be sure, Lincoln and his Northern army will not avow to the world that the abolition of slavery is their object. O no, they are only laboring to enforce the laws, and to uphold the Constitution! But what of that? Our people in Kansas were not fighting to destroy slavery, and yet at the close of the war we found a crop of as uncompromising Abolitionists as the world has ever seen; men who were willing to go, and did go into Missouri, and take away slaves by force, running every imaginable risk in so doing; and some of these men emigrated from slave States to Kansas. So with Lincoln's army; not long after a few more such scenes as that at Baltimore, will they find that they are Abolitionists. They must, in the very nature of the case, labor for the overthrow of slavery, and they will do it. They cannot help it. Slavery is their only foe; slavery is killing their comrades; slavery has called them from their homes to fight. Lincoln was elected, pledged to stop the extension of slavery. The South has taken up arms to resist his power. Then he must fight the system that thus claims the right to extend itself in opposition to the will of the majority. And, think you not, there is a deep under-current of anti-slavery feeling in the hearts of the Northern people, that, released from the fancied obligations to the Constitution, will now flow forth legitimately from their bosoms, as freely as the waters of the Mississippi flow into the ocean? What has kept the turbulent spirit of the North down so long, and made them seem like dolts and asses, under the influence of the kicks and blows of the South, but the belief that, according to the Constitution, they were obliged thus to "eat dust all the days of their lives"? Now the prestige of the Constitution is gone; the South is out of its pale; none of its provisions apply to her; she has spit upon it, and trampled it under her feet. Of course, the North are no longer bound by it, and we stand where we did before its adoption. The Constitution has lost its assumed glory. Our Southern masters have declared that it does not bind us, as we imagined it did. A new era has dawned upon the North. Its eyes have been anointed with eye-salve, and it sees, as never before, its rights and duties. 
My mind is filled with anxiety, lest this favorable moment should pass without the accomplishment of God's will in this matter. But I have said enough. You all feel as I do, I doubt not, and will do what you can. Public sentiment here is on the side of the Union, though there are a few secessionists. The Douglas Democratic organ here is as strong a Union paper as can be imagined. The Republican paper is also for the Union, but the Breckinridge Democratic paper sides with the South. Quite a number are leaving to go to Kansas, and aid in protecting her from Missouri, who has begun again to attack her citizens. I have been here but a little while, and have no one to leave my business with in my absence, and my health is quite poor, or perhaps I should go, too.
I tell you, God's truth was never uttered in vain; and although its hearers gnashed their teeth on its abolition proclaimers, every word uttered by them sank into their hearts, and to-day you behold the grand, the glorious, the magnificent harvest thereof. Continue to talk: only now boldly say, "Arm the slaves, my brethren, and let them fight for freedom"; and, before 
long, this result will be obtained.
Yours, for freedom,
C. STEARNS.

EXTRACTS FROM A PEIVATE LETTER.
DEARS.,-I fear your occupation is gone. These "contraband" articles of the war will not need your thoughts and prayers much longer. I really think, dear S., the world will find out, before this war is over, which side of Mason and Dixon's line the "pluck and chivalry " are. It is already convinced that a mine of wealth, patriotism and valor has long lain hidden at the North, biding its time. To what a wonderful importance our national flag has suddenly risen! That which was, in most eyes, an idle, senseless bit of bunting has suddenly elevated itself above all heads, and dwells in all hearts. From every church-spire, from every mast-head, from all public buildings, from mills and school-houses and manufactories, on the palace and the cottage, on the breast of beauty, on the whip of the driver and the ears of his horses, streams the "red, white, and blue." My eyes fill with tears when I see this symbol of national patriotism, and I know now why we never had a standing army. Why, my dear S., we did not need one. This great, heroic people, "slow to wrath," forever carried unseen in their hearts the same feeling which brought tears to my eyes. We, who have long seen the cloud "no bigger than a man's hand," have been permitted to see the culminating. Do you not thank Heaven for it? I do.
A gentleman who saw the "Grand Army" pass into Virginia, says it is rightly named. Judges of such bodies say the "materiel" of these troops of Northern soldiers cannot be surpassed, if equalled, in the world. The strength and intelligence of the men are even surpassed by their aptness. Yankee thrift and ingenuity against Southern craft and force-who can doubt the result? Each State vies with the other. The most thoroughly prepared regiments were from Rhode Island, Connecticut, Michigan, and New Hampshire. The last had matched Morgan horses to their baggage wagons, every spoke and panel of which were varnished, every band of metal burnished, every thing which civilization could suggest for convenience and comfort. And, then, these sixteen New Hampshire girls for nurses, fresh from the singing-schools and prayer-meetings of their native hills! I dare say each girl has been taught Latin and French in the academy of her native village, and possesses attractions superior to nine-tenths of the daughters of chivalry. There comes my prejudice again! Well, I cannot help it. From my early education, the brand of slavery would be sufficient to estrange me from the South; while every true New England woman must be shocked by the indolent, shiftless, and, I might say, lawless habits of her less fortunate Southern sisters, contaminated by their intercourse with their slaves.
The late Judge Stow, of Niagara county, a man of powerful intellect and strong feelings, was a strong anti-slavery man. About five years since, when the "Border troubles" were at their height, a person called on him for "aid for Kansas." He was surprised by an indignant refusal. "No! not one cent!" said he, in a loud, stern tone." God knows I pity Kansas, and have done all in my power to avert her doom; but if I had a neighbor with broken bones, I should scarcely feed him with sugar plums. No, sir," said he, "but I would like to strike at the root of this difficulty, and I would be one to assist in raising an army of ten thousand men, to go to Charleston, and bombard it with shell and cannon, and put an end to this poor, mean, miserable truckling to the South, who, in ten years, will be our masters, if we do not soon rebuke their insolence."
On looking back at this incident, it seems truly prophetic.
You are sad at the action of English functionaries Never fear! we are just now showing our strength and John Bull will treat us better when this affair is finally settled.
Of what use are education, wealth and science, if we are not to conquer? Let us sink, if all the great attributes of humanity are nought But patience, industry, faith, love of humanity, are our allies. Shall the South come to us with slavery in one hand, and treason in the other, and triumph? No-no-no!
Gen. Beauregard lies to the whole world, when he tells the poor half-starved white women of South Caro-
<c03>
lina that their fathers, husbands and sons, who lie buried in trenches six feet deep, are transferred to other posts; while Gov. Andrew writes to the Mayor of Baltimore, "I pray you send our dead home tenderly. "A band of miserable outcasts, who style themselves "Lincoln killers," dance away the Sabbath with profanity and carouses, while the troops sent to protect Washington ask a grace over the meals grudgingly sold them in Maryland.
Gen. Butler offers to save the foe from their own slaves, while, in return, the sugar and flour sold his troops contain poison!
With what an enemy we are dealing! Surely, this great avengement could no longer be delayed.
Was it not wise, in the Methodists at Wyoming, to cease their controversy, and, instead of the six weeks, war of words of last year, insert these words-"Inasmuch as Divine Providence has taken the matter of slavery into its own hands, we wait to see the salvation of God." From every side, in all classes, in all sects, the anti-slavery feeling is growing: it has taken gigantic strides within the past two months. People who scoffed at H. W. Beecher, when John Brown was hung, go shoulder to shoulder with him now.
You fear the next Congress may patch up things. I don't care if they do; nothing will stop the good time coming.

TRACTS FOR OUR ARMY AND NAVY.
I have just published a series of Tracts for the brave men who are fighting our battles-on the use of Tobacco, Strong Drink, and Profaneness-vices which grow luxuriantly in armies and navies. They are short, sententious in style, and alive with martial sentiments and patriotic pictures. They will be read. They will prepare the way for productions of a more religious kind, which fall dead on soldiers stupified by strong drink and tobacco smoke.
If gentlemen who make handsome donations to furnish camps with "religious reading" will send me only the crumbs which fall from their table, I will supply our camps with Tracts which will render such reading more effective, by cutting up loathsome vices which stand in the way of Christ and salvation.
GEO. TRASK.
Fitchburg, June 13, 1861.

PROCLAMATION OF GEN. BEAUREGARD.
The Richmond Enquirer contains the following proclamation from General Beauregard:-
Head Quarters, Department of Alexandria, Camp Pickens, June 5, 1861.
A PROCLAMATION. To the People of the Counties of London, Fairfax, and Prince William.
A reckless and unprincipled tyrant has invaded your soil. Abraham Lincoln, regardless of all moral, legal, and constitutional restraints, has thrown his Abolition hosts among you, who are murdering and imprisoning your citizens, confiscating and destroying your property, and committing other acts of violence and outrage, too shocking and revolting to humanity to be enumerated. (!!!)
All rules of civilized warfare are abandoned, and they proclaim by their acts, if not on their banners, that their war-cry is "Beauty and Booty" All that is dear to man-your honor and that of your wives and daughters, your fortunes and your lives, are involved in this momentous contest.
In the name, therefore, of the constituted authorities of the Confederate States-in the sacred cause of constitutional liberty and self-government, for which we are contending-in behalf of civilization itself, I, G. T. Beauregard, Brigadier General of the Confederate States, commanding at Camp Pickens, Manassas Junction, do make this my proclamation, and invite and enjoin you by every consideration dear to the hearts of freemen and patriots, by the name and memory of your revolutionary fathers, and by the purity and sanctity of your domestic firesides, to rally to the standard of your State and country; and, by every means in your power, compatible with honorable warfare, to drive back and expel the invaders from your soil.
I conjure you to be true and loyal to your country and her legal and constitutional authorities, and especially to be vigilant of the movements and acts of the enemy, so as to enable you to give the earliest authentic information at these headquarters, or to the officers under his command.
I desire to assure you that the utmost protection in my power will be given to you all.
(Signed)
G. T. BEAUREGARD,
Brigadier-General Commanding.
Official-THEMAS JORDAN,
Acting Assistant Adj't-General.
Gen. Beauregard has issued a characteristic proclamation to the people of Manassas. Like all the rebel crew, his strong point is lying. He lies about the national troops, lies about their actions, lies about their motives, and crowns the whole by charging the monstrous falsehood that their war-cry is "Beauty and Booty" The fact is, Davis and Beauregard are frightened, and this style of raving is indulged in to conceal from their dupes their own despair.-N. Y.
Tribune.
CAPTURE OF A SLAVE SHIP. The slave ship Nightingale, captured on the 22d of April, off Kabenda, on the Western Coast of Africa, by the U. S. sloop of war Saratoga, has been brought into the port of New York. When captured, this vessel was taken into Monrovia, and a cargo of 801 negroes was landed from her. 160 negroes had died on the passage from Kabenda. Of these that were landed, 272 were men, 97 women, 840 boys, and 92 girls. The captain (Francis Bowen,) the supercargo, the cabin servants, and a part of the crew made their escape. The three mates, Hind, Winslow, and Westervelt, were sent home to be delivered to the authorities.
The Nightingale is a clipper ship of 1100 tons burden, built at Portsmouth, N. H., and intended for the Baltic and Australia trade. She sailed from New York on the 13th of September last, arrived at Liverpool October 6th, discharged a cargo of grain, left Liverpool on the 2d of December, and on the 14th of January arrived on the African coast. Previous to her capture she had been twice boarded-once by the English steamer Archer and the U. S. steamer Mystic, and again by the Saratoga. When the Nightingale sailed, the American vessels Ardens, Alexina, Falmouth, Fairy, and Mary Post were known to be in the Congo. The third night after sailing from Kabenda, the Nightingale was boarded by H. B. M. steamer Wrangler, the steamer Clove being under our lee, and the British officers were quite chagrined at finding the bird was caged.
WASHINGTON, June 18th. A train was sent out from Alexandria yesterday afternoon to Vienna, taking M. C. Cook's Ohio regiment, accompanied by General Schenck. Companies were dropped along the road, and the train reached Vienna with only three companies, when a masked battery opened upon them. The Republican says the number killed and wounded was eleven. The troops were forced to retreat, and narrowly escaped being cut to pieces.
OUR NATIONAL EXPENSES. According to the verbal statement of General Scott last week, there are now under arms and in the pay of the government of the United States 220,000 men. To maintain this army, after its equipment, will require $1,000,000 annually to each regiment, or $220,000,000 a year. The navy will require, in addition, at least half that sum, so that with the ordinary expenses of the government, we may safely put down our national expenses at this time at the rat of $365,000,000, or §1,000,000 a day.
Movements of troops are constantly being made through Richmond by night, and without music, for the purposes of secresy; and to the same end the Richmond papers are forbidden to chronicle such movements. Business is entirely dead in Richmond, and the opening of the stores is the merest formality The reign of terror is supreme there, and a number of Union men (Virginians) are in jail, unable to get a trial or habeas corpus. It is believed that the purpose is to hold them as hostages for the safety of secession prisoners in the hands of the Federal Government.-Washington Star.
The Richmond Whig estimates the majority for secession at 180.000 in Virginia. Most of the counties had been heard from.
The Memphis Avalanche advises free negroes to go to work in the entrenchments at Randolph, and says they will be forced to do so if they do not volunteer. It adds that these who volunteer will be discharged as soon as the fortifications are finished, but these who are forced will be detained until the close of the war.
Hon J. D. Waters, a wealthy planter on the Brazos river, Texas, and an uncle of Hon. W. W. Boyce, has tendered the Southern Confederacy the entire proceeds of his crop, (after deducting sufficient to carry on his plantation,) amounting to twelve hundred bags of cotton, five hundred hogsheads of sugar, and thirty thousand bushels of corn.
<c04>
HARPER'S FERRY EVACUATED.
SHARPSBURG, Md., June 14. A reliable escaped Virginian reports that the rebel troops left Harper's Ferry to-day, one part retreating to Winchester and another into London county. This would seem to indicate that a retreat to Manassas Junction is intended.
The railroad bridge was blown up an hour after sunrise this morning. The remaining Government buildings have all been burnt.
The railroad bridge at Martinsburg was also burnt to-day; also the bridge at Shepherdstown. The dark smoke is still ascending from the burning buildings at Harper's Ferry.
ST. Louis, Mo., June 18th. A dispatch to the Democrat from Jefferson City, says a gentleman just arrived there, in a skiff from six miles below Booneville, brings the news that Gen. Lyon had attacked and completely routed the State forces there, killing 300, and taking 600 prisoners. General Price was mortally wounded. The Federal troops lost 17. Full confidence is not placed in this report.
CHAMBERSBUBG, June 13. Col. Wallace, with a portion of the Indiana Zouaves, left Cumberland yesterday for Romney, Va., where he surprised 500 rebel troops, and after a sharp conflict completely routed them, capturing some prisoners, killing two, wounding one, and taking all their first class camp equipage, provisions, medical stores, and arms. One of the Zouaves was slightly wounded, and returned to Cumberland the same day.
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo., June 15th. The capital of Missouri was taken possession of this afternoon on the arrival of the steamer Swan, by five companies of Col. Blair's regiment of Missouri Volunteers, under command of Lieut. Col. Andrews, and a company of regular artillery under Capt. Totten, all under command of Brigadier-General Lyon. The balance of the force remained on board the J. C. Swan until further orders. A company of regulars under Major Conant thoroughly searched the country for contraband articles; they found some wheels and other parts of artillery carriages. No violence was offered, but on the contrary the boats containing the Federal troops were received with enthusiastic cheers by a large concourse of citizens.
ST. Louis, June 17. As a part of Col. Kallman's regiment was returning from North Missouri by railroad this morning, when opposite the Recorder Court room on Seventh street, a company near the rear of the column suddenly wheeled and discharged their rifles, aiming chiefly at the windows of the Recorder's Court, and the second story of the adjoining house, killing four citizens, and mortally wounding two and slightly injuring one.
Police officer Pratt was shot, and died in ten minutes. Deputy Marshal Franzo received three balls in his leg, and will undoubtedly die. The names of the others who were killed on the pavement are unknown. 
Provocation was first given by rebels firing upon the troops from chamber windows. An investigation of this tragical affair is to be promptly made.
A letter to the Lynchburg Republican, dated Manassas Junction, June 6th, says:-
" I was told yesterday, coming from one of the parties engaged, (the captain,) that a party of scouts, seven in number, under Captain McKay, commanding an independent company, late of the United States service, met with four Federal cavalry, also scouts, at Falls Church, Wednesday night, and taking deliberate aim at the federalists, fired, killing three instantly, 'and wounding the fourth so badly that he had to cling to the neck of his horse as he ran. This happened in distant view of the enemy's camp, supposed to be dragoons, about six miles from Alexandria. The rangers made good their escape, having only one shot fired after them.
Some seventy-five negroes from Fauquier county arived here this evening, and were immediately put at the fortifications, for which purpose they came. Others are said to be coming." 
A BLACK CREW UNDER THE BLACK FLAG. The Mobile Mercury of the 23d ult. says:-
"We learned yesterday, from good authority, that an experienced Southern navigator of general popularity, and with means amply sufficient to carry out his projects, had completed the purchase of a crack vessel, now in our harbor, which he intends to man with a crew of his own negroes, and cruise about under a letter of marque. What will the white niggers of the North say when they learn that one or more of their vessels have been captured, and brought into a Southern port by this gallant captain and his redoubtable crew?"
What would the owners of that crack vessel say if that black crew should conclude to run away with the vessel? As strange things have happened. " Wait a little longer."
A TRAITOR SUFFERED TO ESCAPE. William Trappman of Charleston, S. C., a captain in the confederate army, and bearer of despatches from Jefferson Davis, was permitted to sail in the steamship America from Boston, the other day, because nothing treasonable about his person or baggage could be found by the officer who arrested him, while it would seem that his wife, who accompanied him, was not searched at all. The North arc a very forbearing people. If extremes meet, our clemency must reach as far back as the insolence of the South.
MORE TROUBLE WITH SLAVES. The Memphis (Tenn.) Avalanche states that on the 6th inst., at Silver Lake, Washington County, Mississippi, a negro belonging to George B. Powell, and employed on the plantation of Mr. Charles G. McHatton, was hung by a Committee of Safety. He had stolen three guns, two pistols, a bowie-knife and a watch, together with a lot of powder and lead, and succeeded in reaching a bridge, under which he secreted himself. As Mr. James S. Dodds was riding over, the negro fired at him without effect. He was subsequently captured and hung. It is supposed he was induced to steal the guns by several runaway negroes in the neighborhood, belonging to the family of the late Stephen A. Douglas.
A REREL PRIVATEER CAPTURED. The schooner Savannah, Midshipman McCook commanding, from Charleston, 4 days, has just arrived, having the Stars and Stripes flying over the Secession flag. The schooner was captured by the United States brig Perry, about 60 miles outside Charleston Harbor. She was formerly a pilot-boat at that port, is schooner rigged, of 54 tons burden, and has an 18-poumler pivot gun amidships. She had been out from Charleston about 30 hours previous to her capture. During her cruise, she had captured the brig Joseph of Rockland, which was sent into Georgetown, S. C. The Savannah was brought to this port by Midshipman McCook and prize crew of United States ship Minnesota. Her crew, about 80 in number, were put in irons on board the Minnesota. The Savannah will anchor off the Battery.-N. Y. Tribune.
SAD STEAMSHIP DISASTER.-TWENTY-FIVE OR THIRTY PASSENGERS LOST. ST. JOHNS, N. F., June 14th. The steamship Canadian, from Liverpool for Quebec, struck on some sunken ice, eight miles south of Belleisle, on the fourth of June, and sunk in, thirty-five minutes.
One hundred and eighty-one passengers were saved in boats. From twenty to thirty were lost, including six cabin passengers. Part of the mails were saved. The mail agent and second officer of the ship were lost.
The Canadian struck under the foremast, breaking into three compartments at once. The ice looked small-scarcely above the water. The ship was going slow at the time.
The boats landed the survivors at Cape Bauld, and they were brought here by a French barque. The ship's papers were lost, and the number of passengers drowned cannot be readily ascertained. 
We have news from Santa Fe of more stealing by the Texans. The Mesilla Times of May 17 says:-"A large train belonging to W. S. Grant of Arizona, the army contractor for the different garrisons in this Territory, were seized by the Texas forces at the Rio Hondo, near San Antonia, and the train, animals and freight of all classes were confiscated. The officer in command refused to give receipts, and made no distinction between the Government and private property. Forty wagons were seized, with some 250,000 pounds of freight for Arizona garrisons, and some 30,000 pounds to private parties, chiefly belonging to Mr. Grant."
At Great Bethel, the rebels report their loss to have been one killed and five wounded, and express a wish that Gen. Pierce may be retained in command. Major Winthrop was shot by a Louisiana rifleman while heading a vigorous charge. He was buried by the rebels, who greatly praised his heroism.
A letter from Fortress Monroe states that a Massachusetts soldier ran up on the top of the entrenchments at Great Bethel during the heaviest part of the fight, and took a Sharp's rifle away from a rebel, and returned safe with his trophy.
Every accessible point on the Potomac River at which a crossing could be effected, from Williamsport, above Harper's Ferry, to Aquia Creek, below Alexandria, is now in the hands of the Federal forces and effectually guarded.
The sum of §580 has been subscribed at Memphis for the family of James W. Jackson, who killed Ellsworth at Alexandria, Va.
<c05>
The returns from Maryland seem to show that, with the exception of Davis, all the Union candidates are elected.
The bridges at Harper's Ferry and Shepherdstown were destroyed by the Secessionists on Thursday night, and on Friday they evacuated Harper's Ferry. The remaining government buildings were burned.
The total destruction of railroad property at Harper's Ferry is estimated at over three hundred thousand dollars, including equipment But including the bridges between that place and Cumberland, the aggregate loss to the company may run up to a million.
In a speech on the paper duty, Lord John Russell strongly deprecated the exultation with which Sir John Ramsden had alluded to the "bursting of the bubble of democracy in America." In common with the great bulk of her countrymen, he was horrified at a civil war, which arose from the accursed poison of slavery left them by England.
J P. Benjamin, Attorney-General of the Rebel Government, sent the following dispatch to the New Orleans authorities in relation to the free negroes taken with the whaling vessels recently captured:-
"The free negroes are not held as prisoners under the laws of the Confederate States. Dispose of them according to the laws of the State."
Of course, they are doomed, and will be sold into slavery for life.
ALEXANDRIA, June 14. A slave belonging in Maryland, who fled here and took up his abode among the Zouaves, was delivered to his owner this afternoon, upon his producing the proper authority.
HOW THEY LOVE THEIR MASTERS. It is stated that upwards of seven hundred slaves have escaped from Virginia within the past two weeks, who are now held by the government forces as contraband of war. Estimated value to their owners, not less than half a million of dollars.
The funeral of Senator Douglas was attended in Chicago on the 17th inst., by an immense concourse. Business generally was suspended, the banks and stores being closed. Over ten thousand persons were in the procession. Bishop Duggan, Cathelic, delivered an oration at Cottage Grove, the place of burial. At Washington the departments were all closed, and all over the North various marks of respect were shown.
Hon. O. H. Browning, of Quincy, Illinois, who has been appointed Judge Douglas's successor, is a man of great talent, a Republican in politics, formerly an old-line Whig.
DEATH OF COUNT CAVOUR.-TURIN, June 6. At the reopening of the Chamber of Deputies to-day, the President announced the death of Count Cavour amid expressions of profound grief on the part of the Assembly. He pointed out the great loss that Italy had sustained, and described the signal services rendered by Cavour.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
PLEASANT BOARDING, ON FAVORABLE TERMS.-Mrs. H. S. DENHAM can accommodate a gentleman and wife, or two or three single gentlemen, with pleasant rooms, on favorable terms, at 75 (formerly 33) Beach street, near the Worcester Depot, Boston.
A few transient boarders can also be accommodated.
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETINGS.-PARKER PILLSBURY will attend Anti-Slavery Meetings on Sunday, 23d inst., at the usual hours, in West Brookfield, (Town Hall,) and on Sunday, 30th inst., at Cummington.
A. T. F0SS will speak at
We are, N. H., Sunday, June 23.
Weymouth, at 2 1-2 and 5 1-2, P. M., June 30.
LUCRETIA MOTT, of Philadelphia, will speak in Music Hall on Sunday forenoon next, June 23.

ST. MARY'S LAKE 
WATER-CURE.
OPENED BY 
H. A. PETERMAN, M. D.
The Proprietors of this Institution take pleasure in announcing to the invalids of Michigan and its neighboring States, that they have opened their WATER-CURE at St. Mary’s Lake, and are now in readiness to receive patients.
This Institution is situated in one of the most healthy and pleasant locations in the State, on the banks of a beautiful little lake, four miles North of the City of Battle Creek.
The buildings are new, commodious, and furnished for the comfort and convenience of invalids. The bath-rooms are largo, and fitted up with hot, cold, vapor, chemical, and electrical baths.
The lake, whose waters are as clear and soft as these of a spring from the granite mountain's base, is well supplied with boats and bath-houses. No more beautiful fresh water bathing can be found in any land.
Several hundred acres of the grand Old Oak Forest, immediately surrounding the lake, have been reserved for pleasure-grounds.
The afflicted, requiring surgical treatment, will find this a most desirable establishment, where they can be placed in the best possible condition to bear an operation, and receive the best of care afterwards.
Particular attention given to the treatment of diseases of the Eye. All operations performed that warrant a prospect of restoring sight to the blind. Our treatment for Cataract is entirely new, and in advance of anything hitherto known.
A supply of beautiful Artificial Eyes kept constantly on hand.
Paralysis, and every variety of Nervous and Chronic diseases, will be treated.
The Ladies' Department is under the care of Mrs. S. A. Peterman, whose long experience in the treatment of the diseases incident to the female constitution renders her treatment unsurpassed by that of any physician now practising in that department of the medical profession.
There will be a competent Music Teacher in attendance, to give instruction in Piano, Guitar, and Vocal Music, to such as may wish to take medical treatment and pursue the study of Music at the same time. For such, this will be found a most desirable location, where the mental and physical systems may both be developed; the one in the music room, the other in rambling through the leafy woods, in the Gymnasium, and in boat-rowing, than, which no better exercise can be found.
We intend, with the aid of competent help in every department, to make this CURE the invalid's HOME, as well as a place for medical treatment.
Those coming as patients should furnish themselves with two comfortables, two linen or cotton packing sheets, one woollen blanket, and one half-dozen bath towels, or they can be furnished by the CURE at fifty cents per week extra. 
TERMS-From $7 to §10 per week, for treatment, board, &c., according to room and care.
This Institution is accessible by Michigan Central Railroad. Carriage always in waiting at the Battle Creek Depot to convey people to the CURE.
H. F. PETERMAN, M. D.,
MRS. S. A. PETERMAN, M. D.,
Physicians and Proprietors,
To whom all letters of inquiry should be addressed. Each communication, to insure an answer, should contain a postage stamp for return letter.
St. Mary's Lake, Michigan, May 20, 1861. J 21

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHEUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases oat of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from taming grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
Call and see some of the best references in the country. No charge for information.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER, No, 31 Winter streets, Boston.
June 14. tf
<c06>
New Dress Goods
-AT-
HEBBARD'S,
365 Washington Street
Figured Irish Poplins, 62 cts. cost 87 cts.
French checked do. 50 cts. cost 62 cts.
French striped and figured do. 50 cts. cost 62 cts.
Double with Mozambiques, 37 & 50 cts. 62 & 75 cts.
Double width Grey Goods, 25 cts. cost 50 cts.
Single width Grey Goods, 8 & 10 cts. cost 9 & 12 cts.
Best American Prints, 62 cts. cost 82 cts.
Berages, silk and wool, 17 cts, cost 32 cts.
Organdie Muslins, 13 cts. former
price, 27 cts.
Common Muslins, 8 cts cost 12 cts.
Double width Challio,' 25 cts. cost 35 cts.
Boston, June 7.

Look at the Prices!
-AT-
HEBBAED'S,
365 Washington Street.
Black French Lace Mantillas, $4 cost $8
Black Silk Mantillas, 6 cost 10
Black Silk Basquenes, 12 cost 16
Cloth Garments, 5 cost 8
Heavy Plaid Silks, for Mantillas, 1 cost 1.50
Heavy Plaid Silks, 60 cts. cost 90 cts.
Rich Chene Silks, 75 cts. cost $1.00
Plain Silks at like discount.
Boston, June 7.

Marking Down
-AT-
HEBBARD'S,
365 Washington Street.
Look at PRICES!
Mourning Pine Apple sets, $2.50 cost 3.00
Valanciene Medallion sets, 3.50 cost 5.00
Cambric and Muslin sete, 1.00 cost 2.50
Collars, 25, 37, 1.50 cost 50, 62, 1.75
Linen sets, 20 cts.-Collars 6ts
Boston, June 7.

THE PINE PALM.
EDITORS:
JAMES REDPATH, GEORGE LAWRENCE JR.
HENRY MELKOSE, Office Editor.
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.
John BROWN, JR., H. FORD DOUGLAS,
RICHARD J. HINTON, FRANK B. SANBORN,
WM. WELLS BROWN, M. DE ST. AMAND, Hayti,
J. B. SMITH, A. E. NEWTON,
J. W. LE BARNES, GEORGE H. HOYT.
PUBLICATION OFFICES.
BOSTON-Room 8, 221 Washington Street.
NEW YORK-48 Beekman Street.
No. I.-Contains Wendell Phillips's Speech on Toussaint L'Ouverture, with an authentic portrait of the hero.
No. II.-Contains a portrait of President Geffrard.
No. III.-Also illustrated, contains a long and hitherto unpublished letter of John Brown, and all the documents necessary for a thorough knowledge of the Spanish Plot in St. Domingo?
The Pine and Palm is the successor of the Anglo-African, (the organ of the colored Americans.) and is devoted to the advocacy of practical organized efforts against Slavery. Its fourth page forms the official organ of the Government of Hayti.
Its first three numbers contain an immense amount of correspondence, including letters from Africa, Hayti, Vancouver's Island, New Brunswick, Washington, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Ohio, Virginia, South Carolina, New York, Detroit, &c. &c.-chiefly by colored Americans; and this feature will still be more fully developed.
TERMS-$1 for six months.
JAMES REDPATH, Proprietor.

P. S.
PERUVAN SYRUP,
THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE.
TRY IT.
IT will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Diarrhoea, General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood.
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWETT & COMPANY,
No. 39 Summer st., Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
April 19. 3mis

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread,. Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents, of Howe, Wheeler A Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market. 
Sales Room, 188 Washington: street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1801. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheels Wilson, and Grover Baker, for which these parties par tribute. These, together with Parker's improvement make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is a simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the. dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged, on that account."
Boston, June 7,1861.

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by AMY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM. C. NELL,
221 Washington street.
F8 tf
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
From the Boston Traveller.
THE SLAVE GIRL.
The Sun shone bright on Georgia’s plain,
And Summer’s glorious sheen was spread
o’er teeming earth and flowing main;
All things to beauteous thought were wed.
O’er broad savannas, green and fair, 
Od’rous with flowers and vernal gales, 
Ten thousand warblers filled the air, 
Re-echoing through the woods and vales.
It was a morn, so sweet and calm,
For inspiration’s holiest power;
Nature herself, in triple charm,
Seemed hallowed in the sacred hour.
But, hark! the city’s distant hum,
And, lo! the smoke of busy toil,
Now trembling to my senses come,
And bid my inmost soul recoil.
For, lo! in yonder busy mart
Of eager, selfish, scheming men, 
This day the heavens see played a part 
Recorded with the judgment pen.
I hie me to the anxious scene;
The crowds of eager spirits press
Round Mammon’s temple, gaunt and keen,
With eyes of glistening restlessness.
The central figure of the throng,
With voice of hoarse, impetuous sound,
Now hurries through the dreadful wrong,
With words that smite the very ground.
Great God! it is a public sale 
Of human beings robbed and chained!
And, hark! that piteous, piercing wail
Of one within that crowd contained.
It is a poor slave girl!
she stands, Trembling, and delicate, and wan,
With downcast eyes and folded hands,
Musing in mystery upon 
Her hopeless fate-and, in her turn,
She mounts the desecrated block,
While the quick fires of frenzy burn, 
And send through all her frame the shock.
Her tawny face (for she was one 
In whom a rich white blood prevailed)
Now colored proudly in the sun,
Tinged with a beauty all unveiled.
Her rounded cheek, her lustrous eye,
And features of a nobler race,
Revealed a form of symmetry
That flowed with dignity and grace.
I saw her, in her modest pride,
Reach forth with carefulness her hand,
Some tattered garment there to hide,
Some decency of dress command.
Exposed to gaze of brutal men,
Her form, her limbs, her very bones,
Handled as cattle in a pen,
With coarse, immodest looks and tones;
Her Afric’s beauty scanned and leered,
Her body craved, her soul despised,
Her timid virtue scoffed and jeered,
With wanton jests half undisguised:
Out from that cursed block she gazed 
On eager purchasers around,
And as the fiend his hammer raised,
With flashing eye, and quick rebound,-
As flew the words-once, twice, and thrice,
And bids went quickly from the crowd,
For such a prize, at such a price,
Oh, how that slave girl wept aloud!
For, lo! from every kindred torn,
From home of mother and of child,
How could she there and then but mourn
In utter desolation wild?
To strangers sold, by strangers borne 
Away from every native tie
Bound to a beast who should have worn
Her chains, and felt her slavery,-
O God! the very soul should leap
In indignation to the skies,
Swift justice all her vigils keep,
Till this accurs’d damnation dies.
I call upon Thee, God of Right,
Now to inaugurate the hour!
Let not this “Crisis” end in night:
Come with thy smiting judgment power.
If blessed peace can rule the day,
So let the victory be achieved;
If not, let fearful lightnings play,
Let hell’s foundations be upheaved.
Smite with thy Justice’s awful rod,
Let all thy mighty thunders roll;
Come Truth and Freedom, oh my God,
And sound the joy from pole to pole!
Boston, Mass. W.M.F.

LINES,
Written more than Thirty Years ago, in view of the consequences of American Slavery.
BY PATIENCE HOWLAND, OF DARTMOUTH.
Muse of sorrow touch the string,
Strike thy bold prophetic note,
Tell me whence those trouble spring
Which in future visions float.
Had not Avarice crossed the main,
Blind and mad with thirst for gold,
Human flesh on Freedom’s plains
Never had been bought nor sold.
Happy had thy country been,
Happy should thy children be,
If foul deeds of shame and sin
Had not stained her history. Then had the name of Washington
A reproachless trophy raised,
And the star of freedom shone
Brighter as it longer blazed.
Now a black, tremendous cloud,
Threatens vengeance wide and far;
It shall burst in thunders loud,
Deluging your fields with war.
E’en now in motion are the feet
Which that awful field shall tread,
And the hearts already beat
Which may on that altar bleed.
Lo! before my vision stand 
Spectres of the ghastly dead,
While the Genius of the land 
Dimly weaves the mourning weed.
Pale her cheek and dim her eye,
Brooding o’er her destiny,
Yet her conscious blushes rise
At the name of liberty.
Freedom’s bards, ye chant in vain,
Caroling her praises round;
In your chorus the chain;
Groans are mingled with the sound.
Yes-nor shall the laurels live 
Which ye twine for Freedom’s brow;
You’ve obtained-but do you give?
Suffering thousands answer, No!
Who shall wipe the tears away
Which from bleeding Mercy flow?
Who th’ enormous debt shall pay
Which to Afric’s blood ye owe?
By the bitter tears ye wring 
From the mother’s drooping soul,
By affliction’s tortured sting,
When the father’s bowels roll,-
By the murmurs which ascend 
In the tortured culprit’s groan,
By the prayers of weeping friends
As they rise before the throne,-
By the justice of our God,
By his never-ending sway,
<c02>
By his sure sin-chastening rod,
You or yours the debt shall pay.
When the work of sin is ripe,
Injured justice calls  aloud;
Groan for groan, and stripe for stripe,
Blood shall be repaid in blood.
Sudden horror dims my sight,
Starting at the view I take;
Grant repentance, Lord of Light,
Spare us for thy mercy’s sake!

THE LIBERATOR.
LETTER FROM JAMES HAUGHTON, ESQ.
35 ECCLES ST.,DUBLIN, May 29,1861. WM.LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.:
MY DEAR FRIEND-The wonderful changes which have taken place in your country in the public sentiment of the people, within the past six months, and the rapidity with which one unexpected event follows on another, among you, have awakened here a universal feeling of interest in your proceedings, and, I may add, of deep regret in many a heart because of the present posture of your affairs. For my own part, I may say, that when the news arrived, that something like a real determination, on the part of some of your Southern States, to secede from the unnatural coalition,-I do not call it union, for no real union ever existed between your free and your slave States, but a chain, which had long bound you together, like two snarling dogs yoked  against their will,-I rejoiced sincerely, for I felt that the day of redemption of the slave was then nigh at hand. I saw, in that circumstance, the realization of that event, so long demanded by your section of the American Abolitionists," No Union with Slaveholders. "It is true, the cry of secession came from an unexpected quarter-from the South, instead of the North; but no matter. I rejoiced at the near fulfilment of our aspirations; and I said, the North will surely permit this secession to go on in peace; for, where no real union ever did, or ever can exist, to fight for an idea will surely never enter into the heads of Northern men, particularly of Northern Abolitionists. But events, during the past few weeks, have falsified my anticipations.  I find the North is mad for this impracticable idea, and that my cherished friends among the only party I ever believed to be really friendly to the colored man, are among the foremost in crying" Havoc, and let slip the dogs of war. “The Liberator and the Standard seem to me to have forgotten the axiom,-made doubly true by the experience of mankind for long ages, in every land, savage and civilized,-“They who take the sword shall perish by the sword. "Many a time, within the past twenty-five years of my life, during which I have striven to persuade others that war was always a folly as well as a crime, have my small labors in the cause of peace been arrested by the unwelcome thought, that it was useless to go on striving to persuade men not to learn war any more, but to endeavor by some other means,-Christian means, I have hoped against hope, would yet find their way into our hearts,-to promote the ends of civilization. This painful feeling has come more frequently before my mind, since I have found that you, and Wendell Phillips, and the editors of the Standard, have lost your faith in the superior efficacy of peace over war, to rectify the evils even of slavery.
It does not seem to me that your Northern men, in their seeming determination to coerce the South to keep the Union intact, are influenced by any feeling of kindness towards the slave. The energy which actuates the whole North, at present, appears to me to arise from no such manly motive; and I am very apprehensive that she would be slow to act, as she is now doing, if she believed the emancipation of the Southern slaves would be the result. I have looked to the realization of that desirable object, from the expectation that the South, when left to the management of her own affairs, would soon find it impossible to hold four millions of her population in bondage; that either the sense of insecurity, under such circumstances, would induce the masters either to free their slaves, who would be found continually escaping in large numbers into the free States, or that the slaves, sustained by the public opinion of the world, and perhaps aided by no inconsiderable number of the Southern white  population, would rise up, and free themselves by force.
I believe the true policy of the North is, to allow such of the Southern States as please to do so, to secede quietly-to follow the example of England in getting rid of all protective tariffs, and by throwing open her trade to all the world, go forward in a career of continued prosperity and happiness. War will assuredly blast these pleasant prospects, perhaps for a long season. Fierce passions will fill the breasts of your population at either side; and hatred will aloud where love should predominate. I have just this moment read a letter from the Special Correspondent of the London Times, from South Carolina, which reveals a state of such diabolical hatred towards Northern men, in the bosoms of Southern slaveholders, as makes the blood almost curdle in one's veins read the account of it. War, under such circumstances, means extermination, or a fierce and horrible encounter of long duration, to end in planting feelings of mutual hatred, not to be removed for many generations. I send you the Dublin paper of this date, which contains the letter above referred to. If you allow the South quietly to secede, you will get rid of all complicity with her slave system, which is daily doing her more and more damage in the eyes of the whole world; and if it be proved that her move is a false one for mutual happiness,-which I believe would soon be apparent,-a re-union on a happier basis could be established. To fight for it now will be madness, and I do not meet with a man of any party here, who is not of this opinion. Indeed, I do not yet believe you will come to serious blows on the occasion. My great fear is, that some hollow compromise will be made, in which the interest of the colored population will be no question with either party. My hope, however, is, that the fiery spirits of the South will be allowed to retire, and that thus your cry of twenty years' standing will be realized-“No Union with Slaveholders."
I am sorry to find any inclination, on your part, to give the smallest sanction to war for the accomplishment of the slave's freedom; for two reasons,-the first is, that I believe violence begets violence, and that freedom is never the result; and the second is, that your surrender of conviction to apparent expediency weakens my own hope that the principles enunciated by Jesus will yet rule in the hearts of civilized men.
What is our friend H. C. Wright doing in this crisis! I had thoughts of addressing him a few lines through the Liberator, but this letter will suffice. 
Yours, my dear friend, affectionately,
JAMES HAUGIITON.
ANUAL MEETTING OF THE FRIENDS OF HUMANP POGRESS.
NEWARK, (N.J) June 4, 1861.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I have just returned from an attendance on the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress," held at Waterloo, (N. Y.)and which closed its labors on Sunday last, 2d inst., after three days earnest and able discussion of the several religious and moral Reforms that agitate and interest the freedom and truth-loving men and women of the North. As you may very naturally suppose, the chief among the subjects considered was that of American Slavery and the Crisis, as well as imminent peril, of the country. Resolutions, bearing the most unmistakable testimony, were adopted; and although the discussions were conducted in a very courteous manner, yet a great diversity of opinion was expressed as to the means which should be used, and the attitude which should be  assumed, by the genuine friends of the slave.
<c03>
At no meeting that I ever attended, or with which I am acquainted, have I known such toleration of opinion, freedom from superstition, and, at the same time, so lively, orderly and unitary a spirit manifested, as at this gathering of earnest and intelligent reformers. Every shade of opinion and sentiment in the Anti-Slavery enterprise were represented, from the meek non-resistant to the most rampant war spirit.
The friends of peace and spiritual warfare upon slavery had able representatives and advocates in Benjamin Fish, Catharine Stebbins, Susan B. Anthony, and Giles B. Stebbins; whilst the friends of war for liberty had defenders and representatives of like ability and not less devotedness in Frederick Douglass, Lucy N. Coleman, Geo. W. Clark, and P. D. Moore; but above the enthusiasm of the war-cry and the lethargy of an inactive peace spirit, in an atmosphere at once serene and sublimely courageous, stood one of the purest, ablest and clearest minds of this or any age, in the  person of Charles D. B. Mills of Syracuse, whose modesty of deportment and lack of ambition to become famous prevent the world from  becoming acquainted with his qualities of mind and character, and justly pronouncing him second to none,-not even to the gifted Emerson, whom he greatly resembles in power of insight, originality of thought, and love of freedom and individual character.  Mr. Mills did not allow the phenomenon of war to absorb him, but, looking with clear eye into causes, he saw and declared the law underlying slavery and war, as well as that underlying freedom and peace, and with great force and impressiveness analyzed the mixed and variegated character of Northern sentiment, and the true import of the crisis now upon the country, as the resolutions he drafted and presented, on behalf of the Business Committee, abundantly evidence, and which I enclose. There were also resolutions upon Woman's Rights Marriage and other subjects, introduced and very ably discussed. I found but one opinion expressed or entertained by the meeting in reference to the postponement of the anniversary meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society and of the Pennsylvania Progressive Friends, and that was, that a deplorable mistake was made in postponing, especially at this time, when the Slave and Truth, Freedom and Humanity demand a clear and emphatic testimony, and no faltering on the part of their friends. The soil, this spring, was better conditioned than ever before for the seed of truth and freedom, but the husbandman  (shrinking from the heat of the day) did not appear to perform his work. Well, notwithstanding all this, we have had one very large, earnest, interesting and successful Convention at Waterloo,-thanks to the untiring friends of Progress. On Sunday, the immense concourse of people present were unable to find even standing room within the large Quaker meeting-house, and for five hours and a half they remained, maintaining the utmost quiet, and manifesting the deepest interest in the many able addresses delivered. Our friends James G. Clark and Geo. W. Clark were with us, and discoursed very beautiful and appropriate music, for their souls were in the work.
I know I have trespassed upon your valuable columns in giving this meagre sketch of the meeting; but you must keep in mind that this is the only anniversary the friends of Freedom and Progress have had the courage to hold since the war commenced, and therefore I will venture to subjoin some of the Resolutions, adopted with entire unanimity, and which I trust your readers will carefully peruse and inwardly digest. 
Yours, truly, DORLAND.
RESOLUTIONS.
1. Resolved, That at this hour, and at all hours, the work of the Friends of Human Progress lies primarily with the inward culture, at the springs and sources of individual life and character, seeking everywhere to encourage and assist to the fullest emancipation of the human spirit, inviting to the largest liberty of thought the freest inspirations of truth, and the utmost possible exaltation of life into approximations to the standard of the Infinite Excellence; a work to be pursued without weariness or cessation, as paramount to all enterprises or causes, and even more imperative and vital than all exigencies whatsoever.
2. Resolved, That to such work alone we look as the great agency for the final recovery and redemption of man, it underlying all individual growth, all social advancement and reformation, furnishing the only sure condition for the solution of every social problem, and opening the royal road to every success, in that it commences and leavens from within, fashioning from the substance the form, and reaching out evermore from unit to mass, from individual to race.
3. Resolved. That in the enslavement of the colored race in our land, determined and persistent, until now, at length, four millions of our brothers and sisters are held the creatures and victims of that unutterable atrocity, called American slavery, we sec clearly enough the deep and damning guilt of our country, enough the deep and damning guilt of our country, and, in its present condition, something of the just retribution; the voices of the universal Providence to-day, and the mute forces even that lie hidden in the violence of passion and crime, evoked in the civil conflict now raging, declaring, in word not to be mistaken, that sin works the ruin of any people, and that the perpetrators of slavery, its aids, abettors and accomplices, also, are loathed and accursed of God and nature, and must inevitably be visited of swift judgment and condign overthrow.
4. Resolved, That in the struggle now going on in our country between North and South, a struggle already become fierce, desperate and bloody, we find on the part of the South unmeasured imperiousness, insolence and brutality, the delirium tremens of guilt, the infatuation of madness, the rage and riot of atrocity, such as can find birth and growth on the soil of slavery alone; on the part of the North, in a measure, the sentiment of justice and a love for liberty indeed, but strangely mixed with very much that is narrow, selfish, exasperated, and full of the violences of passion, swayed and cheated by the jugglery of name, and taken with the hallucination, alike empty and wicked, of maintaining or reconstructing on its old basis the Union, a Union from the beginning perverted from its original avowed purpose, conspiratous and criminal, and, to this hour, guilty before God of the blood of the American slave.
5. Resolved, That, while we are not without hope that from this struggle, not through any design of man, but by the overruling action of the Eternal Laws, some significant result may come for freedom; and while we regard with sympathy and a measure of gratification the spirit of indignation and resistance now roused in the North to the insatiate demands and atrocious insolences of slavery, and the slaveholders' rebellion, we still see that the North is yet far from standing equal to the requirements of this hour, or loyal to the claims of ever-sovereign justice, in that it persists in ignoring the slave, proclaiming from executive chair and from soldier camp its readiness and determination to maintained, with all the power of its bayonets enforce, his subjugation, and protect to the slaveholder his" institution" of robbery and murder intact and inviolate; and we hereby bear our emphatic testimony against this attitude, as base, dastardly, and cruelly inhuman, and sure, if continued, to brand this nation as a nation of rebels and traitors, North as well as South, to smite it with the blight of bankruptcy and death, making its every attempt to vindicate its liberties futile and a mockery, its very successes defeats, and its victories overthrow.
6. Resolved, That we are indeed in the midst of a crisis, but a crisis deeper and more vital than most suppose, involving in its issue the fate of the primal liberties, the freedom of thought and speech and effort trembling to-day in the same side of the scale with the rights of the slave, a prompt advance to universal emancipation, or a terrible revulsion to oppression and the persecution of the friends and advocates of the enslaved, now inevitable, and between these no alternative; a crisis, therefore, that requires the faithful preaching of the gospel of truth and justice to the people of this nation with an emphasis and earnestness never known before, as not only an obligation, but now an all-compelling necessity.
<c04>
THE HOME FOR OUTCAST FEMALES.
To the Editor of the Button Journal:
I should not feel justified in asking for space in your columns, at a time when they are imperatively required for more momentous matter, did I know of any other mode by which I could acquit myself of a debt I owe to many of the citizens of Boston, to wham I tendered pledges of service some three months since in behalf of the outcast and homeless women of their city. In view of the wide interest with which my efforts were then met, and the solemn earnestness with which I pledged myself to that work, I deem it but justice to both parties to render some account of my subsequent action.  It will be no matter of surprise to any who participate in the all-engrossing interest of the present national crisis to lean that the committee of ladies and gentlemen who at first rallied around me, felt the necessity of suspending further action from the middle of April to next fall, or such time as the public mind should be free to sympathize in such a movement.
For myself, whilst fully acquiescing in the propriety of such an adjournment, I yet felt that the calamities that fell heavily enough on those most qualified by wealth and position to sustain them, would visit yet more heavily those Pariahs who have so few to care for or sympathize with them, gaining their miserable livelihood, moreover, from that luxury which would now be drained, and leave them yet more helpless than ever, I determined to use what little means I had collected myself, for the purpose of commencing a small experimental home, on the same industrial principle announced in my Public addresses, and approved by my committee. Having named this purpose to many of my personal friends in Boston, I experienced a warm renewal of that sympathy which, from the first, determined me to inaugurate a movement which I hope will radiate into a world-wide reform in this city. Such little sums as could be wrung from national demands, and even articles of furniture, were kindly brought me, and several stanch friends joined me in efforts to find a suitable location for my undertaking. With a sum not exceeding $1500, but yet sufficient, in addition to my own labors, to support a poor family (unhappily too ready to my hands) for one year, at least, I anticipated the world's gracious permission to undertake my terrible charge, unopposed at least, if not sustained; and it is because the new obstacles that arise in my path speak more loudly the tone of public opinion toward these" abandoned" ones, than aught I could say, that I ask leave to state why I cannot carry out my design. For the last six weeks, I have been incessantly toiling round the suburbs of Boston, in company with two faithful I friends, in the vain effort to find any place, with the -specialties requisite for my purpose, which I could hire not but what such places are to be found in abundance.  In the neighborhood of the chamber where I write are three noble estates that have for years remained tenantless; the doors are falling from their hinges, decay and time writing their mossy epitaphs on threshold and roof; but even the very worms which run riot in these  solitary  places are deemed more acceptable inmates than the" woman of the town" who seeks the shelter of decent surroundings as a chance of reform in a word, landlords and proprietors seem to have entered into a league against the admission of the outcast to their dwellings. Her stamp on their threshold would too indelibly stain it, and a roof where a fallen woman had learned the lessons of virtue would never again be deemed worthy to shelter those who, in nine cases out of ten, have helped on her ruin. In one or two rare instances, the kind hearts of the proprietors have been deaf to the call of interest, and one bold estate owner, weak enough to believe his property would insure him better interest if laid up in the funds of heaven than those of earth, actually pressed a place upon me, where the sweet flowers, balmy air and quiet  groves seemed to breathe of the moral and physical health which I feel confident is absolutely essential  to the restoration of the victims whom I seek to heal; nay, this dreamer had the hardihood to express his belief that to convert his lawn into a school of reform, would plant it with blossoms from the skies; and that the feet of repentant sinners made whole, and fitted for eternity, treading his thresholds,  would  leave  angel foot-prints all over the house. Deluded proprietor! The virtuous indignation of his neighbors soon recalled him to a sense of his earthly duties; and lest his heavenly ones, carried out in the admission of my homeless ones to his estate, should Involve him in a threatened dispute with neighbors, who determined not to. share the atmosphere poisoned with these polluted ones, I bad to come to the conclusion that I must withdraw, or involve my benefactor in a war of ill-will and antagonism. This has been my reception in nearly every instance where I could find all the specialties  I sought, two only excepted- the one where a noble gentleman of Roxbury proposed, in sympathy with  my movement, to make pecuniary sacrifices of an estate, the extreme publicity of which renders it wholly unsuitable for my purpose; and another, where a house so terribly ruinous as to render it a sheer disgrace to offer it for human habitation, was generously tendered at a rent little higher than the undertaker would charge for equally convenient graves.
Having exhausted my strength, time and means in this depressing search, I am compelled, by the pressure of my own engagements, to abandon further efforts till my return to Boston next fall; but I think it due to the friends who, in countless letters of encouragement and variety of little gifts, have manifested their warm sympathy in my work, to tell them why it is suspended to assure them, moreover, that it is only suspended that, having come to the conclusion that a self-sustaining, industrial home would open up to these unfortunates a means of retreat which a heartless society else denies them. That a country residence and horticultural exercises are and must be main features in the work, bitter experience, of a far more detailed character than I have here hinted at, convinces me that I cannot hire, but that a company must own the land necessary for the experiment.
That to create a revulsion in favor of these women, and to place them where they should be, in juxtaposition with the criminals who destroy them, countenanced in society as they are, or they in the gutters with their victims, requires a stronger force than the one woman who thus dares to stand forth as their friend. And finally, in apology for thus and at this time intruding this subject on the public, and this journal, I would add, from the horrible revelations which I CAN AND YET WILL MAKE, IN DUE SEASON, of the underground world of sin, shame, pollution and hideous indifferent neglect, of which these women are the chief features, dearly as I love this noble country, whose hospitable arms have enfolded me with a love almost maternal, I would rather see the entire array of her strength, chivalry and beauty left sleeping on the battle-field, in the pale arms of a glorious and honorable death, than return to perish themselves in the stream of living death that this lower world sends up, luring her victims to her foul arms, or enticing them to make a shameful war on the frail children of want and ignorance. It matters not whether man be the seducer or the seduced; to see the results in the awful pictures that every city presents, if known to the world as it is to her who traces these lines, as it should be to every creature that wishes well to their kind, would be a sufficient apology for this cry for home war face, and a sufficient inducement for every one who is compelled to be absent from the glorious strife for honor and patriotism to join me in the equally glorious war upon a system that enslaves woman in the chains of corruption, and arrays man in the most relentless species of dishonor and cruelty against her, and his own temporal and eternal interests.
I am, sir, faithfully yours,
EMMA HARDIKGE.
18 Shawmut Avenue, Boston, June 1, 1861.

THE PEACE SOCIETY.
From the New York Christian Inquirer.
Anniversary Week in Boston-Monday, May 27.
At three o'clock, P. M., there was evidence of an unusual excitement among the friends of Peace in the vestry of the Park street meeting-house. They were called mutually to console, condole, and advise with each other on the present deplorable condition of public affairs, and the apparent demoralization of the Peace community. The spirit of the meeting was decidedly conglomerate. No one knew precisely where to find himself. Each one, however, found himself possessed of darkness instead of light The meeting might be characterized, in a way of pleasantry, as a meeting of the members of the American Peace Society for warlike purposes. The moral atmosphere within appeared as fully charged with la-
<c05>
tent electricity as the material one without, and like it presently to leap forth in lightning, accompanied with more or leas noise. And here the similitude ends.
Rev. Mr. BECKWITH, Secretary of the Society, said- In answer to the questions frequently put regarding the action of the Society in the present exigencies of the nation, we say that, with the nation acting under our auspices, no such events could ever have occurred. This rebellion grows out of a vicious moral education in national ethics. The people of the nation have been taught to depend on the arm of power. The principles of peace cannot be held responsible for the condition which the war principle has brought about. There is no responsibility resting upon the Society to say what is to be done in any exigency of the kind. But it may be said that no person educated in the doctrines of peace could become a rebel The principles of international peace have but a remote relation to the present state of affairs in our nation. As legal citizens, we are bound to uphold the righteous power of the Government, and we never uphold by acquiescence and submission that power which would overrun our country with barbarism and slavery.
The resolutions introduced were fifteen in number, and set forth the old standard principles as heretofore made known, the primary idea being that the Peace principles were the ultimate resort for the settlement of national differences; also, that the events of the past year furnish ample evidence of the vastness of the evils of war and its concomitants, and so forth.
ELIHU BURRITT spoke to the resolutions. He said that the general plan of our operations would bring us out victorious in the end, and peace would yet have its victories as well as war. The friends of Peace had been greatly tried for the past five years Had the principles embodied in the articles which were offered at the Convention of Paris been accepted, the sorrows of the subsequent years would have been spared the world. The sanguinary rebellion of India, the bloody fields of Solferino and Magenta, and the blood since shed in the Italian revolution-all would have been saved by the former adoption of the principles of peace.
And now our trial-hour is come. Many have acted with us while our skies were cloudless, but now we do not find them. One cannot now dare to enter a protest against this war, fearing that he will find his enemy in his own house. How, then, shall we find a principle to hold before us as a shield? If we find no support in the principles of the Bible for the Peace of to-day, we shall look in vain elsewhere. Men who have heretofore owned allegiance to these principles are now marching with charge of bayonet against each other's breast When the Union is reconstructed, let it be urged as a primary measure that the disturbing cause of slavery be removed. 
Dr. E. S. GANNETT, being called, said that he thought the call for this meeting was felicitous, for it substituted, in place of the usual mode of a formal address, a general consultation of the friends of Peace. For himself, he could not say that he clearly saw the hand of Providence, as did others, in the terrible war now upon the nation. Whether the sorrows which this war entailed were to cease in one year or twenty, was beyond his conjecture; he dared not prophesy. He did not even know where he stood on this war question, or how to reconcile the conflict in his own mind. He asked if we were prepared to stand by our own principles. If we were not, we had better adjourn to the Bible Society; and there he was not sure but that we should find another Peace Society, if it was true to the principles of the New Testament.
Again, what can we do, as followers of Christ, to give evidence of our principles?  We, may, by gentleness of speech, do something to allay the temper of the times. If we can keep our hearts with all diligence in the love of Christ, we shall do something to meet and calm the tempers of men. What is to be done to convince the people of the power and purity of Christians principles? And what really are the relations of the Gospel of Christ to the conditions of men in the present crisis of the nation?
LEWIS TAPPAN of New York, said that he was much puzzled to satisfy himself as to the mind of Christ in relation to the present state of affairs, He does not find in the Sermon on the Mount anything that satisfies him. He does not see the application of Christian doctrine to the present state of affairs in the nation. He believes that it is the duty of the people of the free States to withstand this rebellion. Shall we permit these rebels to subvert our principles of freedom? He never would - never. He would use all the means in his power, even to the laying down of life, for making and maintaining this as a land of liberty. (Dr. Gannett thought the speaker had made a war speech.) He rejoined that Dr. Gannett had made both a war and a Peace speech; but, like the Rev. Dr., he did not know where to find himself. He believed that for a quarter of a century these traitors had been engaged in this matter. The civilized world will cry out against us if we do not put down this outrageous conspiracy. Mr. Tappan did not know of any way by which be could better love his Southern brothers than by putting down the rebellion with pistol in hand. He did not believe in Jeff. Davis kicking out Abraham Lincoln He would stand by the flag, and if the Palmetto flag should be raised over Boston State House, he should be the first to cut it down, even though he should be cut down. He considered Abraham Lincoln a good Peace man.
Rev. Mr. ANGIER, of South Maiden, said, as a Peace man, his friend from New York had struck the key-note. He had such a thorough conviction of the atrocity of the rebellion, that, as a Christian minister and a Peace man. he was ready to shoulder the musket in behalf of his country.
Mr. I. T. HUTCHINS, of Connecticut, said the point had not been touched. The ground of the trouble was chattel slavery. Let the cause be removed first.
The Chairman, Hon. AMASA WALKER, thought that the principles of the Peace Societies were for the prevention of war, not for the means of settling it after once begun.  We have nothing of our principles or action to take back in the present exigency of affairs. Whatever destructive implements we may invent, and whatever evil we may do one another, we have nothing to do towards altering the alternative; we must, at last go back to negotiation to settle affairs. All the facts of war are absurd. It is nothing but waste We have nothing to retract in respect to our principles. They are the only true ones. But the Government has done just what was demanded of it, and he hoped the President would go on with the same energy to the ultimate perfection of the work begun. What has been done has been gloriously done. The State which had been most reviled had had the glorious privilege of inaugurating this contest with her blood. But he did not believe that the rebellion was a necessary event. It was fostered until there was no alternative.
War is not necessary in this case, even per self we had been educated in the principles of Peace, then Peace would have been the arbiter. The alternative must be a final separation. This the South demands. In alluding to the response to the proclamation of the President in calling for troops, and to the part which Massachusetts had taken in being foremost in the field, and in shedding the blood of her sons on the 19th of April, the speaker was heartily applauded. The old officers were, with few exceptions, elected, and the meeting adjourned.

THE CONGREGATIONAL CLERGY AND THE WAR.
The following Resolutions,-presented by a Committee appointed to prepare them, as the expression of the body on the present state of national affairs,-came up for consideration:-
Whereas, In the providence of God this Convention of the Congregational ministers of Massachusetts holds its present meeting amid the excitements of civil war, it becomes our duty to record our testimony respecting it-a duty which we owe alike to our history, our principles, and our profession-a testimony which we embody in the following resolutions:
Resolved, 1st, That, in our deliberate judgment, this war has been most wantonly and wickedly precipitated upon the country, and is rendered doubly atrocious by the fact that it is waged mainly for the extension and perpetuity of the institution of slavery. 
Resolved, 2d, That we hall with heartfelt gratitude the wonderful alacrity and unanimity with which the friends of freedom and of the Union have responded to the call to arms, in support of the Constitution, the Government, and the rights of this great nation.
Resolved, 3d, That both as ministers and as men, we will in all suitable ways lend all the aid in our power to our State and national authorities, for the defence and preservation of our common inheritance, and also to those noble bands of soldiers who have promptly devoted their lives and sacred honor to the common cause.
Resolved, 4th, That while we pray for the speedy
<c06>
termination of a strife so unfriendly, while it lasts, to the progress of Christianity, we also beseech the Ruler of all nations for a settlement just and righteous to all, so that all cause of national disturbance be permanently removed.
Rev. Dr. Blagden desired that some amendment might be made to them, which would put the idea of slavery out of sight. He thought the war was not waged exclusively for the establishment of the institution of slavery. This was not true. He did not wish to apologize for the institution, and he acknowledged that it was in great part the cause of the war. The system of slavery was not in all cases. a sin against God. He hoped that all parties were now united in the war and its support, and wished that this unity should continue.
Rev. James H. Means offered an amendment to the resolution by striking out the word “exclusively.”
Dr. Blagden wished that the whole subject of slavery should be left out of the resolutions. He moved an amendment, to the effect that it was a war of ambition, and without any reasonable motive whatever.
Rev. L. J. Livermore, Rev. Mr. Perkins, and Rev. Dr. Russell offered remarks and words as substitute expressions, none of which engaged the attention of the audience.  
Rev. John Pierpont wished for no change in the resolution. It would emasculate the whole affair. We should not dilute the expression of our opinion in the motive inspiring the war. The rebels wish for the powers of the Government to sustain that accursed institution of slavery, even though all the forces of the universe were arrayed against it. The moving powers in this war have the extension of slavery as their exclusive object. He was unqualifiedly against any qualification or modification of the resolutions. We had better not have any resolution whatever. If this is not the sole motive, then what, in Heaven’s name, is the motive? Can it be named?
Rev. Mr. Eastman wished an amendment for the sake of unity, that the war might be maintained in one spirit.
Rev. Dr. Russell thought there were a variety of reasons for the war, and all of these he would have recognized in the resolutions.
Rev. Dr. A. P. Peabody was desirous that whatever resolution we put forth, it should be unanimous. This would add to its moral force in the community, and increase our own energy and sympathy.
Rev. Dr. Blagden’s amendment, substituting “mainly” for ”exclusively” was then unanimously adopted.
The meaning of the last resolution was asked for.
Rev. Dr. S. K. Lothrop hoped that we should accept no reconstruction of the Government which should reestablish the same privileges to those who wage the war, as those previously enjoyed by them. They should not claim these privileges by mere submission. He held that they had forfeited all privileges by their rebellion.
The debate on the last resolution was very generally entered into by Revs. Messrs. Eastman, Livermore, Lothrop, Muzzey, Dr. Gannett, Dr. Cleveland, the President, Dr. Blagden, Pierpont, and Nightingale. The latter thought that by this dilution of our sentiments they became contemptible Rev. Dr. A. Sessions thought the resolution was ahead of God’s providence. Rev. Mr. Tenney thought that peace might be very desirable, on certain conditions, even with slavery.  Dr. Cox offered another amendment. All suggestions and amendments met with little favor and less attention from the assembly. It was then moved that the report and resolutions be adopted. Dr. Lothrop moved that the last resolution be stricken out. Seconded by Rev. Mr. Pierpont. This was objected to by Dr. Gannett and others.
The members becoming fatigued and hungry, the report and resolutions were unanimously adopted. Adjourned sine die.

THE NEGROES AT FORT MONROE.
Hon. J. M. Ashley, M. C., in a letter to the Toledo Blade, describing his interviews with some of the fugitive slaves, says:-
“This little incident tells me more plainly than ever, that what I said last winter in the House is true, when I declared that the logic of events told me that slavery must die.’
If I had time and you the space, I would give in their own words the material portions of the answers of the most intelligent slaves. There is one thing certain, every slave in the United State understands this rebellion, its cause and consequences, far better than I supposed. I asked one old man who said he was a Methodist class leader, to tell me frankly whether this matter was well understood by all the slaves, and he answered me that it was, and that he ‘prayed for it many long years.’ He said that their masters had all talked about it, and he added, ‘Lor’ bless you, honey, we don’ give it up last September dat de North’s too much for us,’ meaning, of course, Mr. Lincoln’s election was conceded even there by the slave masters, and was understood and hoped for by all the slaves. I asked the same man how many more would probably come into the fort. He said ‘a good many, and if we’s not sent back, you’ll see’em ’fore to-morrow night.’
I asked why so, and he said, ‘Dey a l understand a we’s sent back, dat we’re mong our friends, for if de slaveholder see us, we gets sent right back.’ And sure enough, on Monday, about forty or fifty more, of all ages, colors and sexes, came into camp, and the guard was bound to arrest them.
And thus is being developed a practical plan, which I believe, under Providence, will result in universal emancipation, for the people of this nation will never consent that those slaves who refuse to fight against us, and escaped to our camps and aid us all they can, shall be given up now to their assumed owners, or at the conclusion of the war shall again be returned to slavery. The man or party who will do this thing is already condemned to a political death, and will be execrated, as be ought to be, by posterity.”

RETURNING FUGITIVE SLAVES.
The Washington correspondent of the New York World says:-
"The guard on the bridge across the Anacostia arrested a negro, who attempted to pass the sentries on the Maryland side. He seemed to feel confident that he was among friends, for he made no concealment of his character and purpose. He said he had walked sixty miles, and was going North. He was very much surprised and disappointed when he was very much surprised and disappointed. when be was taken into custody, and informed that he would be sent back to his master. He is now in the guardhouse, and answers freely all questions relating to his weary march. Of course, such an arrest excites much comment among the men. Nearly all are restive, under the thought of acting as slave catchers. The Seventy-first made a forced march, and the privations they endured have honorable mention in the country’s history.  This poor negro made a forced march twice the length- in perils often, in fasting, hurrying toward the North for his liberty! And the Seventy-first catches him at the end of his painful journey-the goal in sight-and sends him back to the master who even now may be in arms against us, or may take the slave, sell him for a rifle, and use it on his friends in the Seventy-first New York Regiment. Humanity speaks louder here than it does in a large city, and the men who in New York would dismiss the subject with a few words about constitutional obligations,’ are now the loudest in denouncing the abuse of power which changes a regiment of gentlemen into a regiment of negro-catchers. There is but one opinion among the troops, in regard to their acting for rebels. ’Let them look after their own negroes, ‘is the universal sentiment. I do not think it strange that the ones who objected most strenuously to the arrest of fugitives were the old-time Democrats, for it is not unreasonable to suppose that their extreme proslavery opinions were adhered to rather from political expediency than form sincere convictions, and when the strain is taken from their consciences by the removal of that expediency, the ‘let up’ is rather refreshing to them, and they gladly seize the opportunity to show that they think it a mean business. “The discussion of this subject has incidentally brought up another, intimately connected with it; that is, the probable insurrection among the slaves of Eastern Virginia. Here the sentiment is markedly divided. Many assert that they would not raise a hand to put down and insurrection; some think the danger is a military weakness of which our government should take the advantage; others would willingly assist in the suppression of such an attempt. All are of opinion that, ere long, the question will be brought to a practical issue.”
