THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHIED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letter relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial committee. but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, VIZ:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 1. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 3, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1619.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE TRUE INTERESTS OF BLACK AND WHITE.
It is evidently more desirable that the Union should be restored with slavery existing as before, than without it, unless a form of labor be at the same time substitued, which shall save us from ruin. We have not drifted into the folly of forgetting out principles, because there is war in the land. A year ago, no thoroughly sane man in America would have consented to a decree of absolute emancipation, if such a decree could have been made. The reasons are unchanged. To restore this Union with four millions of unprotected blacks on <illegble> country, free to work or not with their old men and women, their sick and their children unprovided for, would be to curse that race with the worst abandonment they have known in their entire humiliation.
To restore the Union, with the slave States suddenly deprived of the institution which has been the foundation of their prosperity, and on which we depend as much as they for the very productions which make them valuable members of the Union, would be to perpetuate on ourselves and on them the very evils we are now suffering. No blockade would so effectually stop the export of cotton, no war would so thoroughly impoverish the families of the South, no decree of confiscation would so completely annul the possibility of collecting Northern debts, no invading army would hi wholly depopulate the plantations of the South, and no devastation of the sword would so totally destroy the South as a commercial correspondent of the North, and a purchaser of Northern commodities.
Let no man say this is a base and sordid view of a question of personal freedom. It is not so. We say nothing in favor of the perpetuation of slavery as an institution. If any man will devise a substitute for it which will take care of the black families alone, to say nothing of the white, he will do the age a service. But immediate emancipation is an idea that all of us regarded as the ruin of both black and white, a year ago; and enne few, in the excitement of war, have forgotten that such emancipation by the war would be as fatal in its effects as if it had occurred in times of peace.
Men imagine that the only thing to be done is to make the blacks free, and that then they would be naturally employed as free laborers at a rate of payment that would make them comfortable; and that the Southern countries would go on, calmly producing and selling and buying as heretofore. The idea is chimerical. The history of the world proves it. In no tropical country on earth will the human race work for any more than the bare support of life, except on compulsion; and, unless the reformer can, with his emancipation scheme, introduce new and superhuman industry, economy, thrift and perseverance into the negro. it will result that he will not earn a support for himself alone, much less for his family; that he will often beg, steal, or starve, rather than work; that the old and helpless will be abandoned that children will be cast out to suffer and die: in short, that all the ills which attend poverty here will at once attach to negro poverty there, and that the Southern system will change from one of forced labor with good pay, to one of no labor and no pay.
Men may well propose to take now, as some have proposed, a hundred or a thousand, or many thousand negroes, and pay them wages for their labor. But will the same men take them, with their families, old and young, sick and insane, and contract to furnish them, instead of pay in tnancy, abundance of food, clothing, medical attendance, and the necessaries of comfortable life, throughout life, with all its chances? Who will make the proposal, and agree to let the negro work as a freeman, and be the judge of his own hours and time, and leave when he pleases, without carrying his dependents with him? Philanthropic gentlemen may send in applications for "contrabands," but they are very careful to say nothing about contrabands' wives and children, and old sick sisters, and all their helpless relations, Men may be willing to contract for the stout, sturdy negro, who can do work and earn six dollars a month, but will they hire the old "mammies and daddies," and pay them a support and clothing till they die?
The proposition to make use of the war for the purposes of emancipation is virtually a proposition to plunge the South into the depths of poverty, of both white and black.
What then, in times like these, would be the desire of a true statesman in managing the affairs of his country? Would he seek, as a means of putting down rebellion, to destroy the very country which is in rebellion, and with it destroy our own prosperity? Would he seek to plunge the black race into ruin with the white? The politician who does this is blind to all questions of public good, and must have his mind fixed on one idea, to the exclusion of all good reasoning.
He would seek to restore the Union to its ancient prosperarity. He would endeavor to bring back the 
revolted States with their institutions intact. He would treat slavery precisely as he would treat cotton-growing. Both are institutions, both are sources of wealth and prosperity; the abolition of either would abolish the other almost, if not wholly. But would abolish forbid cotton-growing, for the sake of frightening the cotton-grower into submission? Would he forever forbid slave-owning, for the sake of compelling the slave-owner to yield? In either case, he would strike a deadly blow at the nation's prosperity. On the contrary, he would desire and labor to restore the Union. precisely as it was, pros perous, and having a vast population of happy whites and happy blacks, and then he would set himself to work to devise a way of ameliorating the condition of all the laboring classes of men; and if he could find a substitute for slavery which would take care of the black race, he would urge its adoption, or, possibly, he would endeavor to remove that race from the land. Who can doubt that the American Union is more valuable with four millions of slaves, as well caped for and well provided as they are, with the possibility of improving their condition, and perhaps, substituting another form of labor for absolute slavery, that it would be with four millions of free blacks roaming through a desolate and poverty-stricken South?-New York Journal of Commerce.
THE ADMINISTRATION AND THE OPPOSITION.
The party line seems to be drawn with great distinctness by the abolitionists, and the opposition is now composed of the leaders and the rank and file of the radical Anti-Slavery party. The last two weeks have been loaded with sorrows for them. Abolition schemes have suffered severly at Washington. The time has been a most critical one in the national history; more so by far than has been generally supposed. Nor is the danger wholly passed. The Union-savers breathe more freely, and are confident
<c02>
of their ability to preserve the nation against the insidious attacks of the enemy at the North. The question which has been under discussion for some time has been speciously and falsely stated by these gentlemen, and they hoodwinked a few by their ingenuity. They stated it to be, "Shall we restore the Union, or shall we preserve slavery?" and a very few really believed that there was something of the sort at issue. Whereas their issue and their ultimaturn has been, and is at length boldly avowed, "No union with slaveholders."
"Shall the Union be preserved, or shall we abolish Union. Constitution and law, for the purpose of getting rid of slavery?" This is the new issue now presented. The Administration is determined to sustain the Union. The opposition are determined to abolish slavery, and let the Union take its chances. No more men and no more money are to be voted, unless the war is proclaimed to be Anti-Slavery.
Let us be thankful for the present strength of the Administration, on this all-important position. The country should sustain it in every possible way. Let Meetings be held and Union-saving speeches be made. Let the men who are on the side of the Constitution and the law speak out boldly and in clear tones. Nine-tenths of the people are united in these conservative views, and should make their opinions known.
The Anti-Slavery papers, the Liberator and others, have for months kept a form of petition for the abolition of slavery standing in their columns, and recommended their readers to sign and forward it. These are the petitions which Mr. Sumner presents from time to time, and which are reported by telegraph throughout the country. Let them be met with counter petitions for the Constitution and the laws.
The following extract from a letter of a distinguished banker at Washington to one in New York, is worthy of universal attention:-
"I am a good deal alarmed at the rampant spirit of Abolition. This war has professedly been in defence of the Constitution and the restoration of the Union to its original state. But there is a large class of men who openly oppose the prosecution of the war, except for the extinction of slavery, and openly say they don't want to see the Government restored, except with the abolition of slavery. And very many say they do not expect to see the Union restored as it was-that they want to govern the <illegible> States as provinces, or give them to the Africans-but by no means admit them to the equality of the States. God knows where this will lead. My hope is in the President. If he will stand firm, we can yet save the Union. You can do a great deal. Come here with all the strong bankers of the State of New York and New England; stop on your way, and get those of Philadelphia, and let it be known that the money power of the country, while they will go all lengths in sustaining the Union, will do nothing to sever it, and it will be of immense use.
"No man has any right to withhold his hand from this work." [N. Y. Journal of Commerce.

CONGRESS HAD BETTER ADJOURN!
We are seriously alarmed lest the present Congress will do more harm to the country, and more to break up the Union, than all the armies Jeff. Davis could bring into the field. At such a time, when the question of slavery is more irritating than ever, we find them continually tampering with it. Congress has, time and again, refused to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, because it would be so flagrantly unjust to the States of Maryland and Virginia. Yet, just at this time, when those States should be conciliated, we find a jackanape in Congress proposing that measure. Then Mr. Gurley proposed to confiscate and free the negroes of those in rebellion, for he doesn't want to be outdone; and lastly, we have Mr. Wilson, a regular blue-black republican, who smells around and finds some runaway negroes confined in jail. His delicate sensibilities are affected. He can hardly refrain from tears. Hale, also, is similarly afflicted. Every black scoundrel is a man and a brother, and having been found in jail, it is conclusive proof of exemplary piety. A scene must be had in the national capitol.
The people are getting tired of these things. There is a strong feeling that Congress had better adjourn forthwith. No one has the slightest confidence in their wisdom or patriotism, though all believe them to be capable of anything that passion or prejudice could dictate. It is unfortunate-most unfortunate -to the country, at the present time, that Congress should be in session. It is, in fact, only a rump. The ablest men have joined the army, leaving nothing but a set of political hacks, who cannot do any harm and cannot do any good. There is only one course. Let them make the necessary appropriations, and adjourn-go home and attend to their own affairs better than they have those of the United States.- Louisville Democrat.
We speak it plainly: the scheme for general emancipation or arming the blacks will lose every slave State to the Union. It would take a standing army of two hundred thousand men to retain Kentucky in the Union, and then the soldiers would be compelled to aid in exterminating the black race. If they are emancipated, there is but one thing to be done with them: they must be wiped out-utterly obliterated. It must be a merciless, savage extermination of the whole tribe. There will be no question of humanity, or justice, or mercy. It will be nature's first law-self-defence. The two races, as has been amply shown by the whole history of the world from the days of the Egyptians to our own times, cannot exist in the same country, unless the black race is in slavery. It is no question for theory, argument or discussion. It is a direct law of God, final and conclusive. The President, himself a Kentuckian, knows and appreciates the condition of affairs, and will act for the best, and it ought to be the duty of the State Legislature to aid him by expressions of condemnation of the Cameron policy-lbid.

THE LIBERATOR.
EMANCIPATION AND THE SLAVE POWER.
As President Lincoln, powerless to resist the tendencies of the present crisis, finds himself "drifting" towards an emancipation policy, yet does what he can, step by step, to resist this tendency, and to delay that consummation which he cannot prevent, so the organs of the Church, forced by the same strong current into words and acts more or less depreciatory of slavery, still oppose the radical cure of that evil, and do what they can to prevent immediate emancipation. While their choice was free, they chose to be the bulwark of slavery. Obliged now to choose between killing and "scotching" the snake, the choose the latter, and urge that slavery be not interfered with, except in the case of rebel masters.
The editor of the New York Evangelist (Dec. 19th) devotes an elaborate article to commendation of the
<c03>
half-way policy, the essential part of which as follows:-
"But the question returns, Since it is settled that our armies shall not fight for slavery, shall they be ordered to fight against it? Well do we know, that as slavery began the rebellion, it deserves to die; but how to strike the monster is the question.
"There are two ways. One is by a general act of emancipation, the other by confiscation of the property of rebels, slaves of course included. Each has its advocates, in and out of Congress, and its advantages.
"Emancipation has the merit of being a bold and decided course. It goes straight to the mark. It proclaims a distinct object. It presents an end of the war very inspiring to the mind of the North, and which would at once attract the sympathy of all who hate slavery in Europe. But it has several very serious objections:
"1. It is a tremendous stretch of power. There is no legal or constitutional right to do it. Congress has no power over slavery in the Suites. That belongs to the States themselves. They alone can abolish it. If done now, it can only be under the temporary dictatorship of martial law.
"2. A general act of emancipation is too sweeping, It makes no discrimination between loyal and rebel masters. True, this injustice might be remedied by giving compensation to loyal masters, but the remedy is slow, remote, and uncertain, while the injury is immediate and great.
"3. Such a step would at once alienate the border States, which it is so important to preserve. Already Kentucky is half rebellion, from apprehension of this very thing. And it destroys the lingering Union sentiment in the farther South. Thus we see that emancipation, which is so easy to talk about, is a very difficult and dangerous measure to carry through.
"But there remains another way, which is open to none of these objections-a method strictly legal and constitutional, which does no injury to any loyal man, Which offends no loyal State, and yet which secures the same object. It is CONFISCATION. This is the method proposed in the bill of Mr. Trumbull, now before the Senate. Congress has no power to abolish slavery in South Carolina, but it has full power to confiscate the property of rebels in arms against the Government, slaves included. This of course involves their liberation, and what more do we want? Let this act be published at Beaufort, and it needs no military decree of emancipation to set free the slaves. Every planter who has taken up arras against the Government, by that act has forfeited all claim to protection; and as he flees before our advancing armies, he leaves behind him his plantation and his "faithful servants," no longer slaves, But <illegible> tenants of the soil. 
"This act discriminates between loyal and rebel masters; it holds farm the border States; it strengthens Union men at the South; and, above all, it is a strictly legal and constitutional method of securing the end, setting the slaves of men in rebellion forever free.
"Is not, then, an Act of Confiscation the best Act of Emancipation? If Confiscation be not as sounding a word as Emancipation, yet it designates a legal act. It violates no law, and accomplishes the same end-the virtual overthrow of slavery. For the present, therefore, it seems to me that we should forbear to speak of declaring martial law wherever our troops come, and proclaiming emancipation at the head of the army, and try that other method, which, if less ostentatious, is not less effectual."
Let us glance at each of the Evangelist's three objections to the abolition of slavery, above stated.
The closing sentence of objection No. 1 utterly nullifies the sentences preceding it. Indeed, the three assertions of which this objection is composed bear the same relation to each other with the three reasons which a boy gave for not lending his jacknife. Says the boy-"I don't want to; I've lent it; I havn't got any." Says the editor-"It is a tremendous power; the thing can't be done it can be done only in the present emergency." Very well! then let us use the present emergency for that purpose, and thank Heaven for the undserved opportunity of so using it. Instead of being a "tremendous" power, it is a beneficent power, the exercise of which is indispensable to our welfare, and even to our continued existence as one nation. War, which is ordinarily evil, and only evil, has for once created the opportunity of doing a good thing, by instruments which in peace had no such power. As John Quincy Adams has clearly shown, in time of war, either the President or Congress has the right to abolish slavery utterly, through the whole country, and any General, operating in a hostile State, has the right to proclaim its utter abolition there. Since this editor admits that the existence of martial law (our present situation) carries this right with it, his talk about the disabilities of Congress and of the President in other circumstances is merely an attempt to throw dust in the eyes of his readers. His wish was father to that thought.
His second objection also is utterly self-contradictory in form, and deceptive in character. Self-contradictory, in that it dissuades from a certain act as unjust, at the same time showing how the injustice may be remedied; and deceptive, in pretending the act of restoring men to their rightful freedom to be unjust at all, in any manner or degree. Strict justice, applied to the slaveholder, would require him to pay up the arrears of wages to the slave, in addition to setting him free.
An act of emancipation by the Government should make no distinction between loyal men and rebels. The act of slaveholding itself is a vice and a nuisance, always needing to be summarily abated; but, besides being a vice and a nuisance, it is the special cause of the whole difficulty under which our nation at present labors. The loyal slaveholder is to the rebel slaveholder precisely what the grub is to the moth; what the snake's egg is to the coming snake; only an earlier stage of the same pernicious creature, constantly tending to ripen into pernicious activity. As far as the slave is concerned, every slaveholder is a tyrant and a robber, against whom any just man is authorized and bound in duty to take the slave's part As far as the relation of the Government to loyalists on one side and rebels on the other is concerned, its different aspect to these two parties is made abundantly clear by its course of action on other points. It protects all rights of the loyal. It is absurd to say that, because they are loyal, it must also protect their vice and tyranny.
As to the Evangelist's third objection to the abolition of slavery, all its specifications are impudently sophistical and false. Instead of its being important to preserve the border slave States, it is the greatest of pities that they did not go in a body, and with one accord, that the North might thus have been freed from its besetting temptation to favor slavery, and induced to strike at the weak point of the rebellion Our present course is the insane and suicidal policy of carefully preserving a nest-egg in the snake's habitation, while we crash the last year's brood; may, I should rather say, while we vainly attempt to crush them, since our preposterous care for this egg prevents
<c04>
really efficient measures against the full-grown snakes.
As to the "lingering Union sentiment in the South," all that there is worth having is among the nonslaveholding citizens, men who have long felt their own freedom to be hopelessly hampered by slavery, and who have been so far disarmed and subjugated by it as not to feel able to make the least demonstration in support of their pioneer and ally, Mr. Helper. Such "Union sentiment" as exists there will be most effectually cheered and aided by utter extirpation of the enemy which has hitherto held loyal men powerless in his grasp.
It is instructive to hear it asked, by this reverend editor of a paper miscalled "Evangelical," "what more do we want?" after the slaves of rebels shall have been set free by "confiscation." He wants nothing more, because he is one of the leaders in that church (falsely calling itself Christian) which has always been the main bulwark of slavery. We, the Abolitionists, want much more than this. We want freedom for Christ's little ones, the slaves, who are trampled under foot by those who pretend to preach His Gospel! We want justice and righteousness established as the foundation of our government! We want a country of whose institutions, whose rulers, whose policy, whose influence, we need no longer be ashamed. We want the United States to become, for the first time, in truth the land of the free! And we want the cause, motive, vital principle of the existing rebellion to be thoroughly eradicated, instead of leaving its root living in the earth to produce another crop of diasters for our children.
 Another conspicuous representative and advocate of that sort of piety which exists without godliness is he New York Journal of Commerce, a paper which has thoroughly fulfilled its promise of making no improvement, when it was forced, a few months ago, to pretend to make a change of editorship.
 The article from this paper, entitled "The True Interests of Black and White," (which may be found in its appropriate department in another column) is a good specimen of the fluency in false assertion, false assumption and slanderous insinuation which the Journal of commerce habitually practices.
 It assumes that slavery has really been "the foundation of prosperity" to the slave States, and a positive and very great advantage to the free States allied with them; that its bare cessation (apart from any evils incidental to forcible interference with it from the North) would be "ruin" to the whole country; that the abolition of such power as the slave-owner now holds over the slave would not only be ruin to the former, but loss to the latter-yes, a double loss, first of protection, then of subsistence; that to stop using the lash and chain upon able-bodied men and women is to leave them "unprotected"; that to stop robbing them of the wages of labor is to leave their young children and their sick and aged relatives" unprovided for"; that no portion of "the human race" will work in the Southern climate, "except on compulsion," for any thing more than the bare support of life; that the negro will not work even for that, without compulsion; that without such compulsory labor as has hitherto existed in the South, or its equivalent, its whole population, white and black, must be plunged into the depths of poverty; and that, these premises being assumed as just and true, our effort should be to "restore the Union precisely as it was."
 The Journal of Commerce is accustomed not only to ignore, but to deny such existing facts as do not suit its theories and wishes. One would think that Sewall's "Ordeal of Free Labor in the West Indies" had been read by people enough to make it useless any longer to pretend that the liberated negro will steal, and will not work; that Mr. Olmsted's books had been read by people enough to make it useless to pretend that white men in the South cannot and will not work; and that the history which for five years has been displaying itself before our eyes, had rendered it useless to pretend that slavery is a source of prosperity and welfare, to either North or South. Yet, amidst all this blaze of directly opposing demonstration, the Journal of Commerce serenely lies on, through thick and thin.
 In a paper so constantly and unscrupulously using direct falsehood, we may properly place under this head statements which, in a person of ordinary honesty, might be considered merely the blunder of "reckoning without his host." But when the Journal of Commerce asks whether "philanthropic gentlemen" will take the slave families, including old and young, sick and insane," and contract to furnish them, instead of pay in money, abundance of food, clothing, medical attendance, and the necessaries of comfortable life throughout life," it knows very well, first, that nothing in the remotest degree resembling this exists anywhere, or has existed anywhere, among slaves; next, that if bona fide contracts like this were to be had, the laborer being the judge of what was "abundance " and of what was "comfortable," and empowered to compel the fulfilment of the contract by a suit at law, vast numbers of free white men would apply for them; and finally that, while negroes are regarded and treated by white men as the Journal of Commerce labors to have them regarded and treated, no slave would accept such a pretended contract "instead of pay in money." Just give him the chance to get this "pay in money," and see if he will not jump at it, and do with alacrity sufficient work to counterbalance it.
 Just so, when this pious paper proposes to restore the Union "precisely as it was," it knows very well that the slave States will not have it so, and broke out of the old Union because they would not have it so. Any honest man who, in his profound depth of ignorance, proposes to return to the old state of things, is reckoning without his host.
 These are but two specimens of a state of things commonly existing among those papers which uphold the popular churches, the American Tract Society and the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. They almost invariably oppose the immediate and entire abolition of slavery, and equally oppose a turning of the existing war into that direction. Like their predecessors, the false prophets among the Hebrews, they are healing the hurt of their nation slightly, daubing its wall with untempered mortar, and encouraging its rulers in their insane attempt to seek peace before purity. C. K. W.
<c05>
GERRIT SMITH TO JOHH A. GURLEY.
PETERBORO', December 16, 1861.
HON. J. A. GURLEY, M. C.:
DEAR SIR,-I have read a newspaper copy of the Bill which you submitted, 9th instant, to the House of Representatives. Nothing in it do I wish to speak of, save its proposed assumption of special powers over liberated slaves.
 I had hoped that among the good effects of the war, would be the recognition of human rights under whatever skin, and the equalizing before the laws of the black and red races with the white race. But your Bill is among the indications that I had hoped for too much.
 The great sin of our country in all the periods of her existence, whether under Colonial or Constitutional rule, is the assumption of special powers by her white race over her other races; and on the principle adverted to, we are guilty not only of our own, but also of the past commissions of that sin. Moreover, if this sin is now carried to its ultimate height, then is our nation now to be destroyed. That her doom, "Behold, thy house is left unto thee desolate," is already pronounced, no man is warranted in saying, though every right-minded man sees signs enough of it to make him tremble. The breaking up of our nation is far more than began; and so, too, is the march of her desolation. It may, nevertheless, have still left to it a space for repentance.
 If, as we all believe, God has made of one blood all his children, then must this assumption, even when in small measure, be a high crime against His equal fatherhood toward them all, and against their equal brotherhood toward one another. His love of them all is equal; and from this results their obligation to acknowledge, constantly and cordially, the equal rights of each other. But if this assumption, when so limited, is, nevertheless, so criminal, how immeasurably criminal must it be when the assumption is beyond measure! The Indians we have driven from their homes and from their dead. The Indians we have slaughtered, and, what is worse, enslaved. In the veins of tens of thousands of our slaves flows the blood of their enslaved Indian ancestors. To the negro, even more wronged than the Indian, we have spared nothing at all of his manhood. Exclusion from participation in political power and from all the rights of citizenship, unpaid toil and every insult, stripes and chains and death, have been his portion at our unnatural, cruel and fratricidal hands. And can we still-even now, when our nation is brought to the very brink of destraction, and brought to it so manifestly by pride in our own race, and contempt and hatred of other races, and when, too, nothing short of the speediest and heartiest repentance can save it-can we, I ask, till continue to practise all, or even any, of our enormous wrongs against the Indians or the Negroes? I think that we cannot afford to. You think that we can; for your Bill provides that the liberated slaves, and, in effect, the whole black population of the country, (for it will come to this if your Bill becomes a law, and the nation exist long enough to let it operate to its fullest effect,) shall fall under he exercise not only of special, but, compared with any thing short of slavery, exceedingly tyrannical powers. It provides that they shall be excluded from our political family, put under absolute dictatorship, torn from homes as dear to them as are ours to us, apprenticed without their will, admitted to only qualified rights of property, and so qualified as to open them up forever in swampy, barren Florida, unless they shall be able to get themselves beyond the limits of unceasing, and almost as universal as unceasing American hate. Yes, your Bill provides that, in miserable Florida, where the general worthlessness of the soil is indicated by the sparseness of the population, our colored countrymen-our poor, peeled and persecuted brothers and sisters-shall be forcibly congregated, and put under the political rule of a handful of whites, who, in such case, can hardly fail to become most terrible despots. Yes, it is in such circumstances that your Bill proposes to have the liberated slaves make their first allowed experiment in agriculture, and in all material and moral improvement. The experiment must necessarily prove a failure; and the failure will afford a fresh occasion for ridiculing and despising negroes, and will be unfairly and meanly turned into an argument to justify the oppressions heaped upon them-all their former oppressions as well as those provided for in your Bill.
 I know not that any others will protest against your Bill, but I must. By my love of God, my love of man, and my love of country, all of which are deeply wounded by it, I must. It will bring our poor country into fresh perils. It will be a fresh crime against our colored brethren, and a fresh insult to their Maker.
 Why, dear Sir, could you not have framed a Bill, which would provide an easier lot for these brethren? Do you reply that their former one was much harder? I rejoin, that the harder was that, the easier should be this. Under the righteous doctrine of recompenses we should, if we could, make their condition now as much happier than that of others as it was before more miserable. All the greater is this obligation, because our Government was responsible for this more miserable condition-the received and acted-on interpretation of the Constitution making the Government the great watch-dog of slavery.
 I might reasonably ask Congress to do much for the liberated slaves. I content myself, however, with asking it simply to recognize their manhood, and withhold from them no civil nor political rights which it accords to others. For what else they shall lack to begin their life of freedom, I will trust to private benevolence, and to an endless variety of help outside the Government. But would I let such ignorant men vote? Certainly, if other men as ignorant are allowed to. If the right of suffrage is denied to others who cannot write nor read, then, I admit, it should also be denied to such liberated slaves as cannot. But would I let them go where they please? The same right of locomotion would
I acknowledge in them as in others. But they will be lazy unless they are compelled to work! Well, what if they will? Surely, no others have so good an excuse for being lazy as those who all their lifetime have been compelled to work, and that, too, without wages. But would I not have them punished for laziness? Certainly not, unless others are. And would I let them intermarry with the whites? That is a personal and private matter, with which neither Congress nor any other law-makers have aught to do. Nevertheless, I am free to say that I see no objection to a colored lady's accepting the hand of a white gentleman, provided she can possibly surmount her prejudices against his complexion. But another objection to granting the liberated slaves the right of men is, that they will then rise up and kill the whites. They will be not a thousandth part as likely to do so, as if the rights had been withheld. I have not heard of a single instance, since their full restoration to manhood, in which west India black men have murdared white men.
I am not opposed to the colonizing of either small or large portions of our colored people. But, unless
<c06>
we are prepared to acknowledge their equal rights, and to place them on the same civil and political plane with the whites, the colony should by all means be outside of the nation. If within it, and the population composed chiefly of those who according to your Bill will be but Pariahs, it will be a very inconvenient, not to say very perilous incongruity. I prefer the President's Message and Mr. Trumbull's Bill, at this point, to your Bill. There was great merit in the plan submitted by Mr. Blair' a few years ago. It contemplated, if I recollect, no less than full civil and political rights for the colonists. The colony, it is true, was to be somewhere outside of the nation. But this, in then existing circumstances, was unavoidable. Slavery, which is now mortally wounded and rapidly dying, was then in vigorous life; and the slaveholders would not allow a black colony within the national limits. Ere passing from this subject let me admit that, in my judgment, where the laws of nature allowed free play, the dark-skinned races would find their homes within, and the light-skinned races without the tropics. But, in all justice, let the dark-skinned be left as free to refuse to migrate to the tropics as the light-skinned to refuse to migrate from them.
 In all our provisions for the liberated slaves, our especial aim should be to have them contented. A war of races (by far the worst of all wars) is to be constantly and sedulously avoided. We are to remember that there are twelve or fifteen millions of negroes on this Continent and the neighboring islands; and that, through the force of deep repentance for her enormous wrongs against poor Africa and her children, Christendom will, ere long, be brought into the strongest and tenderest sympathy with all negroes. The day is fast coming when the negroes will be the especial care of many self-accusing and remorseful nations. It was Swedenborg, if I remember, who predicted that the "celestial people" would be discovered in Africa. If but a fancy, it is, nevertheless, a very pleasant one, that the ministries of penitent Christendom will be among God's appointed means for fashioning that "celestial people." If the twelve or fifteen millions, to whom I nave referred, are not yet a formidable foe, nevertheless, unless we prevent it by just and generous dealing with them, they will become such to our posterity. Flatter not yourself that our emancipated slaves will be contented in an apprenticeship. Those of the British Islands were not. Never were they more discontented; and hence, the British Government hasfened to take them out of it. But you will argue that your plan win bring contentment to the apprentices because, it will wages to them. I, on the contrary, will argue that it will thereby bring additional discontent, From a false Philosophy and a superficial view is it argued that then will be contented in proportion to the rights they get. A truer and deeper insight teaches that, the more of their rights they get, provided they get not all of them, the more are they discontented.
"The pris'ner sent to breathe fresh air,
And bleat'd with liberty again,
Would mourn were he condemn'd to wear
One link of all his former chain."
Do not suppose that I argue from your Bill your lack of kind feeling toward the negroes. Anything which, in your judgment, would subserve their interests, and yet be compatible with the safety of the whites, would, I doubt not, have your favor. But you were probably educated to believe that one result of their unqualified freedom would be their violence and crimes against the whites. Under the like mistake were they who, both in Britain and America, predicted that the British Islands would run blood in the event of the emancipation of their slaves. They did not know how affectionate, how patient, and how slow to revenge the negro race is. They could not conceive that men, who had suffered such immeasurable wrongs at the hands of the whites, would, in their new-born freedom, prove so harmless to them; and that, too, when the whites were, compared with themselves, but a powerless handful. Under the like mistake was it that several American vessels, lying in the harbor of one of those Islands, hurried to sea the day before the Law of Emancipation went into effect-so strong was the apprehension that destruction would sweep over the Islands the next day. And you have, probably, never given your attention to the facts which prove that, when you have blessed the negro with his freedom, he is satisfied, and studies henceforth not to harm, but out of a grateful and loving heart to serve you. Moreover, you were probably educated to believe that liberated negro slaves, unless continued in some degree of subjection to the whites, must prove unable to take care of themselves. Nevertheless, there is the testimony of the British Islands to the fact that few people have ever made as rapid progress as their emancipated slaves in knowledge, virtue and wealth. That the slaveholders and their allies and tools have been able to make Christendom believe that British Emancipation is a failure, is, perhaps, the most striking instance ever known of the power and success of an oft-repeated and shamelessly persisted in lie. An utter lie is it-for, in every aspect and every particular, British Emancipation is a triumph and a blessing. The unquestionable facts to show this were, only the last year, admirably pat together in a pamphlet by Mrs. L. Maria Child. The painstaking and accuracy of this eminently wise and candid woman are too well known to need my commendation. I have just now ordered a copy of if to be sent to each member of both Houses of Congress. I know not how a right-minded person can read it, and yet doubt the success of British Emancipation, or yet doubt that our slaves, who are far more intelligent than were the British slaves, would by their well-doing reflect high honor upon the policy which should free them.
How grand the opportunity that has come to Congress! May there be no lack of either wisdom or courage to improve it! The Abolitionists had thought to persuade the nation to abolish slavery from high moral and religious considerations. But this great honor is denied them; and they must be content with however humble a place events assign them. It is now for Congress to abolish slavery as a military necessity. The slaveholders have themselves placed it at the disposal of Congress. May they not only abolish it, but have so much faith in truth, in human nature, and in God, as to trust the liberated slaves with ail the rights of manhood! Then will these trusted ones enable us to make short work of the war. And them, when the war is ended, they will, with the help of their Southern friends, and also with the help of their more numerous Northern friends, (who by thousands will go down todwell with them, and be their teachers, counsellers and comforters, and be guides of their self-help,) make rapid progress in every right direction. And then will the whole nation feel joy and pride in the intelligence and morality of these pupils. And then, too, with her great reluctance to spare their labor, she will feel that, if they are to be colomined, it must be because they themselves desire it, rather than because the nation does.
Our unhappy country! How can it escape rain! A portion of our politictans would even yet be glad to compromise; and of this portion, same would com-
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States becomes the theatre of a war CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreiga power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the beard, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of the armies have power to emancipate all the slaves is the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>promise on even the New York Herald's terms of giving up all, and accepting the Confederate Constitution Another portion, with the President at their head, persist in regarding the Rebellion as but a riot-of rather unusually large dimensions, it is true, but, nevertheless, a mere riot, and one that is to be quelled at our own convenience and in our most agreeable way. and especially without the disagreeable help of these vulgar blacks. The defeat of our immense army on tbe Potomac may be necessary, ere this contemptible riot shall swell upon the surprised sight of the President into the dignity of a war. Another portion of our politicians are amusing themselves with a variety of schemes, among which is Colonization, and are thereby diverting attention from the great struggle which is entitled to undivided attention. Moreover, forgetting the direction in the Cookery Book, that the hare must be caught before he is cooked, they are for colonizing before catching the blacks. And how we are ever to catch them, if we continue to drive them from our camps, and even to return them to the enemy, and persist in the policy of alienating them, until the South shall be compelled to identifv them with her cause by an act of Emancipation, I for one cannot see. And then, what is worse than all, the whole mass of our politician have, with very few exceptions, been trained to worship the Constitution, and to sneer at that "higher law" whose "seat is the bosom of God." They agree with Senator Trumbull, that not even by the necessities of war must we allow the Constitution to be jostled. They agree with him that "we will have gained but little in suppressing the insurrection, if it be at the expense of the Constitution." Such gentlemen as the Senator and the President would not have the country saved, unless it can be saved by rule. God multiply those who would have it saved any how! I confess my high estimate nf the Constitution as a means of saving the country; and I confess, too, that I see not wherein it needs to undergo the change of a line or letter to make it a more effective means. But I deeply desire to have every man fed that, whenever circumstances arise in which the Country and the Constitution can be stood by only at the expense of each other, the sacrifice must fall upon the Constitution. However precious to any one may be the Constitution as a means of saving the Country, let him still regard it as but a means and then be will not cousent to sacrifice the Country to the Constitution.
Alas! this immeasurable mistake of confounding the cry of "Constitution" with the inspiring name of our Country! When in this name there is sufficient to move every heart, what folly and insanity to be summoning our soldiers to battle in the name of the Constitution! Many of them have scarcely any idea of its origin or objects. Not one in one thousand of them have read it; and not one in ten thousand of them cares a fig for it.
But even if the Constitution be as worthy as it is so extensively claimed to be, let us at least agree to desist from worshipping it until the country if saved. Great, too, as may be the benefit of your proposed Colonization, let us at least agree to defer realizing it until the country is saved. Brilliant and novel, too, as is the President's idea of swapping off direct taxes for negroes let him be content to joy in the bare idea until the country is saved. In the meantime, let our statesmen and commanders be moving their countrymen by appeals, which are unspeakably more full of inspiration than are any or all of these things which I have enumerated. By no such things as these, did Marco Bozzaris seek to animate his brave band. And why should not Americans as well as Greeks be allowed to forget all these, and be told:- 
"Strike-for your altars and your fires;
Strike-for the green graves of your sires;
God-and your native land!" 
GERRIT SMITH. 
BULLDOGS VERSUS POODLES. 
To the Editor of the Bradford Advertiser: 
SIR-Blackbeard is not to be dealt with by twaddlers, on either side of the Atlantic. All the course of his education gives him the superiority of energy for evil purposes, which the trained bulldog, with his Satanic head and teeth to match, lank wiry limbs and switchy tail, has over the curly moppet of the respectable household, whose locks are carved into some absurd suggestion of a lion, by the negative process of denuding his unhappy rear, and shaving his tail into a most ridiculous tuft. Not but the hero of the hearth-rug can show energy in his way, though he keeps clear of bulls. He lords it over the kitten, till she is full-grown; and the guinea-pig goes in terror of his life.But when the shaveling comes in contact with his ferocious rival, his best policy is humility, and speedy recognition of superiority in evil.
While the English ministers were dawdling with the question going on in America, and viewing it as matter on which they might coquette with both English and American feeling, comes me the Divine Right of Slavery, and brings the subject to a point by running his armed vessel with her captured prisoners straight into Southampton.
Of course this gave a prodigious fillip to all the Pro-Slavery zeal in England. An influential chartered company in the metropolis has feasted the Southern statesman who, if Theodore S. Fay is a credible witness said "it was hard the South should be prevented from importing slaves from Africa, when the North was allowed to import jackasses from Malta." Of course it preserved the remainder of the feast, for a cold collation to that other representative of the new States. who has "declared in perfect consistency with the Bible argument of Southern divines, that slavery ought to be extended to the white laboring classes of England." It is wonderful what chances are sometimes given to those whose slowness dooms them to ultimate loss. Perhaps the English working classes will wake up, when these Pro-Slavery zealots have got a little further in their efforts to bring them to the auction-block.
The part played by England in the whole affair has been disgraceful and melancholy. The idea of the abolition of slavery has from the first been as absolutely scouted in England, as it could be in the Southern States of America. Not a single daily paper has advocated it. "Mischievous monomaniac" has been the term openly applied to the honorable and able individuals who have supported it. By the same rule, Wilberforce, Clarkson. John Wesley, and perhaps greater and earlier names were mischievous monomaniacs. To be a "mischievous monomaniac" is the apprenticeship and first introduction to everything great and good on earth. And if enemies were awake, friends were asleep: and even the energies of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society exhaled in a senseless attack on Mrs. Beecher Stowe. What danger was there that has not been exaggerated, and what bugbear that has not been raised, by the slavery -loving classes that bear rule in England? Can anybody point to a single thing that has been done there, to aid the cause of the abolition of slavery in America? Has any opportunity been lost of throwing scorn on its supporters, and particularly on that good and able soldier who would have gone the way to put down the nuisance with the least possible expenditure of blood, and saved the Bull's Runs, past, present, and to come? The result has been to raise the question of what is to be done when a civil government is manifestly incompetent or traitorous. It is the converse of the case of Dumourier; and instead of the general of an army attempting to march on the civil government in aid of the enemy, it is what would have been presented if the Convention at Paris had been found sending orders to the general, that he was on no account to make any organization for a levy en masse against the invaders, or for threatening operations on their rear. There can be but one ending; which is, that General Fremont will have to be sent to take command of the army on the Potomac, and do at last what, with an infinite saving of blood and treasure, he would have done at firat. 
Half-witten dishonesty courts misadventures of all kinds, and it is Heaven's, business out of the embroilment to lead honest man to good. A new complication has sprung up. which stamps the actual conspiracy for the preservation of slavery with more of folly than can be reached without the aid of treachery. It is true, the British government gave the first provocation to ill humor, by its babyish idea of sending out reinforcements to Canada in the big ship. Allow that it was meant to be irritating; that it was the effort of one simpleton to bite his thumb, in hope of inducing another to return the compliment. But sensible rulers, who had all the advantages attributed to communication with the great mass of common sense in the country, as Thor's drinking horn had with the sea, should have known better than to do an act, which even if allowed to be of doubtful illegality, had a direct tendency to drive the ProSlavery feeling unhappily dominant in England, into active alliance with the Southern States. Sum up 
<c02>
the pro and the contra, and see what has been gained by it. Instead of taking their chances for being received for what they were worth, a halo of romance has been cast about the representatives of the sale of women to prostitution and the subjection of the working classes to the auction-block. Perhaps some of the bishops will take them up; there is no reason why they should not, with as little imputation on their intelligence or their theology, as when one of them lately supported the claims of the planters on the ground of their educating their negroes, in the face of the fact patent to all men, that to educate one was a criminal offence. 
Yours sincerely.
T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
Eliot Vale, Blackheath, (Eng.) Dec. 12, 1861.
MR. SUMNER'S TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY
OF THE LATE SENATOR BINGHAM.
In the U. S. Senate, on the 10th ultimo,-the resolutions in honor of the late Senator Bingham, of Michigan, being under consideration,-Mr. Sumner spoke as follows:- 
Mr. President, there are Senators who knew Mr.BINGHAM well while he was a member of the other House. I knew him well only when he became a member of this body. Our seats here were side by side, and, as he was constant in attendance, I saw him daily.Our acquaintance soon became friendship, quickened by common sympathies, and confirmed by that bond which, according to tbe ancient historian, is found in tbe idem sentire de republica. In his death I have lost a friend; but the sorrow of friendship is deepened when I think of the loss to our country. 
If he did not impress me at once by personal appearance or voice or manner, yet all these, as we became familiar with them, testified constantly to the unaffected simplicity and integrity of his character. His life, so far as it was not given to his country, was devoted to the labors of agriculture. He was a farmer, and amidst all the temptations of an eminent public career, he never abandoned this vocation, which does so much to strengthen both body and soul. More than merchant, manufacturer, or lawyer, the agriculturist is independent in his condition. To him the sun and rain and the ever-varying changes of the seasons are agents of prosperity. Dependent upon nature, he learns to be independent of men. Such a person, thus endowed, easily turns away from the behests of party in order to follow those guiding principles which are kindred to the laws of nature. Of such a character our friend was a beautiful example.
In him all the private virtues commingled, Truthful and frank, be was full of gentleness and generous sympathy. He bad risen from humble fortunes, and his heart throbbed warmly for all who suffered in any way. Especially was he aroused against wrong and injustice wherever they appeared; and then all his softer sentiments were changed into an indomitable firmness-showing that he was one of those beautiful natures where-
"the gods had joined 
The mildest manners and the bravest mind."
It was this firmness which gave elevation to his public life. Though companions about him hesitated; though great men on whom he had leaned apostatized, he stood sure and true always for tbe Right. Such a person was naturally enlisted against slavery. His virtuous soul recoiled from this many-headed barbarism, which had entered into and possessed our National Government. His political philosophy was simply moral philosophy applied to public affairs. Slavery was wrong; therefore he was against it- wherever he could justly reach it-no matter what form it took-whether of pretension or blandishment. Whether stalking lordly like Satan, or sitting squat like a toad; whether cozening like Mephistopheles. or lurking like a poodle; whether searching as Asmodeus, even to lifting the roofs of the whole country, he saw it always, in all its various manifestations, as the Spirit of Evil, and was its constant enemy. And now, among the signs that freedom has truly triumphed, is the fact that here, in this Chamber, so long the stronghold of slavery, our homage can be freely offered to one who so fearlessly opposed it.
There was something in our modest friend which seemed especially adapted to private life. But had he not been a public man, he would have been in his own rural neighborhood at home one of those whose influence was positive for human improvement. He would have been among those to whose praise Clarkson has testified so authoritatively. "I have had occasion," says this philanthropist, "to know many thousand persons in the course of my travels, and I can truly say that the part they took on this great question-of the abolition of tbe slave trade was always a true criterion of their moral nature." But he was not allowed to continue in retirement. His country had need of him, and he became a member House-Representative in Congress-Governor, and then Senator of the United States. This distinguished career was stamped always by the simplicity of his character. The Roman Cato was not more simple or determined. He came into public life when Compromise was the order of the day, but he never yielded to it. He was a member of the Demoeratic party, which was the declared tool of slavery, but he never allowed slavery to make a tool of him. All this should now be spoken in his honor. To omit it on this occasion would be to forget those titles by which hereafter he will be most gratefully remembered.
There were two important questions, while he was a member of the other House, on which his name is recorded for Freedom. The first was on the famous proposition introduced by Mr. WILMOT, of Pennsylvania, for the prohibition of slavery in the Territories. On this question he separated from his party, and always firmly voted in the affirmative. Had his voice at that time prevailed, slavery would have been checked, and the vast conspiracy under which we now suffer would have received an early death-blow. The other question on which his record is so honorable was the Fugitive Slave Bill. There his name will be found among the NOES, in noble fellowship with PRESTON KING among the living, and HORACE MANN among the dead.
From that time forward his influence was felt in his own State for freedom, and when, at a later day, he entered the Senate, he became known instantly as one of our surest and most faithful Senators, whose determined constancy was more eloquent for freedom than a speech. During all recent trials, he never for one moment wavered.With the instincts of an honest statesman, he saw the situation, and accepted frankly and bravely the responsibilities of the hour. He set his face against concession in any degree and in every form. The time had come when slavery was to be met, and he was ready. As the rebellion assumed its warlike proportions, his perception of our duties was none the less clear. Slavery was, in his mind, tbe origin, and also the vital part, of the rebellion, and therefore it was to be attacked. Slavery was also the mainspring of the belligerent power now arrayed against the Union; therefore, in the name of the Union, it was to be overturned. While he valued the military arm as essential, he saw that without courageous counsels it would be feeble. The function of the statesman is higher than that of the general; and our departed Senator saw that on the counsels of tbe Government, even more than on its armies, rested tbe great responsibility of bringing this war to a speedy and triumphant close. Armies will obey orders, but it is for the Government to organize and to inspire victory. All this he saw plainly; and he longed impatiently for that voice-herald of Union and Peace-which, in behalf of a violated Constitution and in tbe exercise of a just self-defence, should change the present contest from a bloody folly into a sure stage of human improvement and an immortal landmark of civilization.
Such a Senator can be ill spared at this hour. His simple presence, his cheerful confidence, his genuine courage, his practical instincts, would help the great events which are now preparing; nay, which are at hand. But he still lives in his example, and speaks even from his tomb. By all who have shared his counsels here, he will always be truly remembered: while the State which trusted him so often in life, and the neighbors who knew him so well in his daily walks, will cherish his memory with affectionate pride. Marble and bronze will not be needed. If not enough for glory, he has done too much to be forgotten; and hereafter, when our country is fully redeemed, his name will be inscribed in that faithful company, who, through good report and evil report, have held fast to the truth:
"By fairy hands their knell is rung;
By forms unseen their dirge is sung;
There Honor comes, a pilgrim gray,;
To bless the turf that wraps their clay;;
And Freedom shall awhile repair;
To dwell a weeping hermit there.";
[This eulogy by Mr. Sumner was well merited by the deceased] 
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 3, 1862.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
Though by the terms of the Liberator, payment for the paper should be made in advance, yet it has not only not been insisted upon, but an indulgence of thirteen months has hitherto been granted delinquent subscribers, before proceeding (always, of course, with great reluctance) to erase their names from the subscription list, in accordance with the STANDING RULE laid down by the Financial Committee. But, in consequence of the generally depressed state of business, this indulgence will be extended from January 1,1861, to April 1, 1862, in cases of necessity. We trust no advantage will be taken qf this extension on the part of those who have usually been prompt in complying with our terms-payment in advance.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
ANNUAL MEETING
Of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
The twenty-ninth Annual Meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in Boston, at Alleton Hall, (corner of Tremont and Bromfield Streets,) on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Jan. 23d and 24th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. Three sessions will be held each day.
Though a great change, equally surprising and cheering, has taken place in public sentiment at the North, on the subject of slavery, since the "SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION" broke out, yet the times demand of the uncompromising friends of freedom all the vigilance, earnestness, activity and generous cooperation, that it is in their power to give; for upon them devolves the task of creating, deepening and guiding that moral sentiment which is to determine the fate of the republic. Their work, as Abolitionists, will not be consummated while a slaveholder is tolerated on the American soil, or a slave clanks his fetters beneath the American flag. Theirs is the truest patriotism, the purest morality, the noblest philanthropy, the broadest humanity. So far from having any affinity with, or bearing any likeness to the traitors of the South, there is an impassable gulf between the parties, as well as an irrepressible conflict. Now that, by the treasonable course of the South, the Government, by the exigencies in which it is placed, may constitutionally abolish slavery, and is solemnly bound to improve the opportunity, under the war power, the duty of the hour is to bring every influence to bear upon it, to induce it to exercise that power without delay, and thus to speedily crush the rebellion, and establish liberty and peace in every section of the country. In this work of humanity and righteousness, of reconciliation and union, it is obligatory upon all cordially to participate.
It is hoped that the members and friends of the Society will be present in larger attendance than usual. A strong array of able and eloquent speakers may be safely counted upon, whose names will be duly announced.
By order of the Managers of the Society,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Sec'y.
OUR THIRTY-SECOND VOLUME.
We commence the Thirty-Second Volume of the Liberator, offering the heartfelt congratulations of the season to all our readers, and trusting that the present may prove THE YEAR OF JUBILEE to the millions in bondage at the South, who are confidently expecting that the day of their <illegible> Taking a retrospective view of the eventful past, and rejoicing in the wonderful change wrought in public sentiment, we are mightily strengthened to go forward for the perfect accomplishment of the great and glorious work to which we consecrated so unreservedly all that was dear to us at the commencement of our labors. We should be glad to see our subscription list greatly extended; and we feel that, if absolute independence, unimpeachable fairness, and thorough freedom of discussion in its management, deserve encouragement and approval, then the Liberator should be liberally patronized in every part of the country.
SPEECH OF HON. J. M. ASHLEY.
We have received-printed in pamphlet form-a speech delivered at the request of citizens by Hon. J. M. Ashley, Nov. 26th, at College Hall, in Toledo, Ohio, on "The Rebellion-its Causes and Consequences." It possesses historical interest and value- tracing, as it does, the present Rebellion to the incipient measures taken by leading Southern conspirators for the dismemberment of the Union as early as 1849-the first meeting by them having been held in May, of that year, at the city of Jackson, in the State of Mississippi, upon the suggestion of Mr.Calhoun. In 1850, Gen. Quitman, writing to Gov. McRea, of that State, and to Gov. Seabrook, of South Carolina, argued that "there is no effective remedy for the evils before as but secession"; and he proposed to "call a regular convention, to take into consideration our federal relations, with full powers to annul the federal compact, establish relations with other States, and adopt our organic law to such new relations." In 1851, Gov. Means, of South Carolina, wrote to Gen. Quitman-" There is now not the slightest doubt that the next Legislature will call the Convention together at a period during the ensuing year, and when that Convention meets, the State will secede.... We are satisfied that South Carolina is the only State in which sufficient unanimity exists to commence the movement. We will therefore lead off, even if we are to stand alone." Just ten years from that time, that traitorous State made the fatal plunge, dragging down with her ten other of the slave States; and nothing prevented her doing so at the period designated by Gov: Means but the election to the Presidency of that compliant tool of the slave oligarchy, Franklin Pierce, who appointed Jefferson Davis, though at that time an avowed secessionist, his Secretary of War. The conspiracy went on with fresh vigor, all the resources of the government being actively wielded to ensure its final triumph. The conspirators would certainly have attempted to seize the capital, and taken the reins of government in 1856, if Mr. Fremont had been elected President; but Mr. Buchanan was declared-fraudulently declared, beyond all reasonable doubt-the successful competitor. "A majority of the Cabinet he called around him were either avowed secessionists, or willing instruments in the hands of the conspirators;" and, to the end of his administration, they left nothing undone to consummate their hellish, designs-perjured villains, the whole of them! Mr. Ashley fully demonstrates, by facts which cannot be controverted, that slavery, and slavery alone, is the cause of this Rebellion; that every compromise and humiliating concession made by the North to the South have but emboldened and made more insulting the demands of the traitors; and that the election of Mr. Lincoln was only the pretext for the outbreak. He maintains that "the overthrow of slavery will not only end the war, but, beyond all doubt, save the Union and preserve Constitutional liberty, by making us what we ought to be, a homogeneous people." He is, therefore, for "striking the enemy in his most vulnerable point" We have marked some vigorous passages in this able and telling speech for insertion in a future number of the Liberator.
SEVERELY PERSONAL. Denying the accuracy of the charge by Gov. Andrew against the traitor Mason, that he treated John Brown in an ungentlemanly manner in an interview he had with the martyr, whose "soul is marching on," the Courier exclaims, "Give the devil his due!" Is not that to be somewhat personal-we mean, of course, to the old adversary?
<c04>
CAUSE AND CURE OF TEE WAR.
A Convention of the friends of freedom in Essex North met in the town hall in Georgetown, Sunday, Dec. 29,1861, to consider the Cause and Cure of the Rebellion. Rev. Mr. Hassell, of Haverhill, was chosen President, Henry C. Wright, Secretory, and Parker Pillsbury, S. S. Foster, and Moses Wright, a Business Committee.
Convention met at 10, A. M., and spent the forenoon s in hearing remarks from several, touching the present a condition of the nation, in regard to the slaveholders' rebellion, and to Great Britain.
Convention met at half past 1, P. M. Parker Pillsbury, in behalf of the Business Committee, offered the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That slavery is the only cause of our present war, and emancipation the only possible means by which peace can be restored, and the Union preserved.
Resolved, That the present attitude of affairs in Washington is such as to excite the deepest apprehensions and alarm; and we exhort the people, in their primary capacity, to rise up in their majesty and might, and compel the governmental authorities to abolish slavery as the cause of all our present calamity, or hurl them at once from power, and replace them with those able and worthy to lead on to a victory that shall give to our whole country a millennium of universal freedom, by sweeping the last vestige of slavery forever from the soil.
These resolutions were discussed by S. S. Foster, Remond, P. Pillsbury, and H. C. Wright, during the afternoon and evening. That slavery is and, has ever been the one only disturbing, treacherous, malignant force of our country, all admit. From that fountain have flowed the commercial, social, religious and political strifes between the North and South. The one fetal error of the Republic has been, from its beginning, its effort to join together what God hath put asunder-Liberty and Slavery-giving to both a legal existence, and extending to both alike honor and protection.
The people are now accepting it as a fixed fact, that the abolition of slavery is the only possible means to restore peace and prosperity to the country. And if the present Administration will not execute the will of the people, and end their afflictions by striking the needed blow at slavery, then it is their right and duty to alter or abolish that Administration, and place in power one that will give to them protection to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
These positions were most ably and eloquently argued and urged, by Messrs. Remond, Foster and Pillsbury. The guilty and fatal complicity of the Federal Government with "the sum of all villany" was shown in revolting colors. The simple question is-Shall Liberty or Slavery rule the nation and the continent? The issue of the present civil war will be the settlement of that question.
The convention passed the resolutions unanimously, and adjourned, sine die, at half past 9 o'clock in the evening.
MASON AND SLIDELL TO BE RELEASED AT THE DEMAND OF THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT. Secretary Seward, in a long and elaborate reply to a letter from Lord Lyon, demanding in the name of the British Government the immediate liberation of the rebel commissioners at Fort Warren, concludes it by stating that the demand will be complied with,-on the ground that Capt. Wilkes, while acting without any instructions from his own Government, and while not intending any disrespect to the British flag, was technically in the wrong in what he did. This decision has naturally excited some indignation, a good deal of, surprise, but apparently far more satisfaction, as a war otherwise inevitable) between the two countries, at the present crisis, would be <illegible> with most <illegible> consequences on both sides of the Atlantic.
BLOWING HOT AND COLD. The Courier, of Saturday, said-"We have repeatedly expressed our own opinion against surrendering the rebel envoys; in the first place, because we believe we are substantially right, in a legal point of view; absolutely right, in a moral point of view; and because we believe, if we do not prematurely and tamely yield, Great Britain will, on this special point." On Monday, it wholly alters its tone-is "as meek as Moses"-and thinks the decision of the Government, in determining forthwith to release those same "rebel envoys," at the demand of England, is wise and creditable! So much for being "substantially right, legally, and absolutely right, morally"! What contemptible whiffling!
"Mr. Orator Puff had two voices, you know;
The one went up thus, and the other down so."
CAN'T BE SUITED. The Courier - always in a querulous and morbid condition, snapping and snarling like a dog under the influence of hydrophobia, especially if the object of attack is known to have no fear of the slave-driver's lash-ridicules Senator Hale's recent vehement speech in regard to England and the Mason and Slidell affair, and is reminded by it "amazingly of the oratorical efforts held sacred to Bunkum," and styles it mere "rhodomontade." Mr. Sumner made a very temperate and sensible reply to Mr. Hale, deprecating his warlike tone, and arguing that it was alike premature and impolitic; but this is equally distasteful to the Courier, which sneeringly says of Mr. Sumner that with him what is "hypothetical is real, and what is real is hypothetical"; and every thing "a mere matter of speculation, until the thing has been sifted through its various channels into the great hopper of the Chairman of Foreign Relations"; winding up by surmising that "perhaps Mr. Sumner has had some epistolary communication of his own with Lord Shaftesbury, the Duchess of Sutherland, or Mrs. Beecher Stowe." This is wholly gratuitous but very characteristic blackguardism on the part of the Courier. Mr. Hale and Mr. Sumner are Anti-Slavery Republicans; therefore, they are both to be cudgelled-the one for being too combative, the other for being too moderate-the Courier being neither for war nor on the side of peace!
LOOK AT HIS BACKERS! That President Lincoln is pursuing a policy, in the treatment of the rebellion, which is calculated to end in the discomfiture of the Government, and the consequent triumph of the rebels, is seen in the pregnant and alarming fact, that his warmest eulogists are those journals which most desperately resisted his election, denounced him and his party in the vilest terms, and up to the capture of Fort Sumter held out every encouragement to the South to strike for her independence, rather than submit to a Republican administration! The "satanic press," all over the North, is prompt to defend him against every impeachment, claims to be especially loyal in his behalf, compliments his do-nothing-effectual measures as characterized by sound judgment and eminent wisdom, and chuckles over his senseless treatment of the slavery question,-still animated by as treasonable a spirit, and aiming at as treasonable a result, as control the Confederate press generally. Alas! for "honest Abe Lincoln!"
THE MOST DANGEROUS FORM OF TREASON-Masked loyalty. [See New York Herald, Express, Journal of Commerce, Boston Courier and Post, Detroit Free Press, and all others of the same stripe.]
Our readers, we trust, will not fail to give a close and careful perusal of the Letter of Gerrit Smith to Hon. John A. Gurley, in relation to the colonization of the blacks in Florida; and also of Mr. Smith's views on the Mason and Slidell affair, and the relative position of the American and English Governments respecting it. These may be fonnd on our first and fourth pages. It will be seen that Mr. Smith regards the captain of the Trent, and not Capt. Wilkes, as the real transgressor to be summarily dealt with; and he regrets that oar Government did not so treat the matter from the first. His strictures were written, of course, before intelligence of the surrender of the rebel ambassadors to the demands of England.
<c05>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
"THE SONG OF THE CONTRABANDS- 'O let my people go!' Words and music obtained through the Rev. L. C. Lockwood, Chaplain of the Contrabands at Fortress Monroe. Arranged by Thomas Baker. New York: Horace Waters. Boston: O. DitSon & Co., 177 Washington street"
This song and chorus, originating among the slaves, and first heard sung by them on their arrival at Fortress Monroe, has been noted down, words and music, by the care of Rev. L. C. Lockwood, understood to be the Agent of the American Missionary Association among those freedmen, as well as their regularly commissioned chaplain. This gentleman is doing a most important work, and should be helped by all those friends of missions who believe liberty and religion adapted mutually to assist each other, and who hare been driven from cooperation with the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions by its persistent pro-slavery position. We have all heard a great deal of the more trivial music of the slaves; let us look into this expressionof their religious feeling, combined with their aspiration fur freedom.
"PRAYERS: by THEODORE PARKER. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co.1862." pp. 200.
During Mr. Parker's ministry at the Music Hall, and the latter half of that which preceded it at the Melodeon, two of his hearers regularly made phonographic copies of his prayers and sermons, for their own benefit. These labors of love often became advantageous to the public also, adding to Mr. Parker's manuscript, when one of his sermons was printed, those extemporaneous passages which external circumstances, or his own feeling at the moment, caused him to interweave with the written discourse.
The volume now published, in compliance with the earnest request of many of Mr. Parker's friends, contains a selection of forty of these prayers. It is "affectionately dedicated, by the editors, to the wife of Theodore Parker," and is embellished with an accurate and beautiful portrait of the author, as he appeared, while in perfect health, in the later years of his ministry.
Many of Mr. Parker's hearers were attracted, impressed and edified, not loss by his prayers than by his sermons. These are truly impressive, affecting, and suited both to excite devotional feeling and to guide it in the right direction. Unsurpassed by any minister in true reverence and devoutness of spirit, Mr.Parker was unequalled in his appreciation of the Heavenly Father as a father. Thanksgiving was always a prominent feature of his prayers; and by him, as by no other that I have ever heard, men were shown how they might be comforted alike by the rod and the staff of the Good Shepherd. He showed the benefit as well as the certainty of retribution, here and hereafter; and he showed how this feature of God's providence is used for man's benefit; constantly made to accomplish good; never wasted, or allowed to do harm.
This book, opportunely coming just before the new year, is well suited for all who would stimulate and guide themselves or their friends to spiritual improvement.-c. k. w.
THE LOYALTY AND DEVOTION OF COLORED AMERICANS IN THE REVOLUTION AND WAR OF 1812.
This is the title of a little tract, just published by R. F. Wallcut, 221 Washington street, to which the widest circulation should be given at this period, and to which universal attention is challenged. It is a singular fact, showing an inextinguishable love of "native land," that, in spite of all the outrages that have been heaped upon them, and the cruel obloquy to which they have been subjected, the colored people have always been ready to lay down their <illegible> the freedom and independence of the country. On every battle-field in our Revolutionary struggle, their blood was freely shed, and none endured hardships more cheerfully, or fought with more bravery and success, than themselves. Here is the testimony of Dr. Harris, a Revolutionary veteran, as given by him in an address delivered at Francestown, N.H. 1842, in relation to their heroism in Rhode Island:-
"I have another object in view in stating these facts. I would not be trumpeting my own acts; the only reason why I have named myself in connection with this transaction is, to show that I know whereof I affirm. There was a black regiment in the same situation. Yes, a regiment of negroes, fighting for our liberty and independence,-not a white man among them but the officers,-stationed in this same dangerous and responsible position. Had they been unfaithful, or given way before the enemy, all would have been lost. Three times in succession were they attacked, with the most desperate valor and fury, by well disciplined and veteran troops, and three, times did they successfully repel the assault, and thus preserve our army from capture. They fought through the war. They were brave, hardy troops. They helped to gain our liberty and independence."
Similar was the testimony of Hon. Tristam Burges, of Rhode Island, in a speech in Congress in 1828:-
"At the commencement of the Revolutionary war, Rhode Island had a number of slaves. A regiment of them were enlisted in the Continental service, and no braver men met the enemy in battle; but not one of them was permitted to be a soldier until he had first been made a freeman."
Gov. Eustis testified in Congress, in 1820, that "they discharged their duty with zeal and fidelity: the gallant defence of Red Bank, in which the black regiment bore a part, is among the proofs of their valor."
Even Charles Pinckney, of South Carolina, said of them-
"They all entered into the great contest with similar views. Like brethren, they contended for the benefit of the whole: they nobly toiled and bled together, really like brethren. To their hands were owing the erection of the greatest part of the fortifications raised for the protection of our country. In the Northern States, numerous bodies of them were enrolled, and fought, side by side with the whites, the battles of the Revolution."
Washington gave immediate freedom, in his Will, to his "mulatto man William, calling himself William; Lee, for his faithful services during the Revolutionary war," &c.
Dr.Clarke, in the Constitutional Convention of New York, in 1821, testified as follows:-
"In the war of the Revolution, these people helped to fight your battles by land and by sea. Some of your States were glad to turn out corps of colored men, and to stand 'shoulder to shoulder' with them In your late war, they contributed largely towards some of your most splendid victories. On Lakes Erie and Champlain, where your fleets triumphed over a foe superior in numbers and engines of death, they were manned, in a large proportion, with men of color. And, in this very house, in the fall of 1814, a bill passed, receiving the approbation of all the branches of your government, authorizing the Governor to accept the services of a corps of two thousand free people of color. Sir, these were times which tried men's souls."
Commodore Chauncy, writing "on board the Pike, off Burlington Bay, July 13th, 1812," nobly said-" I have yet to learn that the color of the skin, or the cut and trimmings of the coat, can affect a man's qualifications or usefulness. I have nearly fifty blacks on I board this ship, and many of them are among my best men."
How atrocious and despicable has been the treatment of this loyal and brave race among us! And I what folly and injustice on the part of the Government to refuse their assistance in "crushing out" the Southern rebellion!
MONTROSE AND OTHER BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES.
Boston: Soulo & Williams. 1861.
A neatly printed, well-written, and very entertaining volume of 400 pages. The first thirty-seven pages are occupied with a sketch of "La Tour in Boston," as published originally in Littell's Living Age. Fifty-two are devoted to George Brummell, commonly called Beau Brummell; twenty-four to Dr. Samuel Johnson-"this Samuel Johnson, who once stood before King George and talked, was himself virtually a king among men." The remainder of the volume is devoted to the thrilling history of James Graham, Marquis of Montrose. A readable book.
<c06>
IMPRISONMENT OF REV. MR.GORDON
SALEM, O., Dee. 26, 1861.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
A short, time since, I was Cleveland, to see a brother, there confined in the city prison. Heavy bars and bolts shut him out from God's pure air. He suffers, for acting up to the convictions of his noble nature; for doing the will of God in trying to "rescue the spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor." What a strange people we are! What an absurd spectacle must our nation present to the world at large! A set of the most heaven-defying <illegible> the most blood-stained pirates, that ever trod <illegible> have, without the least real provocation, set themselves deliberately to work to break the Government to pieces; have trampled on all law, all precedent, all right; have taken the constitution and slapped us in the face with it, and then have torn it to shreds and trampled it under their traitorous feet; and we take it in the most submissive and cringing manner, and watch like eouchant bounds to catch and return their lacerated and bleeding victims to their elutch!
Look at the glaring hypocrisy of this nation in another aspect! A man by the name of Gordon is to be hung sometime in february for importing Africans into this country to make slaves of them. Another man by the name (a brother) is now lying in prison for trying to redeem. Africans from the American prison-house! Can double-dealing and brazen hypocrisy go farther? With one breath, the nation says to the man of infamy, for trying to make slaves "Then shalt die!" To the other, whose noble instinct prompts him to deliver the panting <ilegible> from the grasp of the biped bloodhound-"Thoushalt be cast into prison; thy property taken from thee, and thou shalt be reduced to poverty and want!"
The puissant words of HOly Writ bear on no crime harder than that of hypocrisy. No people in the world's annals have been more guilty of this crime than the American people. They Commenced their career more than seventy years ago, with the scroll of liberty waving in one <illegible>, and the scorpion lash of slavery vibrating in the other. And what had been the product of this double-dealing this hybrid mixture. A monsterb the like of which cannot be found in the earth, or the regions of pandemoniam. The hideous dragon witrh seven heads and ten horns spoken of in the Apocalypse is a gentle antelope compared with it. And strange to tell, the incarnate <illegible> who have engendered this monstrosity still hold absolute sway over at least one judge and one attorney in the enlightened city of Cleveland, and a dear brother is made the victim of their supple <illegible>
I write to one who knows experimentally what an inexorable demon Slavery is; one who has suffered in prison, and who has been near to a martyr's death, for fidelity to the poor slave. The hypocritical and murderous Jews in their day boasted that if they had lived in the time of the prophets martyrdom, they would have interposed and saved them. Alas! how every age applies the same flattering anction, and is guilty of the same monstrosities! This age shall stand not less anomalous and guilty in the verdict of the great future. We look with amazement and horror on the age that burnt tbe martyrs and hung the Quakers. How deeply embalmed in our souls' holiest affections are now their memories! Notless in another asre will it be with those who now suffer for the same glorious cause. A rich and commensurate reward is in store for all such. In the great and glorious future, the music of their names shall sweep the diapason of heaven, and swell the loftiest notes in the triumphant chorus of the anthem of seraphs.
Thine, for the unmasking of hypocrisy and the exaltation of <illegible>
JOHN GORDON.
POSITION OF THE ADMINISTRATION.
Notwithstanding the unanimity on the part of the people to sustain the Government in its present war, by cheerfully bearing the burdens necessarily incurred in the attempt to crush this rebellion-and none more so than the anti-slavery men-the time is fast approaching. I think, when those known as true earnest. laboring friends of the slave, will necessarily feel obliged to withhold their encouragement from the Administration, because of its being found inimical to the best interests, he cause, justice and humanity of the slave. It is already evident, I think, that the Cabinet will carry out its war policy-with reference to slavery-according to the most approved conservative principles, and which will finally result individing the Republican party. There, is noticable, already, a growing discontent among the more progressive and the hold-backs or stand-stills; a strong and increasing current of opposition between the representatives of the liberals and illiberals, between those composing the advance and rear guards, between those who are instinctively and intuitively true to right principles, and those who are seemingly governed by nothing <illegible> than mere Yankee expediency or selfish policy.
If the actuating motives of those who have the management of our public political affairs at Washington are to be those of the latter class,-and it certainly does appear so,-then sooner or later we may reasonably expect another compromise to be made, with all the hateful characteristics of its ugly predecessor, wherein we shall again be called upon to "conquer our prejudices." For it must be apparent to every careful observer, that President Lincoln and his advisers, having begun, are doggedly determined to continue the further prosecution of the war, with a view that, so far as the settlement of the slavery question is concerned, "the most conciliatory and conservative measures shall finally prevail" "Which fairseeming words, according to our recent popular and illegitimate construction, simply mean-at the expense of right and justice. If, with all the mental and moral light which streams upon us to-day, our rulers are willing to yield to the interests of slavery, or allow "the monstrous prejudices and still more disgusting hypocrisies engendered by slavery," to override our deepest, highest and most sacred coavictions of duty, right and justice, is it not manifestly our duty to withdraw all support from such a class of politicians that we legitimately can?
If this war should end without the removal of slavery,-which from present indications is most likely,-what has the country gained? At the most, but a temporary peace, which must inevitably and at no distant day break forth again, when the struggle will be renewed with increased energy and desperation; and the lesson will be again repeated, that peace based upon a compromise with sin cannot endure.
Boston, Dec. 31. 1861. G. A. B
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 272 Washington street, Boston, nave just published the following pieces:-
Piano Forte Album, a selection of brilliant and fascinating gems by eminent composers. Among these. Kathleen Mavourneen, by Beyer.
Massachusetts Boys. Patriotic Song and Chorus Written by James Otis Sargent.
The Bonnie Dundes Quadrille, by Charles D'Albert.
Delaware! my Delaware! Words by Henry W Draper; Music by John R. Sweney. Patriotic Song, dedicated to the Delaware Volunteers.
Rocklawn Summer Wildwood. Song or Quartette, written and composed by Marshall S. Pike.
Ellen of the Lea. Words by Edwin Ransford: music by Stephen Glover.
A petition for emancipation by Congress has been received at this office, headed by C. M. ALLEN, without the name of the town from which it came. Other names are WM. M. Thayer, E. D. Rockwood, Daniel Whiting,Jonathan Whiting, Henry Daniels and A. G. Metcalf. Will any one give us the residence of the signers?JANUARY 3.
LECTURE BY E.H. HEYWOOD, ESQ.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Lecture the Fraternity Association, at the Tremont Temple, on Tuesday evening, 24th ult., on Common Sense," by E. H. HEYWOOD. Esq. of Boston as a brilliant and highly creditable effort, and applauding received Below is an abstract:-
Life is fluid Solidity relative. The human body is personized air. Animal, vegetable, the solid globe, are built of air. Spirit is the substance of matter. From the enveloping spiritual atmosphere comes the worldof man, religion, literature, philosophy, civilization. Pervading human nature, it is common sense-the finite soul; pervading all nature, it is the original divine sense-the Infinite Soul. Common sense has truth by instinct. It is mother wit, intuition the universal voiced in the particular, the race in committee of the whole on the individal, and the individual in committee of the whole on the race.
Common sense is one with absolute idea. In ethics as in the affections, the first choice is the best; spontancity is purity. We float in the universal soul, and share its omnipotence. The drop drags the ocean. Genius is to see and see with your own eyes; to lie close to life. Newton lives in the rainbow he found in a ray of light,in the spheres weighed in the scales of his matchless reason; Angelo in the angels he wooed from blocks of marble. You trust the insect tick of the watch in your pocket, regulated by the wheeling planets; how much more the heart-beat echoed in the bosom of God. Revolutions are revelations. From church, courts, Congress, the case goes up to the moral sense of the people. The Reformation, Magna Charta, Puritanism,Mymouth Rock, Declaration Independence, are successive concessions of false conservation to the progressive reason and inevitable instincts of man Tyranny outruns and trips itself, Wrong is always a failure. Reform comes up, seldom down; up from the bulrushes, the manger, the plough and the printing press, to bring churches and governments. Truth rides into Jerusalem on an ass colt. The shave can teach you more statesmanship than Seward, more religion than Beecher. Better a railsplitter than a hair-splitter. The French Revolution of 93 was a revival of civilzation to Europe: that of 48 <illegible> slavery with one hand, and overthrew the gibbet with the other. Unbiassed sentiment is the purpose as in women and children, your household gods. Woman is the highest popular divinity men worship. In the pulsations of the impartial heart, you may hear the echoing footfalls of approaching truth, yet centuties distant. If servant girls plowboys and graved tossers are with me in a moral issue, Wall street and Washing ton must come round. Whoso stands in the truth wields the race, though he sup with publicans and sinners; for all the thrones of earth are below him, and only the throne of Omnipotence is above him. In the blackest slave, there goes Sinai, Calvary, Olympus,for with him walk Love, Justice., and Universal Freedom.
But this doctrine does not flatter the people. The world are not all saints,nor the church all sinners. (Laughter and applause.) The great evils that afflict society exist by the choice or consent of the people. Private vice fruits in public crime. The flock follow the 1eader over the fence or under it. The man disappears in the mass, and the mass disappears in the man. American have a superstitious belief in the divine right of the multiplication table in the dead weight of numbers. Importing the old dogma of the Stuarts, they say, not "the King can do no wrong," he is out of fashion; but "the Majority can do no wrong," "the Union can do no wrong." Popular rascality may be voted up or down. There is some-what in extenuation, however We have had the various opinions of men from the ninth to the nineteenth century to harmonize and direct, Babel of races to unify. Then, democratic freedom has not yet cut its wisdom teeth. The citizen wants silf-poise. America is a nation of pronoun I's, with rarely one tall enough see over himself. Besides, the popular vices of this country widely root in one corrupting cause slavery England, who owes her greatness largely to the democratic tendency of civilization, now blurts across the waves-"Democracy is a failure, self-goverment a Utopia."Yet our trouble is not the fault of democracy, but the want of it. Order and peace will prevail here only when we enact democracy.enact equal rights, strike down this slave-holding oligarchy by striking of the shackles of the slave (Applause.)
Generally, individual virtue loses in the mass. Association is on the wave theory of light-two rays meeting at a certain angle produce darkness. The kingdom of heaven within men, projected into the world, becomes Austria, Bedlam, or South Carolina. Hull behaves herself without a Metropolitan Police Bill-I would like to say as much of Boston. Common sense unflatters men, shakes them out of shams, and sends them home to self and God. The universal leveller, it always levels up. Its "seat is the bosom of God; its voice is the harmony of the world.
Yet common sense respects the integrity of man. The capillary column of water balances the ocean; so anybody is everybody. Society divides into materialists and idealists: these relying on principle, inspiration reason, will; those on the establishment, costom, necessity. The kingdom of religion, poetry, art philosophy, is within you. In Paris, the Deity is a Frenchman; in London, he it a cotton-bale; in Charleston a slave-driver. The soul is greater than, society. Truth, speaking from the scaffold or the stake, flashes conviction through centuries. An established church is a "suspense of faith." Conformity is deformity. Why capitulate to sects and parties? Born of nuture, why be put out to nurse? The Tahitian chiets employ slaves to chew their food, but civilized lips prefer the first hand method. Law is not made, it grows; not enacted, but acknowledged. You haughty husbands who rob your better halves of all the ballot. are only the weather-vanes of the nursery. The country makes the Constitution, not the Constitution the country. In a crisis like this, it matters little who makes the laws, if John brown makes the songs. (Great applause) Force is no guarantee. Distrust in the heart is war in the hand. Man is the conservative; buttoning under his coat Church and State, he founds a Republic wherever he plants his foot. Freedom faith, courage, love, are the supporting colunms of the temple of concord.
Society is a materialist-believes in the coat, not the man. Whoso looks into a popular sin, get the door slammed in his face. Government is founded on force. The Church cowers under the mailed arm of the State. The ultimate appeal is muscle, not mind. There is sad truth in the joke of the English wit, who went to the Sayers and Heenan fight to see the ruling class of the race. This faith in the fist, this gospel according to to bullies, is a seed of barbarism, whose bloody efflorescence in the war system is now the nosegay of nations. Yet war is the despair of ideas and the soul: repeals God, and " makes the universe a mob of worlds careering round the sky."
I know the arrows of wit and sarcasm recently showered upon the advocates of peace by the most eloquent man in the American pulpit, still hurtle in this air. Nevertheless, I am inclined to believe the peace principle moral force agitation as opposed to the sword a doctrine of common sense as well as of Christianity, and some day it will be respectable as well as true. Not to play hide-and-seek with you among texts, though the argument is impregnable there, the character of Christ is decisive on this point. His mission being to regenerate society, and his doctrines in bold antagonism with all its organized forces, was he right in going to Calvary, or should he have marched at the head of an army as Major General Jesus? (Applause.) No one denies tht the ideal of Jesus, cudminating in the cross, have given him the dominion of all other religions, and affixed his name to the highest civilization of history.
Lying is one of the "fine arts" of war. They call it strategy! Yorktown was won by a lie,and Washington told it. John Brown went to Harper's Ferry under a false name; but as he was an abolition 
<c02>
saint, we did not way much about it. All agree that<c02> murder is the gravest crime man commits; but war is only murder multiplied by the majority. By what ethics, then, is the man a criminal and the mass heroes? Can we "serve God individually, and the devil collectively"? War is the tap-root of slavery. Abolitionism is not the whole of truth. I would not have you men of "one idea." If the whole is greater than a part, to kill a man is a graver sin than to enslave him; for life bases and includes all other human rights. The logic of the fathers is inevitable. To men born free and equal, life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness are inalienable rights. Then war violates love, the divinest law of nature, "the bright consummate flower" of religion. English Bishops pray to be endowed with the spirit of Christ while slaying their enemies; and the New Zealander shows his love of a man by roasting him for his dinner; but the affection you bear your brother in slaughtering him is not apparent.
But it is objected that the instinct of various lower animals is belligerent and carnivorous; that when the lion and the lamb lie down together, "the lamb must be inside the lion"; and hence, man being the king of killers, war is natural, foreordained by an imagined God of battles. It was gravely argued from this platform, that because a bird pecks bugs, man must slay man. But if this analogy holds, you must not only kill, but eat your brother; hence, cannibalism also is a divine institution; likewise irresponsible murder. Still worse-this argument ultimates in practical atheism; for if man is under the domination of brutish instincts, and cannot resist them, there is no power of choice, and free agency is a fiction. War is not health, but disease, the delirium tremens of the debauched body politic. But self-defence, is it right? Certainly, by all right means. "Self-preservation is the first law of nature." But how much of yourself will you save? Self is composed of soul and body; to save your life by sin, you lose your soul; to lose your life for truth, you save your soul. I go for the soul. (Applause.) You would not do wrong, would not lie. steal, betray, to save your life: will you commit the greatest crime to live? I grant there is something better than life: it is honor, it is purity, truth, character. Take a case: Col. Corcoran languishes in a felon's dungeon of slave-dom. When the President of the rebellion, cracking his slave whip over Mr. Lincoln, said, "Hang my privateersmen as pirates, and I will hang your officers"; when the honor of the government was at stake, the question being whether it executes its laws because they are laws, or only at the beck of the insolence that breaks them-from that lone dungeon whose only light looks on the gallows, I seemed to hear the brave leader of the 69th speak-"I freely devoted myself upon the altar of my country, and am concerned for her life, not my own. Honor to me is more than life: how much greater the honor of my country! Then, whether I live or die, execute your laws!" (Loud applause.) You applaud that, because you would have him sacrifice everything before his allegiance to free institutions. There walked this earth one who lived his allegiance to that higher and perfect realm, where reason is religion, "love is liberty, and nature law." His faith in man's integrity infinite, his love embracing every nation and all ages, he went to the cross, rather than harm a hair of his murderous enemies; and, lo! history writes, "The most inspired of idealists, the divinest martyr to the human soul, the moral law-giver of his race!" (Applause.) But I merely wished to bear my testimony against the prevailing disposition to treat with levity the gravest moral issue that has engaged the attention of men since Calvary.
This ideal force, so long banished from American politics, now returns to the control of the Republic, The hour is at hand-its dawn whitens the dome of are capital-when even the President must see, that common sense as well as Cameron is an emancipationist. The South is dying of the naval blockade, but much faster of the moral blockade of the world.
Voltaire said, the adjective is the greatest enemy of the noun, though it agrees with it in gender, number and person. The anti-slavery enterprise is only an insurrection of adjectives against slavery. As in Webster's phrase, the Revolution was fought on a preamble; so slavery was broken on a sentiment. The South did not fear Lincoln, but the Niagara of the Liberator-Cheever-and the white plume of Sumner behind him. This is not merely a question of politics. Politics never originates-is the tail, not the head of society. The Abolitionists were responsible for this rupture only as geologists are responsible for earthquakes. They were merely the heralds of this Olympic game, the executors of God's providence. The conflict is in the nature of things. The fathers mixed slavery with freedom in the Federal cauldron: behold now the hell-broth of civil war! The "irrepressible conflict "is older than Mr. Seward, older than Mr. Garrison. Before this government crested forth on the refluent wave of the Revolution,-before this continent, from the ocean, rose beautiful as Venus from the Grecian sea,-far back in the counsels of eternity, God foreordained liberty, and slavery to perish.
From a "thirty years' war " of words, these two ideas have passed to blows. Children of the Declaration of Independence, the programme of the Millennium, we ought to have repudiated slavery on moral grounds. The Abolitionists prescribed the only means of avoiding the war. Immense as is this darkening, threatening cloud, all its bolts would have dropped harmless into the earth by the "heaven-tipped virtue" of emancipation. By the application of the peace principle, which never compromises, the whole cause of the war would have, been quietly removed. On the contrary, let us have no hypocrites; those who believe religiously in a government of force are bound now to consecrate thier method to the highest moral purpose of which it is capable-the death of slavery.
The old Union is a last year's almanac. It was a Union of diplomacy, of red tape, not a Union of ideas; and the States united with red tape are now the untied States. They were married in law, not in love. Slavery broke the Union. Then let the Union be reestablished on the ruins of slavery!(Applause.) Pluck up this rebellion by the roots, and brandish it in triumph over the enemy! (Loud applause.)
But what will we do with the slaves? The slaves! let them employ their masters, and pay them honest wages. (Laughter and applause.) We will yet have the cotton States represented at Washington by black faces, instead of black hearts. (Renewed applause.)
But if secession succeeds, slavery will not. The cause which has gone through England, France, Denmark, Holland, Turkey, Russia,-the cause which has scaled and captured every throne of Europe, will not be strangled here by a fibre of secession cotton. Common sense votes the people's ticket, and every bond-man, armed with the wrath and reason of the race, is backed by the universe. Hush up earthquakes- smother volcanoes-pile AEtna, slavery, war, cotton field, confederacies upon the insurgent Titan, but look out for Pompeii and Herculaneum! For, by the logic of history and human nature, the negro "still lives," and will march to his freedom. Deeper than society, higher than thrones, wider than nations, surges the common soul. It reaches down from the ice crowned Alpine Autocracy of Russia to lift an empire of serfs into justice and liberty; it shakes Austria and the Pope out of Italy, and bids Mazzini and Garibaldi carry the line of the Caesars to a higher and nobler level; it sends Wilberforce to the throne of God with the broken fetters of the Indias, Cobbett to plead for starving operatives, O'Connell to voice the woes of stricken Ireland; and, banishing slavery, war, woman's wrongs, every social evil from this continent, redeeming the good old pledge, it will yet make the cause of America the cause of human nature. (Great applause.) Democracy is not a failure, Christianity is not a failure, man is not a failure.The sky loves to be mirrored in the tiniest tea drop, the sun puts his golden arms around the meanest hovel, the music of the spheres is echoed in the shell under the leaden sea. So, God smiling on all, beneath this transient burden of human evil, there is a moral response which shall yet be the diapason of a universal harmony.
<c03>
OUR PERILS FROM ABROAD.
[Translated for the Liberator from the Pionier of Dee. 19.]
The impression which the seizure of Messrs. Slidell and Mason has made in England, confirms the view that it may be employed as an occasion of war. In Liverpool, a violent indignation meeting was immediately held, which demanded energetic action on the part of the Government The Times talks of "sweeping the American fleet from the seas,"and it is really time to prepare ourselves for the possibility of an execution of this threat.
If North America was always hated by England as a commercial rival, this hate has been latterly augmented through fear of our growing navy. England suffers no rival fleet, if she can annihilate it, and she would long since have destroyed even that of France, if her neighbor in Paris had not become too dangerous for her. It is precisely this neighbor who will do his best, by instigation or intrigue, to bring about a war between England and America. Mr. Seward has been notified that France and England will pursue a common policy in regard to American differences. In this community of action, all monarchical Europe will, at the decisive moment, whether formally or not, unite. Spain has already been indirectly implicated in the league by the Mexican invasion. How the other powers are disposed may be inferred from the fact that at Curacoa, where the United States have a coal depot, the Dutch Governor has refused their ships permission to take in coals. In short, it does not admit of a doubt, that, if it comes to a war against the United States, all monarchical Europe will applaud, if it does not participate in it. North America is hated as a Republic, it is abhorred as the protector of slavery, and the nations have learned to despise it from the unparalleled incapacity which its leading politicians have displayed in the conflict with the Southern rebels.
The Parisian Bandit will have an altogether special interest in involving England in a war with the United States. Many aims at once will flit before him. First, he will count on the ruin of the Republic; second, on the weakening of England; and, third, he will lay his hands without let on the continent of Europe and Turkey. Who will then stand in his way? Russia is crippled by her internal complications; Austria, by the aid of Italy and Hungary, he holds in his control; and the rest of Germany, with the crown of God's grace, is passive or self-surrendering. England alone is a serious obstacle to him, and she, by a war with America, would be placed in such a position that she must be satisfied with any thing in Europe. The Bandit himself-omitting revolutionary possibilities-would risk nothing by the war with America. He would need to contribute to it, outside of a small army, merely a portion of his fleet, for which he could even secure English subsidies, and by means of which he would acquire a right of disposal in matters on this continent also, while keeping his land army in reserve for the mastery of Europe.
Meanwhile, the invasion of Mexico has become a fact, and may furnish the fulcrum for further aggression. That it is not directed against Mexico alone, everybody, except, perhaps, the"statesmen" at Washington, has long perceived; and that it may be on hand for the support of the rebels at the South, at the proper moment, and must be to them a fresh encouragement, (even though it bring them a halter,) does not admit of doubt. The rebels have now a far shorter and surer way, when they wish to send ambassadors to Europe, and the desired protectorate out-strips them by knocking at their door.
England has already gone so far as scarcely any longer to take the pains to guard the appearance of neutrality, under which she has hitherto concealed her hostile feelings for the Northern United States. But <illegible> a rebel ship. the Nashville, burnt a new merchantman from New York on the high seas out of sheer wantonness, and brought the crew in irons to Liverpool. There it was not only suffered to enter as the ship of a"belligerent power," but permission was denied the crew of the burnt ship to search the free-booter for their stolen effects, while the latter, it is said, is to be allowed to equip itself thoroughly in military supplies at the port of Liverpool.
From these facts we may see that the tinder of war lies ready on every hand. If the additional news be fully confirmed, that Mexico will issue letters of marque in American ports against French, English and Spanish commerce, then war is inevitably close upon us.
War! Is it not a strange word to this part of the country, spite of the army of 600,000 men? Really, we have no right to complain that the rebel States are recognized as a "belligerent power" in Europe. For are they not that? Are they not the only belligerent power in this war for the Union? The North is not a war-making, it is a war-dreading or war-defeating power, and the South alone wages veritable war. And we fear very much that this North, with its "senseless" and "suicidal" policy,-as the Secretary of War styles it in his comical self-impeachment,-is lost, if it has to carry on a war against the South and European enemies at the same time. If it falls to fighting with England before it wearies out the rebels-and that the "honest" slaveholder in the White House of course does not contemplate-then it will not only lose its most powerful auxiliary, the fleet, but the South, which alone will then have a fleet, will be made so formidable by a supply of arms, &c, as no longer to be vanquishable, nay, as to be able to ruin the North. Then at last, perhaps, we shall discern that Abraham Lincoln & Co. have destroyed the Republic out of "patriotism," and the Congress and people have "senselessly" and "suicidally" supported them; but repentance will then tome too late, even if accompanied by a demand to arm the slaves, a confession that the "pestiferous negro" is a better man than all the knaves who outrage humanity in the person of this victim of their barbarism, and the insight that a timely and resolute support of the European Revolution would have been the only means to render harmless the hostility of the monarchies.
The European Revolution will probably soon be forced to belong to the "topics" of our politics, although the prevailing wisdom thus far ignores it. Mr. Seward has informed the ambassadors of England and France,"that this government will await the action of England and France, and will then meet the question." So it has also awaited the action of the rebels, and we have seen how it has met the question. After the thieves have broken into the house, it will want to close the doors on them. But if we should really entertain the idea of empleying the Revolution as anally, to whom should we address ourselves? It would not be at all strange if we should presently hear of Mr. Seward's conferene with the Orleans princes, the friends of England. But if he should descend lower, he might intrigue with Napoleon's servant, Kossuth, who is now beginning again to recommend himself as a friend of the Union. The prevailing conservatism and ignorance of European affairs could be easily persuaded, that an Italian war against Austria and a Hungarian Revolution would set all Europe in a blaze. Experience has shown how, under the aegis of Napolleon, a revolutionary war may be localized, aside from the consideration that one has nothing to do with Italians or Hungarians in order to revolutionize the powerful peoples. An Italian Hungarian war against Austria does not break out without Napoleon's permission, and is only brought to an end for Napoleonic aims. The Parisian Bandit would employ it to set Italy, like Hungary, upon Germany, in the train of the red breeches, in order after conquering her to make himself the Dictator of Europe. If North America supports Kossuth, it supports Louis Napoleon and wages an indirect war against Germany, without in the least attaining its special aim, namely, a weakening of England and of her allies. Would it call up the European Revolution, it must (Ireland excepted) address itself to those who seek to open the proper crater of the volcano, and this crater is Paris. North America must fight England close by in Paris, Palmerston in Louis Napoleon. Without a French Revolution, in the end all would remain in chains; a free France means a 
<c04>
free world. We repeat: Give the European revolutionists, but without delay, the means to rouse the French people, as every other, from sleep, and to remove at Paris the cover of the fiery chimney, and you may dispense with all diplomatic expedients, and found a new era for Europe as well as for America. In a war where hundreds of millions are squandered, it will be good economy to invest a dozen millions in the business of Revolution.
TAXATION WITHOUT REPRESENTATION.
Boston December 12th, 1861.
TO FREDERICK U. TRACY, Treasurer, and the Assessors and other Authorities of the city of Boston, and the citizens generally, and the Legislature in particular:
An external version of the Declaration of Independence has caused our civil war. "All men are born free and equal," rendered whites and males, through ignorance, love of power and selfhood, there-by crushing the colored race, making insane those who hold them in bondage-thus our civil war, to clear away the impediments to an understanding of the word Freedom, which knows neither sex nor color.
"Governments derive their powers from the consent of the governed." Had this principle been recognized in its essence, sex alone could not have monopolized the right of suffrage. Males, intemperate, vicious, one shade removed from guardianship, can appear at the polls, ignoring a proper qualification of this highly important act. 
Woman, in her womanhood, could never hare permitted slavery, an institution which blights every thing she holds sacred, through her conjugial and maternal nature. Even the expense of such a vile system would have attracted her economic eye.
Now, she is to be taxed to bear her part in a civil war which she has had nothing to do in creating; family ties have been and are still to be ruptured by deaths the most aggravating; widows and fatherless children are to be thrown upon the world. Man, through taxation, is to devise and control the means to meet these exigencies, while woman is passively to submit to his decisions, though it reduce her property to a minimum of its former value; so "taxation without representation" assumes a deeper significance than ever before in the history of our country.
Shams, cheats, falsities, still continue in our municipal affairs, attracting the solemn consideration of our best minds, and qualifications for suffrage will yet be a necessity, growing out of an enlightened public conscience.
In this period of civil war, in this struggle for a higher perception of freedom, in this signal era of our country, when bondage after bondage is being removed, that bondage may be seen in its true light, when our national eagle is spreading her wings over those hitherto only nominally protected, woman is beginning to take courage, and is willing to bide her time, till man shall be morally strong enough to recognize her right as citizen in a republic.
This is respectfully submitted,
HARRIOT KEZIA HUNT.
32 Green street.
SURRENDER OF MASON AND SLIDELL.
In the Senate, December 26th, Mr. Hale offered a resolution that the President be requested, if not incompatible with public interest, to transmit copies of all dispatches which have passed between this Government and Great Britain, relative to the seizure of Messrs. Mason and Slidell. Said dispatches to be communicated either in open or executive session, as may be deemed proper.
Mr. Sumner objected.
Mr. Hale said that he had understood from the public press and those who held more intimate relations with the Administration than himself,-though the absence of this intimacy was not his fault as he was willing to be as confidential as anybody,-that for three or four days past the Cabinet has had under consideration a proposition fraught with more evil to the country than anything that had yet marked its history, and that was the surrender of Messrs. Mason and Slidell to Great Britain. By doing this, we would yield all we had gained in the war of the Revolution, and be humbled to a second rate power. No man would go farther than himself for peace, but he would not submit to national disgrace and dishonor to obtain such a peace. He would favor the arbitration of another power, but if a demand has been made by Great Britain for the surrender of Messrs. Mason and Slidell, war should be declared against her instanter. He would make all honorable concessions for peace, but a peace involving such a surrender would be infinitely worse than war. His friend from Indiana (Lane) had remarked this morning that his State had now sixty thousand men in the field, and would double that number to maintain the national honor. If this Senate should go home after such a surrender and humiliation, it would be subject to the scorn and indignation of the country. He regarded the arrogant demand of England as a pretext for war. She was determined to humiliate us first, and fight us afterwards. Let our cities and villages be pillaged and burned, but let our national honor be preserved. Francis the First said after the battle of Pavia that all was lost but honor. He (Hale) would pray that this Administration might not sacrifice our national honor. Thousands would yet come to the field to defend it. If this surrender was made, the Administration would meet with such a fire in the rear that it would be hurled from power. If we had a war with England, it would be for the same cause that had sent one king to the block, and another homeless and houseless over the world, and one that would appeal to men wherever the English language was spoken. He believed, too, that if Napoleon had one desire over another, it was to wipe out the stain upon the French arms at Waterloo. All over Canada there were thousands of Irishmen who would rush to arms to sustain such a cause as ours. Our principles were our great strength, and if war must come, he would say let it come, and thank God that we are the instruments in His hands to work out His own cause.
Mr. SUMNER, of Massachusetts, said that the Senator (Hale) had made a war speech, or what might be termed such. For himself he (Sumner) had rather consider this grave and important question when it was presented in a practical form. The Senator has treated the whole matter on hypothesis. He (Hale) had said that Great Britain had made an arrogant demand of this Government. How did the Senator know this, or the Senate or the country? He (Sumner) did not know it. The Senator had said he would favor an arbitration,-how did he know but what the Administration had considered that? The Senator was too swift in his conclusions. His (Sumner's) own belief was that the matter would be amicably adjusted. It was in safe hands, and it would be better for the Senate to reserve themselves for facts, and not act upon a hypothetical case.
The resolution of Mr. Hale was laid over under the rule.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE WEST, ST. LOUIS, Dec. 19, 1861.
General G. B. McClellan, Commander-in-Chief of United States Army:
General Pope's expedition successfully cut off the enemy's camp near Shawnee Mound, and scattered them, twenty-two hundred strong, in every direction. Took one hundred and fifty prisoners, and most of the enemy's wagons, tents, baggage, horses, &c. All the insurgents between the Missouri and Osage are cleared out. Price is still south of the Osage.
H. W. HALLECK, <illegible>. Gen'l Commanding.
HEADQUARTERS, ST. LOUIS, Mo., Dec. 20,1861.
To Major General G. B. McClellan, Major General commanding the Army:
A part of General Pope's forces, under Col. J. C. Davis and Major Marshall, surprised another camp of the enemy, on the afternoon of the 18th, at Milford, a little north of Warrensburg. A brisk skirmish ensued, when the enemy, finding himself surrounded, surrendered at discretion. We took thirteen hundred prisoners, including three colonels and seventeen captains, and one thousand stand of arms, one thousand horses, sixty-five wagons, and a large quantity of tents, baggage and supplies. Our loss is two killed and wounded. The enemy's loss is not yet known.
Information received last night from Glasgow states that our troops at that place had taken about two tons of powder, in kegs, buried on Claib. Jackson's farm. This effectually cuts off their supply of ammunition.
H. W. HALLECK, Major General.
PALMYRA, Mo., Dec. 20.-Yesterday, Gen. Prentiss, with 450 men, encountered and dispersed 900 rebels under Col. Dorsey, at Mount Zion, Boone county, killing and wounding 150, and capturing 35 prisoners, 95 horse and 105 guns. Our loss was only three killed and eleven wounded.
The rebels burned another train on the North Missouri Railroad yesterday, and they say they intend to burn all the cars on the road, so as to prevent its being used.
<c05>
GREAT FIRE AT ANTWERPTWENTY FIREMAN KILLED. A letter from Antwerp, dated Dec. 3d, says: "There was a fearful conflagration at the Napoleon Docks last night, causing large loss of life and property. The fire commenced at about half-past five o'clock, at the large Belgian sugar refinery, and in about half an hour the whole buildings were one mass of flames, causing the greatest consternation.
The fire extended with great rapidity to the Entrepot St. Felix, which became also one mass of flames at about 8 o'clock in the evening. After great exertions on the part of the fire brigades, the fire was arrested, but it is still burning, and the adjoining warehouses are not yet out of danger. We regret to say that about twenty firemen, one architect, and the Superintendent of the Entrepot St. Felix, have been lost, and several more persons are missing. The total estimated loss of property is about 10,000,000f. There were about 50,000 quarters of wheat, rye, barley and seed at St. Felix, besides large quantities of wool, sugar and other articles."
AN EARTHQUAKE AT ARLINGTON HEIGHTS. On Sunday night, Dec. 22d, about one o'clock, several ofthe soldiers in Camp Leslie, Arlington Heights, were startled by a terrific noise, as if a whole regiment of cavalry were charging through the camp at full speed. The ground trembled and the whole camp were aroused, Col. Chormann among the first.
It proved to be an earthquake; its usual rumbling sound being aided by the frantic pawing and jumping of every horse in the camp. Many of the horses broke loose, and all were severely shocked; some of them fell to the ground, and altogether there was the wildest confusion ever yet seen in camp life.
POLITICS OF THE GENERALS. Hon. Henry Wilson said in the Senate debate on the West Point bill last week:
"I know there have been complaints that many army officers have not their hearts in this contest, but it is equally true of many volunteer officers. Of the 110 Brigadier Generals, 80 have been opponents of the present Administration, and all the officers having separate commands, with one exception, were opponents of the Administration. This is not surprising, in view of the circumstances connected with the previous management of the army. Many of the volunteer officers came into the field with the belief that this war was brought upon the country by the party in power, but actual service soon taught them who the traitors were, and what was the cause of the war."
The Canadiansblack and whiteare arming, drilling, and preparing to give the Yankees particular "Jesse," in case of war between us and England. The fugitive slaves there are ostentatiously anxious to meet their old friends of the under-ground railroad in battle array. The Toronto Leader says
"If ever bugle sounds to the battle-field, it will be to fight for Canada and the fatherland. And though we would still hopesometimes almost against hopethat the bitter cup may be passed from us; though we may indulge an expectation that prudence may for the nonce guide the counsels of Washington, and that the maddened hate of the American mob may be overruled by the wiser minds of the Republic; let us not cease to feel that the most vigorous defensive measures afford the only guarantee for the preservation of peace. We must not rely upon the forbearance of others. Upon our own promptitude and pluck everything depends."
THE COLORED PEOPLE ARMING. We are glad to see that the colored people are moving, and that it is likely that in a few days they will complete a strong military organization. The colored company in Halifax is very efficient, and one of the best there.Montreal Gazette, Dec. 19.
The colored people in Canada, for the most part, are fugitives from the slave States,sent thither by the Northern Abolitionists over the U. G. R. R. It says as little for the negro's gratitude as for his appreciation of the blessings of "freedom," that he should thus be showing an inclination to take up arms, as it were, to help Jeff. Davis fight his benefactor!Boston Post. [Nonsensenot to "fight his benefactor," but to fight for the flag under which his liberty is secured. Why should he not?]
THE IRISH CANADIANS. Thomas D'Arcy McGee declined to speak at a festival of the New England Society, at Montreal, a few days ago, and in a letter just published, says the Irish inhabitants of the province will be found embattled as one man in defence of the Canadian Constitution and the imperial connection, He says the Irishmen of Canada universally prefer Canadian institutions to those of the United States.
ELOQUENT SPEECH. The speech of Conway, of Kansas, in the House, on Thursday, was heard with unusual interest. The incompatibility between slavery and good government was never more clearly exposed or more sharply defined. According to him, slavery must cease to exist before we can look for permanent peace. These views are the more important, because Conway is a Baltimorean by birth, who has kept up his intimacy with Maryland affairs. Although a maiden effort, an old member remarked that he had never heard a speech there superior to it in ability, or in the effect it produced.Cor. Cin. Com. Gazette.
During the night of the 18th, the rebels destroyed the Charleston light-house, on Morris Island, but did not by this means impede the operations of the Federal fleet in sinking obstructions in the harbor.
The sixteen vessels sunk were the Amazon, America, American, Archer, Courier, Fortune, Herald, Kensington, Leonidas, Maria Theresa, Potomac, Rebecca Simms, L. C. Richmond, Robin Hood, Tenedos, William Lee. They range from 275 to 500 tons, are all old whalers, heavily loaded with large blocks of granite, and cost the Government from $2500 to $5000 each. Some of them were once famous ships: the Archer, for instance, the Kensington, the Rebecca Simms, and the Robin Hood, once owned by Girard. The Tenedos is one of the oldest of all. The sinking of the fleet was entrusted to Capt. Charles H. Davis, formerly, from 1842 to 1849, chief of the hydrographic party on the Coast Survey, and ever since more or less intimately connected with it.
The South Pacific has just been the scene of one of the most appalling disasters in the history of ocean narratives. The French transport ship Resource, with six hundred souls on board, was wrecked near Valparaiso, and only five or six out of the entire number escaped alive.
SALVAGE, to the amount of $17,000, has been awarded to the negro Tillman, who killed the captain, first and second mates of the rebel schooner J. S. Waring, and brought her into New York.
One of the soldiers in the Massachusetts twenty-second regiment has just been paid off in full $16 60. He sent home to his wife, who resides in Middleboro', $16, reserving to himself only 60 cents.
SUMNER'S ADDRESS. Four editions of this address at the Cooper Institute have been issued, and over 22,000 copies sold. A new edition, intended expressly for circulation in England, has just been prepared.
The Memphis Appeal of the 18th ult. says that property to the amount of $2,500,000 has already been confiscated by the receivers, and that is only about one half the amount of Northern property in our midst. Some reports have already been made of real estate, and many others are to be made.
Col. Corcoran, now a prisoner at Charleston, has honorably refused a release which the rebeis offered him on condition of promising not to take up arms against the South. He says that such a discharge would not be a parole of honor, but of dishonor.
The Bangor Times thinks if the patriotic South Carolinians, who are burning their cotton fields to keep them from the Yankees, would use their Confederate bonds to light the fires with, they would enjoy the advantages of cheap kindling.
A cargo of 625 Africans was recently landed at Manzanilla, on the south-west coast of Cuba. The story goes that the Governor of the district took a bribe of $25,000 to permit them to land.
The Peace Society, of England, have forwarded a memorial to Lord Palmerston, asking arbitration in the Trent affair, if diplomacy fails. They say, "conciliation would be most worthy of the character of a powerful Christian nation; and England can afford to be magnanimous in her dealings with a sister State, struggling in the agonies of domestic revolution." There was a large religious meeting in London on the 9th, at which Rev. Newman Hall made a speech that echoed like sentiments.
A petition largely signed by citizens of all parties, praying for the recognition of Liberia and Hayti, was sent from New Bedford, Tuesday, to Hon. Thus, D. Eliot, for presentation to Congress.
Hon. Alfred Ely has been exchanged for Mr. Faulkner, and has arrived at Washington.
By a large fire which broke out in the government stables at Washington, last week, some 200 horses perished, and a quantity of harness was destroyed.
CINCINNATI, Dec 30. The surrender of Mason and Slidell, and the suspension of specie payment by the New York banks have produced a feeling of great relief in business circles.
A spy reports that he counted in Drainesville the graves of one hundred and sixty rebels-killed in the recent fight there.
The whole number of prisoners taken recently in Missouri, by Gen. Pope, is 2500.
<c06>
THE TWENTY EIGHTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION
ANNIVERSARY.
The time for the ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY again draws nigh, and we look forward to it with pleasure, as the means of meeting familiar, friendly faces, and listering to earnest words of counsel and encouragement. Some say that other agencies are now in such active operation, that "the old Abolitionists," at they are called, can well afford to rest upon their oars, white others carry forward their work to its completion. We cannot view the subject in thie light. Our mission is the same now that it was thirty years ago. Through many and strange changes, we have slowly but steadily advanced toward its fulfilment; but there are many indications that our work is not yet in a state to be safely left to other hands. We have been, and we must still be, a fire to warm the atmosphere of public opinion. More than a quarter of a century ago, the fire was kindled with generous zeal, and year after year it has been fed with untiring industry and patience. Not all the cold water that politicians, merchants, and ecclesiastical bodies could throw upon it has sufficed to extinguish the flame, <illegible> even to prevent it from spreading. The moral thermometer can never again fall to the old freezing point. In view of this, we thank God, and take courage. But who that observes passing events, and reflects upon their indications, can arrive at the conclusion that the fire is no longer needed?
It is true that blood and treasure are lavishly expended to put down a most wicked and sanguinary rebellion, the proclaimed purpose of which is to extend and perpetuate SLAVERY. But the government of the United States manifests, in every possible way, a vigilant carefulness to protect the claims of Slavery, and politicians are continually announcing that the war has nothing to do with the cause of the war. There are now very few slaveholders who condescend to profess allegiance to the government; yet, small as is the remnant of that powerful and unprincipled oligarchy, they still appear to govern the counsels of the nation. The honest expression of THE PEOPLE'S wishes is required to be suppressed, lest the utterance should prove offensive to this arrogant minority, so long accustomed to rule the majority. The people are full of generous enthusiasm for their country. If the polar star of a great idea were presented to them, they would follow it with eager courage through suffering and death. But it seems to be the aim of politicians to create a fog so dense that neither star nor sunlight shall glimmer through it to guide the millions, who are longing to be led in the right direction.
Is this a time to let the sacred fire smoulder on the altar of freedom? On the contrary, there has never been a time when it waa more necessary to watch it with vigilance, and feed it with untiring activity.
We, Abolitionists, still have unwavering faith that "a straight line is always the shortest, in morals as well as in mathematics." Politicians are always in need of being convinced of this obvious truth; and they are peculiarly in need of it now. Let us, then, continue to work for the good old cause in every way that is consistent with our own conscientious convictions. Let us meet together, that our hearts may be cheered and our hands strengthened for whatsoever work the God of the oppressed may call upon us to do.
All those who have faith in the principles of freedom, all who believe that the effect of righteousness would be peace and security for our unhappy country, are cordially and earnestly invited to meet us at the usual time and place in Boston, in January next.
Contributions, and expressions of sympathy, from friends at home or abroad, in person or by letter, will be most thankfully received; for we have great need of both at this most momentous and trying crisis.
L. Maria Child,
Mary May,
Louisa Loring,
Henrietta Sargent,
Sarah Russell May,
Helen Eliza Garrison,
Anna Shaw Greene,
Sarah Blake Shaw,
Caroline C. Thayer,
Abby Kelley Foster,
Lydia D. Parker,
Augusta G. King,
Mattie Griffith,
Mary Jackson,
Evelina A. Smith,
Caroline M. Severance,
Elizabeth Gay,
Mary Willey,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Sarah P. Remond,
Mary E. Stearns,
Sarah J. Nowell,
Elizabeth Von Arnim,
Anne Langdon Alger,
Eliza Apthorp,
Sarah Cowing,
Sarah H. Southwick,
Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Sarah C. Atkinson,
Abby Francis,
Mary Jane Parkman,
Georgina Otis,
Abby H. Stephenson,
Abby F. Manley,
Katherine Earle Farnum.
MASSACHUSETTS A.S. SOCIETY.
DONATIONS.
Salem Female A. S. Society, $ 20; Joseph Grant, 1; Willard Comer, 50c; S. May, Jr., to redeem pledge, Jan. 1861, 25, $46 50
Collections by A. T. Foss:
Portsmouth, N. H., 7 15; New Market, do, 90c; Buxton, Me., 1 28; Portland, (over expenses,) 1 65; Mrs. S. L. Dennett, 5; Hallowell, 54c, Skowhegan 58c; Cornville, 2 16; Athens, 1 75; Palmyra, 1 75; East Pittsfield, 2 33; Newpost, 2 06; Hartland, 63; Carmel, 1 31; Etna, 1 48; Bucksport, 1 06; Ellsworth, 10. Wendell Phillips, to redeem pledge, Aug. 1, 5 00
Mrs. M. M. Brooks, to redeem pledge. July 4, 26 06
E. L. Hammond, to redeem pledge Jan., 1861, 5 00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
WORCESTER COUNTY SOUTH.-The Annual Meeting of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Washburn Hall, in Worcester, commencing on Saturday evening, Jan. 4th, and continuing forenoon, afternoon and evening, on Sunday, Jan. 5th.
PARKER PILLSBURY, CHARLES L. REMOND, STEPHEN S. FOSTER and others will be present to address the meeting. 
Let all the friends of freedom make an effort to be present, to help concentrate a correct moral sentiment upon the movers of current events, to the end that the crisis to which we have come may result in establishing uaiversal and impartial liberty throughout the land.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Secretary.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., will give the concluding lecture of the course before the "Fraternity," at Tremont Temple, on Tuesday evening next. Subject "The Times."Single tickets, 25 cents.
GILES B. STEBBINS, of Rochester, N. Y., will speak at Music Hall, on Sunday next, Jan. 5, on "The Gospel of Reform, as taught by Man and Nature."
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
DIED  In Dorchester, Dec. 26th, RICHARD CLAP, Esq., aged 81 years and 5 months.
This venerable man was among the earliest subscribers to the Librator, and continued his subseription till his death. Almost from the formation of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, he was an officer and member of it, and contributed regularly and generously to the Anti-Slavery treasury, and to succor the hunted fugitive slaves. Possessing a womanly modesty and childlike simplicity of character, he was, nevertheless, strong in his convictions of duty, and unswerving in bis performance of it, whether he stood alone or with many. "An Israelite indeed, in whom there was no guile," he has at last fallen, tike a shock of corn fully ripe," leaving behind him the light of a noble examplu and the glory of a well-spent lifeEd. Lib.
PRIVATE TUITION.
It having been deemed advisable to suspoend temporarily, the Hopedale Home School at the expiration of the present term, announcement in hereby made, that Mrs. A. B. HAYWOOD, one of the Principals, will be pleased to reeeive a few Young Ladies into her family for Instruction in the English,Branches, French, Drawing and Painting, and Music. The term will commence on WEDNESDAY, Jan. 1, 1862 and continue FIFTEEN WERKS.
For particulars, please address
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass, Dec. 10, 1861.POETRY.
For the Liberator.
LIBERTY, EQUAL RIGHTS, BROTHERHOOD
WITH ALL.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>I
It was a stirring cry through France that rang,
"liberty, Equal Rights, true Brotherhood!"
Prophetic words! yet not then understood;
For not that license which to action sprang
Was heaven-born Liberty, calm, stern, aad just;
But wild Revenge, for injuries borne long;
For ages ef oppression, cruel wrong,
Until the trampled people could not trust
Their rules, nobles, princes, kings, and priests.
O wretched peasants, classed but with the beasts!
Ye rose like beasts, maddened by driver's lash,
Revengeful, headstrong, ignorant, and rash!
"Liberty, Equal Rights, true Brotherhood!"
World-stirring words, soon were ye quenched in blood.
II. LIBERTY.
America, who in thy childhood brake
The yoke that wronged thy growing strength, awake!
Canst thon be free, white slavery taints thy soil?
Backsliding nation, thou once bravely stood
For "Freedom, Equal Rights, true Brotherhood";
Curse not God's earth with forced and unpaid toil!
Does Freedom mean a license to oppress?
Does Freedom mean submission to a mob?
Will Freedom send a brother in distress
Back to his self-styled owner? Will the sob
Of infancy sold from its mother's arms,
Of Freedom be unheard, to still the alarms
Of Slavery, her foe? Wouldst thou be strong,
America, restrain thus monster wrong!
III. EQUAL RIGHTS.,
America, what says thine honored Law?
"Free, free and equal all mankind are born;"
None of God's children may a brother scorn
Because of race or color. God, who saw
Fit, in His wisdom, Mankind to divide
In families and nations, loathes the pride
Of class, or color, that woald see a flaw
In His appointment-make the skin a plea
For insults vile. Did not thy statesmen draw
From his Son's Gospel inspiration free,-
"Call no man master; lo! I come to break
Th' oppressor's bonds, and from the tyrant take
His victims."O, backsliding nation, turn
To God, and his just Iaws no longer spurn!
IV. BROTHERHOO0D.
America, thy pride of skin and race
Spurns not alone the hapless, purchased slave,
But thy free colored children. The least trace
Of Afric's blood no brotherhood can save
From white men's haughty scorn, as set apart.
Backsliding nation! where is the warm heart
That beats responsive to all human kind?
The brother's ear pained by a brother's cry?
The tearful glance from melting Pity's eye?
Where tbe unprejudiced, expansive mind?
America, thine is an awful choice!
Proud States, now ruined, cry with warning voice,
"Before too late, repent-avert thy doom!
Time and Experience, stern teacher, come!"
V. THE FUTURE.
Taught by Experience and Time, and saved
By counsel from the men thou once hast braved,
America, thon hart retraced the road-
The downward road, strewed with old ruined States-
And shaken off tbe beavy, guilty load
Of shavery. Now no brother, trembling, waits
The man-degrading block, the hammer's fall,
That makes God's child a chattel. Cast a pall
Of dark oblivion o'er thy sinful youth:
Thou didst pass through a stern baptism of blood;
Now "Freedom, Equal Rights, true Brotherhood"
Of black and white, prove thy maturer growth:
Holy and precious words! they raise a State;
They make it honored, feared, loved, truly great.
JANE ASHBY.
Tenterden, (Eng.)
For the Liberator.
THE MARTYR OF HARPER'S FERRY.
The earth looks sad and dreary, as if God with sin were weary;
Holy secret tears are falling-sacred souls on God are calling;
And all, dear Lord, who fear thee, are drawing closely near: thee;
For thy ways are growing darker, and the times are more appalling.
Look amid the mount of leopards-look amid the dens of lions-
Where tbe Son of the Beloved, where the man whom God has moved;
Then bring him forth from prison, from his fetters, from his irons,
That man whose holy love mutt to-day by death be proved.
Tyrants, who this man have taken, think him not of God forsaken!
Look! what light if round him flowing! see, his sacred face is glowing!
Angel-thoughts within him waken-be goes forth to death unshaken:
Oh!. Gloria in Excdsis, the faith Job Brows is showing!
That gallows darkly frowning, 'tis but the place of crowning-
There the martyr's crown he gaineth, there the glory onhim raineth.
How he longeth for the moment when death, all sorrow drowning,
God no more His love restraineth!
Who are these the place surrounding, in their wings a glorious sounding,
As impatient for the time that shall consummate this crime?
And from these lions' dens, from these serpents in their fens,
They shall bear him unto Heaven's genial clime.
These are angeU of the Lord-the servants of bis word-
Pity melteth through tbe glory of tbeir eyes,
As is drawn the noose abhorred, of the twisted Southern cord,
Round the neck: of the flare's sacrifice!
All around in order dread tbe tyrant armies spread,
In pomp and in terrible array;
This harlot nation red with the blood of guiltless dead,
Feareth not for ber own coming day!
Tit come, tbe moment dread-the cap is o'er his head-
Heaven sbuddcreth! Hell shonteth, "It is done!"
He swings dead, dead, dead-the glorious soul has fled
Of Christ's well-beloved, martyred son!
I heard, in visioned sleep, thunders long, and load, and deep,
Three nights before the time-before the time;
And I knew God's voice was there, bidding the dark South prepare
For judgment on this crime-on this crime!
Newport, R. I. S.L.L.
From the Chicago Tribune.
THE OLD FOGY'S APPEAL;
OR,
"DO NOT TOUCH THE KIGCER."
AIR- Yankee Doodle.
Old fogies sing on every hand-
The little man and bigger:
Wage war against the rebel band,
But, do not touch "the Nigger!"
Strike any other martial blow,
And in extremect rigor;
But, lest you "irritate the foe,"
Oh, do not touch "the Nigger!"
Let every rite drop a man,
Whene'er ye draw the trigger;
Aim at what vital part yoa can,
But, do not tooeh "the Nigger!"
Tis true, their slaves a profit yield
Of the very "highest figger";
They work them hard in trench and field,
But, do swt touch "the Nigger!"
<c02>
What though they arm and drill the slave?
We do not care a fig, ah!
Let the Confederate banner wave,
But, do not touch "the Nigger!"
Ye seamen in the navy, toil,
From Commodore to rigger;
Bombard the forts, possess the soil,
But, do not touch "the Nigger!"
Ye fossils all, at Washington,
Who "Democrat" or "Whig" are,
Confiscate what the traitors own,
But, do not touch "the Nigger!"
A million dollars every day
Is a pretty costly "figger";
But any money let as pay,
Rather than touch "the Nigger!"
The war dyes red our country's dust,
And every hour grows bigger;
But part with dearest friends we must,
Sooner than touch "the Nigger"!
Down with the agitators, then,
Who running such a rig are,
The reckless Abolition men,
Who wish to touch "the Nigger!"
Thus sings the fogy; of the grave
Of freedom he's the digger,
Denies all justice to the slave,
And whines, touch not "the Nigger!"
But patriots, who, the war to end,
Would wage it with all vigor,
Cry, to the heart the arrow send!
Give freedom to "the Nigger!" PLEBS.*
*PLEBS does not like the word "Nigger," which occurs so frequently above. He never uses it of his own accord, and employs it now as a quotation simply, it being a current word with the class represented.
The Liberator.
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT BROMLEY, ENGLAND.
On Tuesday evening, 23d Nov., a very interesting meeting of anti-slavery friends was held in the Methodist Free Church, Devon's Road, Bromley, England. The principal object of the meeting was to hear an address from the Rev. T. M. Kinnaird, (a colored minister, formerly a slave,) on behalf of a church and schools now in course of erection at Hamilton, West Canada, for escaped or liberated slaves, and others of the colored race. Joseph A. Homer, Esq., of the National Anti Slavery League, occupied the chair, and among the gentlemen present we noticed the following:- The Rev. T. M. Kinnaird, W. H. Pullen, Esq., Hon. Sec. of the Leeds Young Men's Anti-Slavery Society, T. G. Horn, Esq., G. Herbert Thompson, Esq., (Editor of the Tower Hamlets Express,) Messrs. Joseph Harvey, Thomas Harvey, Thomas Buffham, R. W. Catt, of Stratford, J. J. Andrew, and Madison Jefferson (a gentleman of color).
The CHAIRMAN, who was received with much applause, said-My dear friends, we have met here this evening to hear an address from a gentleman whom I am always gratified to meet,as he is a very able advocate of the anti-slavery cause. I may remark, (as my position here to-night is consequent upon my connection with that body,) that the Anti-Slavery League have examined into the case of Mr. Kinnaird, and feel every confidence in recommending it to the public. (Hear, hear.) That gentleman has already
collected a very considerable sum for his church in Canada, and is now desirous of completing the amount as speedily as possible. In recommending his cause to your favorable consideration, I can assure you not only of its worthiness of support, but that there is every possible guarantee that the funds obtained by Mr. Kinnaird are duly appropriated to the objects of his mission. (Hear, hear.) With regard to slavery, there can be but one feeling in an English meeting upon the subject (hear,)-for, although England has abolished slavery in her own dominions, her sympathy with the bondman has not ceased, and the claims of the American slave, when brought fairly before the British public, never fail to meet with an earnest and warm-hearted response. (Cheers.) If the Americans will not adopt anti-slavery opinions, it is not because they have never been told better. (Hear.) I am proud to say that we have some gentlemen here to-night, who have been the means of teaching the Americans better. (Cheers.) We have Mr. Kinnaird, himself, who will presently address you. We have Mr. W. H. Pullen, Honorary Secretary to the Leeds Anti-Slavery Society. He will tell you what his Society has told the people on the other side of the Atlantic. (Cheers.) I am also happy to say that we have here the son of that distinguished and eloquent advocate of the rights of the slave, George Thompson, who, as you all know, has told the Americans again and again, in a voice of thunder, the iniquities of slavery. (Loud cheers.) The Anti-Slavery League, which I have the honor to represent here to-night, numbers among its council many true-hearted veterans in the cause. Mr. George Thompson is one of them (hear); Washington Wilks is another (cheers); and Mr. Twelvetrees another. (Cheers.) The objects of our League are to cooperate with and assist all other societies in accomplishing universal freedom, to extend the right hand of welcome and of fellowship to all fugitives from American despotism who reach the shores of this country, (hear,) and to show the sentiments of the English nation upon the subject of slavery. (Loud cheers.) Regarding the war now raging in America, let it be understood that the South are emphatically fighting for slavery, though I will not say that the North are entirely anti-slavery; but knowing the South to be so unquestionably pro-slavery, we cannot but feel a sympathy with their opponents to atleast as great an extent as their own anti-slavery principles go. (Hear, hear.) I have now to introduce to you the Rev. Mr. Kinnaird, who I trust will receive a warm reception at your hands. (Cheers.)
The Rev. Mr. KINNAIRD, who, on rising, was much applauded, said he always deemed it a high privilege to be permitted to offer a few words, on an English platform, on behalf of his oppressed countrymen in America. The important object which had brought him there to-night grew out of that accursed system of slavery. If it were not for that disgraceful institution, he did not believe that there would be a singlecountryman of his begging in this country. (Hear.) He could hardly be said to be begging now for his own countrymen, because, when they reached Canada, he looked upon them as subjects of the British Crown. (Hear.) Canada was the brightest spot on earth to the fugitive slave, for it was to him a place of refuge from all his hardships and all his wrongs. It was the only spot upon the American continent where a colored person was recognized as a man, or where he could call himself, his wife or his child his own. The slaveholder claimed to be a god in his own country. In all questions of religion, the slaveholders desired to be omnipotent. Whatever the master was, Roman Catholic, Baptist or Presbyterian, that the slave must be. The slave was not allowed to choose with what denomination he should worship. He must do whatever his master told him. The negro had no appeal from his master's decision. If his master decided that he was to be burnt, he was burnt. If his master decided that his right hand was to be cut off, it was cut off. Mr. Kinnaird then gave some particulars of his own slave life and experience, by way of proving that these statements were not exaggerations, but, on the contrary, a true picture of the condition of the American slave. Slavery, he emphatically declared, was an abomination of the blackest dye. The tyrannical and brutal influences of slavery were shown in the treatment of those who had been possessed of the moral courage to tell the Americans the enormity of their crime. Look at the influence of slavery even in the Senate, as evidenced in that shameful outrage upon Charles Sumner. Slavery denied the right of Christ's reign, and claimed to reign for itself. Mr. Kinnaird next made
<c03>
reference to his own visits to Canada, and stated his conviction that much could be done to elevate the position of the colored man, after his escape from bondage had been completed. He had noticed the want of an institution for their secular and religions education, by which they might be enabled to assume respectable positions in society. He had, therefore, come to this country, with a view to complete the establishment of a church, a school, and a temporary home for colored refugees in Hamilton, West Canada. By the erection of an institution combining these qualities, the poor fugitive who found his way to that spot need not be without food or lodging, and the means would be at hand for his education and employment. The total cost of the building would be 600. He has already collected 120 since his arrival in England. The walls of the building were now up, and his friends in America wrote to say they wanted about 80 more to put the roof on. (Laughter and cheers.) Having passed a high compliment to the Anti-Slavery League, the Rev. gentleman resumed his seat amidst great applause.
The CHAIRMAN said he had now great pleasure in calling upon William Henry Pullen, Esq., Secretary of the Leeds Anti-Slavery Society, to address the meeting.
Mr. PULLEN, who was well received, said, although he was a long way from home, yet, when he was at an Anti-Slavery meeting, he was always at home. (Hear, hear.) In reference to the doings of the Leeds Anti Slavery Society, he must, of course, feel some modesty in speaking of the subject. He might, however, state that, although they had commenced on a small scale, they had now greatly extended their operations,
and frequently held meetings in large halls, which he was glad to say were always crowded. (Hear.) The Anti-Slavery League was a desideraturn, the want of which had long been felt. He was very glad of its formation, and should always feel happy to render it his best assistance. (Cheers.) He entirely sympathized with the mission of Mr. Kinnaird to this country, and hoped he would be speedily enabled to accomplish the result he desired. It was a good and noble idea to educate and clothe the poor
fugitives from slaveholding tyranny, and fit them for the ordinary paths of life, that they might give the lie to the unjust assertion that the black man was inferior
to the white. (Cheers.)
The CHAIRMAN said it was with much pleasure that he now called upon Mr. George Herbert Thompson, son of that distinguished orator, Mr. George Thompson, and editor of the Tower Hamlets Express, to address the meeting.
Mr. HERBERT THOMPSON said that, although he had come with the intention of listening, and not of speaking, he was ready to respond to the Chairman's call by a few brief sentences. The Chairman had made reference to his father's anti-slavery efforts, and, for his own part, he was glad to have an opportunity of assuring them how thoroughly he participated in that abhorrence of the atrocious crime of slaveholdingwhich had been one of the leading principles of his father's life. He expressed his thorough approval of the cause for which Mr. Kinnaird was pleading, and concluded by moving a vote of thanks to that gentleman in the following terms:- "That the thanks of this meeting be given to the Rev. Mr. Kinnaird, together with its best wishes for the speedy success of his mission to England." (Cheers.)
Mr. MADISON JEFFERSON seconded the resolution, which was unanimously carried.
Mr. KINNAIRD, in reply, said he was delighted to have the opportunity of meeting the son of Mr. George Thompson on that occasion. There was no man in the ranks of the Abolitionists more honored or admired than George Thompson, the veteran friend of the oppressed, who had fought by the side of Wilberforce, Buxton and Brougham, the triumphant battle of Negro Emancipation in the West Indies.
THE NEWS FR0M ENGLAND.
BY GERRIT SMITH.
Alas! that this news should find us still embarrassed, and still diddling with the negro question! Alas! that we should still have one war upon our hands, while we are threatened with another! Had we, as we should have done, disposed of this question at the beginning of the war, then would its beginning have also been its ending. If slavery was not, as it certainly was, the sole cause of the war, it, nevertheless, was that vulnerable spot in the foe at which we should have struck without a moment's delay. Instead of repelling the negroes, bond and free, by insults and cruel treatment, we could have brought them all to our side by simply inviting them to it. As it is, the war has grown into a very formidable one; and the threatened one growing out of it will be far more formidable; whereas, had we not acted insanely on the negro question, we should have dreaded neither. More than this, had we, as it was so easy to do, struck instant death into the first war, we should have escaped
the threat of this second one.
For what is it that the English press threatens us with war? It is for compelling the English ship to give up the Rebel Commissioners, so it says. This is the ostensible reason. But would not England-she who is so famous for clinging to an almost
entirely unqualified and unlimited right of search-have done the same thing in like circumstances? If she would not, then she would not have been herself.
Had a part of her home counties revolted, and sent a couple of their rebels to America for help, would she not have caught them, if she could? and in whatever circumstances they might have been found? If she says she would not, there is not on all the earth one "Jew Apella" so credulous as to believe her. If she confesses she would, then is she self-convicted, not only of trampling in her boundless dishonesty on the great and never-to-be-violated principle of doing as we would be done by, but of insulting us by claiming that we ought to be tame and base enough to forbear to do that which her self-respect and high spirit would prompt her to do.
But perhaps England would not have done as we did. Her naval captains have, however, taken thousands of seamen from our ships-these captains constituting themselves the sole accusers, witnesses and judges in the cases. It was chiefly for such outrages that we declared war against her in 1812. The instance of the San Jacinto and Trent is not like these. In this instance, there was no question, because no doubt, of personal identity. But, I repeat, perhaps England would not have done as we did. In a case so aggravated, she would, perhaps, nay, probably, have taken ship and all. By the way, it may be that we did act illegally in not seizing the ship as well as the rebels, and subjecting her to a formal trial; but if in this we fell into a
mistake, could England be so mean as to make war upon us for it?-for a mistake which was prompted by a kind and generous regard for the comfort and interests of Englishmen? Surely, if England is not noble enough to refuse to punish for any mere mistake, she is, nevertheless, not monstrous enough to punish for the mistake, which grew solely out of the desire to serve her.
But wherein have we harmed England in this matter? We have insulted her, is the answer. We have not, however, intended to insult her: and an unintended insult is really no insult. If, in my eagerness to overtake the man who has deeply injured me, I run rudely through my neighbor's house, he will not only not accuse me of insulting him, but he will pardon so much to my very excusable eagerness as to leave but little ground of any kind of complaint against me. Surely, if England were but to ask her own heart bow she would feel toward men in her own bosom, who, without the slightest provocation, were busy in breaking up her nation and in plundering and slaughtering her people, she would be more disposed to shed tears of pity for us than to make war upon us.
It is not possible that England will make war upon us for what we did to the Trent, and for doing which she has herself furnished us innumerable precedents, It is not possible that she will so ignore nay, so deny and dishonor her own history. I will not believe that England, whom I have ever loved and honored almost as if she were my own country, and who, whatever prejudiced and passionate American writers have written to the contrary, has hitherto, during our great and sore trial, done nothing through her government, nor through the great body of her people, to justify the attempt bya portion (happily a very small and very unworthy
<c04>
portion) of our press to stir up our national feeling against her-I say, I will not believe that this loved and honored England will make war upon us for a deed in which we intended her no wrong; in which, so far as her own example is authority, there is no wrong; and in which, in the light of reason, and, as it will prove in the judgment of mankind, there is no wrong.She could not make so causeless a war upon us, without deeply and broadly blotting her own character, and the character of modern civilization. But, after all, what better is our modern civilization than a mere blot and botch if the nation, which is preeminently its exponent, can be guilty, and without the least real cause of provocation, and upon pretexts as frivolous as they are false, of seeking to destroy a sister nation?-a sister nation, too, whose present embarrassments and distresses appeal so strongly to every good heart? Moreover, how little will it argue for the cause of human rights and popular institutions, if the nation, which claims to be the chief champion of that cause, can wage so wicked a war upon a nation claiming no humbler relation to that precious cause?
What, then, do I hold that England should do in this case?
1st. Reprimand, or more severely punish, the Captain of the Trent for his very gross and very guilty violation of our rights in furnishing exceedingly important facilities to our enemy.This our Government should have promptly insisted on, and not have suffered England to get the start of us with her absurd counter claim.This is a case in which not we, but England, should have been made defendant. It is her Captain who is the real offender.Ours is, at the most, but a nominal one.In the conduct of her Captain were the spirit and purpose, as well as the doing, of wrong.The conduct of ours, on the contrary, was prompted by the spirit and purpose of
doing right; and if, in any respect, it was erroneous, it was simply in regard to the forms of doing right.Moreover, the guilt of her Captain can be diminished by nothing that was seemingly or really guilty in ours.The criminality of taking the rebels into the Trent was none the less, because of any mistakes which attended the getting of them out. Nevertheless, England takes no action against him. Her policy is to have her guilty Captain lost sight of in her bluster about our innocent one.
To screen the thief, she cries, "Stop thief!" Her policy is to prevent us from getting the true issue before the public mind, by occupying it with her false one.
How preposterous is the claim of England to her right to make war, because we took our rebellious subjects from her ship! The taking of them into her ship is the only thing in the case which can possibly furnish cause of war.That, unless amply apologized for, does, in the light of international law, furnish abundant cause of war.
Did ever hypocrisy and impudence go farther than in England's putting America on trial!Was there ever a more emphatic "putting the saddle on the wrong horse"? I overtake the thief who has stolen my watch, and jerk it from his pocket.He turns to the people, not to confess his theft, but to protest against my rudeness, and to have me, instead of himself, regarded as the criminal!
An old fable tells us that a council of animals, with the lion at their head, put an ass on trial for having "broused the bigness of his tongue." The lion (England) was constrained to confess that he had himself eaten sheep, and shepherds too. Nevertheless, it was the offence of the ass (America) that caused the council to shudder with horror. "What! eat another's grass? O shame!" And so the virtuous rascals condemned him to die, and rejoiced anew in their conscious innocence.
Moreover, England, instead of turning to her own conscience with the true case, has the brazen effrontery to appeal to our conscience with her trumped-up case.Which of the parties in this instance needs conscience-quickening, is no less certain than in the instance of the footpad and the traveller, whom he had robbed of his bags of gold.The poor traveller meekly asked for a few coins to defray his expenses homeward."Take them from one of the bags," said the footpad, with an air of chivalrous magnanimity; but, on seeing the traveller take half a dozen instead of two or three, be exclaimed, "Why, man have you no conscience?" England, through her subject and servant entered into a conspiracy against America.America, through her subject and servant, forbore to punish the wickedness, and simply stopped it.And yet England bids us to our conscience!
Why should England protect her Captain? Her Queen, in her last May's Proclamation, warned him that, for doing what he has done, he should "in no wise obtain any protection." He had full knowledge of the official character of the rebels, and at least inferential knowledge of their bearing dispatches with them. But, besides that the whole spirit of it is against what he has done, her Proclamation specifies "officers" and "dispatches" in the list of what her subjects are prohibited to carry " for the use or service of either of the contending parties."
England did not protect the Captain of her mailsteamer, Teviot, who, during our war with Mexico, was guilty of carrying the Mexican General Paredez. He was suspended.Why does she spare the Captain of the Trent? Is it because she has more sympathy with the Southern Confederacy than she had with Mexico?-and is, therefore, more tender toward him who serves the former, than she was toward him who served the latter? But it will, perhaps, be said, that we have not demanded satisfaction in this case as we did in that. England, nevertheless, knows that we are entitled to it; and that she is bound to satisfy us for the wrongs she did us, before she complains of the way we took to save ourselves from the deep injury with which that great and guilty wrong threatened us.In this connexion, I add, that if, upon her own principles and precedents, the Captain of the Trent deserves punishment for what he did, she is estopped from magnifying into a grave offence our undoing what he did.
2d. The next thing which England should do is to give instructions, or rather to repeat those in the Queen's Proclamation, that no more rebel Commissioners be received into her vessels.
3d. And then she should inform us whether, in the case of a vessel that shall hereafter offend in this wise, she would have us take the vessel itself, or take but the Commissioners.It is true that, whatever her preference, we would probably insist in every case in taking the vessel:- for it is not protiable that we shall again expose ourselves in such a case to the charge of taking too little. It is, however, also true, that, should she prefer our taking the vessel, we will certainly never take less.
But such instructions and information, although they would provide for future cases, would leave the present case unprovided for; and England might still say that she could not acquiesce in our having, in this case, taken the Commissioners instead of the vessel. What then? She ought to be content with the expression of our regret that we did not take the mode of her choice, and the more so as that mode could not have been followed by any different result in respect to our getting possession of tne Commissioners. But this might not satisfy her:- and what then? She should generously wait until this unnatural and horrid war is off our hands; and if the parties could not then agree, they should submit the case to an Umpire.If, however, she should call for an Umpire now, then, although the civilized world would think badly of her for it, and our own nation be very slow to forgive her for it, I would, nevertheless, in my abhorrence of all war, have our Government consent to an Umpire now. Nay, in the spirit of this abhorrence, and for the sake of peace, I would go much farther. If no other concession we could make would satisfy England, I would have our Government propose to surrender the rebels, Mason and Slidell, in case the English Government would say, distinctly and solemnly, that it would not itself disturb neutral vessels having on board rebels who had gone out from England in quest of foreign aid to overturn the English Government. An ineffably base Government would it prove itself to be should it refuse to say this, and yet declare war on the ground of our capture of rebels who were on their way for foreign help to overturn our government.
I spoke of my abhorrence of all war.Our lifelong opponents of war find themselves unexpectedly in sympathy with mighty armies. They have to confessthat they never anticipated a rebellion so vast; still less did they ever anticipate that England would be guilty of coming to the help of such a satanic rebellion.
I have said that England will not go to war with us in the case of the Trent. Nevertheless, I am not without fear that her Government will be driven to declare war against us. The Government of no other nation (and this is honorable to England) is more influenced by the people. By such an affair as the capture of Mason and Slidell, the patriotism of the least-informed and superficial and excitable part of her people is easily and extensively wrought
<c05>
upon. With this part of her people the inviolability of the British flag is more than all earth besides. But it is not by that capture, nor by those classes to whom it appeals with such peculiar power, that the Government will be moved. If an irresistible pressure comes upon the Government, it will come from those people who long for the cotton and the free trade of the South, and who have allowed themselves to get angry with the North by foolishly
misconstruing our high tariff (which is simply a necessary war measure) into a hostile commercial measure. The capture of Mason and Slidell will be only the pretext, not the provocation; only the occasion, not the cause of the war.
If England wishes to go to war with us for any wrongs we have done her, she shall not have the chance-for we will promptly repair the wrongs, at whatever sacrifice of property or pride. But if, as I still honor and love her too much to believe, she wishes to go to war with us at any rate, and chooses this our time of trouble as her time to make us an easy prey, then will she be gratified. It will be but fair, however, to advertise her that she must not take our fighting in the war with the rebels as a sample of what will be our fighting in the war with herself. The former is fooling. The latter will be fighting. On all subjects connected with slavery, and therefore in a war about slavery, we Americans are fools. We cannot help it. We have worshipped the idol so long and so devoutly, that when in its all-influential presence, we cannot be men. The powers of our moral nature are, however, not destroyed; they are but perverted. And such an outrage as the English press threatens us with will restore their legitimate use. Our manhood is not dead; it but sleeps. And as it was when the Philistines fell upon the bound Samson, that the Spirit of the Lord came to his help, so, when the English shall fall upon the worse-bound Americans, this sleeping manhood will awake. And it will awake to assert itself, not merely against the English, but against the rebels also. And it will do this mightily, because it will, at the same time, be asserting itself against its own life-long degradations, and the hateful cause of them. Let us but know that England, to whom we have done no wrong, has resolved to come to the help of the Pro-Slavery Rebellion, and our deep indignation against her, combining with our deeper indignation against ourselves, will arm us with the spirit and the power to snap the "cords," and "green withs," and "new ropes," with which slavery has bound us, and to dash to the dust the foul idol whose worship has so demented and debased us. Yes, let us hear this month that England has declared war against us, and this month will witness our Proclamation of Liberty to every slave in the land. No thanks will be due her for the happy effect upon us of her Declaration of War. No thanks will be due her that the Declaration will have the effect to save us-to save us by making us antislavery. No more half-way measures, and no more nonsense on the subject of slavery, shall we then propose. There will be no more talk then of freeing one sort of slaves, and continuing the other in slavery; but we shall then invite every negro in the land, bond and free, to identify himself, "arm and soul," with our cause. And then there will be no more talk of swapping off taxes for negroes, and no more talk of colonizing and apprenticing them. Then we shall be eager to lift up the negroes into the enjoyment of all the rights of manhood, that so we may have in them men to stand by our side, and help us make short work with the present war, and with that with which we are threatened.
Owing to the bewitching and debauching influence of slavery upon our whole nation, there are, even in the Free States, divisions among us in regard to the present war. But, should England so causelessly, cruelly and meanly force a war upon us, there will be no divisions among us in regard to that war:- nor, indeed, will there then be in regard to the other. And so deep and abiding will be our sense of her boundless injustice, that there will never be any among us to welcome propositions of peace with England, until her war with us shall have reached the result of our subjugation, or of her expulsion from every part of the Continent of North America. Moreover, we shall rejoice to hear of the crushing of her power every where-for we shall feel that time nation which can be guilty of such a war is fit to govern no where in the Eastern no more than in the Western hemisphere.
CHANGE IN WASHINGTON.
To-day treason is bolder in New England, the sanctuary of loyalty, than here at the seat of government. The hearts of patriots are gladdened all the day, at the signs of fear that show the harmless venom of slavery's minions. Liberty is exultant, defiant; while slavery crouches and skulks. Night after night, martial bands of music fill the air with inspiring strains to call the champions of freedom, of senatorial dignity, to the balconies, to utter bold denunciations of slavery as the lather whence sprung the monster treason. The vast throngs that gather in the streets shout loudest when the utterance of the orator is most defiant of the great crime of the country.
We often see the former haughty advocates of "the institution" creeping about the corners of the streets, talking in bated breath of the "sad changes" from the time when republican meetings were broken up by pro-slavery mobs, and to-day, when Jim Lane of Kansas, and Owen Lovejoy of Illinois, standing on the steps of Willard's Hotel, are rapturously cheered when they proclaim themselves the advocates of emancipation.
The lecture system has been inaugurated in Washington for the purpose of introducing Beecher, Phillips, Emerson, Curtis and others of like character to an audience at the Capital. The lecture room of the Smithsonian Institute was duly procured. That, of all places, should be the one. There should be the theatre of their triumph. Strenuous efforts were made to defeat the object, by appeals to Professor Henry, but in vain. O. A. Brownson was announced to give the first lecture. The press interfered. Baltimore papers raised the alarm, and threatened. They even condescended to sneer. The Star of this city was shocked. The antediluvian sheet, called the Intelligencer maintained a disgraceful silence. Only the Republican spoke in favor, and that earnestly. The opposition finally shirked into the darkness of night, and spent its force in mutilating the posted bills giving notice of the lecture. The night at length
arrived, and the room capable of seating 1500 people was filled. Mr. Brownson was great, but his audience was worthy of the orator and his theme. He was bold, kindling as his audience cheered his brave sallies, and his h avy blows fell upon the crest of slavery as
"The sword
Of Michael smote and felled squadrons at once."
Never have the proprietors of that room been so startled as by the repeated and continued applause that followed every telling blow upon the shackles of the slave. The next day was one of congratulation, and the rooms of the departments were audience chambers for republican advocates of liberty, who wickedly witnessed with pleasure the tortures of the old place men, whose hearts still yearned for the flesh-pots of Egypt.
Last Friday night, Rev. Mr. Storrs, of Brooklyn, N. Y., entertained an audience full as large as that of the week before. He was brilliant; and the glitter of his rhetoric charmed his listeners from the beginning. Towards the close of his lecture, the temper of the multitude was displayed when he alluded to American slavery, and cut with his keen blade where Brownson had smashed with his ponderous weapon. Loud and repeated were the cheers that will gladden our hearts till Wendell Phillips shall stand in his peerless might to slay the monster in his ancient stronghold. Washington corr. of lndependent Democrat.
JUST THE OTHER WAY. The following advertisement will explain itself:-
"$500 Reward. Rund away from me on de 7th of dis month, my massa Julan Rhett. Massa Rhett am five feet 'leven inches high, big shoulders, brack hair, curly shaggy whiskers, low forehed an' dark face. He make big fuss when he go 'mong de gemmen, he talk ver big, and uSe de name ob de Lord all ob de time. Calls heself 'Suddern gemmen,' but I suppose now will try to pass heself off as a brack man or mulatter. Massa Rhett has a deep scar on his shoulder from a fight, scratch 'cross de left eye, made by my Dinah when he tried to whipher. He neber look people in de face. I more dan spec he will make track for Bergen kounty, in de furrin land of Jarsay, where I imagine he hab a few friends.
I will gib four hundred dollars for him if alive, an' five hundred if anybody show him dead. If he cum back to his kind niggers widout much trouble, dis chile will receive him lubbingly.
Sambo Rhett.
Beaufort, S. C, Nov. 9, 1861." wlt.
<c06>
WHAT'S THE MATTER? A Recantation-james Redpath, formerly the Kansas Correspondant of the Tribune, and a man known as belonging to the more progressive school of Abolition philosphers-a man who has been charged with having done almost as much as any other in fomenting discored between different states of the Union-now comes out in a public acknowledgment of past errors, repudiating the mischievous doctrine, disseminated in former days and announces his retirement is a political editor until such time as he shall have "attained a clearer and more humane and Christian view of the duties of the freeman to the enslaved." Here is Mr. Redpath's card, published in the Pine, and Palm, a newspaper devoted to the promotion of Haytien colonization:-
"A PREPARATORY WORD. Having become sincerely convinced that many of the political doctrines that I have advocated in my writings are dangerous and abhorrent to the higher insight: the murderous policy, for example, of inciting the slaves to inssurrection, which I have urged repeatedly, and with terribly mistaken zeal-I wish to announce here that I shall retire from any participation in the political management of this journal, excepting for the purpose of retracting past errors, until such time as I feel that I have attained a clearer and more humane and Christian view of the duties of the freeman to the enslaved.
"I shall confine myself exclusively to the editing of the outside pages of the paper. The name of the acting editor will be duly announced. The articles signed with an asterisk were mine: of these, I will retract many; my associates, who indicate their respective writings by the initial L, and by the marks and , are alone responsible for their thoughts, thus labelled. I repudiate my war doctrines, utterly and forever. JAMES REDPATH."
This frank acknowledgment is certainly very noble in Mr. Redpath, and if it is a presage of a general conversion from the abolition ranks, there is more hope for the country.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
A Convert. We have often been puzzled to know how a genuine Abolitionist could at the same time be a conscientious man, but we doubt not there are many such. The most wofully deluded persons are othen perfectly honest in their belief, and we regard abolilionism as an unfortunate and mischievous delusion. The ruin-working class of individuals who have here tofore composed the abolition party are in a fair way to have their eyes opened by the present crisis, and those who are slow to learn may expect-to have their wits sharpened by the lash of public opinion. It is a hopeful symptom, however, to find now and then some notorious Abolitionist discovering, like Saul of old the dangerous error of his ways. Such a case is that of Mr. Redpath, whose conversion we take pleasure in presenting in his own words, as published in the Pine and Palm, a paper of which he has long had control-Evansville (Ind.)Gazette. The Gazette is a sheet full of treasonable designs and tendencies.]
THE AMERICAN TYPE SETTING MACHINE. We learn that Mr. Charles W. Felt, who is now in England, has received orders for some of his type-composing machines from responsible parties in the trade Mr. Felt took out with him credentials of the highest character, and this substantial endorsement must be very gratifying to those gentlemen who have taken an interest in promoting this important enterprise.
We are glad to know that the first of these machines will probably be built in this country, and hope that it may continue to be the case, so that the opportunity
will be afforded for employing the labor and capital our own country.-Boston Courier.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE PORTY DOLLARS.
This is a new style, first class, double thread, family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combinatioa of the various patents owned and used by the parties, aad the patentsnt of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a< silverc06> Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanies' Charitable Asssociation, and are the best finisshed and most substantially. made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. M. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judyes of the last Fair of the Massachusetts.
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"Four Parker's Sewing Machines. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe. Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that of recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get oat of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its tension easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the I work. It will hem, fell, sitch, ran, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen, or cotton, with equal facility. The stick made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee state Fair, fot its superiority.-Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines-first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have heretofore been made is Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and also the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machine now in market.- South Reading Gazette, Nov. 24, 1860.
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead is the market. For beauty and finish workmanship, it cannot be excelled. It is well and Strongly made-strength and utility combined-is emphatically the cheapst and best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it, and when consulted, invariably give Parkers machine the
preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE E. LEONARD, 188 Washington street, Boston, has a large number of orders for
these machines, and sells them as fast as they can be manufactured, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufacturers have almost wholly suspended
operations. This fact, of itself, speaks more strongly in its favor than any thing we can mention; for were it not for its superior merits, it would have suffered from the general depression, instead of flourishing among the wreeks of its rivals. What we tell yon is so fiction; but go and buy one of them, and you will say that "half of its good qualities had never been told you." Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of thess machines to assist her in lessening life's toilsome task.-Marlboro' Gazette, July 13, 1861
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street,
An elaborate Work, entitled Relation ef the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Slavery. By Charles K. Whipple,"-a volume of nearly 250 pages. In cloth, 37 cents-in papar covers, ii cents. 
Aug. 30.