THE LIBERATOR 
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT 
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper viz.:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
OUR COUNTRY IS THE WORLD, OUR COUNTRYMEN ARE ALL MANKIND
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXXII. NO. 28. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 11, 1862 WHOLE NO. 1646.
Refuge of Oppression 
<c01>
ANTI-ABOLITION MOVEMENT.
Resolutions adopted at a semi-treasonable, pro-slavery Democratic Mass Meeting, held at Cooper Institute, New York, on Tuesday evening, July 1st, 1862, under the auspices of Fernando Wood & Co:”-
Resolved, 1 That in the present crisis, when our beloved country is involved in civil war and the foundations of our Constitution are in danger of being overthrown, it is the duty of every American citizen, laying aside all prejudices and attachments, whether of party or locality, to devote his energies, his fortune, and if need be, his life, to the preservation, the defence and the perpetuity of the American Union. (Applause.)
2. That in considering the dangers which immediately threaten the Union, we find two fallacies attempting to accomplish the work of destruction. The one being that of secession culminating in the rebellion of Southern citizens, who by force of arms have attacked the glorious fabric which our fathers erected; the other being that of Abolition, (loud hisses.) which has induced Northern disunionists to declare their enmity to the Constitution, that noble instrument which is the holy bond of brotherhood of Americans.
3. That while the Government is engaged in the work of suppressing the first-named class of foes to the Union. It is our duty as citizens to sustain our Government, and defend it from all enemies at home and abroad; and that in this national emergency, banishing all feelings of mere passion or resentment, we should recollect only our duty to the whole country; that this war should not be waged on our part in any spirit of oppression, or for any purpose of conquest or subjugation, or of overthrowing or interfering with the rights or established institutions of States, but to defend and maintain the supremacy of the Constitution, and to preserve the Union, with all the dignity, equality, and rights of the several States unimpaired; and as soon as these objects are accomplished, the war ought to cease. (Cheers.)
4. That, in dealing with the other class of foes to the Union, it becomes every citizen to bear in mind the advice of the fathers. Obeying the commands of Washington, they should remember that the Union is the main pillar of our real independence, the support of our tranquillity at home, our peace abroad, our safety, our prosperity, our liberty. (Applause) That as this is the point in our political fortress against which the batteries of internal and external enemies will be most constantly and actively (often covertly and insidiously) directed, we should cherish a cordial, habitual, and immovable attachment to it, accustoming ourselves to think and speak of it as the palladium of our political safety and prosperity, watching for its preservation with jealous anxiety, discountenancing whatever may suggest even a suspicion that it can in any event be abandoned, and frowning upon the first dawning of any attempt to alienate any portion of our country from the rest, or to enfeeble the sacred ties which now link together the various parts. (Cheers.) That toward the preservation of our Government it is requisite not only that we discountenance irregular opposition to its acknowledged authority, such as is now exhibited at the South, and has been exhibited at the North in personal liberty bills and other unconstitutional legislation, but also that we resist with care the spirit of innovation upon its principles, however specious the pretext. (Applause.) That in the doctrine of leading Radical politicians, newspapers and orators, that Secession ordinances are operative to destroy the Union (great and prolonged applause), we recognize an innovation on those principles, which has been characterized by a member of the Cabinet as tending to aid and abet the Southern Confederates, and which is designed to be hostile to the Union. That in the plans of the Emancipation League, composed of certain distinguished radical leaders of the Republican party, to exclude from the Union all States which do not abolish slavery, we see an attack upon the American Union. That in the proposition to erect a war power above the Constitution, for the purpose of abolishing slavery by its means, we find another plan to take away the rights of American citizens. That in all the plans and schemes of radicalism we can see no patriotism, no loyalty, no honesty, but that they are clearly, though insidiously, designed equally with the plans of the Southern disunionists, to overthrow the Constitution and erect in its place a new government, on principles of tyranny over those who differ from majorities in views of right (Cheers.)
5.That to such measures of the Administration as may be consonant with the Constitution, we will at all times yield a hearty support; that the prompt action of the President in revoking the proclamations of certain abolition Generals should receive the approbation of all conservative, Union-loving citizens, from whom our government derives its chief support in men and means to carry on the war; and that the continual pressing of the negro question upon the attention of the country, and the constant attempts in Congress and elsewhere, to connect the abolition of slavery with the work of the army, is an insult to our brave and gallant brothers—(immense cheering)-in the field for the Union and the Constitution, and for no other cause.
6. That the soldiers comprising the armies of the Union have merited the nation’s thanks-(“That’s so”)-will deserve a nation’s care, and upon their victorious return we will meet them with rejoicing praises; and should they fall in the cause, we will build monuments to their memories, while their wives and children shall be a precious legacy to be tenderly cared for, as the objects of the nation’s guardianship. That we tender our hearty thanks to the leaders of the two great armies of the East and of the West, to Gen. Geo. B. McClellan—(great applause: three cheers.-Calls of “Abraham Lincoln’” Hisses, and” Put him out”)-for the skill and ability which planned the campaigns, and for that calm self-possession which he has exhibited under the base attacks of abolitionists, while he has himself bravely fought the enemy under great obstacles, and to Gen. Halleck for his brilliant successes; that our armies are not enlisted in any other cause than that of the Constitution and the Union; and that the allegation of the Abolitionists, that the soldiers of New York or of the country are fighting for negro freedom or negro equality, dishonors as good and brave men as the sun ever shone upon.
7.That this is a Government of white men (great applause), and was established exclusively for the white race; that the negro race are not entitled to and ought not to be admitted (cheers) to political or social equality with the white race, but that it is our duty to treat them with kindness and consideration as an inferior and dependent race; that the right of the several States to determine the position and duties of the race is a sovereign right, and the pledges of the Constitution require us, as loyal citizens, not to interfere therewith. (Cheers.)
<c02>
8. That the wholesale extravagance, the plundering by contractors (“good”), the waste of means, which is also indirectly a. waste of blood and life (“good”), which have so frequently appeared in the conduct of the war, as exposed by Committees of Congress, Committees on claims, and in other ways, tending to national bankruptcy and individual impoverishment, demand our profound condemnation, and that the people, already burdened enormously, yet willing to bear all necessary burdens for the Union’s sake, do nevertheless demand in the loudest tones that their life-blood shall not be drained in this manner, for the benefit of infamous robbers of the nation, who profess so loudly to be the defenders of the country, but whose attachment is as deadly as that of the vampire. (Great applause.) 
9. Resolved, (Laughter and applause,) That the Union as it was, is the Union of Washington and of the Fathers; the Union which has made America illustrious among nations; the Union which was the most beneficent Government known to man. (Cheers.) That the Constitution as it is, is the hope of the nation, adhering to and protected by which, we shall be again free, happy and glorious; departing from and destroying which, we shall be left with only the ruins of a great nation around us, out of which no man can prophesy any new Union, or construct any better Constitution. That, believing in these principles, and praying for the guidance and blessing of God on our efforts, we, the representatives of various political parties, and of all classes and employments and professions, do solemnly reaffirm our allegiance to the Constitution as it is, and pledge our lives, our fortunes, and our honors to the cause of the Union as it was. (Loud and long continued applause.)

CHARLES SUMNER.
NEW YORK, July 2.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier:
There is a tide in politics, as well as in all the other affairs of men. That of abolition has had its flood, its very spring-tide, overflowing everything in its rush, and now, thank heaven, is on its ebb. The land it has damaged will suffer from its overflow, but will ere long spring to life again. This fair country will not be ruined even by its poisonous waters. The great Union meeting of Tuesday has opened the flood-gate for them to recede—the Empire city has spoken, and her voice will be heard throughout the North. To say the meeting at the Cooper Institute was enthusiastic would not describe the earnestness and patriotism that pervaded it. The philosophers of the Tribune and Post may sneer at it, as it was expected that they would; but they will in vain try to stay its moral effects. With them, every one who is not an abolitionist is a secessionist. Fortunately for those they thus insult, one name is now no worse than the other. They hang alike in the balance of the public mind—together those who claim them will be annihilated, or together in one pack the base jackalls will revel on the remains of the country. There are now two war cries in New York, and the great Union mastiff is as ready to pounce upon one of the brutes as upon the other. If there are two parties outside of the doomed radicals, they are those, the most violent of them, who would hang Jeff. Davis and Sumner together, and those who would hang Davis first, and Sumner afterwards.
If Sumner is re-elected to the Senate, he may not find it convenient to pass through this city. That his name is odious, infamous, is not all—it is cursed and abominable! The blood of thousands sacrificed to his ambition and personal revenge cries to heaven against him; and if a Massachusetts Legislature can still support him by its vote, those who do so will deserve to lose their children at the altar of this Moloch. Are 300,000 more men to be called upon for such a sacrifice as this, or are they, despite of what fanatical legislation has already done, to make one last effort to restore the Constitution and the Union as they were. These are now the watchwords of the war—the only watchwords that can fill the ranks. Men are determined that they will fight battles for abolition no longer. They look at the mangled forms of their brethren as they return here, and ask—for what have these suffered? And the speeches and enactments at Washington—the negro institutions at Hilton Head—the every word and thing that can be said or done to repel an advance of the South to return to its loyalty—answer this! Rely upon it, there is another revolution at band, and the ballot-boxes are soon to decide if it be a bloodless one or not!
At the great gathering on Tuesday evening, Mr. Crittenden was unable to be present, but the venerable Charles Wickliffe came in his stead, bearing the olive branch which his colleague has so long held out to his distracted country. “Who is the speaker?” cried some one from the gallery. ”An old man from Kentucky, named Wickliffe,” said the speaker himself, with a voice tremulous by age. It was a touching scene, and midst the thunder of applause there fell the soft rain of tears. He who, like Crittenden, was above and beyond ambition, had journeyed here under a sultry sun, weary and infirm, but strong and young in heart, that he might spend all power that was left him for his country. And well did he vindicate the fair fame of his State as he told how she had stood for a time alone—not through fear, but that there might be one green spot in the land, where brothers thirsting for each other’s blood might and be reconciled
And when her ”sacred soil” was invaded—such soil is sacred—how she rushed to the defence of the Union, he left her deeds to attest You will have reports from the newspapers of this and the other speeches. They were all of the same spirit, and if that of Mr. Brooks was somewhat severe upon Puritan New England and the tendency of our people to agitate upon some one ism or another, we most forgive him, because—well, because—it was all pretty true. RINGBOLT.

THE NEW ENGLAND OLERGY
The following communication from a clergyman will give great satisfaction to many minds. Upon such a statement as is furnished by our correspondent, we may reckon confidently for a vast religious, moral and political improvement in New England:
“Certain criticisms from your correspondents, and some editorials of your own during and since Anniversary week, upon the spoutings of abolition ministers, Haven, Manning, Neale and others, have seemed to me timely and just; but I think there is an error in supposing that ministers of all denominations in New England, except the Roman Catholic and Episcopalian, are like the above-named gentlemen of the Methodist, Orthodox and Baptist orders ”Pacificus” remarks upon the truly heathen spirit which seems to animate the great body of the New England Congregational clergy, but he evidently judges the whole by a few. Various denominations are congregational in their church government, and may therefore be included in your correspondent’s
<c03>
designation; certainly, there are as rabid fanatics on the slavery question among the ministers of some of them as any one could reasonably desire.
I have the satisfaction of stating from extensive personal knowledge, that the Congregational clergy of New England at the present time, among those who are called Orthodox, are in general quietly pursuing their pastoral and pulpit duties without meddling with political affairs, save an occasional allusion to the war, which, in common with all loyal citizens, they wish prosecuted with the utmost vigor until the rebellion is effectually put down. Mr. Manning, in his remarks at the Grimes meeting and that of the Church Anti-Slavery society, merely represented his own narrow and bigoted views, seemingly discharging a great deal of bile upon the New York National Tract Society, the New York Observer and the Boston Courier. His remarks may well be characterized by your correspondent as heathenish, and could only come only come from a man with a heart in a very diseased condition. Let him bear his own sins, but don’t inflict a chastisement on the whole denomination to which he belongs. I was surprised to notice the radical sentiments of Rev. Mr. Haven, of the Methodist church, who is in private life so calm and gentlemanly in department Dr. Neale, although more guarded than the other speakers at the Grimes meeting, showed a great leakage in sound doctrine.
My observation tells me that a very great moderation has come over ministers since the war commenced, and that you will find the great body of them sound on Constitutional obligation; and I believe, that by the faithful performance of their clerical duties, they are doing much to edify the people and preserve the institutions of the country. I would that more of them took the Boston Courier, for I think your very able, sound and patriotic course, during this horrible, civil war, would commend itself to their virtue and love of country. The Tribune and the Independent could very well be dispensed with, in order to secure the weekly Boston Courier for their perusal.
A MINISTER.”
-Boston Courier.

GENERAL HUNTER’S LETTER.
If Gen. Hunter had not shown himself, before, entirely unsuited to take active part in a contest, the honest purpose of which was merely the suppression of rebellion, in order to open the way for the return of the revolted States to their allegiance, his impertinent and wrong-headed letter, published yesterday, will convince all unprejudiced minds of the fact.
Perhaps, if his letter had been written before the late repulse of our troops on James Island, the tone of it, would have been considerably modified, nor would the officer who now writes so confidently of organizing forty or fifty regiments of blacks,” by the end of next fall,” in a region where as yet he has raised but one, have felt so very sure of the success of his ridiculous, shameful, and degrading experiment. Long before even the beginning of next fall, in our opinion, the project which this conceited and arrogant officer, -the tool of others, who have already had ample occasion to discover their mistake,-has attempted, will have been utterly exploded. If the free white citizens of this country cannot, by their own force and energies, recover their imperilled institutions,-God forbid that they should be so besotted as to imagine that anything worth recovering, upholding or maintaining, in the guise of civil and religious liberty, can result from calling such legions as Gen. Hunter proposes to their aid!
But, upon reading the letter of this officer to the Secretary of War, the tone and manner of it are convincing to the fact, that he thinks himself addressing a willing mind. Gen. Hunter writes as if he felt fully confident that all he sees fit to say was expected of him, and that he would be fully sustained in the position he has undertaken to occupy. How this may prove, we have yet to be informed. So far, he has apparently acted upon a policy which, it is well known, has had a couple of sympathizers and collateral aiders among Mr. Lincoln’s Secretaries. While Mr. Stanton has furnished to the negro recruits guns,” raided jackets and baggy red trousers,” Mr. Chase has sent primers, horn-books, strong-minded women, and weak-minded men,—all in the expectation of making something out of the negroes which Providence never intended, or, at least, through this philanthropic instrumentality, of working out a political problem for their own individual benefit. But politicians, misled by selfish views, are proverbially short-sighted; and these gentlemen, like others, were not sagacious enough to see that as soon as the negro-game was turned into earnest, it was practically played, out—a fact which will be forced upon the convictions of Messrs. Chase, Stanton and Hunter.—Boston Courier.

TRAITORS’ MEETING AT FRAMINGHAM.
We intended to give some of the proceedings at the usual traitors’ meeting at Framingham, in order to show that none of the old and vile spirit is extinct, though the burning of the Constitution was this year omitted. This, we infer, was for the same reason (besides the fact that it might not have been endured) which induces Wendell Phillips to call himself a ”Union man.” The” old Union” be thinks is dissolved, and a new anti-slavery one established, and in the same way, the traitors who annually gather at Framingham consider the Constitution, which is shortly to rise up vengeance against them, is abrogated and gone.
But we omit these proceedings, though our reporter has furnished them, because, although the treason son was there, it spoke with a somewhat slender note —Mr. Phillips being absent, Mr. Garrison as good as” played out,” and the other performers being of no account.
For precisely the same reason, we decline to record the ridiculous, and shameful as ridiculous, speeches of Judge Washburn and some others at the civic dinner at Faneuil Hall They were of the same tenor with the speeches of the small traitors at Framingham. But to think that men should be willing to make such inconceivable spectacles of themselves is marvellous and pitiable. Of Garrison and his crazy crew, we expect nothing better. They live in a little, narrow world of their own, in which they have
-“Fed on poisons, till they have no power, 
But are a kind of nutriment.”
Of men like Judge Washburn, connected with the liberal pursuits of a University, and himself an instructor of youth, better things might at least have been hoped, than to be just as foolish and just as traitorous as the silly fanatics at Framingham. And there were others of less general account, who took up the same strain, and made out of a national celebration, as well as they could, something no better than what they will find before long was a very untimely abolition orgie. And this well ask whether such of a civil war. We may well ask whether such men have either heads or hearts.—Boston Courier.
<c04>
Selections
LETTER FROM GENERAL HUNTER.
WASHINGTON, July 2. The Secretary of War sent the following to the House to-day:-
PORT ROYAL, June 28, 1862.
To Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
SIR,—I have the honor to acknowledge the recant of a communication from the Adjutant General of the Army, dated June 13, 1862, requesting me to furnish you with the information necessary to answer certain resolutions introduced in the House of Representatives, June 9th, on motion of Hon. Mr. Wickliffe, of Kentucky, their substance being to inquire, 1st, whether I had organized or was organizing a regiment of fugitive slaves in this Department; 2d, whether any authority had been given to me from the War Department for such organization; 3d, whether I had been furnished by order of the War Department with clothing, uniforms, arms, equipments, &c., for such a force.
Only having received the letter covering these inquiries at a late hour Saturday night, and being obliged to urge forward my answer in time for the steamer sailing to-day, (Monday,) this haste prevents me from entering as minutely as I could wish upon many points of detail, such as the paramount importance of the subject calls for. But in view of the near termination of the present session of Congress, and the wide-spread interest which must have been awakened by Mr. Wickliffe’s resolution, I prefer sending even this imperfect answer to waiting the period necessary for the collection of fuller and more comprehensive data.
To the first question, therefore, I reply that no regiment of fugitive slaves has been or is being organized in this Department. There is, however, a fine regiment of persons whose late masters are fugitive rebels,—men who everywhere fly before the appearance of the National flag, leaving their servants behind them to shift as best they can for themselves. So far, indeed, are the loyal persons composing this regiment from seeking to avoid the presence of their late owners, that they are now, one and all, working with remarkable industry to place themselves in a position to join in full and effective pursuit of their pugnacious and traitorous proprietors.
To the second question I have the honor to answer, that the instructions given to Brig.-Gen. T. W. Sherman by Hon. Simon Cameron, late Secretary of War, turned over to me by succession for my guidance, do distinctly authorize me to employ all loyal persons offering their services in defence of the Union and for the suppression of this rebellion in any manner I might see fit, or that the circumstances might call for.
There is no restriction as to the character or color of the persons to be employed, or the nature of the employment, whether civil or military, in which their services shall be used. I conclude, therefore, that I have been authorized to enlist fugitive slaves as soldiers, could any such be found in the Department. No such characters, however, have yet appeared within view of our most advanced pickets, the loyal slaves everywhere remaining on their plantations to welcome us, aid us and supply us with food, labor and information.
It is the masters who have in many instances been the fugitives, running away from loyal slaves as well as loyal soldiers, and whom we have only partially been able to see with their heads over ramparts, or rifle in hand dodging behind trees in the extreme distance.
In the absence of any fugitive master law the deserted slaves would be wholly without remedy, had not their time of treason given the right to pursue, capture and bring back these persons, of whose protection they have been thus suddenly bereft.
To the third interrogatory, it is my painful duty to reply that I never have received any specific authority for issues of clothing, uniforms, arms, equipments, etc., to the troops in question, my general instructions from Mr. Cameron to employ them in any manner I might find it necessary in the military exigencies of the Department, and the country, being my only, but, in my judgment, sufficient justification.
Neither have I had any specific authority for supplying those persons with shovels, spades and pickaxes when employing them as laborers, nor with boats and oars when using them as lightermen. But these are not the points indicated in Mr. Wickliffe’s resolution. To me it seemed that liberty to employ men in any particular capacity implied with it liberty also to supply them with the necessary tools, and acting upon this fact I have clothed, equipped and armed the only loyal regiment yet raised in South Carolinia.
I must say, in vindication of my own conduct, that had it not been for the many other diversified and imperative claims on my time and attention, a much more satisfactory result might have been hoped for, and that in place of only one, as at present, at least five or six well-drilled, brave and thoroughly acclimated regiments should by this time have been added to the loyal forces of the Union.
The experiment of arming the blacks, so far as I have made it, has been a complete and even marvellous success. They are sober, docile, attentive and enthusiastic, displaying great natural capacity for acquiring the duties of the soldier. They are eager beyond all things, to take the field and be led into action, and it is the unanimous opinion of the officers who have had charge of them, that in the peculiarities of this climate and country they will prove invaluable auxiliaries, fully equal to the similar regiments so long and successfully used by the British authorities in the West India Islands.
In conclusion I would say that it is my hope, there appearing no possibility of other reinforcements, owing to the exigencies of the campaign on the Peninsula, to have organized by the end of next fall, and to be able to present to the Government from 48,000 to 50,000 of these hardy and devoted soldiers.
Trusting this letter may form part of your answer to Mr. Wickliffe’s resolution, I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your very obedient servant,
D. HUNTER, Major General Commanding.

CONTRABANDS AND THEIR SERVICES
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune
SIR—A great deal has been said lately of the intelligence and usefulness of the ”contrabands,” and I wish to add my testimony to that of others on that score, and also say a word as to the return that is made them for their services. In Virginia and North Carolina, for the past year, I have had opportunities of observing large numbers of ” contraband” negroes, and my respect for the black race has been greatly increased thereby. As a staff officer I have frequently had occasion to obtain information of various kinds, relating to the roads, navigation, position, defences of the enemy, &c, and I have invariably found that obtained from the negroes to be most trustworthy. Nor is the cause of this in their willing-
<c05>
ness to give information alone; there is a ready wit and quickness of observation  about  them which many of their masters seem to lack.
I cannot think that the negro is capable of immediate cultivation equal to that of the white race, but that they are capable of a much higher cultivation than is generally believed, I am convinced. They have a strong desire to learn, which will sometimes surmount the greatest obstacles. Thus, they keep eyes and ears open to all that is going on around them, and in this way often learn much that is not intended for them to know.
I know several negro girls in Newbern, who have taught themselves to read and write in spite of the law. Strange and improbable as the statement may seem, it is nevertheless true, and I shall, I think, be sustained by every man who has observed them, when I say that the slaves who have come into our camps here, are, to every appearance, far more intelligent than the ”poor whites.” I can account for this in no other way, except it be true that the superior race, when degraded, sinks below the inferior, and no one who has not been among them can know how miserable is the mental condition of the poor white man of the South. When slavery shall have gone, it will not be the negro alone who has been emancipated. Much is said of the ”white slaves” of the North, but their condition is so far superior to the white slaves of the South as to be beyond comparison. In the South, education is monopolized by the few, as capital is in the North. It is this, then, that makes the ignorant slave often appear superior in intelligence to his master.
In the operations of the Union armies, the contrabands have been of almost inestimable value. They have obtained important information when white men could not; they have acted as spies when white men could not be hired to risk their necks.
During the operations against Fort Macon, it was found that the negroes were altogether the best and most trustworthy pilots about the harbor, and few harbors are more difficult of navigation than that of Beaufort, N. C. It was necessary to send a steamer into Bogue Sound to transport the guns and mortars across to our siege batteries. To get here then, it was necessary to run by the fort at night and at flood tide. This was a perilous undertaking, for the steamer once aground, she would have been lost; the receding tide would have left her high on the shoal, and entirely at the mercy of the fort when daylight made her visible. No white man could be found willing to act as pilot; $300 was offered to the man who should take her by the fort safely. The man who did take her through without an accident, rendering Government a service equal to thousands of dollars, has never received a cent for his service, nor did he expect anything but his freedom.
AN OFFICER.
Newbern, N. C., June 3, 1862.

GENERAL FREMONT’S DEPARTURE.
LATE HEADQUARTERS OF GEN. FREMONT, CAMP NEAR MIDDLETOWN, June 28, 1862.
Thursday evening came telegraphic news to Gen. Fremont, that Major General John Pope was assigned by the President to command the Army of Virginia, whereof the forces under Gen. Fremont were to constitute the first corps. That is to say, the senior Major-General of the United States Army was reduced from the independent command of a Department to the command of an army corps, subordinate to a general of inferior grade, who had been an insubordinate commander under him in Missouri, and is to-day his bitter personal enemy. The order of President Lincoln was rudely transmitted by telegraph without a word of preparation or explanation, coming in duplicate from the Secretary of War, and from Maj.-Gen. Pope. It overtakes him not as the penalty of inaction or disaster, but in the progress of a brilliant and successful campaign. It requires him to resign at once his Department, the independent command of his army, his plan of campaign, and all possibility of useful service to his country. Astonished by the suddenness of the demand, and desiring time for reflection and consultation, Gen. Fremont, without other reply, asked for ten days leave of absence. It was peremptorily refused. Determined, if all else must be given up, to retain at least his honor and his own respect, he then sought to be relieved from his command, and that request was promptly granted. The interests of the service, in the opinion of the President, did not permit him a brief leave of absence, but were not deemed to be compromised by his entire withdrawal from duty. In accordance with the president’s directions, he at once turned over the command to Brig.-Gen. Schenck, next in rank under him, and this morning started for New York.
It is not easy to realize a change of circumstances so sudden, nor to consider them with patience. Nothing in the history of the Missouri campaign was so unjust, so causeless, so utterly inexcusable as this last blow. It has been my fortune to know something of the interior history of this campaign, and the relations between General Fremont and the military authorities at Washington. This is no hour to publish that record, or declare its character. It is enough to say that the discouragement, want of support, capricious interference, and active hostility at Washington were greater hindrances to success than the ingenuity and the despair of the enemy could interpose. The energy and capacity which triumphed over both are rewarded by disgrace. The public confidence, which pointed to Fremont as the one General entitled by his rank, his services, and his skill to command the United States forces in Northern and Eastern Virginia, was only evidence of a too dangerous popularity, and supplied the motive to attempt its destruction. The attempt was skillfully made. If he retains his command under Pope, he may be kept inactive, or hurried into disaster. If he resigns, it is easy to say that his personal ambition was superior to his patriotism, and the nation is expected to forget that it has been made impossible for him to serve his country by remaining in the field, that in such circumstances, both patriotism and self-respect compel him to retire.
Information of the order was withheld until an answer had been received to the request to be relieved. It then became necessary to issue orders to various officers, and the news became publicly known at headquarters on Friday afternoon. Needless to say that among the members of his staff, the injustice to their loved and trusted General excited sorrow and indignation. Throughout the camp, it was not generally known till next morning. Desiring to avoid all demonstrations, the General arranged to leave at an early hour on Saturday. The staff went down to his quarters at seven; the cavalry escort, under Capt. Mathini, was drawn up in front of the house , and, after a brief conversation with a few officers, the General mounted, and with staff and escort rode across the fields away from the camps to the road, and on through the town. He hated for a few minutes at Gen. Sigel’s headquarters, and again at Gen. Bank’s, which are in the edge of the woods some distance beyond the village. Gen. Banks came out to meet him, and the two Generals
<c06>
stood a little while talking together under the trees, meeting and parting with evident cordiality. Then Gen. Fremont remounted, rode back to the road, and stopping again as he entered it, dismissed and said good bye to those of his staff who were not to accompany him. One after another his officers rode up to their General, saluted, received his kindly and cordial farewell, and turned sadly away. With the General went Col. Albert, Chief of Staff; Lieut. -Col. Pilsen, Chief of Artillery; Lieut.,-Col Savage, Major Haskell and Capt. Raymond, Aides-de-Camp. Col. Zagonyi and Capt. Howard are in Washington. The rest of the staff remain temporarily for duty.
Headquarters have worn a gloomy look since morning. A few officers are gravely discussing the events of the day or the history of the campaign. Most of them are quietly finishing what business remains to be done, and will leave to-morrow. The active life and friendly intercourse and cordial spirit which yesterday made the camp so pleasant are oppressed by a calamity which leaves no one unaffected. With the retirement of the General the staff is scattered, and the hopes and prospects of the Summer are ended
Since the General left, I have seen and talked with many officers of his command. All denounce the injustice of the removal, and deplore its influence on the troops. These officers are not all friends of Gen. Fremont, but all agree in this feeling and opinion. ”A change of commanders in such circumstances,” said one General,” demoralizes and disheartens troops.” The inspiration of his successes, of their confidence in him, and the effect of his efforts for a more thorough discipline, are completely lost. I have had no time nor disposition to go through the camps for inquiry. The testimony of such a number of officers is sufficient.—Correspondence of the New York Tribune.

WHAT SECESSION MEANS.
The Louisville Courier, once the organ of the Breckinridge Democracy of Kentucky, removed first to Bowling Green, then to Nashville, seems to have ”gone up” when the traitors evacuated the latter city. It was there that it put forth the following philosophy of the rebellion:—
“This has been called a fratricidal war by some, by others an irrepressible conflict between freedom and slavery. We respectfully take issue with the authors of both these ideas. We are not the brothers of the Yankees, and the slavery question is merely a pretext, not the cause of the war. The true irrepressible conflict lies fundamentally in the hereditary hostility, the sacred animosity, the eternal antagonism, between the two races engaged.
”The Norman cavalier cannot brook the vulgar familiarity of the Saxon Yankee, while the latter is continually devising some plan to bring down his aristocratic neighbor to his own detested level. Thus was the contest waged in the old United States. So long as Dickinson doughfaces were to be bought, and Cochrane cowards to be frightened, so long was the Union tolerable to Southern men; but when, owing to divisions in our ranks, the Yankee hirelings placed one of their own spawn over us, political connection became unendurable, and separation necessary to preserve our self respect.
“As our Norman kinsmen in England, always a minority, have ruled their Saxon countrymen in political vassalage up to the present day, so have we, the slave oligarchs,’ governed the Yankees till within a twelvemonth. We framed the Constitution, for seventy years moulded the policy of the Government, and placed our own men, or’ Northern men with Southern principles, in power.
“On the 6th of November, 1860, the Puritans emancipated themselves, and are now in violent insurrection against their former owners. This insane holiday freak will not last long, however; for, dastards in fight, and incapable of self government, they will inevitably again fall under the control of the superior race. A few more Bull Run thrashings will bring them once more under the yoke as docile as the most loyal of our Ethiopian’ chattels.’”

THE CONSERVATIVE CAUCUS
The Conservative Caucus at Washington, on Saturday, was attended by about thirty-five members of Congress. We are assured that” various reasons were given for the absence of the other gentlemen. ”When the “other gentlemen” read the resolutions passed by the caucus, these “various reasons” will doubtless appear more satisfactory to themselves than when they were first offered to excuse their absence. Vallandigham, the political fox whose tail has been cut off, has succeeded in getting only thirty-five other political foxes to submit to a similar mutilation.
We have neither space nor inclination to speak at any length of the resolutions. An apparent zeal for the Constitution but thinly conceals the evident purpose of their framers, which is to use the Constitution to protect the rebels from punishment in case they fail, and to remove every obstacle which may interfere with their success. The palpable intention is to give “aid and comfort to the enemy.” by attempting to show that the Government is disqualified, by the Constitution, from prosecuting the war as other nations prosecute war. ”The rights of the South” are so sacred that they should prevent the Government of the United States from exercising” the rights of war.”
But if the United States cannot exercise the rights of war, the reason must be found in the theory, that the United States do not constitute a nation; for all nations have these rights. As a necessary inference, the secession theory of the Constitution is the true one. The ”Conservative Caucus,” therefore, has simply justified the rebellion. The rights of war are necessary incidents of sovereignty. Sovereignty must reside somewhere; if not in the United States, then it must be in the separate States, and if in the separate States, we have the comfortable conclusion that the Confederate states have the rights of war, while the United States have them not!
The resolutions speak of the ”unexampled atrocities” of the rebels in conducting the war, and also declare that the guilty leaders should be punished. These statements sound well, and we are curious to know especially how the leaders are to be punished. Perhaps light is thrown on the matter by the assertion” that Congress has no force to deprive any person of his property for any criminal offence, unless that person has been duly convicted by the verdict of a jury.” As the jury must be taken from the district in which the crime was committed, we may well suppose that, under this process, even the property of Jefferson Davis would be safe from confiscation. If his property would be thus secure, would not his life be still more secure? Indeed, we cannot suppose that the Solons who attended the Conservative Caucus will say that a man’s has can be taken from him without the verdict of a jury, while a man’s property cannot.
When the Scotch members of the House of Commons voted against one of the measures of Adding
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institution, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, to far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES,. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFRENCE WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ton's Administration, Sheridan cried out, "Doctor, the Thanes fly from thee in pleasant allusion both to Macbeth and Addington's former profession. The Scotch members in Addington's time occupied to him about the same business relation which the New York Herald occupies to the pro-slavery conservatives. Yet we find in the Washington correspondence of the Herald that "the Caucus of Conservatives" was "less successful than was expected." This means that, even in the opinion of its friends, it was a miserable failure-Boston Transcript.

"THE UNION, THE CONSTITUTI0N, AND THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAWS."
In the Boston Courier of yesterday morning, we find a communication, dated New York, addressed to the editor, and signed "Ringbolt." It is devoted to an animated account of the spirit and objects of the great Union meeting" in New York, held on Tuesday evening last, a meeting seemingly called for a double purpose,-first, to assure the rebels that they had influential friends in this city; and second, to assure foreign States that the North was divided, and thus to invite intervention. Its occurrence at the time of the retreat of McClellan's army admirably served both objects. 
As the meeting, however, was ostensibly called for the purpose of the purpose of sustaining " the Constitution as it is, and the Union as it was," against the designs of the abolitionists, our curiosity is especially excited to learn what, in the opinion of the meeting, the Constitution really is. Mr. Wickliffe of Kentucky announced that his State long desired to preserve an armed neutrality between the two belligerents, and did not act until Kentucky was invaded. We have therefore this important constitutional principle established: Whenever any of the slave States of the Union resist by force of arms the authority of the United States, any single slave State has the right to establish itself as an armed umpire, or “green Spot" between the two sections.
Fernando Wood also suggested a great constitutional principle, heretofore overlooked by such men as Marshall, Story, Kent and Webster. It is this:
Whenever Congress attempts to pass any measures which are offensive to such men as Fernando Wood, it is the right of such men as Fernando Wood to head an "irregular" assemblage of patriotic citizens, and forcibly disperse the members of Congress; and the precedent to be followed in such a case shall be that furnished by Cromwell's conduct to the Rump Parliament.
We are indebted to "Ringbolt," the New York correspondent of the Boston Courier, for two more great Constitutional principles. They are implied in the following paragraph of his letter:-
If Sumner is re-elected to the Senate, he may not find it convenient to pass through this city. That his name is odious, infamous, is not all-it is cursed and abominable! The blood of thousands sacrificed to his ambition and personal revenge cries to heaven against him; and if a Massachusetts Legislature can still support him by its vote, those who do so will deserve to lose their children at the altar of this Moloch. Are 300,000 more men to be called upon for such a sacrifice as this, or are they, despite of what fanatical legislation has already done, to make one last effort to restore the Constitution and the Union as they were. These are now the watchwords of the war-the only watchwords that can fill the ranks. Men are determined that they will fight battles for abolition no longer. They look at the mangled forms of their "brethren as they return here, and ask for what have these suffered? And the speeches and enactments at Washington-the negro institutions at Hilton Head-the every word and thing that can be said or done to repel an advance of the South to return to its loyalty-answer this! Rely upon it, there is another revolution at hand, and the ballot boxes are soon to decide if it be a bloodless one or not!
The first sentence of this extract contains a threat, that if the State of Massachusetts presumes to re-elect Charles Sumner to the Senate, he shall be assassinated as he passes through the city of New York. We do not, of course, see any impropriety in the fact that a Boston newspaper sees fit to publish, even in a communication, an assurance that New York will kill a Massachusetts senator, if he has the impertinence to come within her limits; for the Courier probably does it for the excellent purpose of saving Mr. Sumner's life, by warning the State Legislature beforehand of what will be the fate of its favorite, in case it insists in forcing honors upon him.
Still, we hold it to be one of the reserved rights of the States, that each State has the exclusive privilege of assassinating its own Senators, and that no other State can perform this act without violating, to say the least, those rules of comity and good breeding which should exist among communities associated like the United States. But as that eminent jurist, the Hon: W. A. Duer, expressed at the meeting, in the course of a long legal argument, his desire to hang Charles Sumner immediately after Jeff. Davis, and as be could hardly do it in Massachusetts, we presume that "Ringbolt" is right, and we are wrong.
In the last sentence of his letter, "Ringbolt" states distinctly that " another revolution is at hand, and the ballot-boxes are to decide if it be a bloodless one or not." This seems to us to accord both with the opinions and acts of the Confederates. The idea is that " if the friends of the Constitution " and of Fernando Wood are out-voted in the free States. they will rebel. Jeff. Davis would be delighted to endorse such a luminous principle.
We have, therefore, in addition to the two interpretations of the Constitution furnished by Messrs. Wickliffe and Wood, that two following by "Ringbolt:"
It is perfectly proper for one State to hang in a regular, or assassinate in an "irregular" manner, a Senator of another State who is personally obnoxious to any citizens of the State through which he passes to take his seat in the Senate.
All persons who vote at elections have the right to get up an armed opposition to the Government they have failed to defeat at the polls.
We now comprehend, for the first time, what an abolitionist is. He is a person who is unable to understand the Constitution as Wickliffe, Duer, Wood, "Ringbolt," and their friends and supporters, understand it.-Boston Transcript.

A REBUKE TO TRAITOROUS DEMOCRACY.
The Tribune publishes the following Jetter from Mr. Richard Busteed, a well-known lawyer of New York, (who has always ranked himself with the Democratic party.) declining to have his name connected with the Fernando Wood sedition movement:
To the Editor of the New York Tribune: In the report of the New York Express of a meeting held at the Cooper Institute, on the evening' of July 1st, instant, in pursuance of a call to the " citizens of New York and vicinity, opposed to the further agitation of the negro question, and in favor of the restoration of the Union as it was, and the maintenance of the Constitution as it is," I find my name is printed among the list of Vice Presidents.
Ordinarily I would not deem such a matter of enough importance to require correction; but in times like these, the opinions and conduct of the humblest may have weight in giving direction to the sentiment and action of others.
For this reason, I beg to say that while I am impressed with a sense of the honor intended, I did not and do not sympathize with the object set forth in the call, and if I had been consulted, should not have sanctioned the use that was made of my name. I am opposed to the further agitation of the negro question 
In conducting this war for the nation's life, I would act upon the advice of La Pucella to Burgundy. "Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help.
I am in favor of the restoration of the Union as it was with this qualification: it shall be a Union in which the citizens of each State shall not only be entitled to have, but actually have, " all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.” and in which a New Yorker shall not be in peril of an application of tar and feathers or hanging in Georgia or Alabama, if be intimates that slavery is not a divine institution 
I am not in favor of maintaining "the Constitution as it is" any longer than is requisite to amend it in the manner provided by law. I want a Constitution in which there shall be no saving clause or ambiguous provision in favor of slavery," but which shall be founded upon the principles of God's eternal justice and square with His golden rule.
These sentiments, you perceive, disqualify me from fraternizing with the so-called "Anti-Abolition, anti-secession" gathering at the Cooper Institute. They rather place me within the anathema and death sentence pronounced by that distinguished orator, Fernando Wood, against those who believe that " all men are endowed by their Creator with certain ina-
<c02>
lienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." RICHARD BUSTEED. No. 237 Broadway, New York, July 3, 1862.

NORTHERN SYMPATHY WITH THE SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLIOHN. 
There is strong evidence that the slaveholding conspirators against the liberties of the American people had expected essential aid from a certain class at the North; but the overwhelming uprising of freemen around the ensign of the republic drove the northern accomplices of the Southern despots into hiding-places, to escape the wrath of an indignant people. Whether the meeting got up in New York, on Tuesday evening, was composed mainly of such traitors, in disguise, we cannot say; but it is pretty evident that the doings of that meeting were such as men of secession tendencies would naturally engage in. The bloody rebellion at the South was set on foot in order to uphold slavery and despotism; therefore all who sympathized with that movement would exhibit the characteristics of Southern haters of popular freedom. Those characteristics, we all know, are a desire to trample anti-slavery men under foot; suppress freedom of speech; uphold the system of compelling men to work without wages, and protect "slave property" in every possible way. At the North, such men must of course profess to be Union men; but by their fruits shall ye know them. In the meeting referred to, it was proposed to hang Charles Sumner! as well as Jeff. Davis. So Brooks of South Carolina thought when he made his brutal assault on the beloved Massachusetts Senator on the floor of the Capitol. Fernando Wood is reported to have proposed the characteristic slaveholding measure, of breaking up Congress by force! and that too, of course, because of its abolition legislation; such as enacting that the rebels' property shall be used towards paying the expenses of this war. But enough said; the people understand such men, and will mark them Northampton <illegible>

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 11, 1852
ADDRESS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS,
DELIVERED REPORT THE TWENTY-EIGHTH CONGREGSATIONAL SOCIETY, AT MUSIC HALL, JULY 6.
[PHONOGRAPHIC REPORT BY JAS. M. W. YERRINTON]
We opened this house last fall in a season of great doubt, when the prospects of the nation lowered; we close it now for the summer, with a cloud resting on the future of the nation's effort. I propose to use the hour that you give me, to-day, in trying to find the reasons of this delay in what seems to me efficient action on the part of the Government.
When Fremont crossed the desert to San Francisco, to open the pathway of empire to the golden State, he selected winter, in order that he might know the utmost difficulties that the emigrant would encounter. When Fulton's steamboat first trod the waters of the Hudson, he selected the moment of utter difficulty, when the spectators doubted whether the wheel could move, to go below, rearrange the machinery, and make that efficient which at the moment promised to defeat the experiment. Our institutions now are undergoing their first great radical trial. Hitherto, Democracy here has floated on a summer sea; no enemy near us; no internal difficulty that could stop even for a moment the onward march of the Government. Now, for the first time, the experiment of the people's rule meets within its own bosom the great obstacle which threatens to discredit Democracy in Europe, which threatens to break asunder the territory of the nation, which threatens to discredit the method by which men are selected to guide the nation's action. I take this opportunity, therefore, to look into the machinery, to see where the obstacle is, what the weak point seems to be, where the difficulty exists.
Let us begin at the beginning. Every man has a right to a certain influence. Every man who thinks is bound to have an influence. I think he should not only attempt to influence those about him somewhat, but he should remember the rule of Wilberforce, that a man is bound to exert all the influence that he can. He is not innocent if he leaves any single channel untouched. He is bound not only to accept what comes to him, but to plan thoughtfully how he shall best influence those about him. You and I are contented, sometimes, with the influence which this pulpit has had in the nation-with the amount of impression it has made upon the public mind; but at the same time, it seems to me that we have not had-we whom this effort represents-all the influence, all the direct power, upon the nation's character and course that belonged to us, that we ought to have attained.
I propose, therefore, to look for a moment into the machinery, and endeavor to define where the defect lies. I do not mean to belittle the religious and the intellectual influence of such an effort as this. The diocese of Theodore Parker extended to the Pacific. There are two kinds of influence: one,-, Chinese-a man makes his imitator exactly what he is, as the Chinese artist, taking a cracked plate for his model, reproduces the whole set with a crack. That is one kind of influence-the least valuable. The other is the influence of methods, ideas. A man creates those who follow, not his exact steps, but his method; who accepts not his results, but his principles of investigation, his fearlessness of examination, his boldness of attitude. In a far city on our Western prairie, I found a leading member of a Western bar, a man of cultivated intellect, wide influence, decisive character, who, when he was married, bought all the writings of Theodore Parker. On Sunday, the leisure day from his profession, he either read one of the discourses which you have heard from this desk, or he went electively through the pulpits of the city, seeing whether he and his wife could set up their public altar of worship in any hall. He went through every church of the city, and, judging by what he read at home, found none that gave him a resting-place. At last, in a small hall, holding a hundred, he found a self- educated, energetic man, talking to fifty hearers, impelled by the inspiration of his own great heart. He did not agree with the doctrines of this desk, but he agreed with the purpose of this desk; and there, in that mighty, floating population, the young lawyer, with his wealth, social position, professional standing, wide intellectual influence, placed himself by the side of the struggling talker, and over both the great hand of the Bishop of Music Hall was lifted, to create on the prairies of the West disciples who did not adopt his shibboleth, but who answered to the great spirit of individual independence, fearless investigation, utter protest against popular iniquities and conventional religion. That is the best influence, which a man can wield; and that lonely grave at Florence still wields it, far West to the prairies of Illinois and the golden regions of California.
But still, there are four kinds of influence. There is the social, the intellectual, the religious, and the political. The social influence is this: a man of fascinating keen, brilliant intellect, and fair position, gathers the suffrages that make him potent from every source, from every quarter. His acquaintances value him by the reputation that the broad surface of society renders to him. He is not potent because he is admired in Boston solely; the reflection of his New York, of his London, of his Philadelphia, of his Chicago acquaintance, adds to the weight of his social position. The compliment, which comes to a great speaker or to an independent man a thousand miles off, adds to the weight of his home hand. So there is an intellectual influence. This pulpit is not potent merely because it collects two thousand men within these walls of a Sunday; it is because Music Hall, to the farthest West, is recognized as the spot where unpopular truth gets an utterance, where hunted freedom finds an altar. The South dreads it as the vanguard of New England fanaticism. Its influence is not local. Every one of you feels stronger to day because you know that the eyes of twenty States are on you. So, take the Tribune. The Tribune is strong, not because
<c03>
of its corps of editors, not for its ten or fifteen thousand New York subscribers, but because it moulds opinions in Minnesota; because, when Wade speaks, he speaks with a constituency which the New York Tribune has moulded to stand behind him. When Lovejoy enters Congress, the constituency that sends him there was created by the Evening Post and the New York Tribune. There is no locality, there is no hemming-in of geographical boundaries, there is no close corporation, in these things. Why do we listen to Horace Greeley? We know that when he speaks, a hundred thousand men listen, and that on at least a hundred thousand hearts his words fall with the power of a leader. The majority do not love to lead; they love to follow. There are very few men who love the labor and responsibility of thought. The majority love to have their thinking done for them. In a moment of leisure, in the mere play conflict of society, they maintain an opinion; but in the critical moment, when action is to rest on intellect, when a step is to be taken as the result of logic, when a great nation's fate hangs on his raising the right hand, every man shrinks from the responsibility. He says, "You lead-I follow." The majority love to follow. When such a man as Greeley speaks, why does the President go to hear him in Washington? Why does the Cabinet crowd the Smithsonian platform when he lectures, and leave Cheever and me unattended? Because, when he speaks, the great West listens, and on their hot hearts the trusted leader of the Republican sentiment pours the mature, the ripe conclusions which are to immediately result, or very soon to result, in national action. Such are the social, religious, and intellectual chiefs among us.
Now we come to politics-the close, direct influence on the nation's affairs. The political chief represents geographical district. He is chosen solely by the votes of those who live, one may say, in sight of his house. Unlike the social, religious and intellectual chiefs I have named, the political chiefs, by our present system of election, represents a cut and squared surface of population. Let me explain. Mr. Lincoln stands hesitating today. Why? He is " Honest Abe"; he means to do his duty. I believe he honestly wishes that this convulsion shall result in the destruction of the slave system. (Applause.) But Mr. Lincoln is not a genius; he is not a leader. It is quite doubtful whether, under Democratic institutions a leader ever can be President. It is quite doubtful under Democratic institutions, whether leading minds ever can fill the great offices of State. They certainly never can under the present system. Mr. Lincoln is not a leader; he is a second-rate man; he rejoices in being a second-rate man. His theory of Democracy is, that he is the servant of the people, not the leader. Like the Indian trapper on the prairie, his keen ear listens to know what twenty million of people want him to do; what their conscious, matured, recognized principles to-day demand of him to do. He stands asking, "What do you mean I shall do? Ericsson is a genius; and if the Union is saved, we owe it to John Ericsson, not to Abraham Lincoln (applause); for, without listening to anything but the inspiration of his own genius, he sees the want, measures the void, and fills it. He is a leader, not a follower. Lincoln, selected by the present method of Democratic election, as I am going to proceed to show you, cannot be anything but a servant. What does he want to-day? I am going to take it for granted that he is honest; I am going to take it for granted that the Cabinet which stands behind him, according to popular report, is more than that; it actually leans, the bulk of it, toward the purpose of letting this convulsion preserve the Union by the method of making it homogeneous - basing it on freedom. (Applause.) But of course the Cabinet, and the President too, are only the servants of the people; they listen to Congress; they heed the official voice of the people. Let me go into that a moment. What is, at present, the official voice of America? Democracy means this-the government of the people. Democracy, in its noblest and highest sense, is the government by the present mind of all the people. We are at present pluming ourselves on an experiment of Democracy. Lord Brougham criticises us as demonstrating "the failure of Democracy "; but he knows nothing of that he is talking about, for we have never had a Democracy yet. Not only has the great Southern Oligarchy hitherto smothered the tendency toward Democracy in the Northern States, which it now threatens to annihilate, but we have never had a Democracy even here. Let me show you what I mean. I am going to speak to you of the rights of minorities. I am about to try to unfold to you, in half an hour, what Stuart Mill has been urging in England for twenty years-the rights of minorities; and to show you that, I think, here lies the obstacle to the success of the North in this struggle.
We say in Massachusetts that the people govern. What do we mean? When you resolve it into the fact, "the majority govern" is what the politician will tell you. We go to the polls, and out of a million of men, if there are 700,000 who think one way, and 300,000 who think another, the 300,000 must yield to the 700,000 rule. That is the theory. Now look at the result. We will take 15,000 voters in a district; 7000 of them are Democrats, 8000 are Republicans. Many a district in this State is as closely contested as that. November approaches; the question is, "Whom shall we nominate?" Of those 8000 Republicans, 3000 are Abolitionists, we will suppose; men who agree with Fremont, with Hunter, that the path out of this war is emancipation. The question comes, "Whom shall we nominate?. "They say to themselves, "If we nominate such a man, there are 5000 of our own party who are not ready for that problem; he never can be elected. Whom must we nominate? We must nominate a man on a level with the lowest tier of our own party. We must nominate a man whose decisive opinions have never made an enemy. We must nominate a man whose radicalism has never been feared. We must nominate a man who believes the Lord Almighty owns the earth, but the Devil must not be deprived of his half of it just yet. (Laughter.) We must not go too fast nor too far." And perhaps in that district there are 2000 liquor sellers. They say, " You must nominate a man, one or the other of you, who agrees with us; if you don't, we, the small minority of 2000, hold our votes irrespective of all opinions, pledged to this one interest." The consequence is, they nominate an eel; they nominate an artful dodger; they nominate a man who lives- by whispering at Washington what it is death to him to have known at home; who is politically dead about the time be is equally well known in both places. He is elected. The 3000 radicals vote for him-he is the best they can get; the 5000 unpledged, neutral, non-committal, timid, cautious, hide-and-seek Republicans vote for him. Whom does he represent? He does not represent 7000 Democrats; he does not represent 3000 radicals. He represents 5000 men who were never guilty of an opinion. Five thousand men, then, out of the 15,000 in that district, are really represented. That is not a very near approach to the government of the " majority." One hundred such men go up to the Legislature. Now, I am not exaggerating matters; you know it is true. (Applause.) One hundred such men go up to the Legislature. Then comes up a test question-a stern, close, decisive measure. Sixty men vote for it; forty vote against it; it is carried. Now, how many men put that law on the Statute-book? Sixty voters, each one representing 5000 men. The whole hundred, according to my estimate, represent a million and a half; those sixty represent 300,000 men, and they govern. To-day, the grog-shops of Boston, that are open from Chelsea ferry to Roxbury line, choose your Mayor. To-day, the border States, the most selfish and the most timid in the country, govern the country, because this Administration fears opposition, more than it values support. We are not under the government of the majority, on our method; we are under the government of the minority, necessarily; and, more than that, by the working of our machinery, we are under the government of a minority of doughfaces; a minority of men who do not offend anybody, whose
<c04>
intellects are of the lowest type, whose moral convictions are at low tide. These are the men who elect Congressmen. Five Massachusetts members, elected by this method, voted down one of the best Emancipation measures of the present Congress. Sumner and Wade and Lovejoy and Julian are but exceptional cases-" happy accidents," as Alexander the first was on the throne of Russia. "Happy accidents"; but the great majority of Congress represent each 5000 men without an opinion. President Lincoln to-day, when every hour is, big with the fate of an empire, when every hour is risking the permanence of the Union, knows no other official representation of the popular sentiment of America than the Halls of Congress afford. The Halls of Congress, taking out those happy exceptions, by the very machinery of our Government, represent the doughfaces of the North- the men without an opinion. Does any man here wonder that President Lincoln does not lead? He has actually gone ahead of the official expression of the public sentiment of the North. His Border-State proclamation is an arrow's flight ahead of any official intimation to him of the public opinion of the North.
Now, dwelling a moment on our machinery, what is the remedy? Why, on Stuart Mill's plan, the remedy is in the minority being represented. That is, Boston is not to be obliged to choose, from its own citizens, a representative to Congress; Worcester is not to be confined, in choosing a representative, to her own inhabitants; but if 15,000 men in Massachusetts agree with Theodore Parker, in his lifetime, in opinion, they choose him, and send him to Congress. This is the plan, intended to furnish a Legislature that represents not a majority of the people as now, but the whole people. Then the majority of such representatives, who will really represent a majority of the whole people, speak for the nation and enact its laws. The plan is this. Having first settled who shall vote, suppose in any State there are two hundred thousand such voters, and the Legislature is to consist of fifty representatives. Each representative should stand for four thousand voters. Names should be announced, and then, all over the State, each man should vote according to a system whose details I will not here trouble you with; but whose result is, that no man enters the Legislature who has not received four thousand votes; and every voter would see in the Legislature a man he voted for. Four thousand voting Abolitionists, scattered over such a State, could have thus sent Parker or Garrison to the Legislature twenty years ago; and such voters, for years unrepresented, because in a hopeless minority, would have had a voice for the last twenty years in the Legislature. No limit of locality, any more than in the Tribune, any more than in the social influence. If Massachusetts does not like Charles Sumner, a million of men the Union over may send him into the Senate. It is no matter where the representative lives, it is no matter where the voter lives. Every man who goes into the House of Representatives, must represent the same number of votes. Whether he gets them from Boston or Chicago, whether he gets them from Worcester or Syracuse, it is no matter. You and I might vote for Gerrit Smith. If there was any danger that Wade would not be re-elected, we might vote for him. If Caleb Cushing can get his number, he goes into Congress; if a radical reformer can get them, he goes into Congress. If there are thirty thousand men to-day who agree with Fremont, they send him to Congress; and if there are a million such, they send thirty representatives to Congress.
Common men often change a political idol; educated men rarely change an intellectual one. Senators and Representatives, elected for sake of their opinions by thoughtful, decided men all over the country, would certainly have the weight, and probably have the fixedness and independence, of members of a House of Lords; and thus, while approaching closer to the theory of Democracy, we should also secure one of the few benefits of a monarchy. Such a body of members would form, inside the Legislature, that base of resistance, that point d' appui, which is always needed in a Democracy to sustain an unpopular reform; which, with us, the Anti-Slavery cause has found for twenty years, in a body of men banished by their opinions and their conscientious scruples from the ballot-boxes; which the Temperance enterprise has been so often obliged to find only in hopeless minorities banished from all office.
As things now stand, outside pressure is the only method of reform. The Anti- Slavery enterprise began in 1831. What did we do? We confined ourselves to the trenches; we made our public opinion. The moment we got strong enough, we went to the doors of the Legislature. For fifteen years, we stood there. I remember it well. Not a voice inside those doors agreed with us. We appeared before committees, we circulated pamphlets, we laid a tract on the seat of every member; but no man inside ever spoke for us. We waited fifteen, seventeen, twenty years, before we got so superfluously strong that we could send a representative inside. Now, suppose Stuart Mill's method had governed here,-that every man who entered Congress must represent thirty thousand men who agreed with him; that any man, up to the number of three hundred, who could get thirty thousand men to agree with him, could go to Congress. Long ago, Theodore Parker could have got, over the broad surface of the Union, 30,000 voters to agree with him; and those great orations that were spoken from this desk from 1846 up to 1858 would have been spoken in Washington, with the whole nation for an audience. The sight of one such man, accepted by the people, would have changed the opinions of those " waiters on Providence," who always go with the strongest; and instead of standing to-day with a North unready for the conflict, we should have had the deliberations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, from 1845 to '61, educating the people to be ready for just such a crisis as this. Instead of an outside pressure, instead of a Congress to-day that represents the men of no opinion, we should have a Congress that represents the utter and outside Democracy, and the utter and outside Garrisonianism, face to face on the floor of the Senate and the House. (Applause) We need not say with DeTocqueville, " Every Government is always just as rascally as the people will allow," but we may ask what sort of a Government have we a right to expect when the authoritative voice of the people reaches it only through such channels as I have described.
What does Mr. Lincoln need to-day? Mr. Davis of Kentucky, Mr. Holt of Kentucky, Mr. Wickliffe of Kentucky, get up and say to him, "Advance one step in the direction of Hunter, and the Border States leave you." The Administration trembles, and holds back. A Republican rises. He remembers his constituency at home. Who sent him there? Why, men who are just saved from voting for Benjamin Thomas; men who are just saved from being deluded by the Boston Courier; men who are just saved from being carried away by the declamation of Mr. George T. Curtis. He says to himself, "I dare not put my foot down; I shall not be reelected." What is it necessary for Republicanism to say to a Cabinet that fears opposition more than it values support? It is necessary that it should say to them, "Gentlemen, you have had fourteen months' trial; you want 300,000 men to-day; you want $150,000,000; you shall not have a man nor a dollar until you proclaim a policy." (Applause.) The Border State men say, " Put your foot there, and we desert you "; and the 1,600,000 voters that put you into office say, " Forbear to put your foot there, and we desert you." (Applause.) The moment that word is uttered, the servants of the people, the Cabinet and the President, will have light let in upon their minds as to the proper course to be pursued in this national emergency; but until then, the great mass of the national intellect which has been educated by this war, which has been educated by the twenty years previous, is not officially heard by the Government
I said, we have no genius in the Government. I do not know a man, either in the army or in civil life, that can properly be considered a leader. They are
<c05>
all servants of popular opinion. Perfectly proper: I am not here to find fault with them, lifted as they are to their places by the method which has prevailed hitherto. Democracy in Athens meant a very different thing. The people voted. You could not keep Demosthenes from the sight of the people. Any man might ascend the platform, which was called the Bema, and make his speech. If he could carry the convictions of the multitude with him, the mass voted, and it was war with Philip or peace, as the crowning genius of the hour could mould the people to the purpose. But when on the prairies of Missouri Fremont speaks the magic word which is strategy and statesmanship combined, red-tape snuffs him out, and sends him home to do nothing. Jealousy and timidity block his way, and the only mind which seems to have the flaming energy necessary for the crisis is put into the back rank, is overswayed and balanced by the representatives of the middle class that crowd official houses. Fremont's name is almost the only one of romantic interest in our annals. Most of our statesmen have only a working-day fame-hard and cold. His life speaks to the heart. Fatherless and poor, he springs even in youth to world-wide scientific renown; amid hair-breadth escapes and dangers more terrific than battle, his reckless daring opens to us a path over the continent-his soldierly skill and prompt decision give to the Union the golden State of the Pacific-always doing exactly the right thing, as if by inspiration, and always successful; a love match; untold wealth showered on him by happy accident; and then, born amid slavery, his name be comes to 1,200,000 sovereign ballots the representative of liberty and equality-a successful General on the outmost and most dangerous post, he speaks the talismanic word that would bring everything into order; then, as always, never finding a foe who dares look him in the face. Europe admires Democracy led by genius-all is sunshine till that hour. The ancients, when too happy, threw some prized jewel into the sea to propitiate the envious gods. A discrowned monarch lives twice as long in history as his successful rival. Charles II. in exile, Francis I. in captivity, are the most romantic names in their history. St. Helena does more to keep Napoleon in memory than Austerlitz. It needed the gross injustice in Missouri, the studied insult in Western Virginia, to plant Fremont's name forever in the people's hearts. Let us hope that, like Charles and Francis, he may yet mount his rightful throne. (Applause.)
It seems to me that what we need to-day, if we can compass it, is to approach the servants of the people with some intimation of the real sentiments of the masses. I do not believe that the majority of the North are ready at this moment to demand emancipation as the policy which is to guide the nation out of this war; but I believe Abraham Lincoln has secured that amount of confidence and admiration, that if he were to announce anything, the millions of the North would say, "Amen!" (Applause.) They have formed no conscious purpose, they have elaborated no exact method, they stand ready to follow. What they demand is a leader. We are to encourage the Administration up to taking the responsibility. Voltaire says, "All saints are cowards." The Whig party went to the ground because it had just so much virtue as to make it cowardly. The Democratic party was always bold. In the Mexican war, the Administration took Webster with one hand, and Winthrop with the other, and said, " Vote against this war for slavery if you dare! Remember the Federal party, that opposed the war of 1812; stand on its grave, and vote against the Mexican raid! "And they wilted. (Laughter.) To-day, Republicanism in the saddle could say to the Border States and the Democratic party," The sceptre of war is in our right hand; it is to be wielded by the blacks in favor of emancipation; vote against it if you dare!" (Loud applause.) Bad men have always used that logic of events. That is what the “logic of events“ means. "The logic of events," what is it? It is circumstances calling into action the irresistible sentiments and passions of the human heart. To-day, the logic of events is, that possibly we may save the nation from English and French interference, because Illinois is full of wheat, and English harvests are very barren; because France starves, and the valley of the Mississippi is loaded with grain, and she dare not interfere. The logic of events is, that if England crosses the channel and then the Atlantic, side by side with France, the Irishman, who has hated England for two centuries will love the negro, provided he can fight England at his side. (Applause.) The logic of events is, that the moment Palmerston says Butler is infamous, the old Democrat, who hated Garrison, loves him, if, side by side with the "fanatic," he can only strike at England, whom he hates more. The logic of events is, Republicanism in the saddle saying to the halting Border States and the Daily Advertiser, " The war means Hunter and Fremont; vote against it if you dare!" (Applause.) But Republicanism dares make no use of the logic of events. It stands halting, timid, before the representatives of the minority. It believes neither in God nor in man. God, who hears the sighing of the prisoner, who is listening to the plaintive wails of the Port Royal song upon the Sea Islands, heard for the first time by Yankee ears, does not mean to tantalize those twenty thousand slaves with the sight of a freedom He does not mean to give them in reality,-God it believes not, nor man, who stands at the North ready to obey God in this order of his Providence, and go down to give his right hand to the victim. Republicanism at Washington, that believes in neither is carrying us onward, while time is the only element of success. Let us wait until November, until January, and England and France are anchored in New Orleans and Charleston to say, "These States are independent." Then the North is not to yield at once; oh no; she will pour out her millions of money and her thousands of men to recover, possibly, her territory to the Gulf. But that is a doubtful problem. To-day, Jefferson Davis is doing less to break this Union by his armies at Richmond, than Lincoln by his Cabinet policy and delay in the city of Washington. (Applause.) The Administration evidently is very ready to do any thing, to go any where the people demand; not ready to lead where the people are evidently ready to follow. Fremont and Hunter in the field, Sumner, Wade, and their comrades in the Senate, are the only ones ready to interpret the people's instincts into action; that is what constitutes a leader.
We are paying to-day the enormous penalty of millions of dollars and thousands of lives for that bad system of government, miscalled "democracy," which necessarily gives us second rate, non-committal men for Presidents and Senators. We pay dear today for having, as President, a man so cautious as to be timid-and so ignorant as to fear the little near danger more than great danger further off. But the people's instincts are right. They grope their way toward some one whose quick and bold genius will interpret for them their now dumb wishes. They feel that Emancipation is the only thunderbolt which can crush rebellion and save the Union. In vain the mongrel curs who have mobbed us for years bark, out of their still unbroken collars, "Save the Union and crush the rebellion; then settle these minor questions "- the silent millions see the transparent cheat.
This war really began when the disastrous compromise was made in 1787. Then, Slavery began to bind Samson with green withes. What cripples McClellan to-day is, that his fathers, in 1787, bound one of his hands, and left him only one to fight with. What shows Fremont's courage and statesmanship at once is, that the first use he made of his sword was to cut his own hands loose for the conflict Thieves break in and bind the master of the house, hand and foot, then go down to pack up the plate. Some one proposes to find means to cut the bonds:-" Don't trouble me with minor questions," cries the struggling man, " let me get those thieves out first, and then I'll attend to cutting myself loose”!
The Great Eastern lies rudderless on the sea. Towle proposed to rig a helm. "Don't worry about minor matters," cry the stupid passengers, "only get us ashore, and then you may repair the ship." A
<c06>
frigate, gaping in all her quarters, is filling rapidly <illegible> the captain proposes to set to work, and stop the leaks. "Oh, no fuss about 'these little things now; get us safe into harbor, and then you may carry your ship into dock, and make her tight." Such stuff cheats no Yankee-seems plausible only to those who go about asking to be deceived. The only doubt is, will the people's willingness to be led in the right path find leaders before it is too late to save the Union? What we want is to impress the Administration with the belief that the North is ready to have her Government mean Liberty. I have no doubt of the result for the negro, His liberty is written in the book of fate; the leaf that the cords it is already turned over-I know it. (Applause.) Why, Mr. Curtis might as well declaim against the East wind, so dangerous to weakened lungs, or Indian corn, so fatal to fevered systems, as against New England character and purpose, out of which has grown the Abolition enterprise. When our fathers planted free schools, they planted opposition to slavery. Thought never rests while there is anything wrong in front of it. A Yankee is never satisfied while there is any thing clumsy in mechanics or erroneous in morals within his reach; and the man who planted free schools and pulpits and made as what we are, made New England as irresistibly and inevitably Abolition, as now and forever fatal to wicked systems, as East wind and Indian corn must be to fever and consumption. Our questioning brains, impatient that their ideal perfection is not reached, <Illegible> and fret till the evil is probed, opened, and cured. Like our salt sea, it eats and eats into opposing <Illegible> till it finds no opposite to consume. Xerxes' chains on the sea were exact types of parchment contracts laid over such blood-reasoning with such a tendency. Now, there will be no danger from this. When the angels scaled Heaven, Milton tells us the ethereal substance threw off the stain. New England for two hundred years, has lived under the dominion of ideas she has been elaborating thoughts, she has been weighing morals, she has been dividing ethics. The slave system crossed her path; she weighed it, marked it infamous, and nailed it to the counter. Now this war attacks her for having done it. The angels might <Illegible> a well scale heaven. War is only the tempest the thunder storm. This pulpit, this book, [the Bible,] the press, are morning and evening, sunrise and sunset, seed time and harvest, sunshine and soil. We must conquer here at the North. No barbarous and brutal South can permanently hurt or affect such a New England:-
"could she break her way 
By force, and at her heels all hell should rise, 
With blackest insurrection, to confound 
Heaven's purest light; yet NEW ENGLAND, 
All incorruptible, would on her throne 
Sit unpolluted, and the ethereal mould, 
Incapable of stain, would soon expel 
The mischief, and purge off the baser fire Victorious."
This is sure: it must be so. It is written in the philosophy, in the natural and essential character of twenty million of brains, that we of New York and New England and Illinois must give character to this continent. I do not doubt that. Give me time, and I know the brain of New England will inform the whole sluggish system of Carolina and Mississippi. But the question to-day is, whether, in order to hold on to the territory, we shall do justice to the negro; and Lincoln's pause of an hour makes it perilous and doubtful. Napoleon failed in Russia, because he would not accept the serfs who offered to fight for him. if is would free them. Too friendly to Alexander to accept, he was beaten. I was a Unionist sixteen years. The Abolition enterprise started in 1831. We said until 1846, "It is possible to save the Church and the Union, and still emancipate the slave." We <Illegible>-maligned, calumniated, misrepresented, ostracised from society and the ballot-box,<illegible> sixteen years. We then said, "It is vain; over the ruins of the American Church and the ruins of the American Union is the only exodus for the slave." From <Illegible> to 61 we preached that lesson.
We said, there is not virtue and intelligence enough in the North to save this government from the <Illegible> that is eating it up.1861 came, and in April, the gun resounded from Sumpter, and the whole North started to its feet. We said," We were wrong. The North is not cankered and dead, it is alive <Illegible> with the withes of sectarianism, confused by the <Illegible> issues of politics, we mistook the time; the heart of the people is still right for Liberty and for Union” and we said, " All hail the government that leads it to Freedom!”.(Applause.) “United Government, once was the bulwark of slavery-now, Union can only save itself by Freedom: supporting it, we do our duty to the negro. Fourteen months, until to-day we have given that government our confidence. We have supported it with every moral influence that was within our reach. We have said, “We wait for you to wake up to the lesson of the honr. To-day Europe watches us with her aristocratic anxiety<Illegible>  to break the Republic in pieces. To-day, France, with one foot planted in Mexico, plots for a weak neighbor that cannot hem in her aggressive designs. To-day the news goes to England, floating midway, that we received such a defeat at Richmond that the Government dared not trust the people with the news. On the basis of that impression, the next steamer is a carry to England the call of the Government for 300,000 more men. What is the impression made upon Europe? The North is standing at bay. She finds herself unequal to the contest. The Presidents finds no moral strength. He dare not mingle in the conflict of bullets the stronger element of the <Illegible> He dare not let loose liberty for the victim race and the gratification of the longing of the Northern one science to be consistent with its own principles. He dare not put an idea behind his rifles. With that conclusion, how seen will Europe interfere? And if she does, the long <Illegible> of a seven years' war is before us The South, that hold as at bay alone, is to have the eagles and the likes united to its bars, and where is the Union? If it is saved John Ericsson has saved it. When Sumner influenced the blacks in to at Port Royal, and aim, "Every man that wishes to fight, hold up his hand," a forests of hands went up and he said, "Some of you would hold up four if you had them" "I am, massa, if we had them.(Applause.) If the Union is to be saved, it will be by our holding. Up both hands, using every chanced of influence, every method of impression. Why, ever Wade and Sumner, as politicians, cannot dare to take the place which Davis and Holt occupy to-day; with Massachusetts behind them, cannot say to the government, "Do so, or you have not a dollar. "<illegible> must be a power at the North that shall say it. If madmen in New York, and jaundiced editors here, can say, "The Congress that looks at the negro needs only a Cromwell to turn it into the streets," we know it is the voice of men who love and serve slavery in their hearts. Let us always believe that "Liberty is possible," remembering that poorly planned republican institutions are better than the despotism of the word, since they at least have vigor enough to cure their own defects.
Doubtless, if the Long Parliament had done its whole duty, Cromwell had never interfered. Possibly, if our Government neglect its duty, some of our impatient successors, looking back on a lost Union, will <Illegible> that no Cromwell interfered. What wonder if a Union, planned by fathers who dared not trust God that to do justice was safe, should be lost by sees crippled by the same infidelity? Yet if, in the providence of God, this Union is to be broken in pieces let us remember that even such a failure in the experiment of self-government will be a beacon to light the people on in their path to Liberty and Equality. But the record is still open. If we do our duty Promptly, fearlessly, the struggling wish of the people may yet find a voice in the Halls of Congress, and an arm in the Executive, bold and decisive enough to save the Union. May this sublime uprising not be too late and in vain! May that talismanic word, proclaimed at the head of our victorious arms in Missouri, and echoed from Port Royal, sound from the Capitol, to avert foreign interference and crush rebellion!
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FOURTHE OF JULY.
The previous two days' continuous rain was an excellent preparation for a brilliant day of the Fourth of July, which was observed with the usual variety of demonstrations in this city, and in all parts of the country, excepting the rebellious South, where any reference to the Declaration of Independence, except to curse it and trample it under foot, would have insured a halter for its unfortunate admirer. Of course, in view of the defeat and retreat of Gen. McClellan's army of twenty five thousand of that army killed, wounded and missing,-only a few days before, nothing could have in worse taste than exultation or vain-glorying; and we presume there was very little of this in any quarter.
The usual Anti-Slavery Celebration in the beautiful Grove at Framingham brought together the largest and most imposing assemblage, perhaps, of the tired and unfaltering friends of universal emancipation ever convened at that consecrated place. The number was estimated at not less than three thousand-the special trains from Boston, Worcester, Milford, Marlboro' &c., all bringing more than ever before; and for general intelligence, high moral worth, and sobriety and earnestness of character, not to be surpassed. They all come to spend the day in manner to advance the cause of freedom, justice and humanity and thus to save and bless the whole land: A full report of the highly interesting proceedings is deferred to give place to the able and luminous speech delivered at Music Hall on Sunday last by Wendell Phillips. Suffice it to say, this week, that excellent speeches were made by E. H. Heywood, J. Miller McKim, of Philadelphia, (giving a very interesting account of his recent visit to Port Royal, Susan B. Anthony, of Rochester, N.Y., John S. Rock, Wm. Wells Brown, Rev. David Foster, A.T. Foss, Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh, Rev. William C. Tenney, &c. These were listened to with unbroken interest and warm approval. It was day most profitably spent.
As a matter of symmetry, and to illustrate her moral and patriotic deterioration, Boston-having so contemptible a mayor as Joseph M. Wightman-had the notorious Slave Commissioner, George T. Curtis, as orator of the day, (who made, of course, an essentially traitorous address,) with the equally notorious Rev. South-Side Adams as chaplain. The occasion was considerably redeemed by the truly patriotic speech delivered at the Fancuil civic dinner, by Judge Washburn, of Harvard College, of which the following is a sample:-
"Our country has been a source of pride and glory. It has been the hope of the world in past years, and is shall be the hope of the world in future years. (Cheers.) But let me ask you whether, while we were thus growing in wealth, there were not growing up sources of local difficulties, local jealousies, causes of weakness instead of power, operating section ally to divide this great nation, and instead of making us a united, strong, happy and prosperous people, laying the seed of dissolution in the government? It is not so! In the disagreement an discord on the one side and the other, between the North and the South is it not true that we were losing our nationality? I put it to you, gentlemen, were we not losing our nationality, which was being swallowed up in the local State association, State pride-a local association as distinguished from that pride of country, that nationality without which we can never be a proud and independent and successful nation? I need not allude to the cause; we all know the sectional cause of difficulty; we know there wore causes at work, and until we get rid of those causes, God knows we never shall be strong as we shall be when they arc removed. (Loud (cheering.)
It there ever was a man who would stand by the Constitution to the last drop of his blood, I certainly would rank myself with him. The causes that detracted from the entire independence of this country are being rooted out to-day. I believe, as I believe my own existence-as I believe in the existence of God himself-our country is to work out its independence, We wanted something to create a nationality; we wanted something like the attack on Fort Sumter when we saw our flag put down by the hands of naked rebellion. There was not a man to ask whether he was from the East or West, Massachusetts or New York. Michigan or California-it was a national feeling that rose up in the breasts of 600,000 men-rose up to maintain oar nationality then and there. (Loud cheers.)
Nationality is one of the results of this infernal rebellion. The speaker enlarged somewhat on this topic, and said: Slavery has got to fall before free labor. (Prolonged cheering.) When it shall come about I cannot tell, but I believe it will be accomplished; and if we do not see it, our children will see this country a free nation, as much as I believe they will see the nation live at all.
The speaker dosed by saying: We have had the war of our birth, we have had the war of our manhood, I believe we have now the war of our independence, and I will give you as a sentiment: That war -God grant, as a speedy result, the overthrow of the rebellion, the everlasting destruction of the cause of the want of nationality, the establishment of an entire nationality of spirit, and the establishment of absolute independence of our nation as a nation."
What the ribaldries Courier says of this excellent speech and its author, see "Refuge of Oppression."
The following brief but suggestive letter from Hon. Charles Sumner was read at the dinner:-
SENATE CHAMBER, 2d July,' 62. Dear Sir: I have been honored by your invitation to be present at the approaching celebration of the 4th of July by the City Government of Boston. Pleased as I should be to enjoy again this well remembered festivity, my public duties here will not allow me. It is not my habit to leave my post.
In celebrating the 4th of July in this crisis of our history, let us not forget the principles which render the day sacred. M r. Calhoun in the Senate audaciously denied these principles, and this denial was an earnest utterance of the rebellion which wicked men, for the sake of a wicked purpose, at last organized. The Declaration of Independence nobly proclaims "that all men are created equal." In seeking to make this unquestionable, with a practical realign everywhere throughout the land, we devote ourselves to a duty of patriotism and piety which will God bless. Let us all join in the good work, and thus save our country. 
Believe me. Sir, with much respect,
Your faithful servant,
CHARLES SUMNER.

PLAIN TALK AND THE TIME FOR IT.
In the U. S. Senate, on Monday last, Senator Chandler Michigan, in the course of a speech referring to the inglorious retreat before the rebel forces of the army under Gen. McClellan, came "right to the point in the following telling manner:- 
"The Senator from Pennsylvania wanted to know where the army was, or who placed it there. The army of the Potomac, when it marched on Manassas, numbered 230,000 men, and the enemy less than 30,000. They marched on Manassas, and found 32 wooden guns, and 1,100 dead horses. That army could have marched to Richmond in 30 days, and not lost 1,000 men, and there was no impediment to its marching to Charleston or New Orleans. But the Senator from Pennsylvania wants to know who placed the army where it is. The press, politicians, and traitors of the country declare that E. M. Stanton put them there; but Stanton had nothing to do with putting the army in the marshes of the Chickahominy This is a matter of criminality- of gross criminality-of grow criminality-of gross criminality-which should consign the criminal to eternal detestation condemnation. The country demands sacrifice for this crime, and the press of the country are demanding the sacrifice of the mere clerk Stanton-the mere clerk to obey the orders of the President He (Chandler introduced a resolution which, if answered, would show the true criminal. The criminality was reduced so as to be between two persons. The great crime consisted in sacrificing and dividing this great Army of the Potomac, and the criminal is either Abraham Lincoln or Geo. B. McClellan. There is no third man at all. The criminal, in his judgment, should not only be deprived of office, but suffer the extreme penalty of the law. The nation has been disgraced by this division of the Army of the Potomac and E.M. Stanton always opposed it. If that great army had been commanded by the arch traitor Jeff. Davis, there has not been a movement which he would not have ordered since December. He called on the press and traitors of the country to stop denouncing a mere clerk, and to denounce Abraham Lincoln or George B. McClellan. Who led the army into the marshes of the Chickahominy, where they died like sheep, and where left wing was left to maintain a savage fight when a reinforcement of 20,000 men from the right or center would have sent the rebels back into Richmond defeated? He had an extract read from the Detroit Free Press, charging the blame on Stanton. Wade, Chandler, &c., &c. This, he said, was a paper which was obliged to show a Union flag by a mob. He claimed that Michigan soldiers had been in every flight, yet no notice had been taken of them by the Commander-in-Chief.
<c02>
"THE GREAT DUTY."
Under this head, last week's Independent represents the paramount duty of the hour to be a maintenance of Union and concert among all the loyal States, slave and free; and it represents one of the manifestations of this duty to be a prompt response to the President's last demand, for three hundred thousand more men for the army.
Speaking of the duty of preserving Union before all tiling, it says that "States must not allow themselves to make conditions with the Government." And it refers to GOT. Andrew of the State as having perhaps gone too far in hinting what conditions are desirable on the part of the Government to call out enthusiastic and energetic support from the people of Massachusetts. 
It seems to me that our experience, during the past year, teaches a different lesson. The abolitionists, at whom it has been customary to sneer as stiff, perverse, impracticable people, have been making trial, for a year past, of the very course still recommended by the Independent. The conditions preceding this new experiment were plausible. It seemed a good thing to make the trial. It seemed reasonable and not unwise to take something for granted, to meet the other party half-way, to relax, under the new circumstances, from the old stiffness, to show that we could be generous as well as just It was a fair experiment to make. I know not that any one regrets having made it. But it has not been a successful experiment.
When our Government-a set of men nominated and chosen to suit merely the average of Republican ideas-began this war, the question for abolitionists was, Will you help or hinder! Having always been severely just in pointing out the short-comings of the Republican party, will you still confine yourselves to this course, and utterly refuse to them all moral and personal support until they shall have reached precisely the right position, or will you-in consideration of the fact that their interest now points in the same line with their duty, in view of the probability that they must see more and more, as the war advances, the necessity of overthrowing slavery as a means of quelling the rebellion-will you generously offer them in advance the benefits of fraternal co-operation, and encourage the hoped-for change on their part, by yourselves taking the initiative? This was the question.
The abolitionists made the experiment of a trustful, a liberal, a magnanimous reply. Not sparing to point out still the duty that yet remained to be done, they promptly declared that, in the point of opposition between the rebels and the Government, the latter was right and the former were wrong; the latter was to be supported and the former opposed; their good word, in their speeches, and writings, and conversation, was heartily given to the Government, and the enlistment of many an active abolitionist in the war proved that their hands were ready to maintain what their tongues' had uttered.
The trial, I have said, promised veil. It was right to make the experiment. And if the Government had taken the course it seemed likely to take, not only would it have been mightily aided by the offered alliance, but the conquest would ere now have been complete, the rebellion utterly crushed, and our position far advanced towards permanent peace under a regenerated political system.
Instead of this, several adverse things happened. The President commenced by letting slavery alone, and showing, in the intimations of his course of policy that from time to time appeared, that he meant, if possible, to conquer the rebellion without interference with its cause; and though, as time passed, and the extent and persistency of the rebellion became more and more manifest, occasional and partial movements against slavery were made, they were only occasional and partial, they seemed extorted rather than willing, and they were counterbalanced by alternating moves of indulgence to slavery.
The military and naval commanders, being, left to their own choice in the matter, in the absence of explicit command and a uniform policy on the part of the President, helped or hindered slavery, each according to his inclination. Most of them favored slavery, and the President offered no interference except when, in a few cases, some external influence urged him to do so. A few of them took active measures against slavery, and every one of these movements was promptly and spontaneously countermanded by the President.
Those abolitionists who had joined the army, trusting that the war must soon become, if it was not already, an instrument for the overthrow of slavery, were of course limited in their action by the ideas and the orders of their respective officers. But, since the great majority of these officers were disposed either to help slavery or to avoid all interference with it, these abolitionist soldiers, to their amazement and indignation, found themselves forbidden, by military law, to help the persons they most wished to help; nay, found themselves occasionally required, by military law, to do the meanest and basest work possible, to hand over the loyal fugitive slave to the enraged rebel who claimed him as his property. The instances were not few in which enlistment, under the generous impulse of confidence in "Honest Abe," led to this damnable result.
We have made our experiment, and found it abortive. We have made fair trial of it for more than a year, sustaining therefore the rebukes of some of the slave's truest friends. We find the Government no more inclined to the abolition of slavery than when the struggle began. And after the expenditure of so much time and treasure, after the death of so many tens of thousands on the battle-field and in the hospitals, after the disastrous check lately experienced before Richmond, (a check directly flowing from that policy of the Government of which I have been complaining,) and after various plain indications of the approach of European intervention, now comes a demand for three hundred thousand more men, and the money requisite for their outfit, transportation, sacrifice and burial! Is not this a fit place to stop, and declare our experiment finished? Is not this a fit time to say to Abraham Lincoln-" Not another man, not another dollar, until some policy is declared which shall tend, at least, in the direction of uprooting rebellion. We have made sufficient trial of the attempt to cut it down, leaving the root to spring up again, and bring forth more fruit after its kind. This experiment has not succeeded, and seems less and less likely to succeed. Here we stop. It is now your part to meet us half way Whenever you shall decide and begin to turn the war against slavery, count upon our renewed cooperation." C. K. W.
THE HAYTIAN JOHN BROWN FUND. This fund, which has been so long held back, is to be distributed forthwith. It amounts to something over $3,000, of which Mrs. Brown is to receive one-half, and the rest is to be distributed among the survivors or relatives of those who were engaged in the raid on Harper's Ferry. Mrs. Leary and Osborne Anderson are requested to send their addresses forthwith to James Redpath, Boston, and all relatives of John Brown's men are also desired to do likewise. Messrs. B. C. Clarke, Haytian Consul for Boston; William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Senator Sumner and James Redpath, are appointed by the Haytians as a Committee to disburse this fund.
DODGE'S CONCERT. Ossian E. Dodge & Co. will give a concert at the Tremont Temple, on Monday evening next, which, late as It is in the season, will undoubtedly secure a full house. Dodge is unique and inimitable in his personation of characters, old and young, male and female, Irish, French, Dutch, English, and Yankee; while Mr. William Hay wood, an associate, is admitted to be one of the best balladists in America.
Our readers will hare a treat in a careful perusal of the admirable speeches delivered at Music Hall by Gerrit Smith and Wendell Phillips, which we give in full in oar present number. [The Courier will please copy both!]
<c03>
GEN. HUNTER'S LETTER
I have just read Gen. Hunter's response to the order of inquiry offered by Hon. Mr. Wickliffe, of Kentucky, in the House of Representatives sometime last month, and am much concerned in mind as to what will be the result, it being very plain that not only the welfare of South Carolina, as a representative Southern State, but the interests of the whole country, if not the salvation of the Government itself, demands his instant removal, and his incarceration in Fort Lafayette, Warren, or some other misnamed National Hotel.
The preposterous notion, that Gen. Hunter should call in the willing aid of that clan of persons, who lave most at stake in this contest, is not to be tolerated; because it is evident, if this course be persisted in, those heretofore held as slaves will become freemen-a procedure that would endanger the Constitution at least, if not absolutely ruin the policy of certain politicians and sympathizers with our system of slavery. He ought to have known that, to employ loyal slaves in the service of his country, to help sustain its laws and to maintain the Government, is not to be permitted; but that the rebels may use them as spies or in the van of battle against us, and it is perfectly legitimate. He had no business to send forth to the country such an incendiary document, no right to furnish such unanswerable reasons to the Border States for employing the slaves of the South to assist in crushing out this unholy rebellion.
That the Major General, commanding the Southern Department, should have the audacity to write so pertinent, significant and satisfactory an account of slaves voluntarily seeking his employ is never to be overlooks or forgiven. Only think of a letter to be read for the special instruction of the members of the House of Representatives, containing words like these:-
[The telling extracts here made from Gen. Hunter's Letter, by our correspondent, it is needless to republish, as the entire Letter may be found on oar first page, to which we ask special attention.]-Ed. Lib.
Who ever saw such presumption and rashness as this? Such effrontery was never before exhibited to-wards that august body, and this conduct from such a quarter cannot be permitted to stand as a precedent. That Congress should allow intelligence of so dangerous a character to be thus set before it-should permit such a plain violation of the policy of the Administration as laid down by certain pro-slavery advisers; such a willful perversion of clearly written orders; such an overstepping of his own and an interfering with the established rights of rebels-without summary punishment, is not to be seriously thought of for a moment. The Cabinet is expected to immediately disavow the meddlesome officiousness of Gen. Hunter. For consistency sake, it must disclaim all connection with his folly, and sympathy with his fanaticism-the one being palpably absurd as the other is certainly destructive. Our Generals in the army must be made to understand at any cost, that they are not authorized to disturb the equanimity, or wound the feelings of those quasi Unionists, who have such particular regard for their brethren of the South, notwithstanding their violated oath, their repudiated constitutional obligations, and their rebellious attempt to destroy the Government.
To allay the terribly excited fears of those small but influential supporters of the Courier and Post,-caused by the deeply suggestive communication of this fanatical Major General,-the President must be urged to issue another of his Proclamations. Mean-while, steps should be taken to have public meetings called to neutralize and paralyze the mischief which this information of Gen. Hunter will inevitably produce when circulated among the people. For has not our war policy, with reference to the subject of slavery, been such that clearly indicated we cannot afford to tolerate in place and power, commanders who exercise their usual common sense, and treat this question like every other, in a rational and practical manner? 
Concerning slavery, the luxury is too expensive for us to allow our superior officers in the discharge of their duties, and in the absence of special instructions, to display even ordinary human sagacity; to act in accordance with the voice of enlightened reason; to be influenced by all past experience; to obey the simple dictates of common prudence, or yield to the instincts of humanity-the divine assertions of our common nature. For judiciously and righteously using a portion of the reserved force, the saving power of our country, in this its most solemn trial-hour, General Hunter must certainly be deprived of his important command; and one who has scruples about touching the enemy where he is universally known to be most weak-who is too considerate to take advantage of his only vulnerable point-must be appointed in his place. Careful pains must be taken that this successor is one whose foregone conclusions are, that with respect to slavery, he imperils the safety of the nation should he act like a man clothed in his right mind-the natural consequence of which will be, a succession of blunders each "worse than a crime!" We expectantly await Gen. Hunter's decapitation. Melrose, July 4, 1862. G. A. B.
LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER,
BOSTON, July 4, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON-I presume it is in order for me to say a word in reply to the noted seventeen accusers, which is published in your paper of this date.
I repeat, then, that Dr. Hidden, the author of this article, has hated and sought to injure me ever since my return to Kansas, in the spring of 1861, because I then withstood and thwarted him in his wicked designs against his neighbors. In this, he has shown himself utterly regardless of truth and honor. He is the leader of the opposition to me in Centralia, and spite, inspired by my frank denunciation of his attempted wrong, is the motive of his opposition.
To meet some horrible application of Scripture by the Methodist clergyman of Centralia, I denied the infallibility of the Bible, and affirmed that, whenever reason and the Bible were in conflict, the latter must give way. From that time, sectarian bigotry has been hounding me at every step. Of the noted seventeen, my accusers, eleven denounce me as an "infidel" for holding that we are to use our reason in judging of the Bible, just as we do in judging of any other book. The readers of the Liberator are not ignorant of the intense hatred inspired by sectarian bigotry.
The hatred of all pro-slavery men in Nemaha county has been turned against me, because I preached the Brotherhood of Mankind, and practised as I preached, I recognized the colored man as my brother, entitled to all the rights and privileges of humanity. These three, then, are the forces that have fought against me in Centralia-to wit, malignant spite, sectarian bigotry, and pro-slavery wrath.
The statement, that these men make about my school dwindling away, is untrue. So also is the statement that I broke into the Seminary, and drew a weapon before I was threatened with expulsion from the house.
But, instead of taking up your space with further specifications, I will dose this communication by submitting a testimonial, given me by my neighbors, when I left Centralia, last May, who are, one and all, of an earnest and noble aim in life-men with whom our best New England reformers would delight to associate and work in any field of moral effort As soon as I can earn the money to discharge my debts, I expect to return, and once more work with these men, and others equally true, whom I trust a good Providence will plant with us, for the impartial justice, truth and love by which alone our fatherland can be saved.
I thank Dr. Hidden and Co. for giving me the opportunity of saying this word.
Yours, truly and gratefully,
DANIEL FOSTER.
To all who may be interested in our work, we would state the following facts-to wit:
1st. We began the settlement of Home Town in the autumn of 1858, to secure cheap and beautiful farms in an intelligent and prosperous community, and to establish a system of graded schools from the primary
<c04>
up to the high school or college, which should give to all who come among us the advantages of a thorough education.
2d. The four past years of our efforts in Home Town nave been as unfavorable is possible for a successful development of our plan. The first year we could only make a beginning, the second was the famine year, the other two, the war and the prostration of business hare crippled us on every hand.
3d. And yet we have gone steadily forward". We have completed a college building, two stories in height, capable of accommodating fifty, pupils. We have had a most successful commencement of our college, with an attendance of over sixty pupils. We have made a beginning of a library. We have a fond of 87000. We have already on the ground men who prize good schools and good society so highly, that they are not willing to live without them, and we have improvements already made which give to Home Town a character and an influence throughout our State which has been gained by no other settlement in Kansas in the same length of time.
4th. We need an accession to our community of a portion of the people who are coming or emigrating to Kansas, and who would be glad to join in our plan. They will help us, and make the success of our work immediate and entire by joining us. And we can help them as much as they can us. To reach them and secure their presence and help with us, we have sent Daniel Foster, the Principal of our college, to act in the East as our agent this summer. He will explain in detail all that concerns us and our work to those who may wish to know what we are doing. We heartily commend him to all as a true and trustworthy man.
F. P. Baker, J. Jacobs,
A. W. Osborne, A. McCutcheon,
J. N. Cline, Abijah Wells,
L. Lohmuller, J. J. Sheldon,
D. P. Acker, H. Hamilton,
Geo. L. Squier, Stephen Barnard,
T. J. Kell, G. D. Baker,
Wm. H. Histed, Jerry Barnes,
A. W. Slater, J. N. Peckham,
Joshua Taylor, Joseph C. Hebbard,
Seth B. Hough, Charles G. Scraffod.
John Hodgins,
FOURTH OF JULY AT FRAMINGHAM
Glorious, and, I trust, pregnant with good, was our annual meeting at "Harmony Grove," on the 4th. The genial sunshine, clear atmosphere, and unusual concourse of people, gave an inspiration and joyousness to the day. It was, indeed, "good to be there." We missed the eloquent voice of Phillips, and that of other veterans in the cause. Yet there was no lack of speakers. The only difficulty experienced was the want of time to listen to earnest words that were necessity suppressed.
I tried to get the platform for a moment, to accomplish what I now desire to do, through this week's Liberator. While in the grove, and late in the day, I received a letter from our ever faithful laborer, PARKE R PILLSBURY, announcing, I regret to say, his disability to speak much, from an increasing hoarseness, and begging me to curtail his expected services in Milford next Sunday. We, of course, shall make his abhors as light as possible; and yet our expectations are raised for an effective meeting. [See notice in another column.] The following extract, which I failed to read at Framingham, utters convictions which dwell in many hearts:-
"As I write, the sun is just rising, and the ground almost shudders (and so do I) at peal of bells, thunder of musketry, and roar of cannon, -all in honor of this eighty-sixth anniversary of the nation's birth. But did ever rising sun witness such madness before, as this people to-day exhibit? As to-day's Liberator truly says,' four millions of slaves are yet to be emancipated'; or as it, perhaps, had better said, yet unemancipated, and likely to remain so till God's right arm and their own bring them deliverance. 
For more than eighty years, we have sought to drown the weeping and wailing of our myriads of slaves with hollow pretensions, to republicanism, and hypocritical, heartless professions of religion, all swelled into grand chorus on the Fourth of July, with blazing fire works, bands of music, rattling musketry, and thunder of cannon. To-day we have other and not less terrible voices to drown. No wonder there was' sensation in Congress,' as the papers yesterday say, when Mr. Olin, of New York, declared,' Twenty thousand of our dead and dying to-day strew the battle-field in front of Richmond'! And are twenty thousand all? Who believes it? 
And all those thousands, more or less, have mothers, wives, sisters, or perhaps even dearer ones, to echo their every sigh and groan. Limbs, torn and mangled, bleed on the mild, hearts, broken and lacerated, bleed at home. And thus, to-day, we celebrate our Independence. It is indeed our Independence. Let us thank God it is only ours.
Well, let the cannon roar! Peal out your joyous notes, ye bells! Swell loud your empty voices, decorators, poets and ministers of music and song! Four millions still shriek in slavery; and other millions groan on the field of bloody death, or weep and wail over their loved and lost at home! What an oratorio of woes, to-day, ye have to smother and drown!
I am glad there is one place where madness does not wholly rule the hour. I hope, at Framingham, it will be declared that our Government is deliberately murdering its young men in behalf of slavery! I pronounce every death before Richmond deliberate, downright murder; and while slavery lives and lasts, our Government is the bloodiest murderer on History's blackest page. 
Very hastily, but very truly, yours,
PARKER PILLSBURY."
Earnest words-too true, alas! May they sink deep into our hearts, and urge on to faithful work!
Milford, Mass. G. W, S.
AN ARMY OFFICER ON ABOLITIONISM. The following is an extract from a private letter written by an officer of the regular army, holding a high position on the staff of General McClellan, dated June 17, 1862:
I have been told that confessions are good for the soul. I am going to make one to you. I am at last an abolitionist! Not that I love the negro, or am prepared to say, "Art thou not a man and a brother?" but I do love my country and the white race. My old prejudices and political feelings have been wiped out one by one, slowly but surely. I could not pass through all that I have witnessed during the last year, and not see what every honest and candid man should, that an institution that can so change a whole people in their feelings and actions toward their fellow-countrymen and their country must be wrong, and the sooner it is done away with the better.
You, like myself, have no doubt in times past had a high idea of Southern chivalry. Like many other things down South, I find even that boasted institution a humbug. Among all the Southern officers whom I have met and been brought in contact with, I have found scarcely one that was even the peer of a Northern mechanic. I could tell you of deeds of barbarism perpetrated by these knights of the South that would make you shudder. A day or two since, I was told by an aid of General Keyes that one of our officers was found dead with both of his ears cut off. This is one of a hundred cases of their cruelty. Yesterday two sutlers were found in the woods hanging by the neck, and some teamsters with their throats cut
Yours truly,
The writer of the above, says the New York Evening Post, has always been an uncompromising Hunker Democrat.
NAMES OF THE RECENT BATTLES. The following are the names which it seems have been assignee to the recent battles in front of Richmond:
Thursday, June 26-Battle of Mechanicsville.
Friday, Jane 27-Battle of Gaines's Mill.
Saturday, June 28-Battle of the Chickahominy.
Sunday, Jane 29-Battle of Peach Orchard; battle of Savage's Station.
Monday, June 30-Battle of White Oak Swamp; battle of White Oak Creek; battle of Charles City Cross Roads.
Tuesday, July 1-Battle of Turkey Bend.
JAMES JACKSON LOWELL. Among the killed in the recent battles near Richmond was Cant. James Jackson Lowell of the 20th regiment When that regiment was organized, be was commissioned as 1st Lieutenant, in Co. E, Captain Schmidt. He was wounded in the battle at Ball's Bluff on the 21st of October hut, where his cousin, Lieutenant William Lowell Putnam, of the same company, was killed. Captain Schmidt was also so severely wounded in the battle that he resigned his commission, and Lieut. Lowell was appointed Captain in his place.
Captain Lowell was son of Charles Russell Lowell, Esq., of Cambridge, and grandson of the hue Rev. Charles Lowell, D. D., pastor of the West Church in this city. He graduated at Harvard College in 1858 with the highest honors of his class.
NEW YORK, July 9. Just at the dose of the session of the Senate yesterday, a bill was introduced giving the President power to call out the militia of the country wherever it was deemed necessary, and when such call was made, none are to be exempt on account of color, caste or nationality. The President is to organize them into regiments and other divisions, as he sees fit.
<c05>
GEN. McCLELLAN'S ADDRESS TO HIS SOLDIERS. DIERS.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE POTOMAC,
Camp near Harrison's Lending, July 4, 1862.
Soldiers of the Army of the Potomac:
Your achievements of the last tea days have illumined the valor and endurance of the American soldier. Attacked by superior forces, and without the hope of reinforcements, you have succeeded in changing your base of operations by a flank movement, always regarded as the most hazardous of military expedients.
You have saved all your material, all your trains, and all your guns, except a few lost in battle, taking in return guns and colon from the enemy. Upon your march, you have been assailed day after day with desperate fury by men of the same race and nation, skillfully massed and led. Under every disadvantage of number, and necessarily of position also, yon have in every conflict beaten back your foes with enormous slaughter. Your conduct makes you among the celebrated armies of history. No one will now question that each of you may always with pride say. "I belonged to the army of the Potomac." You have reached the new base, complete in organization and unimpaired in spirit. The enemy may at any time attack you; we are prepared to meet them.
I have personally established your lines; let them come, and we will convert their repulse into a final defeat. Your Government is strengthening you with the resources of a great people.
On this, our nation's birthday, we declare to our foes, who are rebels against the best interests of mankind, that this army shall enter the capital of the so-called Confederacy; that our National Constitution shall prevail, and that the Union, which can alone insure internal peace and external security to each State, must and shall be preserved, cost what it may in time, treasure and blood.
(Signed) GEO. B- MCCLELLAN.

A FEDERAL VICTORY IN MISSISSIPPI.
CORINTH, Miss., July 6.
To the Secretary of War:-On the 1st inst, Col. Sheridan's 2nd Michigan Cavalry, with two regiments of 728 men, was attacked at Booneville, Miss., by parts of eight rebel regiments numbering 4700, which he defeated and drove back, after 7 hours' hard fighting. Our loss was 41 killed, wounded and missing. The rebel loss must have been very great. They left 65 dead on the field. I respectfully recommend Col. Sheridan for gallant conduct in battle.
(Signed) H. W. HALLECK,
Major General.
The entire Federal loss in killed, wounded and missing, 15 to 25,000; Rebel loss, 50 to 75,000.
NEW YORK, July 6. The Tribune's special dispatch from Memph<illegible>, dated July 5th, states that Richmond dispatches to July 1st and 2d still claim that the rebels captured 12,000 prisoners, 8 Generals, all of General McClellan's siege guns, and supplies enough for the rebel army for three months. They represent the battle of July 1st as the most fearful and desperate of the entire war. Prisoners were arriving in Richmond all day on the 2d. It is claimed that Hooker and Sumner were wounded, and that the Litter was captured. The latest reports are less exultant
IMPORTANT FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS FIRST. A letter from the Massachusetts 1st, says the Transcript, written since the last battle on James river, states that the regiment has been reduced to about 175 men. Major Chandler is missing, Col. Cowdin is sick, and Capt. Baldwin is acting in command. Co. A has about 14 men. Major Chandler was hut seen as Hooker's Division was making the celebrated charge which it is believed saved our army.
FORTRESS MONROE, July 5. Fresh troops from Washington passed up James River yesterday; also artillery, horses, &c. There was a skirmish yesterday morning near our left wing, resulting in the defeat of the rebels. We took 1000 prisoners and three small batteries. Our cavalry then followed the rebels until they passed beyond White Oak Swamp.
The Richmond Examiner, of July 2, acknowledges that the battle of Monday was very destructive to the rebels. It also states that of the 14,000 troops sent into the battle of Friday, not more than 6000 men were fit for duty on the Tuesday following.
Senator SUMNER'S amendment to the bill admitting Western Virginia is not rightly stated in the report of Congressional proceedings published in the Boston papers. He acquiesces in extending the time for the emancipation of the slaves to July, 1863. What he objects to is the provision in the bill which only emancipates those born after that time, and continues those already slaves in that condition for life.

WOMAN AND THE PRESS.
On Friday afternoon, May 30, a meeting was held in Studio Building, Boston, for conference in regard to a new periodical to be devoted to the interests of Woman. While none questioned the value and the need of such an instrument in the Woman's Rights cause, the difficulties that would endanger or even defeat the enterprise were fully discussed, but with this issue-that the experiment should be made. For the furtherance, therefore, of so desirable an object, we insert and call attention to the following
PROSPECTUS OF THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL: 
When we consider that there is scarcely a party, sect, business organization or reform which is not represented in the press, it appears strange that women, constituting one half of humanity, should have no organ, in America, especially devoted to the promotion of their interests, particularly as these interests have excited more wide-spread attention in this country than in any other, while in no other country can the double power of free speech and a free press be made so effective in their behalf. This appears stranger from the fact that conservative England has successfully supported a journal of this sort for years with acknowledged utility.
America needs such a journal to centralize and give impetus to tile efforts which are being made in various directions to advance the interests of woman. It needs it most of all at this time, when the civil war is calling forth the capabilities of woman in an unwonted degree, both as actors and sufferers-when so many on both sides are seen to exert a most potent influence over the destinies of the nation, while so many others are forced by the loss to husbands, sons and brothers, to seek employment for the support of themselves and families. Social problems, too, are gradually becoming solved by the progress of events, which will leave to that of woman the most prominent place henceforth.
To meet this want of the times, we propose to establish a WOMAN'S JOURNAL, based on the motto, " Equal Rights for all Mankind," and designed especially to treat of all questions pertaining to the interests of women, and to furnish an impartial platform for the free discussion of these interests in their various phases. It will aim to collect and compare the divers theories promulgated on the subject, to chronicle and centralize the efforts made in behalf of women, in this country and elsewhere, and to render all possible aid to such undertakings, while at the same time it will neglect no field of intellectual effort or human progress of general interest to men of culture. It will comprise reviews of current social and political events, articles on literature, education, hygiene, etc., a feuilleton composed chiefly of translations from foreign literature-in short, whatever may contribute to make it a useful and entertaining family paper. Its columns will be open, and respectful attention insured, to all thinkers on the subjects of which it treats, under the usual editorial discretion, only requiring that they shall accept, a priori, the motto of the paper, and shall abstain from all personal discussion. 
Among the contributors already secured to the Journal whom we are permitted to name, are Mrs. Lydia <illegible> Child, Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Miss Elizabeth Palmer Peabody, William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, George Wm. Curtis, T. W. Higginson, Moncure D. Conway, Theodore Tilton, and William H. Channing; and other distinguished writers have promised us their aid. No pains will be spared to enlist the best talent is the country, and to make the paper one of literary merit as well as practical utility.
The Journal will be issued semi-monthly, in octavo form, sixteen pages, at Two Dollars per annum, the first number appearing on the 1st of October next, and will be published in Boston.
Subscriptions will be received from this date by agents of the Journal, or by the Editors, Roxbury, Mass., look to be paid on the receipt of the first number of the Journal. In this connection, we would earnestly solicit the co-operation of Meads of woman throughout the country, is extending the subscription list of the Journal, and thus placing it on that permanent basis which will insure its continued utility and success. Those interested in the enterprise are respectfully requested to communicate with, the editors at the above address.
A discount of twenty-five per cent, will be made to agents. Agents will please return all prospectuses with names before the 15 the of July.
MARY L. BOOTH, MARIE E.ZAKRZEWSKA.M.D. Boston, May 15, 1862.
<c06>
THE HOUR OF PERIL!
Eternal Vigilance is the price of Liberty!"
PARKER PILLSBURY, of Concord, N. H., will speak at Lyceum Hall, Milford, Mass., on Sunday next, July 13. Subject: "The Country and the Times"
Services will commence precisely at 2 1-3 and & 1-5, P.M.
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak in Milford, N. H., Sunday, July 13, at 1 and 5 o'clock, P. M.
REMOVAL,-DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.-MARGARET B. BROW,, M. D., and Wm. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., have removed to No. 23, Chauncy Street, Barton, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, form 10, A.M. to 4 o'clock, P.M. 3m March 28.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warrren Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women MM! Children.
Reference-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 1 to 4, P. M.
SUMMER RESORT-ROUND HILL HOTEL, NORTHAMPTON, Mass.-Terms-$1.50 per day, or 7 to $10 per week.
"No summer resort surpasses it in loveliness, and in all the resources calculated to gratify the tastes and promote the comfort of visitors."- St. Louis Republican.

OBITUARY.
RACHEL STRATTOH ADDAMS, wife of Geo. W. Addams, of Perrysville-, Carroll Co., (O.) deputed from earth on the 24th of Jane, of consumption, aged 33 yean.
She suffered greatly daring her long sickness, bat bore her afflictions patiently. She was a true woman, the earnest friend of the oppressed and outcast; and if reproached, sometimes, by Orthodoxy, for liberal ideas, she proved "Garrisonian infidelity" (as they call it) to be a sure rapport through a faithful and devoted life, and a sufficient solace in the hour of separation from earth.
She was an admirer of, and sympathizer with John Brown, and with all who, like him, have labored, at whatever cost and sacrifice, faithfully for the bondman's redemption. She would have rejoiced to see the stain of slavery wiped from the national escutcheon; but those in power have prevented this. May their influence in that direction cease, and the slave be ushered into the liberty of God's people! G. W. A,

WE KNOW NOT WHERE ELSE SO MUCH AUTHERNTIC INTELLIGENCE OF THE REBELLION CAN BE OBTAINED." 
"NO OTHER -WORK POSSESSES THE VALUE AS A WORK OF REFERENCE."
"IT IS RELIABLE, COMPLETE, AND DESIRABLE."
THE

Rebellion Record,
EDITED BY FRANK MOORE, Is the only publication which gives the- HISTORY OF THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR FREE GOVERNMENT NOW GOING ON.
IT IS
Full, Impartial and Reliable.
A RECORD WHICH THE COURTS, THE DEPARTMENTS AND THE PRESS quote at the
HISTORY OF THE TIMES.
It appeals to the intelligence of every citizen. By reference to it, every person can be fairly and truthfully posted up in relation to this

GREAT REBELLION.
IT CONTAINS,-I.,
The Causes of the Great Straggle and the Great Issues before the Country,
BY EDWARD EVERETT.
II. A DIARY OF VERIFIED EVENTS:
Commencing with the meeting of the South Carolina Convention, Dee. 17th, 1860- giving, in the form of a Diary, a concise, succinct, and truthful history of every event as it occurs.
III.
Documents, Speeches, Extended Narratives, etc.,
CONSISTING OF TALL THE OFFICIAL REPORTS OF BATTLES, SKIRMISHES,
&c., MESSAGES AND PROCLAMATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
SPECIAL ORDERS, &c. &c.
GRAPHIC ACCOUNTS of the Movements of Troops, IMPORTANT SPEECHES AND LETTERS, from leading
Men, North and South.
PICTURESQUE NARRATIVES, (from eye-witnesses) of the GREAT BATTLES, SECESSION ORDINANCES, MESSAGES, PROCLAMATIONS, &c.
IV.
Rumors, Incidents, Patriotic Songs and Ballads.
Illustrated with correct Portraits, engraved on steel, of the NOTABLE MEN OF THE TIME, AND WITH MAPS AND DIAGRAMS OF THE PLANS OF BATTLES.

The Rebellion Record
Is publishing in PARTS, each Part Illustrated with
TWO FINE PORTRAITS, 50 cents each.
ALSO, IN VOLUMES.
Six Parts, with Copious Index, comprise a Volume.
NOW READY,
VOLUMES ONE, TWO AND THREE.
Bound in cloth, $3,75 each; sheep. $4.00; half morocco,
or half calf antique, $5.00 each.

A NEW EDITION,
Sold EXCLUSIVELY by Canvassers and Agents, is now publishing in Nos. at 25 cents each. Each number illustrated with a Portrait on steel. Agents wanted, to whom liberal commissions will be given.
Copies of the REBELLION RECORD, in Parts or in Volumes, will be sent, free of expense, on receipt of price. Sent in registered letters, the publisher will be responsible for all remittances.
Clubs will be supplied at the following rates: FIVE COPIES of each volume, in send-monthly Nos., or monthly Parts, to one address, or separately, $12.00 TEN COPIES 22.50 Remittances must be sent In registered letters, otherwise the Publisher will not be responsible, and in current funds.
G. P. PUNTAM, Publisher.
532 BROADWAY, New York.
C. T. EVANS, GEN. AGENT
New York, July 9.

Representative Women.
Lucretia Mett. Maria Weston Chapman,
Abby Kelley Foster, Lydia Maria Child
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Lucy Stone,
Antoinette L. Brown.
THOSE friends who have so long been desiring copies of the above group,-executed in Grozelier's best style,-can now be supplied, by sending their orders, enclosing one dollar for each copy, which will ensure their Wing promptly mailed, and in perfect condition.
An early application is necessary, a the edition is very limited. 
ALSO, ON HAND
A few copies of the original Grozeller lithograph of William Lloyd Garrison. Price, Including mailing. $1. WILLIAM C. NELL,
Anti-Slavery Rooms, 221 Washington St., Boston. June 6.

JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ., ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW
No. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The two following original pieces were written for and sung at the Anti-Slavery Celebration at Framingham, (Mass.) July 4th, 1862.
OUR NATIONAL VISITATION.
BY W. L. C 
AIR-John Brown Song.
I
For the sighing of the needy, to deliver the oppressed,
Now the Lord our God arises, and proclaims his high behest;
Through the Red Sea of his justice lies the Canaan of rest:
Our cause is marching on!
CHORUS-Glory, glory, hallelujah!
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
Our cause is marching on!
II
Hark! the tumult of the battle, as it rages through the land!
There is weeping, there is wailing, there is death on every hand!
Before His fiery judgments what tyrant-force shall stand?
Our cause is marching on!
CHORUS-Glory, glory, hallelujah! &c
Our cause is marching on
III.
For her manifold transgressions is our nation scourged and torn;
She has forged the galling fetter-doomed a helpless race to mourn;
And now she writhes in anguish, of her pride and glory shorn-
For God is marching on!
CHORUS-Glory, glory, hallelujah, &c.
For God is marching on!
IV.
No longer let her safety seek in refuges of lies!
No longer with oppression make a sinful compromise!
Let the trump of jubilee echo through the vaulted skies,
As she goes marching on!
CHORUS-Glory, glory, hallelujah, &c.
For Truth is marching on!
V.
Then blood shall flow no longer, and all dissensions cease;
For ruin, high prosperity-for horrid war, sweet peace;
And Heaven shall smile upon us, and give us large increase,
As we go marching on!
CHORUS- Glory, glory, hallelujah &c.
As we go marching on!
ORIGINAL HYMN.
BY CAROLINE A. MASON
AIR-“Old Hundred.”
Our fathers worshipped Thee, O God,
Of old, in forests green and dim:
And here, where erst their footsteps trod,
We raise to Thee our trembling hymn.
Oh, how their grand old anthems rung
In praise to Thee, for freedom given!
Their quivering notes, to gladness strung,
Made music that was heard in heaven.
Alas! a sadder strain we raise-
Their children, heirs of liberty:
We dare not take their cup of praise,
And shout, “Thank God, the land is free!
For fierce-eyed War and bitter feuds
Make red the sacred soil we love,
And the dark curse of SLAVERY broods,
Like thickest clouds, the land above.
And fettered hands lift up to heaven
Dumb cries for justice!-shall it stay?
Shall the dark cloud be never riven,
That broods above our land to-day?
O Sword of Truth, swift answer make!
Say to dead Freedom, “Up, arise!”
Then shall our lips glad anthems wake,
And shout them to the farthest skies.
LIBERTY’S BUGLE.
Words by JAMES B. CAIT, late of staff of Second C. V. Infantry, U. S. A. Music by BERNARD COREST.
I.
Hark! from the mountain-top, valley and plain,
Liberty’s Bugle is sounding again:
Hear its grand tidings-clarion and clear;-
Rejoice, ye enslaved! God’s freedom is near:
Sons of America! hear ye its call!
Liberty soundeth her bugle for all:
Liberty’s Bugle, clarion and clear,
Chants its glad anthem-God’s freedom is near.
II.
Hark! o’er an empire,- from Utah to Maine,-
Nature re-echoes the bugle’s refrain:
Rise, patriot sons of patriot sires!
See the bright burning of Liberty’s fires!-
Liberty’s Bugle is calling to thee:
Freemen, resolve, and forever be free!
Liberty’s Bugle, clarion and clear,
Chants its glad anthem –God’s freedom is near.
III.
Liberty’s Bugle sounds over the wave:
Come ye oppress’d to the land of the brave!
Under our banner-folds’ radiant light,
Liberty’s Bugle leads on to the fight;-
Glorious tidings!-Awake!-‘tis the call
Of Liberty’s Bugle-sounding for all:
Liberty’s Bugle-clarion and clear-
Chants its glad anthem-God’s freedom is near.
From the Continental Monthly.
EN AVANT!
Oh God! let us not live these days in vain,
This variegated life of doubt and hope;
And though, as day leads night, so joy leads pain,
Let it be symbol of a broader scope.
God! make us serve the monitor within;
Cast off the trammels that bow manhood down,
Of form or custom, appetite or sin,
T lly’s smile, or Envy’s frown.
Oh! that true nobleness that rises up,
And teaches man his kindredship to Thee;
Which wakes the slavering from the poison cup
Of passion, bidding him be grandly free:
May it be ours, in these the evil days,
That fall upon our nation like a pall;
May we have power each one himself to raise,
And place God’s signet on the brow of all!
Not race nor color is the badge of slaves;
Tie manhood, after all, that makes men free;
Weakness is slavery: ‘tis but mind that saves
God’s glorious image as he willed it be.
Out of the shadows thick will coming day
Send Peace and Plenty smiling o’er our land;
And the events that fill us with dismay
Are but the implements in God’s right hand.
Where patriot blood is poured as cheap as rain,
A newer freedom, phoenix-like, will spring;
Our Father never asks for us in vain:
From noble seed comes noble harvesting.
Then let, to-day, true nobleness be ours;
That we be worthy of the day of bliss,
When truth’s and love’s, and freedom’s allied powers
Shall bind all nations with fraternal kiss.
Would we might see, as did the saint of old,
The heavens opening, and the starry throng
Listening to have our tale of peace be told,
That they may hymn man’s resurrection song!
THOUGHT AND FEELING.
Thought is deeper than all speech;
Feeling deeper than all thought;
Souls to souls can never teach
What unto themselves was taught.
<c02>
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF HON. GERRIT SMITH ON THE COUNTRY.
DELIVERED BEFORE THE TWENTTY-EIGHTH CONGREGATIONAL SOCIETY, AT MUSIC HALL, JUNE 15.
My theme is a ruined country, and that country our own. I say not that it is ruined beyond recovery. Perhaps it is not: though perhaps it is. My theme is a conquered country-our own country conquered. Time will prove whether it is or is not to be reconquered. I should be sure of its reconquest were it not self-conquered, and self-conquered, too, not by means of economic, military, or other blunders, but by deliberate crimes. It is not alone “O Israel!” but O America, also, “thou hast fallen by thine iniquity “ Far more hope for our country would there be had she been conquered by another country; for then she might be still undebased; for then she might be still inwardly strong, though for a season outwardly weak.
I said that our country was conquered by her crimes. I had better said that slavery was her conqueror. It was in the service of slavery that these crimes were perpetrated. Very soon after our nation began her existence, slavery began to conquer her. Her commerce, and then her manufactures, and not long after her literature, all felt the mighty influence of slavery. Her politics, which, in the end, came to be controlled by that influence, felt it early and extensively. I scarcely need add that the ecclesiastical religion of the country was no less quick to feel it, and no less easy to be corrupted by it. For that religion, especially in a country of popular institutions, goes with the politics. The religion which does not lift up the politics to its own level never fails to descend to the level of the politics. The State goes with a pure Church. The Church goes with a corrupt State. A pro-slavery religion always accompanies pro-slavery politics. Let wickedness abound among the civil rulers, and it abounds among the ecclesiastical also.
I referred to the early and rapidly increasing influence of slavery. It has now taken up arms to complete its conquests. For this rebellion is neither more nor less than slavery in arms.
Until slavery broke out in this rebellion, this nation had never been frightened by it. Pity it had not been! For the harm that it did us before the rebellion is greater than the harm it can do us in the rebellion. It can but kill us now. It corrupted us before. And however great an evil it is to be killed, it is an infinitely greater one to be corrupted-and especially so corrupted as they are, who do the work and guard the work of slavery. By an obvious law of our being, the greater the crime to which we addict ourselves, the more thorough is our corruption. But no other crime, not even the murderer’s is so great as the slaveholder’s Even the slaveholder will confess that he had rather his child were murdered than enslaved. And no other crime is so mean as theirs who –“rob the poor because they are poor”-and outrage the helpless because they are helpless. However much he may have deserved it at other hands, it was certainly a very unfitting and unseemly act in the American people to hang Gordon the slave-trader; for his pro-slavery work and theirs were substantially one though pursued in different ways. He was a comparatively honorable man, because he carried into the common work a daring and a danger-defying spirit. They, like other cowards, keep themselves at a safe distance from danger, and perform their part of the wickedness because they can perform it with impunity. Compare Gordon with the pro-slavery men of the South and of the North, and if he is not as –“Hyperion to a Satyr”, he is nevertheless very far from being as low in the scale of Satyrs as are the Southern slaveholders or their Northern pimps.
The Abolitionists think their country will be saved, because they think slavery will be abolished. I do myself think it will be abolished, and very soon, too. That it received its death wound in the bombarding of Sumter I have never doubted. Never have I believed that slavery could survive this war for slavery. Its prestige is lost. Its weakness is revealed. It is now laughed at and detested by vast numbers who had hitherto respected it. The war has stripped the great lie of its disguises, and cast it out all naked to the derision, and scorn, and abhorrence of the world. Nevertheless, slavery may die, and yet the nation not live; for it may so die that the nation will die with it. The exorcised “-spirit of the unclean devil”-of slavery is rending us fearfully as he leaves us, and all the more fearfully, because in our unprecedented infatuation we cling to him, and refuse to let him go. Our nation is broken up. It is only through penitence that it can be made whole, if indeed God will let so guilty a nation be made whole. And yet, notwithstanding this, and notwithstanding all our sufferings, we remain impenitent.
I do not forget that the nation’s excuse for being so corrupt as to protect slavery is, that the Constitution requires its protection. But whether it does require it as some hold, or does not as others hold, the excuse is entirely groundless. This pleading of the requirement of the Constitution is hypocritical. It would have mattered not what interpretation on the subject of slavery the Constitution is capable of; the nation would have still gone for slavery. However strong against slavery the Constitution might have been, nevertheless such a nation as this is, and was-so full of Yankee eagerness for gain, and so much more enterprising than principled-would have been carried by Whitney’s cotton-gin to the side of slavery. In short, any people who are wicked and base enough to go for slavery, along with a pro-slavery Constitution, are wicked and base enough to go for it against a however strongly anti-slavery Constitution. That it is not owing to reverence for the Constitution that the nation has been pro-slavery, is manifest from the fact that it has not shrunk from kicking anti-slavery Constitutional impediments out of its pro-slavery way. And that it is not owing to such reverence that the nation spares slavery, is manifest from the fact that it spares it even now, when the Constitution confessedly presents no obstacle in the way of its abolition by either the civil or the military power.
Oh no! let not the nation seek to hide her shame behind the Constitution. She has corrupted the Constitution far more than the Constitution has corrupted her. In other words, far more of the pro-slavery spirit has the nation infused into the Constitution than the Constitution has infused into the nation.
It is true, that slaveholders and demagogues in the interest of slaveholders juggle with the Constitution, as do the priests of this, that and the other religion, with their sacred books. But I do not believe that the people are very much deceived by these Constitution jugglers. I admit that a very deep and tender regard for the Constitution is claimed to be general. But for other Constitutions-and even for those on which framers of the Federal Constitution wrought-there has been but little manifestation of such regard. Even those have been readily thrown aside to make room for their successors. And when the slaveholders could no longer serve their selfish purposes by glorifying and worshipping the Federal Constitution, how quickly and contemptuously did they dismiss it! The simple and disgraceful truth is, that the people, being willing to uphold slavery, were willing to accept the most extravagant pro-slavery interpretations of the Constitution. It was this which encouraged slaveholders and pro-slavery demagogues to shout for the Constitution. I was myself accustomed to speak and write much for the Constitution. But since the breaking out of the rebellion, my absorbing concern for the country has made me careless of everything in the Constitution, save only those most precious parts of it which accord to the Government unlimited discretion and power in putting down the rebellion. And not one great would any Constitution be worth that did not accord such discretion and power. I would not overrate the importance of these Constitutional grants. A right-
<c03>
minded nation makes little account in time of war of Constitutional refusals and restrictions. Of all nations, ours is the only one which, when its life was struck at, stopped to calculate anxiously how it could bring its defence within the specific provisions of a paper The reply to this may be, that few nations have had a written Constitution. And better is it, I hold, for none to have such a one, than to be trammeled by it in time of war. The truth is, that war must ever be its own law. The spirit of war cannot be toned and tamed down to the spirit of peace. No paper made in time of peace can provide specifically for all the possible necessities and demands of war. It may, in its spirit and in its general and comprehensive terms, provide for them And happily our Constitution does this.
That those demagogues who seek to get up a popular worship of the Constitution do so but to serve slavery, was never so manifest as in the present war. They quote the Constitution abundantly. But they do this not to put obstacles in the way of slavery, only in the way of liberty; not to save the country, but to destroy it. They quoted it against the President’s call for seventy-five thousand troops; and they have quoted it against every measure essential to the salvation of the country. Some of these demagogues are now in Congress, working to block its wheels by quotations from the Constitution. I admit that here and there an honest man goes with them. For, all over the country, there is here and there an honest man who is not yet freed from the so industriously inculcated delusion that the Constitution lays the people under moral obligation to uphold slavery. As an instance of the tricks by which the lying pro-slavery press attempts to magnify the importance of the Constitution beyond even the salvation of the country, it is continually publishing that in this, that, and the other battle, our soldiers fought bravely for the Constitution. The inspirations of the battle-field can no more come from the dry rules of paper than from the dead leaves of the forest.
Will this ruined nation be restored? Will this lost nation be found? Will this dead nation live again? Is there, notwithstanding all she has done to make her ruin utter and hopeless, salvation still in store for her? The answer to these questions turns on her future treatment of the black man. By her past treatment of him, she has destroyed herself. For this was it that God came forth in His present bloody and terrible controversy with her. An undelayed righteous treatment of the black man-a treatment prompted by pity and love for him-would save her, and nothing else can. But I must confess that the prospect of his being so treated is to my mind quite faint. It is true that the army does no longer in form return fugitive slaves. But it is also true that this comes not always, if indeed generally, of pity and love for them. It is true, too, that the President is bearing himself quite as well on the subject of slavery as could be expected, considering that he was born and bred where sensibility to its murderous wrongs is uncultivated, unfelt, and ridiculed. It is true, too, that he is multiplying the proofs of his honest patriotism, and of his sincere desire to save the country even though at the necessity of overthrowing the whole system of American slavery. But it is also true that, as yet, he manifests no pity and no love for the black man. It is true that Congress has, in one and another of its measures, shown that it would rather let slavery than the country go. But it is also true that Congress, like the President, lacks not only the deep and absorbing earnestness, which both would feel did they both see, as it is so strange they do not, the well-nigh desperate condition of the country, but that, like him, it also fails to show pity and love for the black man I do not forget that Congress voted to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia. But that it did not this from pity and love for the black man is proved by its suffering the District to become, far more than ever, a hunting ground for human prey. Its excuse is, that the District has become such under the operation of the Fugitive Slave Act. Then why does it not repeal that act? Because, says Congress, the Constitution requires such an act. But in virtue of no statute and no Constitution, is Congress at liberty to tolerate slavery? There can be no law for slavery any more than for murder. Nay, slavery is the worst form of murder. It is the murder of both body and soul. Law is for the protection of rights, and not for the deepest possible outrage upon them. The man who believes that there can be law-real, obligatory law-for slavery is lost. The nation that believes it is lost. That man and that nation lie in the lowest depths of inhumanity and atheism. The existence of the Fugitive Slave Act is of itself ample proof that this nation is ruined.
Were it, however, so that the Constitution can and does require the returning of any fugitive slaves, it certainly does not require the returning of them from the District of Columbia, any more than from Canada or Mexico. Again, if slavery ever had any rights under the Constitution, it has clearly forfeited them all by this its war upon the Constitution and the country. And again, since it is a necessity of the war that Congress should be left to legislate on slavery free in spirit and secure in person, it is, therefore, a necessity of the war, overriding every other authority that Congress should be delivered from the presence of slavery-a presence ever demoralizing and ever controlling. It is vain to look to Washington for brave and just and vitally-needed legislation on the subject of slavery, so long as the hounds of slavery are allowed to run riot and rampant there. Oh, no! Congress has not been moved by pity and love for the black man. Had it been, it would not have grossly insulted him, and pierced him with bitter disappointment, by refusing him a part in the humble work of carrying the mail. Had it been, it would not have refused to emancipate the slaves of whoever had taken up arms against the country. Had it been, it would not have left the poor blacks of the South, bond and free, to be compelled to toil and suffer in the service of the rebels-but it would have taken them promptly into the joyful service of freedom.
I impeached the earnestness of Congress. Its impertinent and unseasonable employments prove how justly I do so. It would certainly be time enough for Congress to concern itself with confiscation, compensation and colonization, after it had put down the rebellion, or at least after it had resolved unconditionally to put it down-to put it down by putting, if need be, arms into the hands of all men, white, red, or black, capable of bearing them. To be concerning itself at this stage of affairs with confiscation, compensation and colonization is emphatically to be –“counting the chickens before they are hatched.-“It is assuming that the rebels, if not already conquered, are surely to be conquered. But through the folly and madness of Congress, the rebellion may end in such a way as shall leave us no occasion for confiscation, compensation or colonization. Instead of the question, What shall the North do with the South? the question may still possibly be, as it has been for thirty or forty years, What shall the South do with the North?
Had Congress been unqualifiedly earnest to save the country, it would in the very outset have occupied itself with matters essential to the salvation of the country, and the war would consequently have been ended long ago. Its first step would have been to accept the fact that the seceded States have reduced themselves to Territories. But instead of taking this decisive step, it has embarrassed itself all the way with the nonsensical idea that a State cannot cease to be a State, and cannot forfeit any of its rights as a State-an idea quite as nonsensical as that he who by his crimes has sunk the citizen in the culprit, cannot lose his citizenship. It is by means of this absurd notion that the rights of a State cannot by any possibility be lost, that the pro-slavery politicians have been enabled to awaken and maintain, all over the North, a lively regard for the rights of the rebels. It is by means of it that a bill is before Congress to empower the provisional governments in the seceded States virtually to reenact the old State laws for slavery; or, in other words, to reestablish slavery in those States by the national authority And if it is
<c04>
so that a State cannot lose any of her State rights, why should Gov. Stanly be censured for his desire to see all the laws of North Carolina enforced? How monstrous is the doctrine that a State, after having seceded, still preserves its rights in the Constitution! The Constitution was not made for the advantage of its enemies, but solely for the advantage of its friends. It was made to help those who honor it, and not those who trample upon it-those who cling to it, and not those who throw it away. In using the Constitution, especially in time of war, the only question should be-how can it be used most effectively for its friends, and most effectively against its foes? The Constitution, like Fort Sumter, was made by and for the nation And no more absurd would it have been to consent that the fort should be used for the benefit of the enemies of the nation than it is to consent that the Constitution shall be.
From the breaking out of the rebellion until the present time, nothing has contributed so much to render the salvation of our country hopeless as this huge fallacy that State rights cannot be forfeited. I admit that the people of Georgia cannot take her land and water out of the nation. But they can annihilate her State relations, and they have annihilated them. Any State whose officers refuse to take the qualifying oath to support the Federal Constitution is no longer entitled to the rights of a State, but has thereby become a Territory. More emphatically true is this where the refusal is with the positive approbation of her people. Suppose Colorado to apply for admittance into our union of States, and to be admitted; and suppose that immediately afterward she regrets the step, and refuses to perfect her State organization. Is she a State after such refusal? Certainly not. She has relapsed into a Territory. And what else could she have been had she completed her organization, and then flung it up? Georgia flung up hers. It is true that she afterward organized herself into a State; but not into a State of this Union any more than if she had expressly organized herself into a constituent State of Mexico. Moreover, the seceded States being now but Territories of the nation, and her Territories being under her exclusive jurisdiction, and Freedom instead of Slavery being the law of that jurisdiction, it follows that if there ever was any legal slavery in those States, there is none there now. The recognition of these obvious truths, and the stern refusal of Congress to re-admit any of the seceded States until all probability of their reestablishing slavery has passed away will quickly end both the war and slavery. And, by the way the delay in re-admitting them need not be long. A very brief taste of liberty will suffice to cure the people of those States of all desire to recall slavery. Reason teaches and history proves that no people, who have tried the better workings of liberty are disposed to reestablish slavery.
That members of Congress can be putting Constitutional obstacles in the way of the most effective prosecution of the war, is proof of their lack of earnestness in prosecuting it. But that they can torture the Constitutional prohibition of Attainder into one of these obstacles, is proof not only of this lack of earnestness but of great disingenuousness or great folly. How amazing that this prohibition should be construed into a prohibition to take away from an armed enemy of his country all his rights of property! It is true that Congress has not the power to attaint or corrupt the blood of his children, and to incapacitate for inheriting or transmitting; and this, by the way, is substantially the only restriction which the Constitution imposes at this point on Congress. But to say that the rights of his children, or of any other persons, stand Constitutionally in the way of stripping him of all his property within the limits of the country, including, of course, the absolute and unending right to the lands of which he is seized in fee simple, is to pour contempt upon the Constitution, its framers and adopters. What an absurdity, that you may take from this armed enemy his life, but not all his property, and rights of property! I say nothing here of the power of the courts in cases of treason. It is the power of Congress of which we are treating; or, if you please, of the President also. It is the war-power-to be exercised summarily and sweepingly. It will be time enough to look into the slow and restricted processes of the courts when the war shall be over. The belligerent or war-power is the power to be wielded now: the municipal or peace power when peace shall have come.
Ere leaving this question of attainder, we must not forget that the same Constitution which forbids the nation’s passing a bill of attainder forbids a State’s doing so. Hence, for a State to doom offspring to slavery is to violate the Constitution. For this is to pass the most abominable bill of attainder, and to attaint and corrupt the blood most emphatically as well as most cruelly. How much truer, then, to the Constitution, as well as to God and man, had Congress been, had it, instead of pleading the prohibition of attainder in behalf of the slaveholder, plead it in behalf of the slavery and then followed up the plea with a Resolution advising the federal courts to recognize no bill of attainder, and consequently to recognize no law for slavery!
Congress professes a strong desire to save the country-but complains that its way is hedged up by the Constitution. “Where there’s a will, there’s a way.” Congress lacks not a way to save the country, but a will. The will to save it at all hazards would quickly clear the way of all Constitutional obstructions and scruples, and of all questions of right.
I spoke of Compensation, Colonization, and Confiscation. I do not object to Compensation, provided it means nothing more than the North’s sharing with the South in the present loss from emancipation. I have always held that the maxim, “Honor among thieves,” requires such sharing, the North being clearly particeps criminis in the case. And I have never held that the slaveholder is entitled to compensation, if compensation it can be properly called, on any other ground than this. I said that I do not object to compensation. But as Government confessedly in time of war has power to emancipate, it should concern itself with emancipation before it concerns itself with compensation. Let not justice to the slave hinge upon any money or economic question. Let neither his wrongs nor our guilt be allowed to accumulate a moment longer. The claim of the oppressor must not be as much as entertained ere that of the oppressed is satisfied; and this we would all readily acknowledge, had we all repented of our crimes against the oppressed.
Nor do I object to all Colonization; certainly not to that in which the subjects are free, and the promoters inspired by benevolence. But a colonization in which the subjects are not free, and which is promoted in the spirit of prejudice against race, my soul abhors. I add, that to condition emancipation on colonization, or on anything else, is a very great crime.
And now to Confiscation. I expect no great amount of good from the present or from any future laws of confiscation. I do not deny that there are wise men who in the spirit of moderation call for confiscating laws. But I have no more sympathy with the vindictive spirit which calls for such laws, than I have with that spirit in its call for hanging the chief rebels. As no hanging will be necessary, so there should be no hanging. Nor, should we finally conquer, will an extensive confiscation be necessary. The large landed estates of the rebels should certainly be broken up. The remedy for our national ruin is no more in confiscation than in compensation or colonization. It is alone in repentance and “fruits meet for repentance.” First among those fruits, both in the order of time and importance, is the duty of recognizing the seceded States no longer as States, but only as Territories. The Government is not to reduce them to Territories. It is simply to recognize their suicide, and their self-reduction to the territorial condition. Along with this recognition will be that of their having with their own hands put an end to all possible legal slavery within their limits. The abolition of slavery in the Border States would of course be a speedy and certain consequence
Slavery having passed away the evil dispositions which it generated at the South will also pass away-not rapidly, however-until the South shall
<c05>
see the Northern people repenting of their part in upholding slavery, and of their part (by means of such upholding) in bringing on the rebellion. I repeat, that it is by repentance only that the ruined nation can be restored. By that, and that only, can the North and the South be brought together in our day into a homogenous and happy people. The magnanimity and the love in our bearing toward the South, which will come of our repentance, will win the South to us as surely as would the harsh measures of an impenitent and vindictive spirit repel her from us I said that our nation may get rid of slavery, and yet be unsaved, because yet impenitent. Thus far, if we except the Old School Presbyterian Assembly, which does so strikingly verify the words, ”the last shall be first” there are scarcely any signs of her repentance. With this exception, no ecclesiastical party, and, without exception, no political party is heard to exclaim, “We are verily guilty concerning our brother” And even now, when the necessities and laws of war have put slavery at the unqualified and entire disposal of the Government, the Government hesitates, and the people hesitate, and guiltless millions are left to pine in their prison-house.
I would not underrate the criminality of the South. It is exceedingly great. But so is ours. She rebelled against a Government which had always been very indulgent toward her. We, however, as well as she, are responsible for the rebellion, because we as well as she are responsible for slavery. And this infernal rebellion, like the infernal crimes against Kansas a few years ago, is but another out breaking of infernal slavery. I admit that the South carries on the war with great barbarity. But it is slavery which made her so barbarous, and hence it is not for us, her fellow-upholders of slavery, to taunt her with it, or make any complaint of it. For us, who still sanction the traffic in living human bones, to make such ado about her converting dead human bones into trinkets, is ridiculous affectation and disgusting hypocrisy. Do with my dead bones what you will only treat them well while there is life in them.
It is in the light of our common responsibility with the South for this rebellion, and the causes of it, that I cannot respond to the whole of the popular war-cry, “INDEMNITY FOR THE PAST, AND SECURITY FOR THE FUTURE.” Security for the future I would insist on; and that, as I have said, can be gained through our repentance. But as to indemnity for the past, I deny that the North is more entitled to it at the hands: of the South than the South is at the hands of the North. The simple truth is, that for half a century the North and the South have been wronging and ruining each other by countenancing and encouraging each other in their common crime against humanity; and hence all claim of the one upon the other for indemnity for the past is impudent and absurd.
I repeat it, that nothing short of repentance can save the nation. No wonder that the Prophets and the Baptist and Jesus preached repentance as the great remedy. Profoundly wise were they in doing so. Its power is not exhausted on those who are exercised by it. Besides that, it lifts them up into a nobler character, and into the region of a better and nobler life, it begets forgiveness in the offended; and they are hardly less profited by their forgiveness than the offenders are by their repentance. Moreover, repentance begets repentance. The repentance of others calls loudly and persuasively on us to repent. Let the South see us sorrowing penitentially over the oppression of the black man, and she will not only forgive us, but she will sorrow penitently with us.
It may be true that the North will be able to protect herself by means of victories over the South. It may be true that the nation will again become nominally one nation. It has been only such for the last thirty or forty years. But the nation can be saved and become really one only by conquering the South through the heart of the South. It is true that slavery will soon cease. But unless it shall cease through penitence, and through pity and love for the black man, the nation will continue to be two nations in spirit. Moreover, Southern fanaticism, hatred and desperation, and the diseases of the Southern climate, and various other causes, including possibly European intervention, will but too probably have the effect to keep the nation, for a long time, torn asunder outwardly as well as inwardly. And in this connection we are to remember how mightily the Democratic party at the North is contributing to this effect. That party-is patriotic members having left it, and identified themselves with the cause of their country-is as desperate and dangerous a party as the world has ever seen. It knows it can have no power when slavery is gone; and hence it is at work not to save the country, but to save slavery. It knows that its own life is the life of slavery; and hence it dreads the death of slavery as it dreads its own death. And we are not to forget that the North has been so long and so extensively debauched by slavery as to make it but too probable that very many, who had never been enrolled in that party, will now welcome its pro-slavery policy, and become its members.
Perhaps it is too late for even our penitent deliverance of the slave to restore the ruined nation. Perhaps the American people may repent, and be blessed in their repentance, and yet not be able to re-establish their nation. Perhaps the Divine justice-the justice of Him in whose name and by whose authority President and Congress and People should long ago have insisted on the immediate and unconditional abolition of slavery; perhaps, I say, this justice cannot now be satisfied by even the penitent deliverance of the slave. Perhaps, in addition to this, the nation must remain broken up-aye, and remain so forever. If it must, let the penalty for the enormous transgression be accepted unmurmuringly. And let there be this consolation-that the permanent sundering of the superlatively guilty nation will sound out to all nations, present and to come, the loudest warning ever sounded out against oppressing the poor. “For the oppression of the poor” God will arise. Sooner or later, he will avenge them. Rivers of human blood, and thousands of millions of wasted treasure, are now proving that he does avenge them.

EMANCIPATION IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
A large and enthusiastic meeting of the colored citizens of Rochester was recently held in Zion’s Church, to give expression to their views and feelings in regard to the recent act of the Federal Government in abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia.
Mr. James Sharp was called to the Chair, and Mr. Lewis H. Douglass was chosen Secretary.
The following comprehensive and spirited resolutions were offered, and after animated discussion, in which Messrs. Taylor, Perry, and Frederick Douglass participated, they were unanimously adopted as the sense of the meeting:-
Resolved, That in common with the long enslaved and deeply injured colored people of the District of Columbia, now happily liberated from their cruel and unjust bondage, and rejoicing in their newly acquired liberty, the birthright of every human being; and in common with the friends of justice and liberty the world over, we who are now assembled in Zion Methodist Church, Rochester, duly recognize and appreciate the importance and significance of the recent Act of Emancipation by Congress, and hail with unaffected and irrepressible joy, gratitude and praise, the great and glorious fact, that the National Capital, the seat of Government of the United States, no longer gives the lie to the Declaration of American Independence, and has at last ceased to be the foul and loathsome habitation of the dealers in slaves and the souls of men, and that the soil of the District of Columbia has been purified and consecrated forever to free labor, free speech and free men.
Resolved, That since greater is he who ruleth his own spirit than he that taketh a city; since righteousness alone can exalt a nation, and transgression is a reproach to any people; since, beyond all question, slavery is the great characteristic sin of America, sustained by the Government, and kept in coun-
<c06>
tenance by American religion; and since the existence and toleration of this sin are the true cause of the judgments now abroad in the land, the source and centre from which flow the darkening floods of calamity, sorrow, bitterness, and civil war-the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, viewed simply as a feeble expression of national repentance, and an implied disposition to cease to do evil and learn to do well, to break the bands of wickedness and to let the oppressed go free, and to place the nation in harmony with the spirit of eternal justice, is an act immeasurably more important and more sublime than all the victories yet won on land or sea by the loyal forces.
Resolved, That the work initiated by the Act of Emancipation for the District of Columbia will not be complete, and the peace of the country will find no permanent foundation, until the whole land shall be, like the District of Columbia, free alike from slaveholders and slaves, tyrants and vassals, and shall become in reality, as well as in profession, a free country, where all men, of whatever color or clime, shall be secure in his title to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Resolved, That the statesman of to-day, who shall undertake to reconstruct the Union on the basis of compromise with the slaveholding traitors, or upon any basis short of the natural one of freedom, will undertake to do what Washington, Jefferson, Adams and Hamilton attempted in vain, and what Webster, Clay and Benton in vain endeavored to perpetuate.
Resolved, That as no good word or work is ever lost; as all truth is related, and can never be separated; as revolutions never go backward; as the performance of any high and noble deed prepares the individual or the nation for the performance of deeds still more high and noble; we may wisely value the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, not merely as a single measure standing alone, but as a link in the golden chain of events, whereof itself is the least. It is not the end of the beginning, but the beginning of the end. During the last twenty years, slavery, to be safe anywhere, required to be safe everywhere-and to destroy it anywhere is in a measure to destroy it everywhere. A single leak sends the ship to the bottom.
Resolved, That while acknowledging our obligations to all members of the Senate and the House of Representatives, who voted for the freedom of our brothers and sisters in the District, and to President Lincoln, who signed the Act of Emancipation, we would especially remember most gratefully Hons Henry Wilson and Charles Sumner. The first as inaugurating the abolition measure, and the last for giving the death-blow to the opposition.
Resolved, That, notwithstanding we have cause to and do eulogize men, and applaud their acts, in respect to the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, still we see and acknowledge God to be all in all, to whom be praise and honor, forever and ever-Amen!

GEN. ROSSEAU ON SLAVERY At a banquet given to Gen. Lovell H. Rosseau, of Kentucky, at Louisville, a few days since, the General declared that if the war continued a year longer, there would not be a slave on this continent. He said that the rebels were bringing about this result by persisting in falsely representing that the war is carried on for the abolition of slavery, and allowing the negro to blind their eyes to all the blessings of our government. The General did not hesitate to say that when it came to be a question between the preservation of slavery and the preservation of the government, he would strike down slavery, remarking:-
Slavery is not worth our government. Slavery is not worth out liberty. It is not worth all the precious blood now being poured out for freedom. It is not worth the free navigation of the Mississippi river.
”I am for the government of our fathers against all things and everybody. While the liberties of the people are secure under it, as they ever have been, I would allow nothing but death to prevent my upholding it. I am ready for the responsibility. A Southern man as I am, born and brought up in the South, with all my sympathies with the South, I could not hesitate one moment when the issue is presented between the negro and the government of our fathers. I am for the government of the United States against all its enemies”
Extract from a letter of a gentleman who for thirty years has done business in the South, and was one of the most zealous in his convictions concerning slavery. Hear him:-
“I cannot close without expressing to you my deep and earnest approval of your wish that the war should not end until slavery be completely annihilated. If there is a single person in my native North who is more ultra pro-slavery than I have been for the last thirty years, he would be a curiosity to look at; and yet, will you believe it, the only fault that I have been at all disposed to find with Northern treatment of slavery-the cause of this atrocious rebellion-is that you have been and are too mild and lenient in your opposition to this national wickedness. I pity from the bottom of my heart the man who has not been cured of all sympathy with negro slavery, by the national calamities it has brought upon us. I am an earnest advocate of the most stringent measures in relation to the cause of our present troubles. We may (and shall) conquer the South; but we shall never conquer a peace, until the cause of this war is completely removed It is of no use to cut off a few of the leaves of the deadly Upas tree. It must be plucked up by the roots.”
A NEGRO PATRIOT. The shores of the James river, from Drury’s Bluff to City Point, are lined with rifle-pits, which the rebels are filling with marksmen as fast as completed, so fatal to their cause do they deem the landing of troops under cover of our gunboats on the south bank of the James river. On Saturday last, the rebels all along the line of pits opened for target practice on our gunboats, firing volley after volley with all the success they could hope for, the balls rolling off the iron sides of our vessels like hail against window panes. A brave colored man, who had often requested permission to go into the maintop lookout to make observations, discovered a position occupied by the enemy in considerable force, and reported the fact to the Captain of his vessel, the United States sloop-of-war Wachusett The fleet moved up, and shelled the place where the rebels were encamped, scattering them in every direction. The man in the maintop lookout, the colored seaman above alluded to, made no further report, and upon another man going aloft, he was found dead at his post, pierced by a score of rifle-bullets.
”THEM PESKY NIGGERS.” Surgeons and others returning from White House (on the line of march of the Army of the Potomac) report that the negroes all along the route have been of the greatest assistance to our helpless wounded men. They constantly bring in supplies from their huts; they aid the surgeons in attending upon them; and by their unceasing readiness and kindness, do a great deal to ameliorate the sufferings of our soldiers.
Very truthfully remarks the New York Tribune:-“If our troops escape an ambuscade or surprise, it is almost uniformly through the timely warning of ‘a contraband” If they surprise the enemy, or take him at a disadvantage, the cause of their success is the same. Our brave soldiers have irradiated this whole contest with prodigies of valor, yet the two most desperate and gallant achievements of the war are those of the negro who recaptured a vessel taken by a confederate cruiser, killing the prize crew; and the running of the steamboat Planter out of Charleston harbor by the negro, Robert Small.”
The Adjutant General of the Confederate States publishes a general order from the rebel War Department, directing recruiting officers, duly accredited, to draft every white or mulatto male found throughout the South who is able to bear arms, and who is between the ages of 20 and 55 years, whether such persons may have obtained substitutes for themselves or not, and willful evasion of this order is to be severely punished.
THE CONFISCATION BILL- Manassas, Friday, June 20, 1862. The Confiscation act, passed by the House of Representatives, meets with the hearty approval of the officers and soldiers concentrated at this point. Democrats, as well as Republicans, are in favor of the most radical means, and all they fear is, that Congress will treat the Rebel scoundrels too leniently. Instead of being behind, as it has been charged, they are in advance of the average sentiment in Washington. The Shenandoah campaign has converted the most conservative into the most radical Indeed, a few more such marches would make Garrisonian Abolitionists of the army of the Rappahannock.-Correspondence of the New York Tribune.
BROWNSON’S REVIEW The Roman Catholic Bishop of Virginia has issued an ukase against O.A. Brownson’s Review, declaring that it is no reliable exponent of Catholic doctrines and principles; and he also directs that no article from the Review be noticed hereafter by the Herald and Visiter (the official organ of the Bishop)-Evangelist
