THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to received subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the financial committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:— WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 41.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1864.
WHOLE NO. 1757.
<c01>
Selections.
SPEECH OF HON. S. P. CHASE.
Hon. S. P. Chase, late Secretary of the Treasury, was visited at his residence in Washington, on Monday evening, by the Lincoln and Johnson Club, accompanied by a band of music, and the distinguished gentleman was complimented by a serenade. In response to repeated calls , Mr. Chase addressed his visitors as follows:
"FELLOW-CITIZENS: I thank you for the compliment of this call. As I am not a man holding office, nor a candidate for office, I may, without vanity, regard this demonstration as a mark of personal good will and of approval for services which it has been my fortune to render in times past.
Since my return to the honorable position of a private citizen, I have thought that I was entitled to a short vacation of eight weeks, after un remitted labor for eight or nine years. I have returned among you for a brief period, with renewed health and vigor. I propose soon to go to my own great State in the West, there to advocate the cause so dear to you all. I believe you call yourselves the Lincoln and Johnson Club. These names represent to us, to-day principles and a policy, designs and purposes, by which alone we believe this country can be saved. Of these principles I have been an earnest advocate, to use a legal phrase, for a length of time whereof the memory of man runneth not to the contrary. I shall not be likely now to forget them, or cease to inculcate them to my fellow-citizens. If all the voters would take my advice, there would not be a vote case except for those two gentlemen. A great many, no doubt, and, in my humble, a large of majority, will be given for them.
The Baltimore platform, upon which these nominees were placed, comprises three great principles: First, Union, one and indivisible. That Union embraces in its extent the whole country—every hill, even river, every mouth of every river, every promontory and cape wherever the flag of the Union ever floated.
The next of those principles is, that that Union has been assaulted by slavery, and slavery must die the death which it deserves. This principle was announced by the convention by, I suppose, a greater degree of unanimity than any other there enunciated. Is there a man here who means to deny this? Is there one who means to suffer this to be put down?
The third principle is, the rights of Americans must be respected by all foreign countries. They have no idea of allowing princes or potentates of any country to interfere with anything that of right belongs to this country or the people of this country, or to place any obstructions in the way of the institutions and the progress of this country.
The Union can only be maintained by thoroughly suppressing the rebellion, and preserving republican institutions based upon these principles. To this end the people propose to maintain their armies now in the field. We do not mean to treat them with any follow or lip sympathy; we do not mean to give any cold cuts, but warm, generous sympathy, warm, generous support to the men who are fighting under that obstinate fellow, Grant; the men who have acted so splendidly in that campaign, consummated by that glorious victory under Sherman; the men on the ocean wave or in the harbors of that ocean, wherever Farragut leads them, with that gallant commander tied to the mast head. We intend to give them ample supplies of arms, food, clothing, everything which they can need. And while doing this we intend to appeal to them, in the name of this great Republic, to save our national honor and our free institutions.
We want peace, but we want it with a Union made sacred by freedom, and made permanent by foundations upon freedom and justice.
Which of the planks in our platform do you want taken out? Do you want any one shaved in a single particle? No, no; let it stand as it is. It is all good. Let us maintain it all. Let us maintain the men who support it.
I have talked a little to you to-night, my friends, and have said some things which I intend to say to the people of my own State. I have always thought that I could go to the people, and tell them plainly what we need and what is right. I have never feared to appeal to their sound heads and true hearts. I have always found them willing to trust me whenever I was willing to trust them.
Mr. Chase concluded by again returning thanks for the compliment bestowed upon him and the crowd dispersed after giving hearty cheers for the speaker, the army and navy, and Lincoln and Johnson.

GEORGE H. PENDLETON'S RECORD.
George H. Pendleton, of Ohio, who stands upon the Copperhead ticket for Vice President with George B. McClellan for President, has a record entirely consistent with his present position as a standard -bearer of the Rebel-sympathizing Peace- mongers of the North. He is an intimate personal and political friend of Vallandigham. In his political views and sentiments, he is quite after the heart of the recent illustrious exile who, for a time, sat waiting and watching "over the border." He is in congress and left his record there. On the 17th of December, 1863, three resolutions were offered in the House of Representatives by Mr. Green Clay Smith, of Kentucky. The first was as follows:—
Resolved, That as our country, and the very existence of the best Government ever constituted by man, are imperiled by the most causeless and wicked rebellion that the world has seen and believing as we do, that the only hope of saving this country and preserving this Government is by the power of the sword, we are for the most vigorous prosecution of the war, until the Constitution and laws shall be enforced and obeyed in all parts of the United States; and to that end we oppose any armistice, or intervention, or mediation, or proposition for peace, from any quarter, as long as there shall be found a rebel in arms against the Government; and we ignore all party names, lines and issues, and recognize but two parties in this war—patriots and traitors.
Against this resolution 65 Copperheads voted, among whom was Pendleton. The second resolution was as follows:
Resolved, That we hold it to be the duty of Congress to pass all necessary bills to supply men and money, and the duty of the people to render every aid in their power to the constituted authorities of the Government in the crushing out of the rebellion, and binging the leaders thereof to condign punishment.
On the question of the passage of this resolution, many of the Copperheads dodged the vote, while only one had the boldness to vote consistently in the negative, and that was the infamous Harris, of Maryland. Pendleton preferred to sneak , and was among the dodgers; though he was on hand to record his name upon the question of the passage of the third resolution of the series.
<c02>
On the 18th of January, 1864, Mr. Green Clay Smith, of Kentucky, offered the following preamble and resolution, on the passage of which, there stand recorded sixteen nays, among which the name of Pendleton: 
WHEREAS, A most desperate, wicked and bloody rebellion exists within the jurisdiction of the United States, and the safety and security of personal and national liberty depend upon its utter and absolute extinction; therefore
Resolved, That it is the political, civil, moral and sacred duty of the people to meet it, fight it, crush it, and forever destroy it.
Pendleton had before, as he has since declared, in speeches, that the Government has no right to "coerce" the submission of the rebellious South in other words, to crush the Rebellion. His votes have been consistent with his speeches. In April, 1864, Pendleton was one of the infamous twenty who voted against censuring that model Copperhead, Harris, of Maryland, for making the following treasonable declaration on the floor of the House of Representatives:
"The South ask you to leave them at peace; but no, you say you will bring them into submission. That is not done yet, and God Almighty grant that it never may be!"
On the 21st of March, 1864, a mean proposition presented by Harding, of Kentucky, defrauding colored troops of their hard-earned wages in the military service of the Union, was rejected, as it deserved to be, and if its mover had been kicked out of the House, it would have been but an act of simple justice; but Pendleton voted for the dishonest and disgraceful proposition. On the 30th of June, 1864, pending the Conscription Bill, Le Blond, one of his colleagues, offered the following humiliating amendment:—
Provided, That no levy of troops shall be made under the provisions of this act, except by volunteering, till such time as the President of the United States shall have made a request for an armistice, and shall have made such efforts as are consistent with honor to restore harmony among the States, by the appointment of commissioners empowered to negotiate for peace upon terms of the restoration of the Union under the Constitution, and until such efforts shall have been rejected by the so-called confederate government.
This shameful proposition, requiring the President of the United States to so far degrade himself and the Government at the head of which he stood as to request of Jeff. Davis an "armistice," while Sherman and Grant were steadily marching on from victory to victory, and were fastening a final death gripe upon the throat of Rebellion, found only eleven Copperheads to vote in its favor—the others dodging; Pendleton was one of the eleven.
As far back as June 18, 1861, Pendleton was for letting the Rebelling States have their own way. On that day he made a speech in the U. S. House of Representatives. In the presence of foul traitors, conspiring against the very life of their country, he said:—
"My voice to-day is for conciliation; my voice is for compromise, and it is but the echo of the voice of my constituents. I beg you, gentlemen, who with me represent the Northwest; you who represent the State of Ohio; you who with me represent the city of Cincinnati, I beg you, gentlemen, to hear that voice. If you will not; if you find conciliation impossible; if your differences are so great that you cannot or will not reconcile them, then, GENTLEMEN, LET THE SECEDING STATES DEPART IN PEACE; LET THEM ESTABLISH THEIR GOVERNMENT AND EMPIRE, AND WORK OUT THEIR DESTINY ACCORDING TO THE WISDOM WHICH GOD HAS GIVEN THEM"
"So stands the record of this confrere of George B. McClellan upon the Chicago ticket. Is it a record which any loyal man will endorse by supporting that ticket, during the present canvass, or voting it next November?—Independent Democrat.

Mc CLELLAN FIRST PROPOSED THE DRAFT.
Nothing has been made use of against the national government more recklessly or unscrupulously than the natural popular dislike to the military drafting. The bloodiest and most atrocious riot ever known in this country was fomented in New York by artful copperhead demagogues on this very ground, and all through the country Democrats have opposed the draft and rendered it odious. Secret orders were organized to resist it, enrolling officers shot, deserters protected, and every agency employed against it. Yet the following letters show that Gen. George B. McClellan, the Democratic candidate for the Presidency, was the first man in this war to propose a draft:
WASHINGTON, August 29, 1861.
SIR—I have just received the enclosed dispatch in cipher. Colonel Marcy knows what he says, and is of the coolest judgment. I recommend that the Secretary of War ascertain at once by telegram, whether the enrollment proceeds in New York and elsewhere, and that, if it is not proceeding with great rapidity, drafts to be made at once. We must have men without delay.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEORGE B. Mc CLELLAN,
Major General U. S. A."
The following is a copy of the urgent note of General Marcy, his father-in-law and chief of staff:
NEW YORK, August 20,1861.
I urge upon you to make a positive and unconditional demand for an immediate draft of the additional troops you require. Men will not volunteer now, and drafting is the only successful plan. The people will applaud such a course, rely upon it. I will be in Washington to-morrow. R. B. MARCY.
These letters were written only a month after the first battle of Bull Run, when there was no occacasion whatever for a draft. The government did not agree to McClellan's proposal, because men were enlisted fast enough without a draft, the proof of which is seen in the fact that Secretary Cameron reported to Congress an army of nearly seven hundred thousand embodied and in the field, all raised by volunteering. All of the large Army of the Potomac, commanded by General McClellan, when he took the field, 155,000 men, were volunteers. So were all the troops who filled up that army after McClellan's disastrous campaign against Richmond. The men could have been procured no faster by draft than they were by volunteering. Yet McClellan put himself on the record promptly as in favor of a draft then. The government did not be live Gen. Marcy's assertion that men would not volunteer and, therefore, refused to order a draft, and was fully justified by events in the faith it reposed in the popular enthusiasm.
At the McClellan meeting in Philadelphia, Saturday night, one of the transparencies represented "the grave of the Union." The President and Cabinet were represented riding in a hearse if drawn by jackasses with human faces representing Gen. Grant, Gen. Sherman, and other Union commanders. Gen. Grant was represented as saying". I pull for the side that pays best." Such is the honor our heroes get from the peace democrats!
<c03>
STATEMENT OF A RELEASED PRISONER.
Rev. J. H. Fowler, Chaplain of the 33d U. S. Colored Infantry, released after nearly a year's imprisonment at the South, has communicated to the Boston Journal a very interesting statement of his adventures and observations In rebel Dom. Below we give a few extracts:—
In December some seventy-five privates, mostly barefooted, some hatless, coatless, shirtless, and without pants even, were forwarded to Belle Isle, expecting an immediate exchange. They must have suffered intensely during the winter. In the spring, while the prisoners of Belle Isle were being moved to Andersonville, several who had escaped from the cars and were recaptured were brought into our prison, living skeletons; the pictures they gave of their suffering from cold and hunger during the winter were terrible to contemplate; and from reports brought back from Andersonville by rebel guards from our prison who had been there with prisoners, their condition was in no wise improved there. They were turned into a shelter less yard, exposed to sun and rain. Their food was beef and corn bread, better in itself than they had been accustomed to, but with their reduced systems, change of water and climate, it produced a diarrhea which carried them off at the rate of fifty to seventy-five out of ten thousand per day. Probably the largest half of the prisoners confined on Belle Isle last winter are now dead!
At the present time, there are at Andersonville about thirty thousand Union prisoners, confined in a yard less than five hundred yards square. I doubt if they suffer much for want of sufficient quantity of food, but their clothing and shelter are as near to nothing as civilized man can endure. Their mortality is about one hundred per day. They cannot but suffer severely.
At present there are there some over two hundred officers; they occupy large, clean, airy and healthy rooms, probably the best quarters in the. Confederacy. They have blankets which the rebs have taken from us, a few books, and some money. On entering the prison every one is searched, and all money is taken from him to be restored in small quantities—two of theirs for one of greenbacks— during confinement or entire on going away. There are in other parts of the building hospital rooms containing sick and wounded, and an apartment occupied by some thirty or more negro prisoners— teamsters, officers' servants and others—captured in Virginia two years ago. They are the prison scavengers, and sweep the streets about the prison. They say they have all been powerfully whipped for refusing to do the dirty work of the rebels. The miserable thing who drives them about, clothed in a rebel uniform and the dignity of a corporal, deserted from our army. If not meaner, certainly more brutal than he, is Major Turner, the keeper of the prison, the man who last winter took the responsibility to place a torpedo under the building in order to destroy the lives of a thousand Yankee officers, according" to their idea of civilized warfare. He threatened to tie me up and get a negro to whip me, and then to hang me because I was "a nigger chaplain—a nigger thief—a damned scamp." Such are only a few of the low expressions and threats he got off to me the day I arrived at the Libby. It was the impression when I left the Libby on the 12th inst. that all the prisoners on Belle Isle and in the Libby will soon be sent South.
The officers of negro regiments, after being captured, are treated the same as other officers, with few individual exceptions. The privates fare worse, especially during the excitement of battle. All, white and black, are plundered of everything; but the negroes, wounded or well, are brutally murdered before being taken. Those who succeed in getting to the rear of their lines at the great Petersburg slaughter, after being marched through the cities with all the officers captured, and scoffed at, pelted with bricks, and spit upon, were sent back to the crater of the exploded fort to rebuild the rebel works under our fire.
From what I have seen and heard, I know that there is no cruelty or indignity within the capacity of the rebels which they do not perpetrate upon our colored soldiers when they dare meet them, and can overcome them; but I have reason to doubt if they have in a single instance committed a colored soldier to slavery. I know of several cases where the master has been present and claimed the negro, and the negro has acknowledged himself to be his slave, and declared his willingness to go with him, but he has not for several months been given up. I know well what they threaten, and have seen those who say they have seen the threats put into execution; but on closely questioning, it did not appear that the negroes had been soldiers. That they slaughter them on the field, and even after the battle, is certain, and were I a negro I would not be taken by them. As to my own personal treatment, I found it much better, on the whole, than I expected, and I think as a general thing the rebels treat our men as prisoners better than they do their own. 
At Columbia we had representatives from all the prisons in the Confederacy. Indeed, some of our own party had visited most of them, in their excursions through rebel Dom; for there was scarce a day when one or more were not out on their own hook, seeking our lines at different points, always to be retaken and finally brought back; for the country, internally as well as externally, is thoroughly guarded and patrolled for conscripts, deserters and runaway negroes. The old slave-hunters, with the same bloodhounds and manacles that they used to employ only on negroes, now hunt white men, and not so much Yankees as their own neighbors. Deserters and conscripts by scores were passing through our jail daily. They were of all ages and conditions. One poor fellow was brought in woman's clothing. Some of them had been pulled out of chimneys, a fact which I had heard of in relation to some of the Beaufort negroes. I do not know whether the Southern white man learns from the negro, or the reverse, but it is quite remarkable that they are wonderfully alike in everything except friendship for the Yankee and loyalty to the country. When a prisoner escapes, he instinctively goes to the negro for assistance, and finds it invariably. But if the white man or woman even pretends to be friendly, it is usually only to give time to send a messenger for a body of rebel soldiers, or to lead in to ambuscade. The escaped prisoners know that no white man or woman in the South can be trusted, but that nearly every negro can—that the truly loyal among the former are as rare as the disloyal among the latter.
The negroes throughout the Confederacy as earnestly desire and pray for the success of our arms as the whites do for their defeat. They understand the nature of the contest perfectly, and believe un doubtingly that God is going to bring about their final deliverance through the Yankee. But they can do nothing except to pray and wait. They never will make any extensive insurrectionary attempts, nor is it desirable that they should, for success would be impossible. Those disposed to lead
<c04>
such a movement, and nearly all who would or could aid in it, have been placed on fortification or other military service directly under the bayonets of their masters. But the negro of the South to-day is no more enslaved than the whites. The chain is riveted on the necks of all. No man can write or speak, much less act, for the restoration of the Union on any conditions whatever. The whole country is under a complete military despotism. The man who plants corn is a detailed soldier; the man who shoes a horse is enrolled and subject to military orders. The military government prescribes the kind of productions, the markets, the times of disposal, and the prices. No man can travel on the railroad except on military business, or on any road without a pass.
The families of soldiers are all rationed by produce pressed from detailed laborers. Their currency is worthless. The wealthiest men formerly are now the poorest. Their railroads and running stock are nearly worn out. Their manufacturing establishments have many of them been destroyed, and the remaining machinery is mostly used up. Their most productive agricultural districts are now within our lines. Their productive resources of every kind, especially those employed to provide food and clothing, have been, as much as possible, turned directly to meet the pressing military demands of this spring and summer campaign, and now they are making still larger drains for the coming conflict. Their corn is all gone in Virginia and North Carolina. Their new crops are middling, but necessarily very small in area, and they cannot possibly find enough in those two States to subsist the people and the army a quarter of a year—and in the whole region east of the Mississippi, there cannot be enough to subsist them till May. Give them an armistice, a respite, and they immediately go in search of supplies and recuperate for another three years' war. Press them continually and half as severely as we are able to do, and by June next their armies are in demoralized deserting fragments, and their government is chased off the continent. We have them now by the throat as never before; to relax our hold for a moment is to give them breath and strength, and allow them to shield that vital part; to hold fast and press firmly is to bring them down, and save our dear country's liberty.

THE SOUTHERN MILITARY PRISONS.
INQUIRY BY THE UNITED STATES SANITARY COMMISSION.
CONFIRMATORY ACCOUNT OF THE MARTYRDOM OF OUR SOLDIERS IN THE SOUTH.
On May 19th last, Dr. Valentine Mott, the eminent savant and medical professor; Dr. Ellerslie Wallace, Professor in Jefferson College of this city; Dr. Edward Delafield, President of the New York College of Physicians; Hon. J. I. Clark Hare, the distinguished Judge of the District Court; Rev. Treadwell Walden, rector of St. Clement's Church, of this city; and Governor Morris Wilkins, Esq., of New York, were appointed a Committee of Inquiry by the United States Sanitary Commission to make investigation of the terrible reports of suffering which had reached the public from the prisons of the South, and to furnish to our people and the world an authentic statement of facts. This report is at length ready for the public in the remarkable pamphlet before us. It is the digested narrative of a volume of consistent testimony which will be appended to the report of the committee. Let us say here that the character of this body of gentlemen is eminently above reproach. They number three distinguished professors of medicine, one of our most estimable judges, and a well-known minister of the Gospel.

THE RETURNED PRISONERS.
The condition of our prisoners at Annapolis has already been reported in these columns in a brief, but very suggestive, communication from Eller lie Wallace, M. D., and by testimony of Miss Delia Dix, whose noble ministration in our hospitals is well-known. The present report intensifies the picture presented with so much feeling by Dr. Wallace. "It was strange to find a Hercules in bones; to see the immense hands of a young giant pendant from limbs thinner than a child's, and that could be spanned with the thumb and finger. * * * Men in one part shrivelled to nothing but skin and bones, and in another swollen and misshapen with dropsy or scurvy * * * the stomach fallen in, deep as a basin, and the bone protruding through a blood-red hole in the lip!" There were many like these, and even worse, where all was so horrible and sickening, that the pen almost refuses its duty. The photographs of skeletons lately handed around through the North are only pictures of the hopeful cases. Hundreds died from utter weakness or starvation—scores grew insane or imbecile. There was a fearful amount of this ghastly and awful misery in the prisoners at Annapolis. In the countenances of some of the best cases there was "a look of utter desolateness, of settled melancholy, as if they had passed through a period of physical agony which had driven the smile from their faces forever." Contrast with this piteous picture the boasted chivalry of the South, and the civilization and Christianity of the age!

LIBBY PRISON.
The rooms are one hundred feet by forty. In six of these, twelve hundred United States officers of all grades, from brigadier down, were confined for months. This was the almost incredible space allowed them in which to cook, eat, wash, sleep, and take exercise. Ten feet by two claimed by each man for all the purposes of living! At one time they were not allowed benches or stools, or even to fold their blankets and sit upon them, but forced to huddle "like slaves in the middle passage;" at another only allowed to make stools out of the barrels and boxes they received from the North; at all times overrun by vermin, in spite of constant ablutions, no clean blankets ever being issued by the rebels; and lying down at night, according to Libby phrase, " wormed and dovetailed together like fish in a basket." There were two stoves, and seventy-five windows, all broken, and in winter the cold was intense. Every prisoner had a cough from the damp or cold. It was among the rules that no prisoner should go within three feet of the window, a rule extremely difficult to observe in the crowded prisons of the South. Often, by accident or unconsciously, an officer would go near a window, and be instantly shot at. In the Pemberton Buildings, near by, as many as fourteen shots were fired in a single day, and very frequently a prisoner fell killed or wounded. It became a matter of sport to "kill a Yankee." Once the guard caught sight of Lieut. Hammond's bat through a boarded enclosure, where there were no windows, and came within an inch of murdering him. Major Turner the keeper of Libby, remarked, "The boys are in want of practice." The sentry said "he had made a bet he would kill a Yankee before he came off guard." Almost every prisoner had such an incident to tell. Throughout the Southern prison
<c05>
system it is a regular sport to kill Yankees. The guards were never reproved for their willingness to commit murder.
The daily ration in the officers quarters of Libby prison was a small loaf of bread, about the size of a man's fist, made of Indian meal. Sometimes it was made from wheat flour, but of variable quality. It weighed a little over half a pound. With it was given a piece of beef weighing two ounces. "I would gladly," said an officer, "have preferred the horse-feed in my father's stable." The corn bread began to be of the roughest and coarsest description. Portions of the cob and husk were often found ground in with the meal. The crust was so thick and hard that the prisoners called it iron-clad. To render the bread eatable they grated it, and made mush out of it, but the crust they could not grate. Now and then, after long intervals, often of many weeks, a little meat was given them, perhaps two or three mouthfuls. At a later period, they received a pint of black peas, with some vinegar, every week. The peas were often full of worms or maggots in a chrysalis state, which, when they made soup, floated on the surface.
Those who were entirely dependent on the prison fare, and who had no friends at the North to send them boxes of food, began to suffer the horrible agony of craving food, and feeling themselves day by day losing strength. Dreams and delusions began to distract their minds. "I grew so foolish in my mind," says Captain Calhoun, "that I used to blame myself for not eating more when at home. The subject of food engrossed my whole thoughts."
But the most unaccountable and shameful act of all was yet to come. Shortly after this general diminution of rations, in the month of January last, the boxes, which before had been regularly delivered, and in good order, were withheld. No reason was given. Three hundred arrived every week, and were received by Colonel Old, Commissioner of Exchange, but, instead of being distributed, were retained, and piled in warehouses near by, and in full sight of the tantalized and hungry captives, to the number of 3,000, at least. At length, five or six were distributed during the week! Scores were stolen.
For offences, trivial or serious, prisoners were consigned to cells beneath the prison, the walls of which were damp, green, and slimy. They were never warmed, and often so crowded that some were obliged to stand up all night. Dead bodies, too, were placed in the cellar, and very often were partly devoured by hogs, dogs, and rats. At the time of Kilpatrick's raid, some negroes pointed to the cellar:" Dug big hole down dark, mass trope -do in dark, sure! “Should Kilpatrick succeed in entering Richmond," said Richard Turner, "the prison authorities would blow up the prison and all its inmates." "There is enough there to send every Yankee to hell," Lieutenant Latouche was overheard to say. Turner himself said, in the presence of Colonel Farnsworth, in answer to the question, "Was the prison mined?" "Yes, and I would have blown you all to Hades before I would have suffered you to be rescued." The remark of Bishop Johns is corroborative as well as curious, in reply to the question, "Whether it was a Christian mode of warfare to blow up defenceless prisoners?" "I suppose the authorities are satisfied on that point, though I do not mean to justify it." This passed without comment. It is also well to remember that the inspector of Libby, Richard Turner, was a negro-whippier by trade.

BELLE ISLE.
Here is an enclosure variously estimated to be from three to six acres in extent, surrounded by an earthwork about three feet high, with a ditch on either side. The interior has something of the look of an encampment, a number of Sibley tents being set in rows, with "streets" between. These tents rotten, torn, full of holes—poor shelter at any rate—accommodated only a small portion. From ten to twelve thousand men have been imprisoned in this small space at one time, turned into the enclosure, like so many cattle, to find what resting-place they could. So crowded were they that, at the least, according to the estimated area given them, there could have been but a space two feet by seven, and, at the most, three feet by nine, per man—hardly a generous allotment even for a "hospitable grave."
Some were so fortunate as to find shelter in the tents, but even they were often wet with the rain, and almost frozen when winter set in. Every day some places were made vacant by diseases or by death, as some were taken to the hospital, and some to burial. But thousands had no tents, and no shelter of any kind. Nothing was provided for their accommodation. Lumber was plenty in a country of forests, but not a cabin or shed was built, or allowed to be built. Here thousands lay, with the <illegible> for their beds, and the sky for their covering, under fog, rain, cold, snow, hundreds blanket less, coatless and shoeless, others with ragged and rotten clothes. There were few fires and little shelter. A severe winter came, in which the mercury was down to zero even at Memphis, and water left in buckets on Belle Isle froze two or three inches deep in the right. The snow lay deep on the ground around Richmond. The ice formed in the James, and flowed in masses upon the rapids, on either side of the island.
The men resorted to every expedient to keep from perishing. They lay in the ditch, as the most protected place, heaped upon one another, and lying close together, as one of them expressed it, "like logs in winter," taking turns as to who should have the outside of the row. In the morning, the row of the previous night, was marked by the motionless forms of those "who were sleeping on in their last sleep"- frozen to death!
Every day, during the winter season, numbers were conveyed away stiff and stark, having fallen asleep in everlasting cold. Some of the men dug holes in the sand in which to take refuge. All through the night, crowds of them were heard running up and down, to keep themselves from freezing. And this fate threatened them even more than I would have threatened most men exposed to an equally severe temperature, even with such thin clothing and inadequate shelter—for they were slaving!
Rocky-like husky corn-bread, (specimens of which we have seen.) meat often tainted, and suspiciously like mule meat; two or three spoonfuls of rotten beans; soup thin and briny, often with worms floating on the surface, made up their food. None of these were given together, and the whole ration was never one-half the quantity necessary for bare life. Hear the words of the prisoners:" 
"There was no name for "our hunger." I was hungry; pretty nearly starved to death. "I waked up one night, and found myself gnawing my coat sleeve." I used to dream of having something good to eat. "I walked the streets for many a night; I could not sleep for hunger." "I lost flesh and strength for want of food." "If I were to sit here a week, I could not tell you half our suffering." These sentences form the very poem of misery and starvation.
<c06>
"Lice were in all their quarters." Vermin and dirt encrusted their bodies. They were sore with lying in the sand. None, not even the sufferers with diarrhea, were allowed to visit the sinks during the night, and in the morning the ground was covered and saturated with filth. The wells were tainted; the air was filled with disgusting odors.
Many were taken sick daily, but were allowed to suffer for days before they were removed to the hospitals; and when this was done, it was often so late that the half of them died before reaching it, or at the very moment their names were being recorded.
There was a hospital tent on the island, which was always full of the sick. It had no floor; the sick and living were laid on straw, and logs were their only pillows. "If you or I saw a horse dying," said one, "wouldn't we put some straw under his head? Would we let him beat his head on a log in this dray?"

THE HOSPITALS.
The hospitals for our prisoners were virtually worse than the prisons themselves. Dr. Ferguson testifies that while the wounded were under treatment, the nourishment and stimulation they received were not sufficient to give them a proper chance for recovery. I am surprised that more do not die. Bedding and covering were very dirty and offensive. In three months, out of 2,800 patients, about 1,400 died. The hospitals were nothing less than hospitals for murder.

PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE REBELS—THE PRISONS IN THE NORTH.
The investigations of the Commission, based on rebel and general testimony, conclusively show that no excuse can be found in the poverty and suffering of the rebels for this fearful condition of things. The rebels have uniformly testified that they had, generally, good rations, and were well fed. It must be remembered that the cruelty of the rebel prisons is systematic, incessant and regular, however bad it may be. The ration of the rebel soldier was infinitely superior to that of Libby prison, or how could he have endured the marches, fatigue and hardships of so many severe campaigns? There is no room to doubt that the rebel army itself was fully, if not abundantly supplied with the common necessaries.
The prisons of the North were next examined by the committee, and in this connection we have the copious and accurate observations of so respectable a gentleman as Judge Hare. We need not say that our rebel prisoners are well, and even kindly and carefully treated in all the particulars in which the rebel authorities are so barbarously cruel. The rations are better than those usually given to rebel soldiers. They have room to walk, to play, and to live. Fort Delaware is but a common instance of this. The prisoners are required to be cleanly, and to bathe in squads in the river. They live in good health, and even in good humor, finding amusement in their condition, and a tolerable life among themselves. This part of the committee's inquiry is full and conscientious, and furnishes a strange and marvellous contrast to the treatment of our prisoners in Richmond. We may accept the report as history.

FRESH BARBARITIES UPON THE NEGRO.
An army correspondent of the Boston Journal, under date of Athens, Alabama, Sept. 5, gives a sketch of a military reconnaissance in that region, in the course of which he says:—

THE NEGRO SOLDIERS AND THEIR OFFICERS.
At every bridge along this entire road, there is a block-house held by a negro-detachment. I hear everywhere from those who have had opportunities to know, the same favorable report of the conduct of these negro garrisons that come from other parts of the country. I do not invariably hear the same favorable report concerning their officers. Sufficient care has not been taken in this department to secure to them sober and conscientious leaders. They have been swindled by United States Recruiting Agents, and often fraudulently forced into the service. They have been hunted and shot at by conscript parties. They have been mastered in under threats of instant death if they refused to take the oath. There ought to be a detective employed to gather evidence of these outrages.

MURDER OF A NEGRO.
As we followed the turnpike, we came to a byroad leading to the left, along a fence, dividing two fields. There were traces of the passage of an artillery train. I rode along it a short distance, and returned to report to the captain two or three un-thatched houses near a wood. We came back, and went up to them. A cluster of white and black women and children appeared at the doors. A soldier was with us.
As the captain and I were talking with the woman, <illegible> soldier suddenly shouted our:" There goes a Reb. Halt! Halt—or I'll fire! Who-o-o!"
But the <illegible> of the horse saved the cartridge, and possibly the <illegible> life of a man. It was the husband of the woman of <illegible> house, who rain off on seeing my black suit, which caused <illegible> him to suppose me to be a rebel officer. When <illegible> the woman ran, and told him that we were "Federals returned of his own accord.
While the captain went to order up his company, the negro women told me that when the <illegible> rebels passed the other day, a couple of them took a <illegible> soldier up a lane near by, and murdered him; that they left him lying there, after cutting off his lips; and that his body had been sent to town that morning. I asked them to go with me, and point out where the corpse was found. At a short distance from the place where the rebels again entered the woods lay a soldier's cap on the ground; and in the bushes, near by, a soldier's fatigue coat. A large space in the path was covered with blood, which the sun had dried on the surface of the hard earth.
He had been seen with his hat in his hand, and his coat on his arm, when he went with his murderers up the path, which led him from a blood-stained earth to the world of spirits—limping along with them, (for he was very lame,) the bright sun pouring down its rays on his silvery hair (for the cripple was old.)
The rest of the story his corpse revealed. His month was smashed and his nose broken by a heavy blow from the butt of a musket; as he fell, a bullet entered beneath his chin and came out at his crown. The swelling of the mouth under the hot rays of the sun and the action of the flies caused his lips to seem cut to the sight of the frightened egresses.
My mule reared whenever it came in night of the blood; while the egress said: "Dye tuck his shoes off after dye killed um." The mule was humane than they. They shed his blood, and then put on his shoes!
As I mounted my frightened mule, I felt more profoundly than ever before that this is God's war, and that it must go on until such things can no more be in our land.
BERWICK. 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institution., and SLAVERY AMONG THK REST; and that, under that state of things so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES?. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre ot a war, Civil, servile, or foreign, from, the instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution ot slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a, war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country in actually in war, whether it be a war of Invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry; on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of wr, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER, 
Delivered at the great Union Meeting held in Faneuil 
Hall, Wednesday Evening, September 28. 
FELLOW CITIZENS: I do not speak to-night in the belief that any thing in the way of speech-from me or anybody else-can add to the certainty that Abraham Lincoln will be re-elected President of the United States. This event is already fixed beyond all doubt or question. It is the clear, palpable, visible will of the American people, which only waits the official record of the 8th November next. The case is plain. Every body who voted for him four years ago will vote for him now, while others, like Edward Everett, who voted against him before, will range themselves among his supporters. Here is a sum of simple addition which requires very little arithmetic to do. But it is not astonishing that persons who have lost their patriotism should lose the power of calculation also. 
And here let me remark that in taking a place at the head of our ticket, the distinguished gentleman to whom I have referred renders a patriotic service, and sets an example to all Bell-Everett men, who do not prefer to follow Bell rather than Everett. If any belonging to that extinct combination now vote against Edward Everett, it will be only to find themselves in the company of the traitor John Bell. If you choose to give them a designation, let it be simply "Bell men." But it remains to be seen how many at this crisis, will prefer the traitor to the patriot. These two names, which were once in conjunction, now represent the two hostile ideas of rebellion and patriotism. 
But even if the election be certain, our duty is none the less imperative. It is certain because every good citizen will do his duty, and will see that his neighbor does it too. It is certain because, thank God! Patriotism at the North is stronger than Rebellion. But we must all unite to make it more than certain. 
I have often on former occasions, when addressing my fellow-citizens, put the question, "Are you for Freedom or are you for Slavery? " and I put this question now; for it is the question which necessarily enters into this coming election. On the answer to it hinge absolutely the peace of our country and the perpetuity of our institutions. Therefore I put the question in another form, "Are you for your country, or are you for the rebellion?" That is the question which you will decide by your votes. It will be vain to evade this question-vain to blink it out of sight. The question will come to every man as he puts in his vote, and he must decide it sincerely, patriotically, religiously. 
And now, that I may bring this responsibility home to mind and conscience, I have no hesitation in saying that in voting against Abraham Lincoln, you will not only vote against Freedom and for Slavery, but you will vote against your country and for the rebellion; in short, you will give the very vote which Jefferson Davis would give were he allowed to vote in Massachusetts. No matter under what excuse this may be done; no matter, by what argument you may deceive yourselves; no matter what apology you may construct, founded perhaps, on personal objections or personal partialities-it will be all the same. Your vote will be a vote against Freedom-aye, sir, a vote against your country. Just to the extent of its influence, you will give aid and comfort to the rebel enemy, and will prevent the restoration of Union and Peace. 
There can be no third party, now, whether in the name of moderation or in the name of progress-as there can be no third party between right and wrong—between good and evil-between the Almighty Throne and Satan. There can be but two parties now. Choose ye between them. One is the party of the country, with Abraham Lincoln as its chief, and with freedom as its glorious watch-word; and the other is the party of the rebellion with Jefferson Davis as its chief, and with no other watchword than slavery. As in the choice of Hercules, there are now before you two roads, one leading to virtue and renown, and the other leading to crime and shame. Choose ye between them. Vote against Abraham Lincoln if you will, or stay at home and pout if you will; you have only as a next step to go over to the enemy. 
There is no question of candidates now. There is no question of men. Candidates and men, no matter who they may be, are all insignificant by the side of the cause. It is the cause which we sustain, and which we would bear as the ark of the covenant on our shoulders. Therefore I put aside all that is said of the two candidates. It would be useless to attempt a comparison between them, although it might appear that in those matters where one has been most criticised, the other is in the same predicament; that, if Lincoln is slow, McClellan is slower; that if Lincoln has employed the military arm in the arrest of individuals, McClellan has employed it in the arrest of a whole legislature, and that if Lincoln drove Vallandigham out of the Union line as a penalty for sedition, McClellan drove the Hutchinsons out of the Union lines as a penalty for singing songs of freedom. But why consider these petty personalities? They divert attention from the single question, "Are you for your country, or are you for the Rebellion?" 
I have said that there are but two parties. If you would understand their respective characters and their claims to support, please to glance, first, at their history, and then at the principles they have recently declared. 
On one side is the Republican party, which was originally formed to check the encroachments of slavery, and especially to save the vast territories of the republic so that they might be preserved forever sacred to Freedom. Such a party, originally formed with such an object and inspired by Freedom, was the natural defender of the Republic when Slavery took up arms against it. To this end it has labored, and to this end it will continue to labor, until, by the blessing of God, the Union is once again restored. I call it the Republican party, because that was its early name; but for myself, I am indifferent to the name by which you call me. Let it be Republican, Unionist or Abolitionist, what you will, I am with those patriots who stand by their country, and seek its safety and renown. 
It is sometimes asked, what has the Republican party done? Look around, and you will see everywhere what it has done. Its acts are already historic: Slavery and the Black Laws all abolished in the National Capital; Slavery interdicted in all the National Territories; Hayti and Liberia recognized as Independent Republics in the Family of Nations; the Foreign Slave Trade placed under the ban of a new treaty with Great Britain; the Coastwise Slave Trade prohibited forever; all persons in the military or naval service prohibited from returning slaves; all Fugitive Slave Acts repealed; the <illegible> excluding Colored testimony in the <illegible> Courts abolished; and slaves set free in the rebel States by Presidential Proclamation; such are some of the triumphs of freedom, accomplished under auspices of the Republican party. But this is not all. The Pacific Railroad has been at last authorized; Agricultural Colleges <illegible> been provided for; Homesteads; on the <illegible> lands have been offered to all actual <illegible> while by special legislation emigration has <illegible> encouraged and organized. But beyond all these measures-any one of which in other days would have illustrated a whole Administration—the National Government, with Abraham Lincoln as its head, has set on foot one of the largest armies of which there is any authentic record; has equipped a navy which, in the variety and completeness of its power, with all modern improvements, may vie with any navy in the world; while, by a most successful financial system, including banks and credits, it has obtained the unprecedented means required for all this enormous preparation, illustrating how 
"-war may, best upheld,
Move by her two main nerves, iron and gold,
In all her equipage."
All this is the work of the Republican party in less than a single Presidential term. It remains for this party to crown its transcendent labors by completing the triumph of the Union, and by establishing peace on the indestructible foundation of human rights. For myself, let me say, I regard it as an honor to belong to this party, so great in what it has already accomplished, and greater still in what it now proposes. Other parties have performed their part, and perished. The Republican party will live forever in the gratitude of all who love liberty, and who rejoice in the triumphs of civilization. Foreign countries will take up the strain, while the down-trodden and the oppressed every where confess that their burdens have been lifted by an irresistible influence, which we are now assembled to advance. 
Against the Republcan party thus patriotic and already illustrious by its achievements, is arrayed the old Democratic party, galvanized into new life, and reinforced by members of the old Bell-Everett party who prefer Bell to Everett. In this strange 
<c02>
combination, where Herod and Pilate have united to destroy human freedom, there seems but on single element of cohesive attraction, and that is slavery; and these men all call themselves Democrats.
Pardon the frankness with which I speak. It is needful in order to disclose the actual character of the opposition. For a true democracy, founded on the rights of man, I have an unfeigned respect; but for a pretended democracy, founded on human-slavery, and existing only for this enormous crime, I have no respect. It is an inconsistency in terms. It is a flat contradiction. It is a chear and a sham. And such is the democracy which here in Massachusetts, headed by Robert C. Winthrop, now arrays itself against the party of the Unions, headed by Edward Everett. But it is plain that, in pursuing this course, it follows naturally and simply the traditions of the party.
I have already exhibited something of the good accomplished by the Republican party. See now what has been done by the Democratic party, and then say if any good can be expected from it.
For years the Democratic party has been the supporter of slavery, ready to yield anything to its insatiate demands.
Look at the rebellion from beginning to end, and you will find that it has been engineered by Democrats.
Yon cannot forget that James Buchanan, a Democrat, was President, surrounded by a Democratic Cabinet, while the rebellion was allowed to organize and to gather strength without interruption.
Wherever you look now in the rebellion, there you find the old Democracy, into which are absorbed John Bell and his followers, arrayed against their country. 
Look at individuals; you will find that the larger half, constituting the controlling power of the old Democratic party, is now in arms against their country.
Look at States; you will find that all now in rebellion were, at its outbreak, Democratic States.
Look at the present upholders of the rebellion, and you will find that all, without exception, who are most active in it, were Democrats; that Jefferson Davis, the President, so tenacious and uncompromising, was a Democrat; that Stevens, the audacious Vice President, who announced that the new government was founded on slavery as its corner-stone, was an old Whig turned into a Democrat; that all the rebel Cabinet were Democrats; that the President of the rebel Senate and the Speaker of the rebel House were Democrats; that James M. Mason and John Slidell, the rebel emissaries in Europe, were Democrats; that the officers, who, after obtaining their education at West Point at the public expense, threw up their commissions and lifted parricidal hands against their country-Hood, Beauregard, Johnston, Lee-were all Democrats.
It is natural that the Northern associates and allies of these rebels should be engaged in devising apologies for rebellion. It is natural that they should be against all energetic measures for its suppression; that they should call for a "cessation of hostilities," and that they should seek to throw over their companions of other days all possible protection; especially that they should seek in all ways to save their darling slavery. But they ought not to nd sympathy with patriotic citizens-especially against the Republican party, which in its open and unconditional patriotism, and in all its manifold works, is in marked contrast with the Democracy.
Fellow-citizens, in all this vast Union, whether the Union as it was or the Union as it is, there is not a single Republican in arms against the Government, or sympathizing with those who are. There is not a traitor among them. Here is a distinction between the two parties which is as broad as the space between earth and heaven. 
But let me not confound the innocent with the guilty. I know full well that among the honest masses there are many, once Democrats, who have given their lives to their country, and there are some of the old leaders at the North who have spurned all the traditions of the party. All honor and gratitude to them! There, also, are our generals-Grant, Sherman, Hooker, Butler-a goodly cluster-once Democrats, but now forgetting party, to dedicate themselves completely to their country. But the patriotism of Democrats like these will not be an apology for the Democrat Jefferson Davis or for his Democratic sympathizers among us, who now seek to arrest the strong blows under which Rebellion reels. I do not forget, also, that there are good men who, under a misapprehension of some kind, and without seeing all the bearings of their conduct, have allowed themselves to be swept into the Democratic ranks. But such as these can be no cloak to that Democratic party which at Chicago openly struck hands with Jefferson Davis, and undertook to do for him what he cannot do for himself. 
It is because the Democratic party is at this moment so utterly mischievous and disloyal, so really dangerous to our country, and so bitterly hostile to liberty, that I speak thus plainly. Soft words will not do in exposing that combination at Chicago where the two factions commingled into one. Call them, if you please, Pharisees and Sadducees. They are something more and something worse, if possible. They are the unarmed guerrilla bands of Jefferson Davis, who have stolen into the free States. I have used this language before. If I repeat it now, it is because I wish to put you on your guard against these criminal marauders, who, at this moment of peril, are ready to prey upon their country. 
If you would see the difference between the two parties, read the speeches and resolutions at Baltimore, and then the speeches and resolutions at Chicago. I have no time for details, even if the transactions at these two Conventions were not still fresh in the memory. Suffice it to say that the Convention at Baltimore openly and frankly pledged all its energies to the suppression of the rebellion, and to the utter and complete extirpation of slavery from the soil of the Republic, without compromise, or hesitation of any kind. This was noble and patriotic. But nothing of this kind was done at Chicago.
The Chicago platform may been seen in two aspects-first, in what it does say, and secondly, in what it does not say. There are two things which it does say, first, that the war for the suppression of the rebellion is a failure, and, secondly, that there should be a cessation of <illegible>. There are two things which it does not say; first, it does not say anything against the rebellion, and, secondly, it does not say anything against slavery. And candidates have been <illegible> on this platform. In voting for <illegible> you will affirm that the war has failed and <illegible> it ought to be stopped, while you will decline to say anything against the rebellion or against slavery. You will declare that Grant has failed at Vicksburg and Richmond; that Sherman has failed at Atlanta; that Farragut has failed at New Orleans and Mobile; that Winslow has failed against the Alabama; and that Sheridan has failed in the valley of the Shenandoah; and you will further declare that all these heroes should be arrested in mid-career, while Democratic agencies take their place, and rose-water is substituted for cannon balls. And you will declare also that the rebellion shall prevail, and that slavery-shall continue to degrade our country, and be the seed of interminable war. All this you will affirm and declare by your votes. 
If anything were needed to illustrate the offensive character of this platform it would be found in the efforts made to get away from it—at least in this latitude. Nobody here is willing to stand on it. The cry of the railroad conductor is transferred to politics—"It is dangerous to stand on the platform." Nobody has made greater efforts to get away from it than the Presidential candidate of the Democracy, who forgets that as a candidate he is born with the platform, and united to it, as the Siamese twins are united together, so that the two cannot be separated. As well cut apart Chang and Eng as cut apart McClellan and Chicago. The two must go together.
The letter of McClellan is a specimen of "how not to do it." This letter is the prevailing idea; how not to stand on the platform; how not to offend the rebels, and how not to touch slavery. It is an ingenious wriggle and twist; but so far as the writer succeeds in getting off the platform, it is only to run upon other difficulties—as from Scylla to Charydis. The platform surrenders to the rebellion; the letter surrenders to slavery. But the rebellion is nothing but belligerent slavery, so that surrender to slavery is surrender to the rebellion. The platform discards the Union; but the letter, while professing a desire for Union, discards emancipation, without which Union is impossible, and while professing a desire for peace, it discards liberty, through which alone peace can be secured. The letter says: “The Union is the one condition of peace—we ask no more." The Democratic candidate may ask no more; but others do. I ask more—because without more the Union is but a name. I ask more for the 
<co3>
sake of justice and humanity, and that this terrible war may be vindicated in history. The Baltimore Convention in its resolutions asks more. Abraham Lincoln asks more. The country takes up the demand of the Baltimore Convention and of Abraham Lincoln, and asks more. 
I have said that Abraham Lincoln asks more. He has asked it again and again. He asked it in his Proclamation of the 1st January, 1863, when as Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy of the United States he ordered and declared that the slaves in the rebel States "are and henceforward shall be free, and that the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authorities thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of said persons." And he asked it again, when in his letter "To all whom it may concern," he announced that all terms of peace must begin with "the abandonment of Slavery." But in face of these declarations, the candidate, of the Democrats mumbles forth, "the Union is the one condition of peace—we ask no more." 
It is a strange infatuation which imagines that the rebellion can be closed without the entire abolition of Slavery. The rebellion began with Slavery, and it will end with Slavery. As it began in no other way, so it can end in no other way. Born from Slavery, it must die with Slavery. Therefore do I insist that Slavery, shall not be spared; for in sparing Slavery you spare the rebellion itself.
But even if reason and the necessity of the case did not require the sacrifice, it is now too late, thank God! By the proclamation of the President, the freedom of all slaves in the rebel region is secured beyond recall. That gift cannot be taken back. It was a saying of antiquity, repeated by an exquisite poet of our own day, that "The gods themselves cannot recall their gifts." But even if other gifts may be recalled, the gift of Freedom cannot; for its, recall would be the sacrifice of human rights. Every slave declared free by that proclamation is entitled to his freedom as much as you and I. The President himself, who was empowered to confer freedom, is impotent to make a slave. Look at the question as you will, in the light of morals or of jurisprudence, and the answer will be the same. There is the promise of the proclamation, by which the public faith of the country is irrevocably pledged, that certain slaves shall be "henceforward free," and that their freedom "shall be recognized and maintained;" and this promise, according to morals, cannot be taken back. Still more, according to jurisprudence, it cannot be taken back; for "once free always free," is a prevailing maxim, and no court, sitting under the Constitution, and inspired by the Declaration of Independence, can venture to limit or restrain a proclamation of freedom, made in the exercise of war powers for the suppression of rebellion. It is vain to say that the slaves are not now in our power. This is a proper argument for the enemy, but not for any court of the United States, for every such court will stultify itself, and shock the judicial conscience of mankind, if it refuses to recognize the act of the President. It is enough that the proclamation has declared the slaves to be free. There is not a slave in the rebel region which may not look to it for protection, while it over-arches all like a firmament, which human effort will strive in vain to drag down.
Do you need authority for this principle? Let me read to you the emphatic and well-considered words of Postmaster General Blair: 
"The people once slaves in the rebel States can never again be recognized as such by the United States. No JUDICIAL DECISION, NO LEGISLATIVE ACTION, STATE OR NATIONAL, can be admitted to reenslave a people who are associated with our own destinies in this war of defence to save the Government, and whose manumission was deemed essential to the restoration and preservation of the Union, and to its permanent peace." 
This is noble doctrine, and it is none the less noble because it is from a member of the Cabinet, who has sometimes been supposed to hesitate where freedom is in question.
See, then, into what denial of just principles, as well as inconsistencies, you are led, when you undertake to follow the Democratic candidate in rejecting Freedom as the corner-stone of Union.
But I have said enough. The case is too plain for argument. Let me give it to you in a nutshell.
A vote for McClellan will be, first and foremost, a vote for slavery at a time when this crime has plunged the country into the sorrows and waste of war.
It will be a vote for the rebellion at a moment when rebellion is about to fall.
It will be a vote for disunion at a moment when the Union is about to be restored. 
But disunion when once started cannot be stopped, so that a vote for McClellan will be a vote to break up this Union in pieces, and to set each State spinning in space. 
It will be a vote for chronic war among fellow-citizens, which will be ever beginning and never ending, until the fate of Mexico will be ours.
It will be a vote for repudiation of the national debt, involving the destruction of property and the overthrow of business.
It will be a vote for anarchy and chaos at home.
It will be a vote for national degradation abroad.
It will be a vote against civilization itself.
It will be a vote for the kingdom of Satan on earth.
On the other hand, a vote for Abraham Lincoln will be, first and foremost, a vote for Freedom, Union and Peece, that political trinity under whose guardianship we place the Republic. It will be a vote also to fix the influence and good name of our country, so that it shall become the pride of history. It. will be a vote, also, for civilization itself. At home it will secure tranquillity throughout the whole land, with freedom of travel and of speech, so that the eloquence of Wendell Phillips may be enjoyed at Richmond and Charleston as it is now enjoyed at New York and Boston, and the designation of "Border States," now exclusively applicable to interior States, will be removed, so that our only "Border States" will be on Canada at the North and Mexico at the South. Doing all this at home, it will do more abroad, for it will secure the triumph of American institutions everywhere. 
Surely all this is something to vote for. And you will not hesitate. Forward then-in the name of Freedom, Union and Peace! Crush the enemy everywhere! Crush him on the field of battle! Crush him at the ballot-box! And may the November election be the final peal of thunder which shall clear the sky, and fill the heavens with glory!
At the conclusion of Mr. Sumner's address, three hearty cheers were given for the Union, the Union candidates, and the army and navy of the Union, and the meeting was then dissolved.
PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 1. Union League Hall was filled last evening on the occasion of Gen. Cochrane of New York delivering an address in favor of the election of Lincoln and Johnson. The distinguished gentleman was introduced by Gen. Simon Cameron, Chairman of the Union State Committee, who gave a brief account of a successful tour that he had just made through several counties in Western Pennsylvania. Gen. Cochrane spoke one hour and ten minutes, during which he awakened the immense audience to a degree of enthusiasm not often experienced at a public meeting. He predicted the triumph of the Union arms in the field, and of Union votes at home. 
GEN. LOGAN AND THE DEMOCRACY. The Chicago Tribune says that this noble officer, the friend of Douglas, was importuned by several leading Democrats to allow his name to be used for the Vice Presidency at Chicago. But Gen. Logan unqualifiedly refused. He told those gentlemen he did not train in that crowd; that he was a war Democrat-not a peace sneak; that he was opposed to bowing down and supplicating for forgiveness at the feet of Jeff. Davis; that he was for an honorable, permanent peace, which could only be obtained by overthrowing armed rebellion, and compelling the insurgents to yield obedience to the Constitution and the laws, and that he would never consent to make peace on any terms that did not embrace a complete restoration of the Union in all its territorial integrity. 
Gen. Hooker authorizes the editor of the Washington Republican to say that any and all statements that he intends to declare for McClellan are false. He says he is for an uncompromising and vigorous prosecution of the war against the armed enemies of the nation. 
Major Gen. McCall of Pennsylvania, an old soldier, and steady Democrat of many years' standing, as well as the Democratic candidate for Congress in the Chester district in 1862, is opposed to the election of George B. McClellan to the Presidency.
Gen. Butler has written a letter to Hon. Simon Cameron, full of strong arguments in favor of the re-election of Abraham Lincoln. 
<c05>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1864.
VISIT TO GERRIT SMITH.
We have recently returned from a visit to Peterboro', Syracuse and Auburn, in the Empire State. It was necessarily a brief one, but we derived from it a large amount of pleasure and enjoyment. For more than a score of years it has been our wish and purpose to visit our philanthropic and honored friend GERRIT SMITH, not-merely in compliance with his oft repeated invitations, but as a token of our personal regard; but circumstances conspired to prevent our doing so until our late trip. We found waiting for us at Canastota, (the nearest station to Peterboro', nine miles distant,) the carriage of Mr. Smith, and enjoyed one of the most charming rides we ever took-making a gradual ascension of nine hundred feet, over a smooth road equal to the best in this State, full of picturesque beauty in its various windings and views of natural scenery. On arriving at the hospitable mansion of him who has made the little village of Peterboro' famous, we were greeted by Mr. and Mrs. Smith with that hearty cordiality which makes the visitor instantly feel himself at home, whether he be friend or stranger, and which has been extended to multitudes who have gone there before us. There were others (children, relatives and friends) present, also to bid us welcome. Dinner was immediately announced, and a long table, abundantly supplied and elegantly served, was fully occupied by the company-among whom was General John Cochrane, (nephew of Mr. Smith,) the candidate for Vice President of the United States on the Cleveland Fremont ticket. Before proceeding to partake of the bountiful repast, Mr. Smith pleasantly remarked that it was his wont to welcome special guests in a simple rhyme, (for to poetic inspiration he laid no claim)-and, therefore, he would read some verses he had prepared impromptu for the occasion. A portion of these we take the liberty to give below, though it will doubtless somewhat startle our esteemed friend to see them in print:—
"For what you get from us, all told,
A thousand fold return there’ll be,
If with your souls our own may hold
High converse and communion free.
So feast your eyes on our rich fields,
Your palates on our garden food;
The light and love your presence yields
Return to us far greater good.
Best of the bargain’s on our part,
Get from us all these dear friends may;
For what they give of head and heart
Will our best gifts tenfold repay.
And now, in water pare and bright,
We toast-OUR COUNTRY AND THE SLAVE;
And pray that Heaven may speed the right—
The slave set free, the country save!
Our rhymes are not yet done—for here
Sits one,* who soars above all fear;
Whose breast his country's call to arms
Inspired with courage, not alarms.
A duty now he has to do:—
This duty rests on FREMONT too:
It is to stand by LINCOLN'S side,
And let the Cleveland ticket "slide."
FREMONT and COCHRANE now will get
Immortal honors, if they’ll let
Bygones forever bygones be,
And rally round the LINCOLN tree.
We know that LINCOLN’S not their choice;
Some other name would them rejoice;
But preference here they both can waive,
And give-their laud thereby to save—
Their votes to Abe, or any man
On whom the loyal voters can
Unite their votes, and so defeat 
This rascally Chicago cheat. 
And now, again, we'll drink a toast, 
In view of that great LINCOLN bost,
Which, swollen by that Cleveland band,
Will <illegible> Rebellion from the land.
* Gen. John Cochrane.
Our noble host, in reckoning that the "best of the bargain " was on his part and that of his family circle, because it was hospitality versus for what might be given "of head and heart," modestly places no value on his own contributions of mind and spirit, through "high converse and communion free," and so makes the balance turn against himself; but the fact still remains that the indebtedness was largely on our part, as every visitor has so found it in his own case, of all the multitudinous number who have been entertained under his roof. When the verse was read, urging, as a patriotic duty, Cochrane with Fremont to "let the Cleveland ticket slide," the General smiled, but made no response. He has since followed the sensible advice then given, in a manner greatly to his credit, and is now making earnest and eloquent speeches in favor of the reelection of Mr. Lincoln, as essential to the suppression of the rebellion, the stability of the government, and the obtainment of permanent peace. Would that General Fremont had felt inspired to act as magnanimously, and allowed his "private griefs" to have been wholly forgotten in considering the perilous condition of the republic! True, he has publicly withdrawn from the presidential arena, on the ground that "the union of the Republican party has become a paramount necessity"; but his wholesale impeachment of Mr. Lincoln, that "his administration has been politically, militarily and financially a failure"-that "he has built up for the South a strength which otherwise they never could have obtained, and this has given an advocate on the Chicago platform"-&c., &c., shows him to be equally unwise and unjust, and more of an opponent than a supporter of the administration. He says that, in withdrawing as a candidate, he does so, "not to aid in the triumph of Mr. Lincoln, but to do his part toward preventing the election of the Democratic candidate." A very nice distinction indeed! For how the defeat of General McClellan is to be effected except by "the triumph of Mr. Lincoln," we cannot logically make out. Surely, if he is determined "not to aid in the triumph of Mr. Lincoln," it follows that he is equally determined not to do his part toward preventing the election of the Democratic candidate. He cannot be allowed to play fast and loose, to be friend and foe, in this manner. His letter, as a whole, evinces mortified pride and a splenetic state of mind, and is evidently intended to be as damaging to Mr. Lincoln as possible, short of an open advocacy of the Copperhead candidate. There can be no greater condemnation bestowed than to declare that Mr. Lincoln's "administration has been POLITICALLY, MILITARILY and FINANCIALLY a FAILURE," and then to decline in favor of his reelection. It is, moreover, self-stultification. The Copperheads have said nothing worse than this. But the charge is grossly untrue. From the issuing of the Proclamation of Emancipation, at least, the administration has been politically, militarily and financially a great success. Is the ensured liberation of more than three millions of slaves, provided the administration be not overthrown, a failure? Is the enrollment of a hundred thousand black soldiers a failure? Is the experiment of free labor and free schools in Louisiana, South Carolina and Virginia a failure? Is the repeal of all fugitive slave laws a failure? Is the abolition of the inter-State slave trade a failure? Is the treaty with Great Britain for the suppression of the foreign slave trade a failure? Is the prohibition of slavery in all the vast territories of the Union a failure?" Is the emancipation of all who were held in bondage in the District of Columbia a failure? Is the recognition of the independence of Liberia and Hayti a failure? Is the transformation of all truly loyal men into advocates for a constitutional amendment, whereby slavery shall be utterly and forever abolished in the land, a failure? Are Grant, and Sherman, and Sheridan, and Butler, and Farrigut, and a host of others, failures? Is the great army of the North, with its mighty advances South and West, and numerous magnificent victories, 
<c05>
a failure? Financially, is the confidence reposed in the integrity and ability of the government to redeem all its paper issues required in the successful prosecution of the war a failure? In View of cheering and momentous facts like these, and of the formidable difficulties with which the President has had to contend, what but a jaundiced vision and a soured mind can account for such a  preposterous charge? It is not Mr. Lincoln, but General Fremont, we are sorry to say, who is a failure. It is the Cleveland nomination that is a failure. It is a strong, determined purpose to divide the loyal sentiment of the country, and defeat the election of Mr. Lincoln, that has proved a failure. All else is success-as witness the howls of the Rebels on the one hand, and the shrieks of the Copperheads on the other! 
-But this is a digression. We remained three days at Peterboro', enjoying "the feast of reason and the flow of soul" with a choice-circle, and having no other regret than that we had not made our visit at a much earlier period. It was gratifying to find both Mr. and Mrs. Smith in apparently good health. May their days be long in the land! They have done much (who can estimate how much?) by their noble example, their large hospitality, and their unceasing beneficence, to lessen the sum of human misery, relieve the outcast and the oppressed, advance the cause of freedom in its broadest significance, and enhance the happiness of vast numbers who have been hospitably entertained by them. No doubt they have often had their kindness tried and their hospitality abused by inconsiderate and impertinent visitors, who, unbidden and with all possible coolness, have thrust themselves upon them, presuming that they were bound to entertain all comers; for have they not ample means, and do they not profess to be generous-hearted, and has not any strolling loafer, or distressingly weak brother or sister, a right to expect (as tavern signs read) "entertainment for man and beast," without money and without price? Now, not a word of this came from their lips, nor from any one under their roof; but in the nature of things, this sort of imposition must have been carried to an almost unendurable extent. In fact, this house-keeping for all the world and "the rest of mankind" must be a costly affair, and must furnish a strange mixture of enjoyment and annoyance from year to year.
Of the munificence of Gerrit Smith, both public and private, we need not speak. Inheriting a large estate, complicated and peculiar in its nature-mostly landed property-he has been laboriously employed for many years in distributing it as wisely and humanely as possible, in the spirit of a faithful steward-aiding a thousand charitable and reformatory enterprises, and carrying joy and gladness to many destitute homes. It is a marvel how, with such a load to carry, and such responsibilities to meet, through all the vicissitudes of business matters, he has been able to give so much of his time to the Anti-Slavery cause and other kindred enterprises-writing and lecturing "in season and out of season," and never weary in well doing. 
Of course, it would be strange indeed if he had not received, from all parts of the country, and for the crudest objects, almost endless applications for pecuniary assistance-enough, if complied with, to beggar a Croesus in a short time. "Wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together"; and wheresoever the phenomenon exists of a reputedly wealthy man who is known to be generous in the distribution of his charities, there will be directed a swarm of scheming adventurers and worthless alms-seekers, as well as many a worthy fellow-sufferer whose case is really deserving of compassionate consideration. It must be a difficult thing to exercise a penetrating judgment in all cases; and no doubt our honored friend has in many instances been basely imposed upon. 
We found Mr. Smith cheerful and confident as to the termination of the terrible struggle through which the nation is passing-warmly supporting the re-election of President Lincoln, and strongly deprecating all attempts to divide the loyal sentiment of the country upon any other candidate. May he be spared to see the rebellion suppressed, peace restored, liberty triumphant, all fetters broken, the republic saved! 

GREAT MEETING IN FANEUIL HALL.
The Union Republicans of Boston held an immense meeting in the Old Cradle on Wednesday evening of last week. The Hall itself was jammed, and several stands outside were thronged by people. Hon John C. Grey presided inside, and speeches were made by Hon. Moses Kimball, Hon. Henry Wilson Col. Mathews, Senator Sumner, and Rev. Mr. Hepworth.
At the outside meeting, there were numerous speakers.
At the stand in Faneuil Hall square, R. K. Potter presided. Hon. R. H. Dana, R. E. Potter, Esq., Col. Robert I. Burbank, Major McDonald of the 11th Massachusetts, Hon. Henry Wilson, F. W. Stedman, Esq., J. Wetherbee, Esq., Jesse Mann, Esq., J. M. S. Williams, Esq., of Cambridge, Rev. Mr. Haskell, Francis A. Perry, Esq., and a number of other gentlemen made addresses. Spirited music was played at intervals by the Cambridge Brass Band, and Gilmore's Band. 
The meetings were continued till nearly half-past ten, and the loyal words of the speakers were most heartily applauded, with comparatively few dissenting voices, at the close. 
Senator Wilson introduced Col. R. Stocket Mathews to the vast audience as "one of the most gifted and eloquent sons of Maryland"; and he added: "When the streets of Baltimore were reddened with Massachusetts blood, he was loyal to the country and true to the nation, because he was an Anti-Slavery man. He, with Winter Davis and other eloquent champions in Maryland, has redeemed that State, so that she has before her a Free Constitution, upon which she is to pass on the 12th of October; and on that day Maryland will take her place by the side of Massachusetts on the list of free Commonwealths."
The expectations of the audience, heightened by such an introduction, were not disappointed. Here is a "sample brick" of this Maryland orator's spirit, courage, and radicalism:—
"People may talk about’ the Constitution as it is, and the Union as it was,' and I know that it is one of the cant phrases, one of the catch-penny sentences dripping from the tongues of the peace-mongers throughout the country. (Laughter.) The cowards who stay at home, and talk about sympathy for our soldiers and sailors, the malcontents and fault-finders who are constantly telling us what the Government has done that is wrong in their eyes, but never seek to help the Government by any kindly office or co-operation of their own—these are the people who are constantly crying out, ’The Constitution as it is and the Union as it was.' Gentlemen, this world is never the same at set of sun as it was at its rising, (applause,) and any man who supposes, that the whirlwind or civil revolution, of strite, of carnage, of slaughter, of sacrifice, of such has heroism as been shown on the part of the North, in shedding the best blood of the flower of the land, of such munificence as has been displayed by the people of the North in pouring out their vast treasures to sustain the Government-I say, if any man can suppose that such a whirlwind as this, with all the heroic circumstances and unnumbered sacrifices that have attended it, can pass over this land, and leave it as it was before the storm came, he is either a fool, hopelessly incapable of being taught, or he is such an utter rebel to God and man, that to talk with him is a sheer waste of time. (Loud applause.) I accept this war. I know what it means. Don't you know what it means? (Voices—'Yes.') If any of you do not, I will tell you what it means. It, is a furnace-fire, and you are being purified; it is a trying ordeal, and you are being tried; it is a great school for the education of this people, and they are being educated. It is God's own predetermined way of making the American continent a republic of freemen, without a slave." (Load applause, and cries of "Grand! Grand!!")
The out-door meetings were brutally assailed by a lawless set of Copperhead ruffians, chiefly Irish-the banners of the various Ward processions being more or less defaced, and several persons badly injured, by brickbats and other missiles. A number of the rioters were arrested. Their conduct was infamous. 
<c06>
THE CAUSES OF NEUTRALITY IN ENGLAND EXPLAINED.
To the Editor of the Liberator; 
MY DEAR GARRISON:- I should feel glad to see the following sensible letter in your columns, and hope you will find room for it. 
My excellent friend Mr. GREENING is one of the most earnest and best informed amongst the friends of this country in England. On the platform, as an eloquent lecturer; in the arena of debate, contending with Secessionists; and as an able  controversialist in provincial journals, he has rendered invaluable service to the cause of Truth, Freedom, and America. He is one of the Secretaries of that most active and efficient organization- THE MANCHESTER UNION AND EMANCIPATION SOCIETY.
Yours, very truly. 
GEORGE THOMPSON.
Boston, Oct. 3, 1864.
MANCHESTER, (Eng.) Sept. 14, 1864
To GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ., L.L D
MY DEAR SIR- You have rendered service to the cause of international good will, by what you have recently done in the way of removing many of the misapprehensions which have prevailed amongst our Trans-atlantic friends, as to our position on this side of the water, in relation to the present great struggle for freedom on the Western Continent.
In the prosecution of this beneficent work, you have, I perceive, found it necessary to explain with much minuteness of statement the fact, that although we in England are one, as a nation, we are very far from being one in opinion or modes of thinking; that we are composed of two distinct and separate parties, one of which may be called the "influential," and the other the "popular"; and that these two parties take different sides on almost every question of, politics, whether home or foreign; that whilst the influential and conservative class has, with few exceptions taken the side of the South, the liberal, popular and progressive class has taken the side of, and remained true to, the North; that the error of Americans has been, in their mistaking the swelling and oracular tones of a London journal, representing only "influence," for the vox populi of the country. All this you appear to have explained to your audiences, and, in doing so, have doubtless produced a beneficial effect. Nevertheless, I write to request that, should you have the opportunity after you receive this, you will proceed a step farther in your exposition of the real state of the public mind on this side of the water. 
Such of our American friends as have heard you on this subject may already have discovered the mistake they committed, when they confounded the two parties I have named, and thereby compelled those who cordially sympathized with the North to suffer for the misdoings of certain men like Laird who built the piratical Alabama, and the mis-sayings of journals like the Times; and they may now be disposed, not only to do justice to the earnest friends of their cause who compose the numerous Union and Emancipation Societies of Great Britain, but to judge charitably of another large class, namely, that portion of our population which consists of well-meaning and fair-minded men and women, who are not politicians, and whose instincts as lovers of freedom and hatters of slavery would lead them to join our ranks, were they not prejudiced against the North, through falling into an error similar to that into which Americans have been led, in forming a judgment respecting this country. 
In my daily intercourse with those around me, I meet with scores of intelligent persons who have no love of slavery or secession, neither any selfish conservative bias; but who, nevertheless, are unable to sympathize fully with the North, for the reason that their minds are injuriously influenced by the extracts made in English journals from papers arriving from the United States. Such, for example, as the anti-British ravings of the New York Herald; the occasional threats uttered by Northern writers, that England is to be hereafter  "punished," or the Canadas "wiped out;" the anti-negro scurrilities of the Democratic prints; the well meant but severe denuciations of Mr. Lincoln and his policy, by certain of the Radical Abolitionists; the talk of "extermination" by some, and the ridiculous boasts and unfulfilled prophecies of others. These, and many other like things, get jumbled together in the minds of honest but ill-informed persons, and come to be regarded in some way or other as the sayings and doings of "the people" of the United States. 
It is not, as you well know, until an Englishman by long, patient and impartial study has become familiar with the details of American politics, and learnt the views of the various parties, journals, and prominent individuals whose names and opinions reach these shores, that he is able wisely to discriminate and fairly to judge on matters relating to a great mixed community like that of the United States. It is greatly to be desired that our brethren across the Atlantic should understand this. 
If peoples possessing, in common, free institutions, and living in the constant and unrestrained exercise of freedom of speech and the liberty of the press, are ever to have alliances and friendships, it must be borne in mind, on both sides, that such alliances and friendships must be based upon foundations very different from those existing between kings and despots. Allowances must be made, not only for differences and divisions in each other's ranks, but for those misapprehensions and perplexities which diversity of opinion and divisions into parties in one nation, necessarily create in the minds of the uninformed among the people of another nation.
By way of illustration, I send you two of our city newspapers-the Courier, and the Examiner and Times. The first, as you know, is a Tory journal, with a select and restricted circulation. The last, the organ of the Liberal party, with a circulation of nearly 40,000, daily. The first upholds the Confederate States, the latter is friendly to the cause of the Union. These papers were issued on the same day. Both contain extracts from American journals. Ask those with whom you associate to look at the paragraphs selected for the information of English readers, and then to consider the effect which the perusal of such articles is calculated to produce upon the minds of persons who innocently regard the North as a unit, responsible, as such, for every thing they read here respecting it.
The Courier, as you will see, publishes a detailed statement, purporting to be compiled from official documents, to show that the freed negroes under the Federal rule are starved to death, or killed off by bad usage. It publishes, also, at full length, the resolutions adopted by an immense meeting in New York, in which resolutions Mr. Lincoln is charged with a series of unconstitutional acts, and is denounced as false, tyrannical, arbitrary, usurping, fanatical, personally ambitious, and wholly incapable. In addition to these are three other paragraphs, tending to produce an impression unfavorable to the North. In the Examiner and Times you will find, not only the resolutions passed by the McClellan meeting, but a long extract from the Fulton (Penn.) Democrat, describing the selling by a man of his two sons, as substitutes, to be sent to the war, in the place of a loyal "Abolitionist," who is represented as crying out for the vigorous prosecution of the war, while he will neither go himself, when conscripted, nor pay the $300 smart money, if he can get off at less cost. These references, I think, sufficiently illustrate what I am anxious the American loyal people should understand. I shall be glad if those with whom you are brought in contact are, by learning what kind of information is supplied to the mass of British readers, led to think somewhat more charitably of the prejudices which have been created, and still exist, in the minds of great numbers whom we, the more enlightened, and therefore the zealous friends of the North, would rejoice to see united with us, and feeling and acting as we do upon the great American question.
Yours, very truly, E. O. GREENING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE WAR A REBELLION OF CAPITAL AGAINST LABOR, TO ENSLAVE THE LABORER.
PORT HUDSON, (Michigan,) Sept. 21,1864.
This war is the laboring man's war; a conflict between free labor and slave labor. Shall the North be subjugated to slave labor, or the South to free labor? The slaveocracy and their apologists in the North and in Europe claim that the South represents capital, and the North labor; that the South is the capitalist, and the North the laborer. By slavery, the South means labor; by slaveholder, it means capitalist; and by slave, it means laborer. That labor and slavery, and laborer and slave, are one and the same thing, is the pervading sentiment of the South. Thus, the report of the Vicksburg Commercial Convention, in 1859, says-
"Slavery is nothing more than labor obeying unchecked, <illegible> irresponsible capital.”
The following law governs labor in every slave State:-
"A slave (laborer) is one who is in the power of the master (capitalist) to whom he belongs; the can do nothing, earn nothing, and possess nothing, but that belongs to his owner, (the capitalist,) and he is a chattel personal in the hands of his master, to all intents, constructions, and purposes whatsoever."
This is the one idea of Rebeldom in regard to labor and the laborer. This war is an effort of slave-driving capitalists to enslave the laborers of the entire nation and continent. For forty years they have labored to bring the nation to regard labor as slavery, and laborers as slaves. Now they are fighting to reduce the laborers of the nation, white as well as black, to slavery. Laborers of the North! here is the proof:
"Slave labor, black or white, is right. Nature has made the weak in mind and body for slaves." [Geo. Fitzhugh, of Virginia.]
"The theory of free labor is a delusion. Slavery is the natural and normal condition of the laboring man, white or black." [De Bow's Southern Review.]
"The enslavement of the laborer is right in itself, and does not depend on difference of complexion. Experience shows the universal success of slave-labor, and the universal failure of free labor."-[Richmond Enquirer, organ of Jeff. Davis.]
"Two hundred years of liberty have made white laborers a pauper banditti." [George Fitzhugh.]
"Make the laboring man a slave, and he would be far better off.”-[The same.]
"The enslavement of the laborer alone can save society against the dangerous vice of legislative inter <illegible> between the laborer and the capitalist.” [George McDaffie, Governor of South Carolina in 1835.]
"The free laborer works when he pleases, for whom he pleases, and for what he pleases. But the enslaved laborer works not as he pleases, but as his master (the capitalist) pleases." [Report of a Southern Commercial Convention, May, 1859.]
"In all social systems there must be a class to do the menial duties, to perform the drudgery of life; a class requiring but a low order of intellect and little skill. This class constitutes the MUDSILLS of society, and of political government. The manual, hired laborers of the North, the operatives, as they are called, are mere slaves." [Hammond, of South Carolina.]
“There must be a class of men whose business is to dig the soil and tend the herds, and who must not be allowed to have any real or personal property of their own. This class never will, never can, and never ought to take any part in the political affairs of the country." [Hon. B. Watkins Leigh, of Virginia.]
"Free labor has failed, and that which is not free must be substituted." [Senator Mason of Virginia.]
"Policy and humanity alike forbid the extension of the evils of free labor to new peoples and coming generations." [Richmond Enquirer.]
"Slave labor should be allowed to pour itself abroad without restraint, and find no limit but the Southern ocean. I would introduce it into the very heart of the North." [Hon. Henry A. Wise, of Virginia.]
"I would spread the blessings of slave labor, like the religion of our Divine Master, to the utmost ends of the earth. Wicked and rebellious as the Yankees are, I would extend it even to them"- i.e., enslave all Northern as well as Southern laborers. [Brown, of Mississippi.]
"There is not a Democrat in all the North who is exposed to the extension of slave labor"-i.e., who is opposed to the enslavement of the laborers. [N. Y. Day Book.]
"We will call the roll of our slaves on Bunker Hill." [Hon. Robert Toombs, of Georgia.]
“In the slave system, the laborer himself is property-a negotiable chattel." [Commercial Convention at Vicksburg.]
"The slave laborers of the South are far better off than the free laborers of the North. Our slave laborers are not only better off as to physical comforts than the free laborers, but their moral, social and domestic condition is better." [Richmond Enquirer.]
"The condition of the slave laborers of the South is heaven on earth compared with that of the free laborers of the North." [Rev. J. C. Potsell, South Carolina.]
“The Northern States, in rejecting slave labor, have destroyed order, and rejected the strongest argument to prove the existence of Deity." [Richmond Enquirer.]
"Free labor is impracticable, and is everywhere starving, demoralizing, and insurrectionary." [Richmond Enquirer.]
The following basis of the slavemongers' Confederacy was put forth in May, 1861, by a Virginia State Convention called to revise the State Constitution:-
“The great interests of every community may be classed under the heads of LABOR and CAPITAL." "Capital belongs to the few, labor to the many."
"In the North, the element of labor predominates; in the South, capital predominates."
"In the North, the laborer of today may be the capitalist of tomorrow; the laborer of the South can never become a capitalist."
"In the North, men of every character and condition are entitled to vote; in the South, all who are in the condition of servitude (laborers) are excluded from voting and holding office."
"In the North, the capitalist employs the laborer; (pays him for his labor;) in the South, the capitalist owns the laborer."
"In the North, the children of the poor (the laborers) are educated at the expense of the rich (the capitalists); in the South, the children of the laborers are not educated"-but it is a crime, a felony, to teach laborers to read and write.
"In the North, there are exemption and homestead laws, and the cry of land for the landless, and homes for the homeless; in the South, the slave (the laborer) can have no land, no home, and 'can do nothing, earn nothing, and possess nothing but that belongs to his master.”
Hon. J.W. SPRATT, speaking of the difference between the two conflicting powers, the North and South-the Republic and the Confederacy-says:-
"In the one, there is hired labor; in the other, slave labor. In the one, labor is voluntary; in the other, it is involuntary. In the North, the laborers are paid; in the South, the laborers are not paid. In the North, labor is free; in the South, it is compulsory. In the North, the laborers have the elective franchise; in the South, they have it not. In the North, the laborer has power to rise, and dispose of the fruits of his labor; in the South, the laborer has no power to rise, and dispose of his earnings. The contest between these two states is inevitable."
"There are slave races born to labor, and master races born to govern, and control the fruits of labor." [Richmond Examiner, 1863.]
"The establishment of the Confederacy is a distinct reaction against the whole course of the mistaken civilization of the age. For ‘Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,' we have deliberately substituted Slavery"-i. e., for free labor the Confederacy has substituted slave labor; for voluntary labor, the Confederacy has substituted involuntary labor; for paid labor, the Confederacy has substituted unpaid labor. [Richmond Enquirer.]
"WE BELIEVE CAPITAL SHOULD OWN LABOR. Is there any doubt that there must be a laboring class everywhere? In all countries, and under every form of government and civilization, there must be a laboring class-a class of men who get their living by the sweat of their brow; and then there must be another class, TO CONTROL THE FRUITS OF THEIR LABOR." [Herschel V. Johnson.]
"Free society! We sicken at the name. What is it but a conglomeration of greasy mechanics, filthy operatives, and small-fisted farmers? All the Northern States are devoid of society fitted for a <illegible> gentleman. The prevailing class is that of mechanics struggling to be genteel, and small farmers who do their own drudgery, and yet who are not fit for association with a gentleman's body-servant." [The Muscogee Herald, Alabama.]
<c02>
"Many in the South once believed that slaveholding was a moral and political evil, but that folly and delusion are gone. We now see it in its true light, and regard it as the most safe and stable basis for free institutions." [John C. Calhoun, 1838.]
"The hand that is familiar with the plough-handle should never be permitted to touch a ballot." [John C. Calhoun.]
"We are told that men are not only born equal, but free. The very reverse of this is true.” [Southern Christian Herald, Columbia, S. C.]
"I repudiate, as ridiculously absurd, that much lauded, but nowhere accredited dogma of Mr. Jefferson, that ‘all men are born equal.'” [Gov. Hammond, of South Carolina.]
"Men are not born to equal rights. It would be far nearer the truth to say that some (the laborers) were born with saddles on their backs and bits in their mouths, and others (the capitalists) born booted and spurred to ride them; and the riding does them good. They (the laborers) need the rein, the bit, and the spur. Life and liberty are not inalienable. The Declaration of Independence is exuberantly false and aborescently fallacious." [Richmond Enquirer.]
"He that holdeth the plough cannot get wisdom," i.e., should not be educated. [Prof. Dew, of Va.]
"The laws of all the Southern States justify the holding of white men in slavery." [Richmond Enquirer.]
"The rebellion is against the laboring classes-to perpetuate the power of the rich over the poor. The first move of the rebels was to make land and slaves the basis of political power." [Major General Butler, in New York, in 1862.]
In the North, only labor is in the market. In the South, the universal sentiment and practice are, to expose the laborers themselves-male and female, black and white-for sale-as the following advertisement proves, taken from a Savannah paper:-
"MECHANICS FOR SALE. The subscriber has on hand two excellent carpenters, three blacksmiths, and one wheelwright, all excellent mechanics in their line, young, strong and healthy, of quiet and peaceable dispositions, and several of them are quite pious; all of which will be sold at moderate rates. Persons in want of mechanics are invited to call and examine these, as they are all desirable workmen." [W. G. Pennymaker, No. 50, Canal Street, Savannah, Ga.]
ABRAHAM LINCOLN stands before the nation and the world as the political embodiment and representative of paid and enfranchised free labor-George B. McClellan as the political embodiment and representative of compulsory, unpaid, and disfranchised labor. The Union party and candidate politically represent that social system in which labor is the only real capital, and the laborer the only true and rightful capitalist; in which the laborer works when, for whom and for what he pleases. The Democratic party and candidate represent that system in which the laborer and all he earns belongs to another, and in which he is in subjection to the "unregulated, unchecked, irresponsible capitalist." Abraham Lincoln and George B. McClellan are candidates for the Presidency of the United States; the former, the nominee of the Union party that represents voluntary, compensated, enfranchised labor; the latter, of the Democratic party, that represents involuntary, unpaid, disfranchised labor. One of these must be elected on the 8th of next November. The one great question to be settled on that day is-Shall the laborers of the South be made free, or the laborers of the North be made slaves? Or, in other words-SHALL THE SOUTH BE SUBJUGATED TO FREEDOM AND FREE LABOR; OR THE NORTH TO SLAVERY AND SLAVE LABOR?
The Peace Democracy says- “Close the war by an armistice, and a convention of all the States”- i.e., by enslaving the laborers of the North. The Union party says- “Close the war by freeing the laborers of the South." Lincoln says-"Save the nation by subjugating the continent to free labor;" McClellan says- “Save the Union by consigning the laborers of the continent to the hell of slavery!" The Baltimore Platform says- “Reconstruct the Republic on the basis of voluntary, compensated labor;" the Chicago Platform says- “Reconstruct it on the basis of compulsory, unpaid labor." Whoever votes for the Baltimore Platform and its candidate, votes for the entire abolition and constitutional prohibition of slave labor within the limits of the United States; but whoever votes for the Chicago Platform and its candidate, votes for the abolition and prohibition of free labor, and the constitutional extension and perpetuity of slave-labor. 
LABORERS OF THE NORTH! For whom and for what do you mean to vote on the 8th of next November? For freedom or for slavery to the toiling millions of this nation and continent, and of the world? All who vote for Lincoln vote for dignity to labor and for freedom and self-respect to the laborer; but all who vote for McClellan vote for the enslavement of the laborer, and for the degradation and dishonor of labor. 
VOTING LABORERS! Will you vote for your own disfranchisement, degradation and dishonor? Will you vote for concubinage or for marriage?-for the prostitution, pollution and damnation of your wives and mothers, your daughters and sisters, or for their purity, elevation and happiness? Your votes must tell for the blessings of free labor, or for the horrors of slave labor. They must tell for freedom and free labor in Lincoln, or for slavery and slave labor in McClellan. They must tell for the elevation and happiness of laborers in the Baltimore Platform; or for their degradation, their enslavement and ruin in the Chicago Platform. Are you for Lincoln and free labor, or for McClellan and slave labor? Earth's toiling millions wait and watch for the answer you may give by your ballots the 8th of November. Heaven grant your votes may be against slavery and slave labor, and for freedom and free labor!
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

A CASE OF THRILLING INTEREST.
DEAR GARRISON-The following extract is form an interesting letter written to my wife, by a benevolent lady of New York, on her return home, after a recent visit to us in Boston. The pathetic interest of the incident she relates will, I doubt not, insure it a place in your columns. I have the author's consent for so presenting it. Respectfully yours, JOHN T. SARGENT.
Boston, Oct. 1,1864.
"I had not been at home two hours when a visitor came, unexpected but not unwelcome, and about whom I must tell you. I was gathering up the stray threads of three weeks' ravelling, when Mary appeared, to know if I would buy some paper of a man at the door. ‘O, no,' I said, ‘I have plenty.' Whereupon, she produced a letter which he had sent up, and which I set down as one of the stereotyped begging appeals, which you cannot bear to neglect, but which the Commissioners of Charity beg you not to heed, as they are seldom genuine. However, I opened it, and read, signed by a well-known friend, this:-' A wounded soldier; a stranger in a strange city; not a living relative; not a dollar in his pocket; a lame leg; a useless arm; two years in the field; exposed in ten battles; wounded three times; in Libby Prison ten months; in hospital five;-help him." I ran down. Outside the door stood somebody whom I could scarcely see for the gathering tears. I brought him into the dining-room:- a slender, delicate fellow, barely twenty-two years of age; a skin like alabaster; great, sad, blue eyes; refined clear outlines; one thin white hand; small slight feet; a gentleman, visibly, through ragged and dirty clothes. He was a book keeper, he told me, for the American Express Co. at Utica: received a salary of $1200,00. He had one brother. They felt they ought to enlist, and joined the 26th N. Y. in the Spring of '61. He was a private; his brother, color-bearer. His mother had died when he was an infant; his father has died since the boys went to the field. There was no kin left on either side. At 'Bull Run,' No. 2, the brother was killed. He had said that he would die before the old flag should dip! My soldier buried him after the battle; and when they straightened out the graceful limbs, they found twelve bullet-holes in that young martyr's body! ‘He was very brave, and so handsome!’ quoth my soldier, with a little trembling of the voice; and I could well believe it. Wounded, now and then, but not discour-
<c03>
aged, he fought with that grand army till Chancellors-ville. In one month more his time would have been out. In that battle his right arm was shattered, ‘but we took and held the battery,' he said exultingly. The enemy had the field. Hooker could not gather in his wounded. He lay thirty-six hours, begging every rebel soldier, who approached, for water. At last a merciful ‘gray-back' took him to a surgeon, who dressed the arm, and sent him to Richmond. From that hour until he reached the hospital at the North, the aching sore had only such care as some kind comrade, ignorant of his necessities and destitute of means, could give it. The keepers told their prisoners they should never fight for ‘Old Abe' again. He believes the starvation of our prisoners at the South to be systematic and premeditated. They had but four crackers a day! They gambled, sometimes, for each other's crackers, and won two more! Then the winner was a rich man! But he never dared to risk his four.
When he was released, he was so weak that he had to hold his head up to keep it from falling about. When he went into the prison, he weighed one hundred and fifty pounds; when released, he weighed only ninety-four. He was so weak that they could not amputate the arm; so he had to have six inches of the bone taken out!-' O, no, he could not take ether; too weak for that,' the surgeon said. 
Discharged from hospital three weeks ago. They were very kind to him, but he must make room for some still feebler frame. Went to look for work; had no money; Government owes him three months' pay; thinks he shall not be paid for the time he was ‘Libby,' because his term of service had expired; so many applicants before him that he cannot get pay for three months. Nobody would trust him for board until he could earn some money. At last he found a woman who had a common boarding house on Avenue O, (corresponding with your North St.) who promised to keep him till he could earn something. Failing of work everywhere, he, at last, got some paper to sell on commission, making five cents on a package. He seldom made more than fifteen cents a day. He had made fifty cents. His board was four dollars a week; ‘and then, you know,' said he, 'I need a little for clothes.' Not many people would buy. It was a kind of begging. 
One day he found Mr. Edwards. He was very kind to him; had given him his shoes, and sent him to other friends, and sent him to me. He had called yesterday, but I was out of the city. He did not like to be troublesome, but Mr. E. had made him come again. If I would buy something, ever so little, it would be a help. Fortunately, I had a room empty, and I put this poor weary and footsore wanderer into it, and hid his heavy bag in a closet, tearfully grateful that the dear Father had sent him in to me; for, somewhere, under the burning summer sun, (if, indeed, he be alive,) I have an only brother, the very darling of my heart; perchance as dirty, perchance as ragged, perchance as weary, perchance-God help him and all of us!-perchance as wrecked, and maimed, and pitiful as this lonely boy!- Oh! if anywhere there may be found some pitying woman,-enemy though her state make her,-who will give him water and one smile, God help and comfort her!
I sent for a surgeon, but he gives me no hope that the poor arm will ever be of use again. So he must bear that. But I knew that something better than limping from house to house to sell paper was in store for my youth, and I set out to find it. Last night I received a half promise of a government office for him; and if I follow up the purpose with sufficient assiduity, I have no doubt I shall secure it. The salary is $700, which will make him comfortable. So, this morning we dispatched him to the country, with a friend who had kindly invited him to spend a week or two with him on the Hudson, and from the rest and quiet I hope great things.
Think what a fate it is! so young,-so unsightly,- subject to stares and gibes from coarse people,-doomed to be poor, to spend all the days to come in the pursuit of bread and butter;-saddest of all, to be shut out forever from the very atmosphere of home loves! For him no deathless trust, no clinging arms of wife, no fond delight of home, no holy touch of baby fingers. All the years lonely years, and he but twenty-two!-And yet, no word of regret for the sacrifice, no thought that the end will be dearly bought, no perception that he could have chosen otherwise! Evidently, to go was inevitable with him ; not a merit but a necessity! He has not the faintest consciousness that he is a hero. Ah, well, the dear God knows best! Some of us walk through rose gardens, and some over burning ploughshares, and the end is one. But, if such experiences as these do not make us noble men and deeper hearted women, there is no hope for us."
HOW COLORED SOLDIERS THINK AND ACT.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:-Knowing well your interest, as well as that of Liberator readers, in all that relates to the colored soldiers now doing battle to secure the liberties of the American nation, I herewith venture a few extracts from correspondence with which I have recently been favored, premising, however, that they were not written for publication, and that the names are, for obvious reasons, omitted. They contain a record of aspirations cherished, heroic deeds performed, a patience and perseverance under trying circumstances, and, withal, an eagerness to improve their mental powers, Worthy of the highest commendation.
Boston, September 30, 1864. W. C. N.
From an officer of the 55th Massachusetts, confined in Charleston jail:-
"I was captured by confederate cavalry, and have been a prisoner of war ever since, with at times an utter hopelessness of release. But I think the day-star of deliverance, through the Almighty, has begun to dawn. My treatment has been very humane, considering the circumstances of the case. But, with all this, the privations incident upon prison life have weighed upon me both mentally and physically. The confederate authorities show a disposition to release all free men; and as we come under that head, we hope a movement in that direction will be made soon.
About fifty of the colored troops are at the jail in Charleston. They are not confined in cells; but, volunteering to work, they are permitted to go into the yard. Most of the men have hardly clothing enough to cover themselves. Their food consists of one pint <illegible> each day. They receive nothing else from the confederate authorities but this meal, and some of them say that they never have enough to eat. Others do cooking for persons confined in the jail, and in this way get more to eat. The men speak of their treatment in other respects as not very harsh, in comparison with the treatment they expected."
From a Sergeant in the 54th Massachusetts:-
"MORRIS ISLAND, Aug. 26th, 1864.
Charleston is not ours yet, but no doubt will soon be. And why? Because the country needs an important victory, and somehow it is a religious or superstitious belief with me that this country will be saved to us (black men) yet. I say I believe this; but it is not a mere blind belief. I know that we shall have to labor hard, and put up with a great deal before we are allowed to participate in the government of this country. I am aware that we in the army have done about all we can do, and that to you civilians at home falls the duty of speaking out for all-as we have done the fighting and marching, and suffered cold, heat and hunger, for you and all of us.
My friend, we want black commissioned officers; and only because we want men we can understand, and who can understand us. We want men whose hearts are truly loyal to the rights of man. We want to be represented in courts martial, where so many of as are liable to be tried and sentenced. We want to demonstrate our ability to rule, as we have demonstrated our willingness to obey. In short, we want simple justice. I will try to be plainer:
<c04>
there are men here who were made sergeants at Camp Meigs, (Readville,) who have had command of their companies for months. Can these men feel contented when they see others, who came into the regiment as second lieutenants, promoted to captaincy, and crowd of incompetent civilians and non-commissioned officers of other regiments sent here to take their places? Can they have confidence in officers who read the Boston Courier, and talk about Niggers ?
We have just been informed that we are to have the responsible duty of guarding six hundred knights of the lash; and are exhorted to vigilance in duty,- after which, we were advised to take the pay offered under the law of Congress, approved July 4th, 1864. Of course we shall take it-so that vexed question will be settled."
From a Sergeant in the 55th Mass., who, for meritorious conduct, has been recently promoted :-
" FOLLY ISLAND, July 26,1864.
I have seen considerable service, one way and another, both in the infantry tactics and also in artillery practice, both light and heavy. It was my privilege to be the first non commissioned officer that reached the enemy's guns in the fight we had on James Island, on the 1st of July. I found one of them loaded, and fired it; afterwards loaded it with another charge which the rebels failed to take away, and fired that also. The two guns were afterwards given in my charge (two twelve pounds, Napoleon guns, manufactured in Richmond, Va.,) by the Colonel of our regiment, who commanded the successful charge.
I selected from our company (F) two gun detachments, and during our stay on James Island used the guns pretty effectually on the Rebs. I also covered the retreat of our forces from James to Cole's Island with them. The guns are now in front of the quarters of our Colonel; the General having granted the Colonel the privilege of keeping them, in consideration of the valor of the 55th.
For services of myself and the men under my charge, I received, through our Colonel, the thanks of the chief of artillery.
To-day I can say, without depreciating any other regiment, that none stand higher than the old 55th in the estimation of the Commanding General.
Could you have been on the battle-field on the morning of July 1st, and seen them under a shower of shot and shell deploy into line of battle when it seemed as though the day was lost by the giving way of two regiments-(one white, and the other colored, both rushing back discomforted)-I say, could you have seen the old 55th rush in, with the shout of "Remember Fort Pillow!” you would have thought that nothing human could have withstood their impetuosity. We know no defeat. The guns we were bent on having, and there they are near my tent door."
From the same :-
"SEPT. 11th. Two large tents have been erected and floored, adjoining each other, making a room some 45 by 25 feet, with suitable desks and benches for its furniture. Evening schools have been established. The valuable accessions to the reading matter of the regiment, recently received from Massachusetts, have given us quite a library. God bless the noble friends at home for their philanthropic efforts in behalf of soldiers in the field! The appreciation of their effort is attested in the interest manifested by the large numbers in attendance every evening. I find there are not a few in the regiment, who, although never having been slaves, are unable to write their names, and many are unable to read. A year's experience in the army has shown most of them the disadvantage of being dependent upon others to do their writing and reading of letters; and they are now applying themselves assiduously with spelling-book, pen, ink and paper. Another class are equally if not more desirous of improving their mental faculties. I allude to those whom the withering, blighting, curse d system of slavery has robbed of the golden moment of youth and the maturer hours of manhood. Many of these are destined to make their mark as bright <illegible> of society, should the fortunes of war return them to their homes."

ANOTHER GENEROUS TESTIMONIAL.
HOPEDALE, OCT. 4,1864.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR:- I desire to thank you for the course you have taken during this crisis in the destiny of our people. When the people were dead in trespasses and sins, when they were unwilling to consider the wrongs of slavery at all, you, through a long series of years, did all you could to agitate, and call the attention of the people to their wrong position on that subject. I am thankful that I have done something in the past to assist in that good work. I am also truly glad that you recognize the altered condition of things. Now all the truly loyal see that slavery is the cause of all this strife and blood shed, and are working with more or less zeal, and with more or less directness, for its overthrow. Our greatest danger is in the division and distraction of the Loyal sentiment of the country. To avert this calamity is to destroy the last reasonable hope of the slaveholders for success. I thank God that you saw this danger, and that you had the wisdom and courage to avert it by seeing and proclaiming that ABRAHAM LINCOLN was the choice of the loyal people; and, in view of the situation, the best thing, in your judgment, to be done was for his supporters to renominate and to reelect him. He has become, in my judgment, the representative of the cause of the loyal people, as Washington was of the cause of our fathers; and the people will rally around him, (if certain public men see and do their duty,) as they would about no other man. 
The steadiness and cool courage shown by you have, I believe, done much to carry us through the period of doubt and destraction which I hope has vanished forever.
I took my pen mainly to say I enclose fifty dollars to enable you to continue the Liberator.
With great esteem, I am truly, your friend,
GEORGE DRAPER.
THE REBEL PROGRAMME. The following, from the Charleston Mercury of the 5th, is a succinct statement of the rebel relation to our political canvass:- "If we hold our own, and prevent further military successes on the part of our foes, there is every prospect that McClellan will be elected, and his election upon the Chicago platform must lead to peace and independence."
A DEMOCRATIC OUTBURST OF ENTHUSIASM!- The rebel prisonera at Elmira, N. Y., cheered lustily when they heard that McClellan had been nominated at Chicago.
The Washington Republican says that, on Tuesday, as a party of rebel prisoners were passing down the avenue, they cheered lustily when under the McClellan flag, suspended opposite the Democratic headquarters.
It is announced in the last number of The Commonwealth that Charles W. Slack, Esq. is hereafter to have the editorial charge of that paper. He has accordingly resigned his situation in the Boston Custom-House-a position he filled to the entire satisfaction of all having business with him. We wish him much success in his new position.
AN UNFORTUNATE MISTAKE. By some unaccountable blunder, we fell short a hundred copies in our edition of the Liberator last week; so that we have been unable to supply a number of our subscribers, or to complete our files. Such of our subscribers as received their papers, and do not file them, will very greatly oblige us if they will return them by mail, simply directed, "Liberator, Boston, Mass. "We have been under a similar obligation more than once, and have never failed to have our request kindly complied with.
<c05>
THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC "ONWARD 
TO RICHMOND."
PHILADELPHIA, Oct1. The Bulletin has the following:
It is reported that Gen. Kautz's cavalry Wednesday evening advanced on a <illegible> to within one and a half miles of Richmond, and were surprised to find so few rebels in that vicinity. The most of Gen. Butler's forces are within four miles of the city. Great activity prevailed on our left, and Gregg's cavalry had advanced to Ream's Station. The rebel lines are very then. The cannonading of Wednesday inflicted little damage on us.
HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF POTOMAC, Sept. 29-P. M. Reports from Gen. Butler's department say the 10th and 18th Army Corps crossed the James River at Deep Bottom, and advanced against the enemy's works at Chapin's Farm, taking the first line of rifle pits without resistance.
At 10 A. M. the enemy's stronghold at Chapin's Bluff was carried by assault, and 300 prisoners taken with 16 pieces artillery, <illegible>, &c. A division of the 18th corps is said to have suffered considerable loss, but to what extent is not known. Our troops hold the position, which is about seven miles from Richmond.
Some deserters came in to-day, who say the defeat of Early, in the Valley, caused great depression throughout the rebel ranks; thousands are ready to leave on the first opportunity, having lost all faith in their final success.
Capt. D. G. Pitts of the 19th colored regiment was killed yesterday on the picket line, and two or three of his men wounded.
All accounts agree that the colored troops behaved admirably. This fact is abundantly proved by their large number of wounded which have reached here. Our brave white veteran troops also fully sustained their well-earned character so nobly won on many hard fought fields, and showed clearly by their actions that they fully believed in conquering a peace.
Major Gen. Ord was wounded whilst gallantly directing the movements of his troops. The wound was not severe, and will probably only keep him from active duty a few weeks. It is a flesh wound in the leg.
Gen. Burnham was killed. He fell at the head of his brigade while leading a charge. His remains have reached here, and will be sent North immediately.
Nearly all of our wounded in the action of Thursday, 570 in all, have been brought down. The following are among the casualties:
Lieut. Amos Reade, 8th Connecticut, wounded in groin; Lieut. John B. Young, 7th do., in breast; Lieut. J. A. Rathbourn, 8th do., in the side; Major T. R. Hawkins, 68th U. S. colored, in shoulder and foot; Capt. Robert Dillard, 2d U. S. colored, in head; Lieut. D.L. Way, 56th U. S. colored, in hip; Lieut. J. C. Richardson, 38th U. S. colored, in lung; Lieut J. B. Becket, 6th U. S. colored, in thigh; Col. A. F. Stevens, 13th N. H., commanding first brigade, 1st division, in thigh; Capt. L. N. Converse of Gen. Stannard's staff, in the face; Lieut. E. H. Farnham, 8th Me., in hand; Adjutant Samuel Foss, 8th Conn., in the thigh.
Reports from Gen. Butler's department state that Gen. Hoke's division attacked our troops yesterday for the purpose of regaining the ground lost the day previous, but that they were repulsed every time.
Rebel fugitives of all classes are pouring into Bermuda Hundreds in every conceivable manner. Some are coming down on rafts in their eagerness to escape from the perils of the confederacy.
Rebel officers now prisoners in our hands say that Richmond cannot much longer withstand the siege now in progress.
Col. Edwards of the Mass. 37th Regt. recently sent out from Winchester, Va., a force of forty cavalry, to look after wounded officers. They were ambushed by Mosby, and all but five killed or captured.
Sheridan found rebel hospitals in all the towns from Winchester to Newmarket, and was 80 miles from Martinsburg.
Twenty pieces of artillery were captured at Fisher's Hill, 1100 prisoners, a large amount of ammunition, caissons, limbers, &c., &c., a large amount of entrenching tools, small arms and debris. No list of captured material has yet been received. The small towns through the Valley have a great many of the enemy's wounded.
Gen. Stevenson reports the arrival at Harper's Ferry of a train of our wounded, 20 captured guns and 80 additional captured officers.
Breckinridge has gone to take command of the rebel department of the Southwest. 
Captures were made of several of the Richmond Home Guard, who report a great panic in Richmond, and that Jeff. Davis and Cabinet have fled.
In Thursday's fight the 10th Corps lost about 1000 killed and wounded, and the 18th Corps about 800,- 200 being taken prisoners.
NEW YORK, Oct. 2. The Herald's correspondent at Butler's headquarters writes under date of Sept. 30: "Early yesterday morning Gen. Butler had captured all the fortifications save one immediately opposite Fort Darling, and we still hold them, notwithstanding the vigorous shelling by the rebel rams. The fact that one of our hospitals was located within three miles of the city throughout yesterday is significant. 
Gen. Grant last evening expressed himself to an old army officer as being entirely satisfied with the operations of the day, and added that more had been accomplished at the period of the undertaking than he had expected would be. 
Gen. Grant had an interview with Gen. Butler at 5 o'clock this morning. 
It is reported that the rebels were rushing reinforcements to their left by trains of 15 to 17 cars each."
The Savannah Republican says that the losses during the bombardment of Atlanta reach $5,000,000 worth of real estate, embracing forty-seven houses burnt. There were 467 persons killed and sixty-nine wounded.
A correspondent with Farragut's fleet in Mobile Bay writes as follows:-
"We are within shelling distance of a portion of the city. While I am writing, they are preparing to open upon the rebel gunboats. We are so near to the city that we can read the names of the steamers crowded around the wharves. We can see nine blockade-runners, English build, still hoping to elude our vigilance and escape to sea. We can see the barefooted citizens-the debris of a waning aristocracy-walking the streets-going to and from the markets and stores, where they pay $300 for flour and $150 a pair for shoes."
The outrages that were perpetrated at the last Republican meeting at Faneuil Hall, and which bear a close family resemblance to other outrages perpetrated by democrats in other places at the expense of their political opponents, should warn the country of what it would have to expect from the return of the democracy to power. A democratic restoration would mean the organization of club law for the Union. There would be a <illegible> of Terror established, and those gentlemen who are now so earnest in their worship of the habeas corpus would show no respect for the rights of any man, unless he could prove himself to be a slaveholder. Violence would to the rule of the democracy. The true way to prevent would be to keep the democracy in the "cold <illegible> of opposition, where their boiling blood might be prevented from boiling over. The sun of success would be too much for them, and they should not be exposed to his ardent rays and beams.-Boston Traveller.
A considerable number of the rioters who tried to break up the Lincoln and Johnson meeting in Boston have been arrested. Among them was a member of Gilmore's Band. Mr. Gilmore promptly turned the rioter out of the Band.
THE FREED SLAVES. The Philadelphia North American submits the following as a carefully prepared estimate of the number of slaves thus far set free by the administration, or by the events of the war: 
Mississippi, 1-3 156,540
Alabama, 1-3 145,023
Arkansas, 2-3 74,074 
Virginia, 2-3 163,639 
South Carolina, 1-6 67,66 
North Carolina, 1-6 55,176 
Louisiana, 2-3 201,150 
Tennessee, 2-3 183,912 
Delaware, 1-3 592 
Maryland, 88,188 
Missouri, 114,965 
Texas, 1-6 80,427 
Kentucky, 1-3 75,163
Georgia, 1-3 154,966 
District of Columbia, 3,185 
Indian Territory, 7,185 
Utah and Nebraska, 44
Aggregate 1,388,600
They have abolished 152 sinecure offices in the New York Custom House. Under a just and economical Government, they would never have existed. -Boston Post.
Very true. They existed under Polk, Pierce and Buchanan Under Lincoln they have been abolished. -Bangor Whig.
A soldier who was reading <illegible> on the <illegible> in a Democratic procession in Trenton, and discovered nothing inscribed thereon but abuse of the President of the United States and insults at our own Government, turned to a companion and exclaimed: "I say, Jim, this is the first rebel raid we've seen since we left Virginia!"
<c06>
Gen. Meagher comes out earnestly for Lincoln and <illegible> declares that, although he respects McClellan for his gentlemanly qualities, his letter of acceptance stamps him as unfit for President.
Hon. James S. Brady, of New York, in a late speech says: "Much is said about usurpation of power; but where in history will you find a war against rebellion conducted with such moderation?"
A McClellan paper says his nomination is received with great enthusiasm in the army. That is true-the rebel army sent up one universal about when they heard it.
Every newspaper in West Virginia supports Lincoln and Johnson.
President Lincoln sent a representative recruit into the army on Friday, in the person of a Pennsylvania farmer, who has already been in the service, and the man was credited on the quota for Washington.
GEN. SHERIDAN. The opinion is very common that the gallant Gen. Phillip H. Sheridan is an Irishman. He was born in Perry county, Ohio, in 1831, and graduated at West Point, 1853.
In several military districts, slaveholders are required forthwith to furnish one-fourth, and in some cases one-half their slaves, to work on the Charleston fortifications.
Ten men from the steamer <illegible>, in Mobile Bay, recently sent out to clear away torpedoes, were killed.
Five of the six New England States have voted this year-all but Massachusetts, and not one Democratic representative have they elected to Congress.
The National election will be on Tuesday, the 8th of November, which is the Tuesday following the first Monday, as the law requires.
The garden robbers trouble the good people of Amesbury; among others, the poet Whittier, who takes considerable care in growing pears, has lost all of his fruit.
Martin H. Freeman, a pure African, native of Vermont and a graduate of Middlebury college, sailed from New York for Liberia, Wednesday. He is to be a professor in the new college at Liberia. For the last twelve years, Mr. Freeman has been connected with a school for colored people at Alleghany City, Pa.
There is a negro carpenter at Memphis, Fleming Davis, who was born and brought up in Cincinnati, and was kidnapped eighteen years ago in Covington, Ky., together with his brother. They were kept in slavery at Vicksburg until the war broke out, when their master entered the rebel army.
DEATH OF A BROKER. Mr. Thomas E. Sewall, one of the oldest and most widely known members of the Brokers' Board, and a gentleman of strict integrity, died in Boston on Friday last, and on his death being announced at the meeting of the Board on Saturday, it adjourned.

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
SEVENTH SERIES.
AT MUSIC HALL.
OPENING ADDRESS BY
GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, ESQ.,
On TUESDAY EVENING, Oct. 11, 1864.
To be followed on successive Tuesday Evenings by 
Oct. 18-OCTAVIUS B. FROTHINGHAM. 
Oct. 25-ANNA E. DICKINSON.
Nov. 1-OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Nov. 15-DAVID A. WASSON.
Nov. 22-To be announced.
Nov. 29-CHARLES G. AMES.
Dec. 6-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Dec. 13-JACOB M. MANNING.
Dec 20.-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
ORGAN CONCERT each Evening at 7 o'clock.
W. EUGENE THAYER, Organist.
Tickets admitting the bearer and Lady to the Course, at $3 each.
Tickets admitting one person to the Course, at $2 each.
Checks for SEATS RESERVED TILL 7 1-2 o'clock, $1 50 additional for each seat.
For sale at Oliver Ditson & Co’s, 277 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co's, 33 Court street, John S. Rogers's, 1071 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office.
Checks for Reserved Seats for sale only at Oliver Ditson & Co's, and at John S. Rogers's.
Only an average quality of seats will be reserved, (the east section of the hall,) leaving the same quality of seats (the west section) for those who do not purchase reserved checks. Sept. 16.
“Boys! The dear old flag never touched the ground!”
NOTICE.-The Colored Ladies' Sanitary Commission of Boston will hold a Fair in Mercantile Hall, Summer street, commencing at 3 o'clock on Tuesday, Oct. 18, and continuing until the 22d, for the relief of disabled colored Massachusetts soldiers and their families.
These men having fought bravely to sustain our noble flag and the country's freedom, we feel it our duty to do all we can to encourage them.
We would ask the sympathy and patronage of the public in our effort. We are thankful for the donations and encouragement we have already received.
Donations, either of money or goods, may be sent to the address either of the President, Madam CARTHAUX BANNISTER, 31 Winter street, or to the Treasurer, Mrs. O. o. GRIMES, 28 Grove street.
Single admission, 25 etc.
FOR SALE ON DIX PLACE,
A VERY pleasant and convenient House, having a large yard stocked with grapes, trees and foliage. The rear opens immediately upon Burroughs place, which secures abundant light, sunshine and pure air. The house is quiet, being removed some 200 feet from Washington street. To a person wanting a retired yet central and healthful residence, this estate offers a rare chance. Apply to R. E. APTHORP, 21 City Exchange, Devonshire street, lower floor. Oct. 7.

MISS H. M. PARKHURST'S
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
NEWBURG, N. Y.
The Fall Term will commence on Wednesday, Sept. 21. Aug. 26-2w
MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S
Family <illegible> School for Young Ladies, 
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS.
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested. 
July 8. 3m
A. J. GROVER, 
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
<illegible> 
Special attention given to <illegible> and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants. 
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., <illegible> 
A. L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk <illegible> do.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, <illegible> 
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, <illegible> 
Sept 12. 
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM, 
491 Broadway, New York. 
June 24. <illegible> 
Proclamation of Freedom.
<illegible> Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's<illegible> Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation, <illegible> illustrated. The original was donated to the <illegible> Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of <illegible> presented to the President of the United States. A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00. A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artist work.
<illegible> wanted for every section of the country. Copy-right secured. Apply to 
ROWLAND JOHNSON,
54 Beaver st., New York, 119 <illegible> August 19.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
ON THE CONQUEST OF ATLANTA BY THE UNION TROOPS.
TUNE-John Brown.
Our flag o'er Atlanta waves triumphant to-day!
Its ample folds fall o'er the strong city's walls;
While under it, marching, the Union soldiers play,
And shout at her downfall!
O, glory! Hallelujah,
Glory, glory, Hallelujah!
Atlanta is our own!
For all our toils and trials we now have a reward;
Rebellion cannot stand this deadly, dreadful blow:
Be joyful, friends of Freedom, and every fear discard-
Secession is laid low!
O, glory, Hallelujah, &c.!
The tyrants are o'erthrown!
The slaves will have their freedom, and the Union be restored;
Not a compact with Satan, an agreement with hell;
But a Constitution framed in the fear of the Lord,
Who deeth all things well!
O, glory, Hallelujah! &c.
The Lord is marching on!
All honor to the brave!-let them live in our hearts;
And to Lincoln, our Pilot, Who has steered us through the storms;
Our heroic armies have well sustained their parts
In the fields they have fought and won!
O, glory, Hallelujah, &c.
We see the rising sun!
Peace soon o'er our borders shall spread her dove-like wings;
And harpies that would suck our nation's life away,
Shall speedily become like other paltry things-
Like a bubble shall vanish away!
Praise ye the Lord! Hallelujah! &c.
Who has saved our land to-day!
CAROLINE A. ROBBINS.
Newport, (R.I) Sept. 3, 1864.

THOMAS STARR KING.
BY J. W. BARKER.
Mrs. Jesse Fremont sent this dispatch to a gentleman in San Francisco, on hearing, by telegraph, of the death of Rev. T. Starr King: "Put violets for me on the coffin of our dear friend who sleeps." 
Sweeter than Spring's first-born, the violets,
And gentler than the fall of silvery dew,
Kissing June roses with a soft good night;
And kindlier than the early morning beam,
Touching the hilltops with its golden hue,
Is the sweet incense, poured from tender hearts,
Above the grave of those whose earnest life
Has shown the hero in the earnest fight.
The gilded hero, on the battle-field,
Stung by the vauntings of a haughty foe,
And roused to action by the tramp of death,
May grasp his sword and hasten to the fray,
And push the veterans onward in the strife,
Till through the darkened air, and through the cloud,
The shout of victory peals along his lines,
And glorious triumph makes his banner bright:
The world gives honor to the valiant arm,
Wielding the sword for freedom and for right,
And vote him thanks, though thousand hearts have bled,
And tears and sorrow darken many a home;
Yet he was brave, and courage wins esteem.
But he who calmly takes the blade of truth,
And with a heart of love and mercy full,
Goes forth to battle with the fiends of night;
Who feels the sorrow of his fellow-men,
And tastes the wormwood in their cup of woe;
Who with the publicans and sinners eats,
Whose proudest triumphs are for human weal,
To lift some spirit from the shades of night,
Or rend the fetters from the weary soul,
And boldly walks into the thickest fight;
Where'er is weakness, lends a hand of power;
Where'er is darkness, scatters mellow light;
Drops gentle words amid the sons of woe,
And hurls hot thunderbolts of deepest scorn
At haughty tyrants, who, with iron heel,
Tread innocence and purity and love
Deep in the dust-these are the heroes
Whom the world esteems, and around whose grave
Scatters fresh flowers, fragrant with purest love.
Such heroes need no sculptured line to tell
Where were their victories. Along life's way,
Like golden peaks amid the misty clouds,
O'er many a well-fought field, unstained with blood,
Enduring monuments of virtue stand
To point the nations in the time to come
Who were the heroes of the storied past.
Such was the "friend” who sleeps in death's embrace
Beneath the violets on the Golden Shore,
Far from the music of the mountain streams,
That thread the valleys of his native hills.
Freedom will bring an offering to his grave,
For he was foremost in her loyal host:
The key-note of his burning eloquence
Was touched by Freedom's hand, and the deep strain
Along Pacific's shore called forth anew
The loyal spirit in the "Golden State."
Then scatter the violets,
Scatter them tenderly,
Weave of them coronets,
Prayerfully, lovingly!
God will befriend it-
Star them with jewels bright-
Tinged with love's holy light,
For him who knew the right,
And dared to defend it.
Bring ye your offerings,
Pure as the early flowers;
Bring them at even time,
Or in the morning hours.
He was truth's hero brave;
Virtue's sun never sets,
Fadeless her coronets-
Then scatter love's violets
Over his starry grave.
<illegible> Morning Star.

KATIE SLADE.
BY MRS. SOPHIA H. <illegible>
With her fair hands on her breast,
Folded in eternal <illegible>
Lily-painted <illegible> and lips,
Sweet eyes <illegible> in "Death's eclipse;"
'Mong the young May blossoms laid,
Sleeps the lovely Katie Slade.
We shall never hear her voice
<illegible>, singing sweet and clear;
We shall never more rejoice
Her light-hearted laugh to hear;
Nevermore—her life is o'er,
All the glorious promise made-
Earth can never more restore
To our arms sweet Katie Slade.
Katie Slade, beyond the skies,
On Heaven's blissful mysteries
Thou dost look with spirit eyes-
Thou dost bear the seraph song-
Thou dost join the angel throng,
Singing, ringing round the throne.
Doth one note of earthly pain
Mingle in that blissful strain,
Or one thought of friends bereft,
On our hapless planet left,
Mar thy joy, O, ransomed one?
In the world beyond the sky
Tears are wiped from every eye;
Sighing, dying, all are o'er;
Pain and grief can harm no more.
There the weary are at rest,
Thus the voice of God has said-
And unto those mansions blest
He has called sweet Katie Slade.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY-A FREE BALLOT, AND THE RULE OF THE MAJORITY.
FARMINGTON, (Michigan,) Sept. 18, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND-The following prepositions I have discussed in many places during the past year. This afternoon they were adopted by a rising vote, unanimously, by a most intelligent gathering of the people of Livonia, a neighboring town:-
1. That it is the fundamental principle of all Democratic or Republican institutions, that the majority shall rule.
2. That Abraham Lincoln was chosen President of the United States in 1860 by a constitutional majority, given in the use of a free ballot.
3. That the civil war now raging is simply and solely an armed rebellion of the Democratic party against the rule of the majority, with a view to subjugate the majority to the minority, and to establish the domination of a slave-breeding, slave-driving aristocracy over the nation and continent.
4. That not a drop of blood had been shed, not a widow nor an orphan made, nor a home desolated, or a mother's heart riven with anguish by this civil war, had the Democratic party, in 1860, been willing to submit to the decision of the majority as given by a free ballot in the election of Abraham Lincoln.
5. That this war, with all its evils, would at once cease, if the Democratic party would now return to their allegiance of the rule of the majority, and submit to the decision of the ballot, instead of persisting in their efforts to subjugate the majority to the minority by a war of bullets in order to propagate and perpetuate the "sum of all villainies," American slavery.
6. That the aim of the life-long leaders of the Democratic party in the South, aided by the Peace Democracy of the North, as represented in the speeches and platform of the Chicago Convention, is to destroy the basis of all free government, and to subjugate the nation and continent to the principle of all political despotism and chattel slavery.
7. That the triumph of the Southern wing of the Democratic party, in their efforts to found a slave empire on the ruins of the American Republic, depends on the success of their Northern Democratic allies in the approaching presidential election.
8. That it is the paramount duty of every friend of liberty and justice to use all the power which, in his view, he possesses, to defeat the Democratic party that now represents and is fighting to establish the rule of the minority as the basis of civil government; and to sustain the Union party, with its platform and candidate, that now represents and is seeking to establish the rule of the majority as the only principle on which a government instituted by and for the people can be administered and perpetuated.
No one can doubt that this is a war initiated and carried on by those who have been life-long leaders and members of the Democratic party, against the rule of the majority, with a view to subjugate the majority to the minority. As soon as the Democratic party submits to the rule of the majority, the war will end. WHICH SHALL RULE, THE MAJORITY OR THE MINORITY? This is the issue! How shall it be decided?
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

THE DISTURBANCE ON INDIA STREET.
MR. EDITOR-The following article, with slight modifications, was some days since offered to one of the daily papers. The circumstance of which it treats is but a repetition of an affray similarly caused, which happened some months since, in which the Irish combatants succeeded in forcing their opponents to seek refuge in the store of a merchant in the above named locality; and it was only by closing up the doors that the parties at length were separated, and peace restored.
Publicity in regard to the nature of the affair was then sought through the medium of a widely circulated daily; but, whether from considerations of delicacy respecting Irish readers and voters, or whatever else, it was withheld.
But when other oracles are dumb, we have learned that the oppressed and unfriended may find a voice, if not at the moment all persuasive, at least unequivocal and clear, at the anti-slavery Delphi; therefore, by request, I enclose this communication:-
DISTURBANCE IN INDIA STREET. Between five and six o'clock last evening, a fight occurred in India street between a small party of Irishmen and some negroes. The scrimmage was soon over, and the combatants separated, but some frightened individual sent word to the second police station that a riot was going on, and a large squad of officers was dispatched to the spot under Sergeant Dunn. The police advanced in line of battle on the double quick, and upon rounding the corner in India street were somewhat surprised at the quiet state of affairs, the crowd having dispersed.
Thus mildly, but picturesquely, does the reporter of the Boston Herald record a local incident.
Ordinarily, there is nothing in the merits of a question involved in a street row, warranting a moment's attention on the part of the readers of any respectable newspaper. Such occurrences, indeed, hold a legitimate place in the column of items as a one day's wonder; not yet, happily, having become acclimated and chronic in our puritanic city. 
There are, however, some circumstances appertaining to the present case, which make it an exception to this rule; and although it may be said that the statute and municipal laws are sufficient for the emergency, it should be remembered that the laws are compared to "sleeping lions," and they usually require an aroused and <illegible> public opinion to stir them up to the right activity. To this end, permit me to offer a pertinent<illegible> word.
Among the established features of the business portion of the city are the assemblages of negroes who locate upon the sunny corners of India and Milk streets, and at the head of Central wharf. They find employment by the day or hour among the merchants of that most respectable quarter, and are generally esteemed by them as efficient and willing laborers, and, without exception, are characterized by an orderly and respectful demeanor.
The general good opinion and ready employment which they thus gain are, no doubt, exciting causes of jealousy among their Irish competitors. Add to this an irradicable persuasion among the Irish, that the "nagurs" are the sole cause of the war, and the consequent danger of the draft and high price of provisions, and you have a standing grievance which readily culminates in personal violence.
The negroes are well-known as a docile, and the Irish no less as a bellicose and turbulent race; so that, in any case of collision between the parties, the burden of suspicion is on the latter as the cause of the mischief.
Two main defects in the Irish character make them, as a people, somewhat difficult of assimilation in our republican system; and, therefore, in that respect, and in some degree, a "dangerous class." The first is a lack of moral stamina, and the second gregariousness.
Their didactic tuition has mainly respected charity or benevolence in heart and action towards recognized equals, and more particularly brethren in race and religion; an outward deference and complaisance towards official or social superiors, and veneration for the established and traditional religion.
The puritanic tendency of isolation in matters of conscience and duty-the doctrine that God deals not with the mass we call the church, but with each man alone-the divinity of segregation, is wholly foreign to that teaching. Hence an Irishman is most likely to ask-not, "What is it right for me to do?" but, "What will my brethren recognize and approve, and back me up in doing?"
The question, of course, is tacit, and probably unconscious; but the effect is, on the whole, unfavorable to moral vigor.
<c03>
Gregariousness, which seems to be a Celtic trait, and which is exhibited as palpably by the French as any other of that race-today worshipping the goddess of Liberty, and to-morrow, with an equal enthusiasm and universality, the tyrant Bonaparte-though it may be an element of national strength, is not altogether a hopeful symptom in a republic. Our politicians know too well that the Irish think and vote in solid column.
The recent disturbance is credibly reported to have arisen thus:-
A negro, wearing a blue uniform blouse, returning to his home after working hours, is accosted by two Irishmen, who inquire if he has enlisted; and upon his replying negatively, they assert that he has no right to wear the coat, and proceed to strip it from him. Resistance follows-friends on both sides come to the rescue-and a general fight ensues, in which cotton-hooks appear to have been the principal weapons.
If this were an isolated or exceptional affair, comment would be unnecessary; but the negroes declare that they are liable to similar assaults at any time-that stones have been thrown at them while at work in the merchants' storehouses-that one of them was recently struck down at his own threshold-and that they deem it necessary to arm themselves with clubs and knives, in going to and from their homes and their work.
This, certainly, is an unhealthy condition of things, and affords room both for thought and action, if we would preserve the good report and proper pride that attach to the word Bostonian.
It belongs to those who are the subjects of these assaults to conduct themselves with courtesy and dignity; and, remembering the hatreds of race, to give no just cause of offence; and this I believe they will continue to do.
It belongs to the city officials to see that proper vigilance is used in the protection of this somewhat unpopular portion of our citizens. It belongs to the opulent merchants of that neighborhood, who are expected to yield to a liberal taxation, to insist upon the order of their streets and the safety of their laborers. It belongs to the Democratic orators, upon whom the political tuition of the Irish chiefly depends, to instruct them that the word democracy signifies the essential equality of all citizens; and that "no matter what complexion an Indian or an African sun may have burned upon him," each man is a peer in the realm. It belongs to the Catholic clergy, in whose hands this material is plastic, to teach that the phrase, "Iesus hominem salvator," blazoned over their altars, means something, and that it abolishes the distinctions of race and color. And if the publicity of the press can be made in any measure conducive to these ends, it seems to me, Mr. Editor, that it will be usefully employed. B.

THE LAST HOUES OF PRINCE ALBERT.
There has been recently published in the English papers, an extract from a letter written to a friend in Germany, by a member of the Queen's household, shortly after the death of Prince Albert. The extremely confidential position which the writer held at the time gives, it is said, assurance of its perfect reliability. The Prince, it will be remembered, was suffering from the illness which carried him to the grave, at the time the intelligence reached Great Britain of the seizure of Slidell and Mason, on board the Trent. By his advice, the dispatch addressed to the American Government, on that occasion, was modified in its tone, that it might not appear to wear a warlike aspect. "Let there be no war with America,”-“Blessed are the peacemakers,”-were, it is understood in England, amongst the last words pronounced by the lips of the Prince Consort.
After describing the grief and fears of the whole household for the Queen, the writer speaks of the personal loss sustained in the death of Prince Albert:-
"How I shall miss his conversation about the children! He used often to come into the school room to speak about the education of the children, and he never left me without my feeling that he had strengthened my hands and raised the standard I was aiming at. Nothing mean or frivolous could exist in the atmosphere that surrounded him; the conversation could not be trifling if he was in the room. I dread the return of spring for my dear lady. It was his favorite time of the year-the opening leaves, the early flowers, and fresh green were such a delight to him; and he so loved to point out their beauties to his children that it will be terrible to see them without him. The children kept his table supplied with primroses, which he especially loved. The last Sunday he passed on earth was a very blessed one for the Princess Alice to look back upon. He was very ill and very weak, and she spent the afternoon alone with him, while the others were in church. He begged to have his sofa drawn to the window, that he might see the sky and the clouds sailing past. He then asked her to play to him, and she went through several of his favorite hymns and chorals. After she had played some time, she looked around and saw him lying back, his hands folded as if in prayer, and his eyes shut. He lay so long without moving that she thought he had fallen asleep. Presently he looked up and smiled. She said, ‘Were you asleep, dear papa?’ 'Oh, no,' he answered,’ only I have had such sweet thoughts!’
During his illness, his hands were often folded in prayer; and, when he did not speak, his serene face showed that the 'happy thoughts' were with him to the end. The Princess Alice's fortitude has amazed us all. She saw from the first that both her father and mother's firmness depended on her firmness, and she set herself to the duty. He loved to speak openly of his condition, and had many wishes to express. He loved to hear hymns and prayers. He could not speak to the Queen of himself, for she could not bear to listen, and shut her eyes to the danger. His daughter saw that she must act differently, and she never let her voice falter, or shed a single tear in his presence. She sat by him, listened to all he said; repeated hymns; and then when she could bear it no longer, would walk calmly to the door, and then rush away to her room, returning soon with the same calm pale face, without any appearance of the agitation she had gone through.
I have had several interviews with the poor Queen since. The first time she said, 'You can feel for me, for you have gone through this trial.' Another time she said how strange it seemed, when she looked back, to see how much for the last six months the Prince's mind had dwelt upon death and the future state; their conversation had so often turned upon these subjects, and they had read together a book called 'Heaven our Home,' which had interested him very much. He once said to her, ‘We don't know in what state we shall meet again; but that we shall recognize each other, and be together in eternity, I am perfectly certain.' It seemed as if it had been intended to prepare her mind and comfort her-though, of course, it did not strike her then. She said she was a wonder to herself, and she was sure it was in answer to the prayers of her people that she was so sustained. She feared it would not last, and that times of agony were before her. She said, ‘There's not the bitterness in this trial that I felt when I lost my mother-I was so rebellious then; but now I can see the mercy and love that are mixed in my trial.' Her whole thought now is to walk worthy of him, and her greatest comfort to think that his spirit is always near her, and knows all that she is doing."
A correspondent of the Richmond Enquirer, in a description of the present condition of Charleston, days: "In one of the widest and handsomest thoroughfares, a space just wide enough for the cart wheels is all that can be seen of the paving stones; all else is covered by tall grass and weeds, reminding you of a pathway through an old field in the country."
We learn from a correspondent at Falmouth that Mr. Joseph Story Fay, President of the Democratic Ratification Meeting in Faneuil Hall, not only set his flag at half-mast last Fourth of July, but threatened to shoot any one who interfered with it, and said that was the last Fourth of July that would be celebrated at the North. He is certainly “worthy and well qualified" to preside over a meeting to ratify the doings at Chicago.-Boston Journal.
<c04>
THEODORE PARKER.
The following is from the columns of the London Star, and forms part of a Review of the Life and Correspondence of THEODORE PARKER, by Mr. Weiss:-
It is scarcely to the credit of England's education to-day, that outside a certain comparatively narrow section, but little is known of Theodore Parker. Setting aside altogether the intellectual gifts of the man, the mere fact that he was for so many years one of the most active and prominent leaders of the great social reform movement in America might well have entitled him to a wider popularity in our own country. Although a distinguished theologian, controversialist, and scholar, he was not one of that class of men whom Germany, for instance, so largely produces-great thinkers, profound students, but whose concern in the active affairs of passing life is so slight that the world, even while deriving valuable benefit from their labors, goes on almost unconscious of their individual existence. Theodore Parker was a man of unresting energy, a trenchant reformer, a downright gladiator of the old, unyielding, unsparing temper. Study was with him only a preparation for active work. He toiled over his books as a general might toil over his maps, only to be ready for the coming struggle. Theodore Parker was, therefore, like Schiller's heroine, much hated in his day, but also much loved. There was found in him that seemingly paradoxical, but certainly not unusual, combination of the unsparing, combative intellect, and the gentle, loving heart. He smote fiercely at his adversaries in theology, and in disputes connected with social progress; he had no gentle tolerance for slave systems, and the chivalry whose weapon, like that of the nobles in Massinger's play, is the scourge. He did not care to conciliate prejudice and manager old-standing scruples. He struck directly and fiercely wherever he saw an opponent. Such a man must make many enemies, and must, moreover, alarm many friends. But in Parker's own nature there was scarcely aught that was not gentle, tender, loving, and, in the best sense, manly. He was, indeed, one of the few beings who can fully and sincerely hate the sin, and yet not refuse to love the sinner-who can detest the evil system, and yet not abhor the living unconscious agents of the system. Intellectually, he had little or no toleration for error; morally, he had an almost boundless allowance for the erring. His intellect often carried him away into intolerant dogmas and rash generalizations. But as a man he could sympathise with, make allowance for, and have faith in every form and phase of humanity. He lived long enough to see many who had "frowned before," consent to "smile at last." He lived to see many bitter prejudices renounced, and stern opponents become friendly. He lived to see the opinions he had upheld at so much risk and with so little support becoming the animating principles of a great people. "His life," says his biographer, "appears at the very moment when the great struggle which he anticipated is going on against the wickedness which be smote so valiantly. The sound of victorious cannon is a salvo of recognition over his distant grave; a thundering welcome paid, so soon after those mutterings of hatred and contempt, to the great cause of liberty which he represented." He is but one more of the many instances so familiar to history that we have ceased to wonder, and almost ceased to lament over them, in which a life spent in preparing for a great and glorious struggle has to be laid down before the hour comes to proclaim the onset. It is not indeed until the struggle against slavery is fairly over, that the world can well appreciate the place which Theodore Parker deserves among the patriots and leaders of the great American people.
The life of the man himself was not eventful. It passed, indeed, with scarcely an incident which of its own nature could arouse for a moment the interest of a foreign reader. An ordinary biographical dictionary might sum it up in half a dozen lines. He came of the Old English Puritan stock; he was born in Massachusetts-at famous Lexington indeed; he entered Harvard College; he taught and he preached in Boston; he was an opponent of slavery; and he died just as the war against the slave system was about to open. Voila tout. Every second man one meets in the street may have led a more eventful life. Yet Theodore Parker's career was one of the most energetic and fruitful of our day, and in the present thrilling chapter of America's history, some trace of his handwriting may be found upon every page. His indefatigable energy were out too soon the frame which strove to keep up with it. Theodore Parker died of the common disease of our time-overwork. He literally worked himself to death. Too much study in youth, too much reading, writing, preaching, lecturing, thinking in manhood, exhausted prematurely a once vigorous constitution. At forty-seven, he declared that he felt like seventy-four. Like so many ardent and disinterested men, he could not bring himself to rest from labor-until enforced rest came all too late. Even when at an earlier period of his life he took a holiday, and visited most of the famous places of Europe, he still in the midst of travel wrote and read far too much. When his health absolutely gave way, he came once more to Europe, and sought revivification for a while at the breast of nature in Switzerland. Then he went to Rome, where he remained for some time, and derived no benefit from the stay, being in his then enfeebled condition vexed beyond endurance by the sight of the evils springing out of Papal rule, and even by the petty annoyances of the Papal police system. He left Rome for Florence, and felt almost his last throb of delight as he passed the Roman frontier, and saw the red, white and green of Italy's tricolor. He sank into utter languor after arriving in Florence, and he fell into a peaceful death-sleep there on the 10th of May, 1860. He is buried in the little Protestant cemetery there, and a plain grey marble slab marks the spot where the ardent and energetic nature found repose at last. He died just at the outbreak of that great crisis in the fortunes of his country, the coming of which he had so often predicted, and to the hastening of which he had so singularly contributed. Just before his death, he said to an English lady, Miss. Cobbe who was with him during his closing days, " There are two Theodore Parkers now. One is dying here in Italy-the other I have planted in America. He will live there, and finish my work." The work is surely progressing well towards completion even now.
This is, on the whole, a well-executed and satisfactory biography. Its great merit is, that it leaves Theodore Parker to tell his story almost entirely for himself. It is made up almost exclusively of the correspondence and the journals of the man himself. The biographer's personal contributions are of little value. It is, perhaps, no disparagement to the latter to say that the ardor of his admiration for the hero of the work unfits him for the office of a genuine biographer. Mr. Weiss's portion of the volumes is a mere panegyric-a song of praise. Wherein he shows far more wisdom than other hero-worshippers is the fact that he has so seldom put himself forward at all, and has almost invariably contented himself with the task of arranging and connecting the extracts and correspondence which so effectively tell the story. Theodore Parker becomes thoroughly known to the reader of these volumes. We commune with him in all his moods, and are able to appreciate every phase of his intellect. We know him as a literary man, as a scholar, as a theologian, as a politician-best of all, as a fearless, indomitable, eloquent anti-slavery agitator.
As one of the very ablest and most unflinching of anti-slavery agitators,-one who warred against the great evil on its political as well as on its moral grounds.-his name cannot be forgotten by any future historian of America. His labors form an essential part of the present volume of American history. He stood up against slavery and Southern policy with a fearless determination which at one time made three parts of the American continent his enemies. Even professed philanthropists and abolitionists, good and well-meaning men, sometimes shuddered at the energy of his appeals and his denunciations. He was for abolition, with the Union if possible-otherwise without or in spite of the Union. He was so thoroughly impressed with the odiousness and rottenness of the slavery system, that he could not believe in the possibility of any system of human institutions coming to good which permitted the existence of such an evil. He agitated against the Fugitive Slave Law; he assisted slaves to escape; he would have resisted any human law, if needs were, in order to maintain the grand and fundamental Divine law which was given for the guidance of human society. "I am not," he wrote, "a man who loves violence; I will respect the sacredness of human life; but this I say solemnly, that I will do all in my power to rescue any fugitive slave from the hands of any officer who attempts to return him into bondage. I will do it a readi-
<c05>
ly as I would lift a man out of the water, or pluck him from the teeth of a wolf, or snatch him from the hands of a murderer. What is a fine of a thousand dollars and gaol for six months to the liberty of a man? My money perish with me if it stand between me and the eternal law of God!” When Theodore Parker united in marriage William and Ellen Craft, (whose names are now well and honorably known to the British public,)"I gave them,” he said, “the same advice I should have given to white people escaping from slavery in Algiers." He told William Craft that "if a man attacked him, intending to return him to slavery, he had a right, a natural right, to resist that man unto death; but he might refuse to exercise that right for himself if he saw fit, and suffer himself to be reduced to slavery rather than kill or even hurt the slave-hunter." But with regard to his wife, Theodore, Parker held that the husbands duty allowed of no alternative:-“So I charged him, if the worst came to the worst, to defend the life and the liberty of his wife against any slave-hunter at all hazards, though in doing so he dug his own grave and the graves of a thousand men."
Theodore Parker had long anticipated Secession. In 1857, he even traced out a possible frontier to be conceded in case of the worst to a confederacy of Southern States:-
"Let me give a hint as to the line of demarcation between the two nations. I would say, Freedom shall take and keep: 1. The land east of the Chesapeake Bay. 2. All that is north of the Potomac and the Ohio; all that is went of the Mississippi,-i. e., all the actual territory, with the right of reversion in Mexico, Nicaragua, and "the rest of mankind;" the entire state of Missouri, Arkansas, and Texas, with the part of Louisiana west of the Mississippi. I think the North will not be content with less than this. Nay, I am not sure that, in case of actual separation, Virginia and Kentucky would not beg us to let the amputating knife go clear down to North Carolina and Tennessee, and cut there; for I think there is too much freedom yet in the northern most Slave States to consent to be left to perish with the general rot of the slave limbs."
The year before this, he had expressed his opinions on the future relations of North and South in the following language, addressed to a Swiss friend:-
“I do not believe that any permanent union is possible between the North and South. In ideas, aims, and habits of life, there is more unity between the Neapolitans and the Swiss about the Vierwaldstatter See than between the South and the North. Now, a despotic government, like Austria, can unite nations as unlike as the Hungarians and the Venetians into one autocracy; for military violence is the stiff iron hoop which holds these different States together. But in a republic a union must be moral-of principle; or economical-of interest; or, at any rate, internal and automatic. None of these conditions seem likely to last long. Besides, just now there is a fierce hostility between the South and the North. The South hates the North worse than the Lombards hate I dannati Tedeschi, worse than the French hated I Albion perfide in 1800-1815. Now, I think that Fremont will be chosen, and then that the South will prepare to break up the Union. The present Administration is quite friendly to the worst designs of the South; so it will allow the slave power to take all the steps preparatory to a dissolution when Fremont comes into office."
How clearly he could foresee the direct result of certain specific combinations will be seen from the following passage, which occurs in a letter written by him to Horace Mann, in June, 1856:-
“What a state of things we have now in politics! The beginning of the end. I take it we can elect Fremont; if so, the battle is fought, and the worst part of the contest is over. If Buchanan is chosen, see what follows. The principles of the Administration will be the same as now; the measures the same; the mode of applying the principles and executing the measures will be slightly altered-no more. It is plain that such another Administration would ruin the country for men like those of Middlesex County, Massachusetts. I don't think the people will see themselves conquered by 350,000 slaveholders, headed by an old bachelor. If Buchanan is elected, I don't believe the Union holds out three years."
In October of the same year, he thus wrote to another friend:-
“It is the most important crisis in our national history. No Presidential election ever turned on such great questions. It is despotism or democracy which the people vote for. I wish the true issue was represented by the banners and mottoes. Buchanan's friends would bear this in front of all:-‘No inalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness'-'The Declaration of Independence a Lie'-'No higher law;' then might follow, in historical order, 'Slavery in Kansas'-'Slavery in Cuba'-‘Slavery in all the Territories'-' Slavery in all the Free States' Bondage for niggers’-‘ Bondage for poor whites’-'Slavery for greasy mechanics'-'No free schools'-'No free press'-‘No free pulpit'-‘No free speech’-'No free men.' If Buchanan is President, I think the Union does not hold out his four years. It must end in civil war, which I have been preparing for these six months past."
Practically, the crisis came within the limit Parker here assigned to it. The civil war may fairly be said to have opened before Buchanan's four years had entirely closed. The great cause to which Parker had devoted his best energies was not destined to receive the support of his powerful intellect at its greatest crisis. Parker was sleeping calmly in his grave on the fringe of "Florence the Beautiful," when the antagonistic principles of slavery and abolition were meeting for the first time opposed on a great American battle-field.
The life which thus prematurely closed must be ranked as a noble career by all men. On the whole, it may probably be considered happy. Some chilling disappointments made, indeed, many of its hours bleak and sad; and a few random expressions, wrung from the brave heart of the man, testify that he felt deeply the want against which he did not repine. But the whole career was so full and so active, and the object to which it was principally dedicated corresponded so exactly with Parker's best aspirations, that his lot may well be considered a favored and an enviable one. Not often does an earnest man, ardently aspiring to take a prominent part in a noble struggle, find so splendid an opportunity accorded to him as that which was given to Theodore Parker. He died in the full conviction that the cause of slave emancipation was marching steadily and rapidly on to victory. "How goes the day?" said Dundee, struck down in the heat of the battle. "Well for the King, but ill, I fear, for your lordship," replied the officer who caught him in his arms. "If it is well for the King it cannot be ill for me," murmured the Royalist chief, and died. In a cause as noble as Dundee's was bad, with a heart as pure as Dundee's was sullied, Theodore Parker might have given utterance to a similar expression on his death-bed. If the day was going well for the cause of emancipation, it could not go ill for Theodore Parker.

AMERICAN WOMEN.
I give American women all credit due them for the patriotic temper they have evinced since this war began. I say that never have women showed more loyalty and zeal for country than the women of the North. Let sanitary fairs and commissions, let soldiers' aid societies from one end of the land to the other, and in every nook and corner of it, let our hospitals everywhere attest this heartfelt love and devotion on the part of our women. It is a noble spectacle, and my heart thrills at the thought of it. We have many noble ones who will stand in history along with England's Florence Nightingale and the 'Mother of the Gracehi,' those eternally fair and tender women, fit for the love and worship of the race. The want is not in the feeling of patriotism, but in the habitual principle and duty of the same. Since the war began, the fire has not slackened. But how was it before the war, and how will it be after it?.
To prove what I say, let me dwell a moment on two or three of the most prominent faults of our women, pronounced such by all the world. Of these, the most mischievous and glaring, the most ruinous in thousands of cases, is extravagance. Wastefulness is almost become a trait of our society. American women, especially, are profuse and lavish of money in dress, in equipage, in furniture, in houses, in entertainments, in every particular of life. Everywhere this foolish and wasteful use of money challenges the surprise and sarcasm of the observant foreign tourist through our country. Perhaps the largeness and immensity of our land, its resources and material, as well as the wonderful national advance we have already made, tend to cultivate in our people a feeling of profusion and a habit of extravagant display; but it is not in sympathy either with our creed or our profession.
Were the money thus heedlessly expended made for them by slaves whom they had from infancy been taught to regard as created solely to make money for them to <illegible> and enjoy, this extravagant waste of money, while none the less selfish and inexcusable,
<c06>
would appear to grow spontaneously our of the arbitrary rule of slavery; or, if it had descended to them declared to them by legal or ancestral inheritance, there might be some show of reason for using it carelessly, though very small sense in so doing. But in a land where labor is the universal law; where, if a man makes money, he must work and sweat for its possession; when fortunes do not arise by magic, but must be built up slowly, painfully, at the expense of the nerve and sinew, the brain and heart of the builders, and these builders, not slaves, but our fathers, husbands, brothers; when a close attention to money-making is rapidly becoming a national badge, and is in danger of eating out entirely what is of infinitely more value than wealth-a high national integrity and conscience-and of sinking the immaterial and intellectual in the material and sensual; in such circumstances as these, I say, and under such temptations and dangers, it is a sin, an unnatural crime, to squander what costs so dear.
Volumes might be written upon the frightful consequences of this extravagance in money matters, this living too fast and beyond their means, of which American women, especially, are guilty. Great financial crises, in which colossal schemes burst like bubbles, and vast estates are swallowed up like pebbles in the sea; commercial bankruptcies, in which honorable names are bandied on the lips of common rumor, and white reputations blackened by public suspicion; minds that started in life with pure and honest principles, determined to win fortune by the straight path of rectitude, gradually growing distorted, gradually letting go of truth, honor, uprightness, and ending by enthroning gold in the place made vacant by the departed virtues; hearts, that were once responsive to the fair and beautiful in life and in the universe, that throbbed in unison with love, pity, kindness, and were wont to thrill through and through at a noble deed or a fine thought, now pulseless and hard as the neither millstone; souls that once believed in God, heaven, good, and had faith and hope in immortality, now worshipping commercial success and its exponent, money, and living and dying with their eager but fading eyes fixed earthward, dustward!
Oh, it is a fearful thought that woman's extravagant desires and demands may thus kill all that is best and highest in those who should be her nearest and dearest! Yet, if this wide-spread evil of wastefulness is to be checked, it must be begun in the home, and by its guardian, woman. There is a movement lately inaugurated, looking to retrenchment in the matter of unnecessary expenditure” which, if it is to be regarded other than as a temporary expedient, is worthy of the patriotic enthusiasm which called it forth. I allude to the dress reform movement made by the loyal women of the great Northern cities. The spirit of this movement I could wish to see illustrated both during the continuance of and after the war. It is this economical habit of mind for the sake of patriotic principle, that I regard as a great step in the attainment of the desired standard for American women.
Another plain fault of our women, and one which in a measure is the cause of the fault above noticed, is the wild chase after and copying of European fashions. We are accused of being a nation of copyists. This is more than half true. And why we should be, I cannot understand. Are we never to have anything original, American? Are we always to be content to be servile imitators of Europe in our art, literature, social life, everything, except mere mechanical invention? I am thankful that we are beginning to have an art, a literature, of our very own. Let us also have a fashion that shall be, distinctively, if not entirely American. There is surely enough of us, of our splendid country, our institutions, our theories, our brave, free people, to build for ourselves, from our own foundation, and with our own material. But American women have yet to inspire society with this patriotic ambition.
Not what is becoming or suitable to her, but what is the fashion, does the American woman buy; not what she can afford to purchase, but what her neighbors have, is too commonly the criterion. This constant pursuit of Fashion, with her incessant changes, this emulation of their neighbors in the manifold ways in which money and time can be alike wasted, and not the necessary and sacred duties of home, the personal attention and effort which the majority of American women have to give to their household affairs, produce that lack of time that is offered as an excuse for the neglect of the duty of self-culture. This it is which fritters away thought and the taste for higher things, leaving the mind blank and nerveless, except when thus superficially excited.
This duty of self-culture I would notice as one of the demands of the times upon American women in the attainment of the proposed standard. A wide, liberal, generous self-culture, of intellect, of taste, of conscience, for the sake of the better fulfillment of the mission to which, as an American citizen, every woman in the land is called. We do not begin to realize this. It is a great defect in our social system, that, when a woman has left school and settled down in life, she considers it the signal for her to quit all mental acquisition except what she may gather from her desultory reading, and, henceforth, her family and her immediate neighborhood absorb her whole soul under ordinary circumstances. The great majority of our country women thus grow care-worn, narrow-minded, self-absorbed. Now this is not right-it is not necessary. A woman's first, most important duty is in her home; but this need not clip the wings of her spirit, so that thought and affection cannot go out into the great world, and feel themselves a part of its restless, throbbing, many-sided life; brain and heart need not stagnate, even if busy, work-a-day life does claim her first endeavors. Indeed, the great danger to our women is not so much that they will become trifling and frivolous, as that they will become narrow-minded and selfish.-Essay on American Women in the Continental Monthly for October.

HOW THE RELATIONSHIP RUNS.
The Marriage-Married, sometime about the year 1856, by his Satanic Majesty, King Beelzebub, Esq., Mr. Copperhead Democracy and Miss Rattlesnake Slavery, both of the United States.
The First Born-Born in the summer of 1856, Lecompton Border Ruffian, son of Mr. Copperhead Democracy. This unsightly child, born six months after the above marriage, after a few months of sickly existence, died from a peculiar disease called Free State.
Second Born-Born at Charleston, S. C., in the year of Grace, 1860, Secession Pro-Slavery Rebellion, true son of Mr. C. and Mrs. R. S. Democracy, Dr. Jim Buchanan acting accoucher. This child, which "looks so much like his daddy," is now going on four years old. Its infancy was marked by so much precocity that it was universally believed that it was "too smart to live." Its backbone was lately broken by a fall at Vicksburg; its face horribly burned in the fire at Vicksburg, and one of its feet was amputated at Atlanta. It has been a source of trouble, all its days. Its death, however, is now looked for soon. The "old man," they say, is "raving mad," through fears that his dear son will die. The old lady, also, is in a great "pucker,” and some of her friends have got the sympathetic fits.
Third Born-Born in New York city, in July,1863, Patrick Riot, third son of Mr. C. and Mrs. R. S. Democracy. This monster baby came near being still-born, but by the aid of Dr. Seymour and his "friends" it lived three days.
The fatality which has attended these children shows that no child of these can ever live, and yet they survive long enough to cause great trouble; and so long as the old folks live, there is danger of an "increase in the family." It is proposed, therefore, to behead the old woman to prevent her generating any further trouble, and to hang the old man to prevent him from marrying elsewhere. The people will rejoice, and cry Amen! at the extinction of the whole race.

Young Ladies' Boarding-School.
DIO LEWIS, A. M., M. D., will open a Boarding School at Lexington, Mass., on the first day of October, 1864.
ISAAC N. CARLETON, A. M., for several years teacher of Latin, Greek and Mathematics in Phillips's Academy, Andover, Mass., will be the Resident Principal, and will devote himself wholly to the work of instruction. Mrs. CARLETON, a tried and successful teacher, will instruct in French.
MR.THEODORE D. WELD, for many years Principal of the Eagleswood School in New Jersey, will have charge of an important department.
In all the approved features of the best schools nothing will be wanting, while it is Dr. Lewis's special aim to illustrate the possibilities in the department of physical training.
Parents having daughters of delicate constitutions to educate are invited to send to 
Dr. DIO LEWIS, Lexington, for a Circular.
Lexington, Sept. 8.
