THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 34. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 22, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1646.
Refuge of Oppression. 
<c01>
THE PRESIDENT ON AFRICAN COLONIZATION.
His Address to a Committee of Colored Men.—A Negro Colony recommended in Central America.
WASHINGTON, D. C., August 14.
This afternoon, the President of the United States gave audience to a committee of colored men at the White House. They were introduced by Rev. J. Mitchell, Commissioner of Emigration. E. M. Thomas, the chairman, remarked that they were there by invitation to hear what the Executive had to say to them. Having all been seated, the President, after a few preliminary observations, informed them that a sum of money had been appropriated by Congress, and placed at his, disposal, for the purpose of aiding the colonization in some country of the people, or a portion of them, of African descent, thereby making it his duty, as it had for a long time been his inclination, to favor that cause. And why, he asked, should the people of your race be colonized, and where? Why should they leave this country? This is, perhaps, the first question for proper consideration. You and we are a different race. We have between us a broader difference than exists between almost any other two races. Whether it is right or wrong, I need not discuss, but this physical difference is a great disadvantage to us both, as I think your race suffer very greatly, many of them by living among us, while ours suffer from your presence. In a word, we suffer on each side. If this is admitted, it affords a reason at least why we should be separated. You here are freemen, I suppose? (A Voice—“Yes, sir”) Perhaps you have long been free, or all your lives. Your race are suffering, in my opinion, the greatest wrong inflicted on any people; but even when you cease to be slaves, you are yet far removed from being placed on an equality with the white race. You are cut off from many of the advantages which the other race enjoy. The aspiration of men is to enjoy equality with the best men when free; but on this broad continent, not a single man of your race is made, the equal of a single man of ours. Go where you are treated the best, and the ban is still upon you. I do not propose to discuss this, but to present it as a fact with which we have to deal. I cannot alter it if I would.
It is a fact about which we all think and feel alike—I and you. We look to our condition, owing to the existence of the two races on this continent. I need not recount to you the effects upon white men growing out of the institution of slavery. I believe in its general evil effects on the white race. See our present condition; the country engaged in war; our white men cutting one another’s throats; none knowing how far it will extend. And then consider what we know to be the truth. But for your race among us, there could not be a war, although many men engaged on either side do not care for you one way or the other. Nevertheless, I repeat, without the institution of slavery and the colored race as a basis, the war could not have an existence. It is better for us both, therefore, to be separated. I know that there are free men among you, who, even if they could better their condition, are not as much inclined to go out of the country as those who, being slaves, could obtain their freedom on this condition. I suppose one of the principal difficulties in the way of colonization is, that the free colored man cannot see that his comfort would be advanced by it. You may believe you can live in Washington, or elsewhere in the United States, the remainder of your life, perhaps better than you can in any foreign country; hence you may come to the conclusion that you have nothing to do with the idea of going to a foreign country. This is (I speak in no unkind sense) an extremely selfish view of the case, but you ought to do something to help those who are not so fortunate as yourselves.
There is an unwillingness on the part of your people, harsh as it may be for you free colored people, to remain with us. Now, if you could give a start to the white people, you would open a wide door for many to be made free. We deal with those who are not free at the beginning, and whose intellects are clouded by slavery. We have very poor material to start with. If intelligent colored people, such as are before me, would move in this matter, much might be accomplished. It is exceedingly important that we have men, at the beginning, capable of thinking as white men, and not those who have been systematically oppressed. There is much to encourage you. For the sake of your race, you should sacrifice something of your present comfort, for the purpose of being as grand in that respect as the white people. It is a cheering thought throughout life, that something can be done to ameliorate the condition of those who have been subject to the hard usages of the world. It is difficult to make a man miserable, while he feels he is worthy of himself, and claims kindred to the great God who made him. In the American revolutionary war, Sacrifices were made by men engaged in it, but they were cheered by the future. General Washington himself endured greater physical hardship than if he had remained a British subject; yet he was a happy man, because he was engaged in benefiting his race—something for the children of his neighbors, having none of his own.
The colony of Liberia has been in existence a long time. In a certain sense, it is a success. The old President of Liberia, Roberts, has just been with me—the first time I ever saw him. He says they have within the bounds of that colony between 300,000, and 400,000 people, or more than in some of our old States, such as Rhode Island and Delaware, or in some of our newer States, and less than in some of our larger ones. They are not all American colonists or their descendants. Something less than 12,000 have been sent thither from this country. Many of the original settlers have died; yet, like people elsewhere, their offspring out-numbers those deceased. The question is, if the colored people are persuaded to go anywhere, why not there? One reason for an unwillingness to do so is that some of you would rather remain within react of the country of your nativity. I do not know how much attachment you may have toward our race. It does not strike me that you have the greatest reason to love them, but still you are attached to them, at all events. The place I am thinking about having for a colony is Central America. It is nearer us than Liberia—not much more than one-fourth as far as Liberia—and within seven day’s run by steamers. Unlike Liberia, it is on a great line of travel—it is a highway. The country is a very excellent one for any people, and with great natural resources and advantages, and especially because of the similarity of climate with your native land, is better suited to your physical condition. The particular place I have in view is to be a great highway from the Atlantic or Caribbean sea to the Pacific ocean. And this particular place has all the advantages for a Colony. On 
<c02>
both sides, there are harbors among the first in the, world. Again, there is evidence of very rich coal mines. A certain amount of coal is valuable in any country, and there may be more than enough for the wants of the country. Why I attach so much importance to coal is, it will afford an opportunity to the inhabitants for immediate employment, until they get ready to settle permanently in their homes. If you take colonists where there is no good landing, there is a bad show, and so where there is nothing to cultivate, and of which to make a farm; but if something is started, so that you can get your daily bread as soon as you reach there, it is a great advantage. Coal land is the best thing I know of with which to commence an enterprise.
To return. You have been talked to upon this subject, and told that a speculation is intended by gentlemen who have an interest in the country, including the coal mines. We have been mistaken all our lives, if we do not know that whites as well as blacks look to their self-interest, unless among those deficient in intellect. Everybody you trade with makes something. You meet with these things here and elsewhere. If such persons have what will be an advantage to them, the question is, whether it cannot be made of advantage to you. You are intelligent, and know that success does not as much depend on external help as on self-reliance. Much, therefore, depends upon yourselves. As to the coal mines, I think I see the means available for your self-reliance. I shall, if I get a sufficient number of you engaged, have provisions made that you shall not be wronged.
If you will engage in the enterprise, I will spend some of the money entrusted to me. I am not sure you will succeed. The Government may lose the money, but we cannot succeed unless we try; but we think with care we can succeed. The political affairs in Central America are not in quite as satisfactory a condition as I wish. There are contending factions in that quarter; but all the factions agreed alike on the subject of colonization, and want it, and are more generous than we are here. To your colored race they have no objection. Besides, I would endeavor to have you made equals, and have the best assurance that you should be the equals of the best.
The practical thing I want to ascertain is, whether I can get a number of able-bodied men, with their wives and children, who are willing to go when I present evidence of encouragement and protection. Could I get a number of tolerably intelligent men, with their wives and children, to cut their own fodder, so to speak? Can I have fifty? If I could find twenty-five able-bodied men, with a mixture of women and children—good things in the family relation—I think I could make a respectable commencement. I want you to let me know whether this can be done or not. This is the practical part of my wish to see you. These are subjects of very great importance, worthy of a month’s study, of a speech delivered in an hour. I ask you, then, to consider seriously, not pertaining to yourselves merely, nor for your race and ours for the present time, but as one of the things, if successfully managed, for the good of mankind, not confined to the present generation, but as—
“From age to age descends the lay
To millions yet to be,
Till far its echoes roll away
Into eternity”
The chairman of the delegation briefly replied, that they would hold a consultation, and in a short time give an answer.
The President said, “Take your full time—no hurry at all.”
The delegation then withdrew.

RIGHTS OF WHITE LABOR OVER BLACK.
The historic misfortunes of America commenced when Abolitionism broke the shell; they will not have disappeared until the blind virtue itself, its champions and its objects, be driven from the soil. Our country is now on the verge of lasting ruin, chiefly from mad philanthropy for the African. The greater part in the cause of the accursed rebellion of the South issued directly from it; and when the rebellion is trampled to death in mud and mire, the integrity of the republic will be yet in jeopardy, unless Abolitionism be made to feel its military weight, and unless the black be taken off to the climate intended for him by nature. To expel the negro, and to shut down the race of fanatic men whom he has bewitched, are indispensable remedies for a permanent restoration of the Union. While they are in the land, we shall have tumult and sedition.
After the war—which is the first consequence of Abolitionism—we have already upon us bloody contention between white and black labor—the second issue of that insanity. The North is becoming black with refugee negroes from the South. These <illegible> crowd our cities, and by overstocking the market of labor do incalculable injury to white hands. In Cincinnati, employers along the wharves have taken the negro by the arm, and given him the place of the white man. The result has been a terrible riot. The evil is increasing. Philadelphia, New York, and Boston may soon follow the example of the Western metropolis. In fact, it is a certainty that the exodus of plantation blacks now going on will lead to the most unfortunate excesses in the Northern cities.
What is to be done? That which the State of Illinois has very sagaciously done, namely, made a stringent law forbidding blacks to cross its boundaries. This is pre-eminently just. The negro indeed is unfortunate, and the creature has the common rights of humanity living in his breast: but, in the country of the whites where the labor of the whites has done everything, but his labor nothing, and where the whites find it difficult to earn a subsistence, what -right has the negro either to preference, or to equality, or to admission? When rights collide, it is the stronger that should prevail: for it has the more reason—without which there can be no right—to support it. What has the African done for America? What great or even decent work has his head conceived, or his hands executed? We pity his condition: but it is unjust to put him in the balance with the white laborer. To white toil this nation owes everything; but to black, nothing. Furthermore, there is decided unnaturalness in preferring the negro to the white; therefore has Illinois done a just and prudent piece of legislation. It has saved itself from much tumult, and has done common justice to its own members. 
If the other States of the North be true to themselves and just to their inhabitants, they will imitate Illinois. It is the whites that made and are to perpetuate this nation. The perpetuity of it may be measured by the circumstances of its chief props—its laborers in brain and hand. The condition of the negro—whether he be in dependence or misery—can have no effect whatever on the continuance of the Republic; neither himself nor his children can sever constitute a true part of the State. But such is not the case with the white laborer. He is a citizen. His descendants have the Presidency before
<c03>
them with as much certainty and with greater probability than the descendants of the rich. It is they, more than the offspring of more fortunate parents, that will increase the population and constitute the soldiers and magistrates of America. Now the national value of those descendants greatly depends on the condition of the parent. The better paid he is for his toil, the better the culture he gives his offspring. And the better they are cultured, the better for the future of America. This is incontestable. No one calls it into doubt. So that improving the condition of the white laborer, no matter what the means may be, cannot have bad consequences on the future greatness of the empire.
Will our Northern Legislatures act with just and patriotic wisdom? But we prefer appealing to all the white operatives—the people—the bone and sinew of the nation. This country is theirs exclusively. It will belong exclusively to the generations that succeed them. As they are now, so will those generations be—so will their grand country be in the future. Therefore, by justice, and by patriotism, they have the right and duty to resist this black current that is invading them, for it will injure their condition. So, without violence, down with Abolitionism, and away, from the certainty of injuring the white laborer, with the African!
We counsel no tumult. The black is loaded with misery. But the author of the greatness of the country, he who owns the country, and who perpetuates it best with members, and with brain and muscle, must be preferred to him. As he is treated, so will the country be. Let no man employ a black while he can get a while laborer. He who prefers the black to the white may yet find his own injured by the choice.—Boston (Catholic Irish) Pilot.

LOYAL BLACKS.
We hear a great deal about four million loyal blacks, but hear nothing about millions of staunch servants of the rebels, who refuse all temptations to insurrection, who reject every offer of freedom, and a large part of whom are to-day in very truth the free-will supporters of the rebellion. Take the case of soldiers arriving here in New York as prisoners of war, having black servants with them. The servants are turned adrift at once. Why? Give them their choice, and they would continue to serve their rebel masters. Are they loyal blacks? All this talk about the millions of loyal blacks is pure deception. It is too bald a misstatement to impose even on the enthusiastic men who profess to believe it. If the negro is to be used as a military element in this war, the negro in immense majority would fight for the rebels. No man who knows anything about the South has any doubt of this, and a year and a half of war has given abundant proof of it for all who choose to judge with their eyes open. And the proof that the Abolitionists themselves believe it, will be found in their unwillingness to treat negroes as rebels under any circumstances, and return them as prisoners of war, or hang them as traitors. They prefer to deceive the public into the idea that every negro is a Unionist, and only needs asking to fight for the Union. The whole negro population of the South may be set down as thoroughly attached to the cause their several masters espouse, whatever that is, and it is a trick of Abolitionism, to catch thoughtless people, this notion of calling the slaves loyalists.—New York Journal of Commerce.
THE RECOIL.
There is observable in these days an effect of the abolition movement which does not promise well for the future temporal welfare of the negro. While prosecuting so earnestly their schemes for releasing the Southern negro from the share of toil allotted to him, they have been unmindful that by their exertions a sentiment more than ever hostile to the black race is created in the North. The abolitionist, if possessed of any true philanthropy, would, begin to consider now whether this unfriendly sentiment so rapidly changing from prejudice to positive hate, in its effect upon the free blacks of the North, is not likely to outweigh all the advantages to be derived from an anti-slavery crusade. Not only is the insolence of the free black now becoming more offensive, but the feeling of jealousy which begins to pervade the laboring classes, from the fear of negro competition, forms an element destined to operate henceforth with unwonted power. The abolitionists, apparently, are in this way forging a weapon that may recoil on their own heads with stunning effect, and involve them and the unfortunate objects of their labors in <illegible>.—New York Journal of Commerce.

Selections.
EXTRACTS FROM M. D. CONWAY’S “GOLDEN HOUR,”
We have learned nothing of slavery, if we have not learned this truth, to wit,—THAT SLAVERY HAS NO WILL OF ITS OWN. There has been a delusion in this country, that slavery is a free agent; and when, in Kansas, the ballot of Freedom was responded to by the torch and bowie-knife,—when, in the whole nation, the ballot was replied to by a bomb into Fort Sumter,—we began to awake to the perception that slavery has no free choice. Slavery is more a slave than any man it fetters. It had no choice but to fire on Sumter. Chemistry does not more by fixed laws make a boulder, than by fixed laws slavery hurls it at the head of Wendell Phillips. Slavery is in the coils of Fate, and must, if it exist, obey its own dark laws.
The other day a man—and that is a rarer creature than is generally supposed—stood upon the soil of Virginia. Slavery said, “He is firm, truthful, intelligent,—the gamest man I ever saw,”—then proceeded to hang him. Slavery would have hung him had he been Jesus Christ, because it must.
The common sense of the country has already come to the conclusion that slavery is the cause of the war. But it must be seen that war is the legitimate appendage and weapon of slavery; that slavery is perpetual war; that this war is but the effort to extend slavery’s already existing martial law over the entire government. Only by military power has slavery been retained in this country. In the cities of the North, when its claim to some fugitive was to be asserted, we have seen its martial array; but this was only the cropping out of the constant state of things in the South. Nightly patrols; the punishment of men from the North without process of law; the frequent suppression of the usual laws for reasons of State; the suppression of all discussion concerning slavery; these are possible only where martial law is habitual. The present war is only the extension and exasperation of what" has been all along the method in the war of the strong race against the weak in the South.
It would seem, then, in the light of simple equity, that the natural method of suppressing slavery’s re-
<c04>
bellion would be found in some way of dealing with slavery itself. Nature has the penalties of violating her laws always in the direction of the transgression itself; a fall bruises, putting one’s hand in fire is followed by a burn; and every habitual sin, as licentiousness or drunkenness, is followed by a train of diseases peculiarly its own, and growing out of its own organic character. There is no confusion of penalties; one is not burnt by falling, nor bruised by fire.
This way we have, of seizing the sword on every occasion to punish or meet indiscriminately all attacks, is barbarous. In the laws of this universe, where every sin has its own penalty, the retribution never fails of being effectual. The child which has once put its hand to the fire, never repeats the experiment Nations and men must translate these great laws of Nature, and then their defences will never be of doubtful strength.
The rebellion of slavery should at once have been followed by our only logical reply,—the abolition of slavery.
Suppose that, in reply to that bomb which fell into Fort Sumter, our President had seized the pen, instead of the sword, and written such a proclamation as this:—
“Slavery, from being a domestic institution in certain States, with which the government had nothing to do, having become the common foe of all the States, with which the government has everything to do, it is hereby declared that all the slaves in this country are free, and they are hereby justified in whatever measures they may find necessary to maintain their freedom. Loyal masters are assured that they shall be properly compensated for losses resulting from this decree.”
Every rebel owning a slave, or living within miles of one, would, as by the wand of an enchanter, have remained spell-bound at his fireside, where he ought to be. There could have been no war.
In all the States which have seceded, the gate of liberation has been opened by purblind oppression’s own hand. If, as this government declares, slavery is a State institution, it must, in the eyes of this government, fall when the State government falls. A number of “the weaker brethren” in Congress have raised a cry that this position concedes what the rebels claim, that a State can be wrested from the Union; and Mr. Montgomery Blair has given a blatant assent to that cry. I will not say that these men thus prove themselves unfit to legislate for a nation whose institutions they thus estimate; but if the following statements shall lead any mind to that inference. I shall not complain of being misunderstood.
Where is the court of power in any <illegible> which this government can recognize? Suppose the Governor of any seceded State should claim from Governor Andrew, of Massachusetts, the return of a criminal to that State. Would the Governor, who is bound to return persons accused of crime to the States in which the crimes were committed, return a criminal to Governor Pickens?
Suppose even a loyal Carolinian to claim a negro within our lines at Port Royal, in what court is the case to be decided? There is no court, large or small, in that State, which could be recognized without surrendering the whole case of the United States. Even if the United States had a Commissioner there for the purpose, he cannot even try the case except the claimant bring a certificate of ownership from a loyal court in that State; but where will such a court be found?
This principle would be at once seen if it referred to white-faced minors and apprentices. If a few thousand of these should desert the South for our lines, and the parents and prentice-masters, loyal or rebel, should seek to have them returned, as “owing service” under the laws of their State, would our government treat such State codes as still in existence? Would this government return a few regiments of youths under age, who wished to fight for us, to their parents? Is it not anxious to draw away from rebel lines all of these it can?
It does not follow that the State, as a member of this government, has committed suicide, but only that all it has, by its own separate authority, established, is laid in ruins. The blow aimed by States’ Rights at the authority of the nation strikes to the heart of those very Rights, and those alone; for the crime places the State before the supreme government in the attitude of a criminal, whose allegiance is still perfect, but whose rights are exactly what the supreme tribunal decides them to be.
IN WAR, SLAVERY IS THE STRENGTH OF THE SOUTH. The institution of slavery, which in time of peace is a weakness of the South, is in time of war, and untouched by us, strong enough to equal the numbers and means of the North. It has not yet been sufficiently considered that war and slavery naturally consort; war was the cradle of slavery; the first slaves were war captives. In essence slavery is the imposition of one will on another by physical force; in that alone it differs from spontaneous or free labor. And war is but the acute form of the same disease. Slavery has been a perpetual training for the camp.
Every man who leaves the North for the field of battle is a laborer, and leaves so much derangement in the usual social integrity; some wheel of the machine stops when he goes, and some deprivation ensues; but in the South, the war is the vent of idlers, giving aim to lives hitherto aimless. This military life is a step in advance for the South, which has already displayed energies of which it had not been suspected. The South will not get sick of war so soon as the North, it being quite atwin with its slavery for the South to become formally a military country. Whilst the training of Freedom has led the North every day farther from war, every day of slavery has accustomed the South to it. The North has to go back a hundred years to reach the plane of war; the land of slavery never was beyond it.
In war, all you have added to the world in a century is not only out of place, but in your way; only the coarsest and rudest things avail here, and those who are most at home in the coarsest and rudest forces will, in a conflict of mere brute force, be apt to win. Now here are four millions of slaves working for the South. There being for military purposes corn and pork wanted, and not arts and elegances, all the superiority of intelligent over unintelligent labor ceases. The man who can dig a row of corn or feed swine is equal to the finest mechanic. And since every man who produces a soldier’s ration points the soldier at us, just as the soldier points his gun at us, these four millions of negroes must be counted as our foes, whatever their feeling toward us.
The South is, then, at the start, twelve millions to our eighteen. But of our eighteen the women do not work in the field, and the children go to school, whereas the black women and minors do work in the field,—which, for military force, would make them nearly fifteen millions. Then we must estimate production in its relation to consumption: the black laborer, being fed at less than a third the cost of the corresponding Northern laborer, sustains at least two more soldiers in the field than the Northerner. Thus 
<c05>
does the reign of barbarism reverse all the advantages of free over slave labor. In a conflict of mere brute force, slavery has only to emphasize the old menace, fetter and bowie-knife, to which it is accustomed.

INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE.
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, August 2,1862.
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
SIR,—I beg leave to enclose to you copies of orders and correspondence with General Phelps upon the subject of arming and equipping the negroes. General Phelps, without orders and without my knowledge, has organized five companies of negroes, and the first official information I had of his doings in that behalf was a requisition for arms and equipments for them. It becomes more necessary in my judgment to employ them differently, and I thought by the means I could find employment for all, and not raise the question offensively between General Phelps and myself, until it was settled at Washington, and, therefore, sent the order to employ the negroes without sending an answer to his requisition. But his letter of resignation has left me no choice but to insist that my order should be obeyed. I submit the whole matter to the Department. I need not discuss it. General Shepley, who has been with you, can do it much better than I can. Mr. Roselius, whom I have sent by the Connecticut, can tell you much more fully than it were possible to do in a despatch what has been the effect of the course of General Phelps. An insurrection broke out amongst the negroes a few miles up the river, which caused the women of that neighborhood to apply to an armed boat belonging to us, passing down, for aid, and the incipient revolt was stopped by informing the negroes that we should repel an attack by them upon the women and children. All is for the determination of the Department, to which I shall give the fullest obedience. I have the honor to be your obedient servant, BENJ. F. BUTLER,
Major General Commanding.
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, La., July 30, 1862.
Capt. R. S. Davis, A. A. A. General:
SIR,—I enclose herewith requisitions for arms, accoutrements, clothing, camp and garrison equipage, &c., for three regiments of Africans, which I propose to raise for the defence of this point. The location is swampy and unhealthy, and our men are dying at the rate of two or three a day. The Southern loyalists are willing, as I understand, to furnish their share of the tax for the support of the war: but they should also furnish their quota of men, which they have not thus far done. An opportunity now offers of supplying the deficiency—and it is not safe to neglect opportunities in war. I think that, with the proper facilities, I could raise the three regiments proposed in a short time, without holding out any inducements or offering any reward. I have now upwards of three hundred Africans, organized into five companies, who are all willing and ready to show their devotion to our cause in any way that it may be put to the test. They are willing to submit to anything rather than to slavery. Society in the South seems to be on the point of dissolution, and the best way of preventing the African from becoming instrumental in a general state of anarchy is to enlist him in the cause of the Republic. If we neglect his services, any petty military chieftain, by offering him freedom, can have them for the purposes of robbery and plunder. It is for the interests of the South, as well as for the North, that the African should be permitted to offer his blood for the temple of freedom. Sentiments unworthy of the men of the present day, worthy only of another Cain, could prevent such an offer from being accepted, I would recommend that the cadet graduates of the present year should be sent to South Carolina and this point, to organize and discipline our African levies, and that the more promising non-commissioned officers and privates of the army be appointed as company officers to command them. Prompt and energetic efforts in this, direction would probably accomplish more towards a speedy termination of the war, and an early restoration of peace and amity, than any other course which could be adopted.
I have the honor to remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant.
J. W. PHELPS, Brigadier General.
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, July 31, 1862.
GENERAL,—The General Commanding wishes you to employ the contrabands in and about your camp in cutting down all the trees, &c., between your lines and the lake, and in forming abattis according to the plan agreed upon between you and Lieutenant Weitzel when he visited you sometime since. What wood is not used by you is much needed in this city. For this purpose, I have ordered the Quartermaster to furnish you with axes, and tents for the contrabands to be quartered in. 
By order of Major General BUTLER.
R. S. DAVIS, Captain and A. A. A. G.
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, July 31, 1862.
Capt. R. S. Davis, Acting Assistant Adjutant General:
SIR,—The communication from your office of this date, signed “By order, Major General Butler,” directing me to employ the contrabands in and about my camp in cutting down all the trees between my lines and the lake, &c., has just been received. In reply, I must state that while I am willing to prepare African regiments for the defence of the Government against its assailants, I am not willing to become the mere slave driver which you propose, having no qualifications in that way. I am, therefore, under the necessity of tendering the resignation of my commission as an officer of the army of the United States, and respectfully request a leave of absence until it is accepted in accordance with paragraph 29, page 12, of the General Regulation. While I am writing, at half past eight o’clock P. M., a colored man is brought in by one of the pickets, who has just been wounded in the side by a charge of shot which, he says, was fired at him by one of a party of three hare hunters or guerillas a mile or more from our line of sentinels. As it is some distance from the camp to the lake, the party of woodchoppers which you have directed will probably need a considerable force to guard them against similar attacks.
J. W. PHELPS, Brigadier General.
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, August 2, 1862.
GENERAL,—By the act of Congress, as I understand it, the President of the United States alone has the authority to employ Africans in arms as a part of the military forces of the United States. Every law up to this time, raising volunteer or militia forces, has been opposed to their employment. The President has not as yet indicated his purpose to employ the Africans in arms. The arms, cloth-
<c06>
ing and camp equipage which I have here for the Louisiana Volunteers are, by the letter of the Secretary of War, expressly limited to white soldiers; so that I have no authority to direct them, however much I may desire so to do. I do not think you are empowered to organize into companies negroes, and drill them as a military organization, as I am unexpectedly informed you have done. I cannot sanction this course of action as at present advised, especially when we have need of the services of the blacks who are being sheltered upon the outskirts of your camp, as you will see by the orders for their employment sent you by the Assistant Adjutant General. I will send your application to the President; but, in the meantime, you must desist from the formation of any negro military organization.
BENJ. F. BUTLER, Maj. Gen. Commanding.
Brig. Gen. PHELPS, Commanding forces at Camp Parapet.
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, August 2, 1862.
GENERAL,—I was somewhat surprised to receive your resignation for the reason stated.
When you were put in command at Camp Parapet, I sent Lieut. Weitzel, my chief engineer, to make a reconnoissance of the lines of Carrolton, and I understand it was agreed between you and the engineer that a removal of the wood between Lake Ponchartrain and the right of your intrenchments was a necessary military precaution.
The work could not be done at that time because of the stage of the water and the want of men. But now both water and men concur. You have five hundred Africans organized into companies. You write me this work they are fitted to do. It must either be done by them or my soldiers, now drilled and disciplined. You have said the location is unhealthy to the soldiers; it is not to the negro. Is it not best that these unemployed Africans should do this labor? My attention is especially called to this matter at the present time, because there are reports of demonstrations to be made on your lines by the rebels; and, in my judgment, it is a matter of necessary precaution thus to clear the right of your line, so that you can receive the proper aid from the gunboats on the lake, besides preventing the enemy from having cover. To do this the negroes ought to be employed, and in so employing them I see no evidence of slave driving or employing you as a slave driver. The soldiers of the Army of the Potomac did this very thing last summer, in front of Arlington Heights. Are the negroes any better than they? Because of an order to do this necessary thing, to protect your front, threatened by the enemy you tender your resignation, and ask immediate leave of absence. I assure you I did not expect this, either from your courage, your patriotism, or your good sense. To resign in face of an enemy has not been the highest plaudit to a soldier, especially when the reason assigned is that he is ordered to do that which a recent act of Congress has especially authorized a commander to do—i.e., employ the African to do the necessary work about a camp or upon a fortification. General, your resignation will not be accepted by me; leave of absence will not be granted, and you will see to it that my orders, thus necessary for the defence of the city, are faithfully and diligently executed, upon the responsibility that a soldier in the field owes to his superior. I will see that all proper requisitions for the food, shelter and clothing of these negroes at work are at once filled by the proper department. You will also send out a proper guard to protect the laborers against the guerilla force, if any there may be in the neighborhood.
BENJAMIN F. BUTLER,
Major General Commanding.

THE SLAVE-CATCHING BUSINESS LIVELY IN NEW ORLEANS.
SECESSION JAILERS AND UNION PRISONERS—RECRUITING EASY—LYDIA THE SLAVE.
Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.
NEW ORLEANS, July 27, 1862.
The abominations of the slave system are constantly presented to our observation. Every day fugitives arrive from far and near, and seek admission within our lines. Most of these are, of course, rejected. We have neither food nor employment for them. Without exception they all bear testimony to one fact, that the slaves are on very short allowance of food, and that they are overworked and otherwise cruelly treated. Many of them bear the marks of brutal whippings, their backs and limbs lacerated and scarred, or still bleeding. Some of them have heavy iron collars, with long prongs, on their necks. Others have handcuffs on. One old man came in, a few Sabbaths since, with a heavy iron weight and chain on his leg. A boy of about sixteen arrived a few evenings since, with an iron chain connecting his neck and ankle. This morning I got a blacksmith to strike off two iron fetters from the ankles of a slave who had just come in. The ugly shackles now hang up over my writing-desk, with the iron handcuffs which he had succeeded in getting off from his wrists.
Few, however, of these runaways are so fortunate as to be retained within our lines. In fact, very few of them reach us at all. Policemen, appointed or confirmed in previous appointments, by the United States Military authorities, swarm in the streets, and pounce upon the black victim before he has an opportunity to tell his tale of distress. Our daily papers abound with advertisements of rewards offered for the apprehension of runaways, and the police drive a very flourishing business as slave catchers. Is not this a shame that the agents and employees of the Great Republic should be engaged constantly in the business of slave-hounds? But this is not all.
The jails are filled with runaway negroes, whose only crime is that they have tried to get their freedom by coming to the Yankees. Keepers of these jails are, some of them, bitter secessionists, as those Union soldiers are made to feel, who are so unfortunate as to get committed to prison. The same prison-keepers, as when our captive Union soldiers were months ago incarcerated here, retain their office by permission of the Union authorities. One of the most prominent jailers advertises in one of our dailies—the only Union paper here—that he will whip slaves as heretofore in accordance with the law of Louisiana, and by permission of proper authorities. So if any master or mistress wants a slave whipped, yonder is the licensed flogger, and it is only necessary to take the slave there, or send him or her with a note, specifying the number of lashes to be laid on! No questions are asked, but the public whipper applies the slave-whip to the naked body, and all according to law!
I said we were obliged to reject the negroes that come here. It often seems cruel, and costs bitter pangs, to turn over to the mercies of the New Orleans police and the brutal jailer, the scarred, worn and hungry fugitive, who has made his way for scores of miles to our quarters in hope of liberty,
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and who is able and anxious to do manful service in fighting for the Union Usually, within a few hours of the arrival of the black Union fugitive, comes the white rebel overseer or master He pays the official, badge-wearing Iscariot, who performs the bloodhound’s task, and the slave is hurried back to the tender mercies of the plantation slave-pen, the stocks, the savage raw-hide, the pistol of the traitor master, where no law now prevails or is executed but the rebel owner’s despotic and irresponsible will! The old man who came here some three or four Sundays since, with the iron weight and chain attached to his leg, is reported on pretty good authority to have been killed by his master, soon after having been turned out of our quarters.
Does the United States want recruits? It can have them by the thousand in this city at twenty-four hours’ notice Let the word go out that every able-bodied man of any color will be received as a soldier, and I verily believe a regiment of excellent recruits could be raised in three hours Tough, strong, acclimated, accustomed to scanty clothing and fare, they would also possess a stimulus to exertion which the white soldier does not I mean the hope of liberty, which in all ages has been the chief inspiration of the brave in their most heroic struggles Add to this still another motive, which the white soldier has not, the knowledge that if defeated and captured horrible scourging and barbarities will be inflicted on them by their masters I believe that under such impulses the black soldiers, half of whom have white blood in them, would fight desperately Many of them are of gigantic size Many years of oppression and wrong rankle in their memories, and goad them on Try them!
Louisiana would furnish ten regiments of hardy recruits in as many weeks, if Gen Butler would call for them Why, the rebels had regiments of blacks partly drilled in this city One regiment was armed, and pikes of three or four different kinds and rough "negro swords" were being manufactured for the others There need be no decree of emancipation for the slaves of rebels; but let the commanding general invite all able-bodied men, of whatever complexion, to enlist, with a promise of protection, pay, food, and clothing From the innumerable applicants there could be selected a body of soldiers that could be made by drilling superior, physically, to any corps in the world As a Union slaveholder, who stands all alone nearly in this city, remarked to a lieutenant here last evening: "They say the slaves won’t fight; but you give them a chance, and you’ll find they’ll make splendid soldiers."
Nothing would so paralyze the rebellion as the sudden withdrawal of the able-bodied slaves from every rebel plantation and family Everywhere within a score of miles of any body of our troops, there would be this stampede Everywhere terror and insecurity would paralyze the operations of Southern men and Southern armies They would require at least one able-bodied white man to watch every two or three blacks The labor that feeds, clothes, supports and makes comfortable the Southern armies, would be withdrawn from them, and be given to our Union armies Let us have these stout, enduring sons of toil, to dig, wash, carry, serve, and fight Why not?
We need not fear that the enfranchised slaves would commit excesses They would be subject to military discipline Any guerilla warfare, any "fighting on their own hook," would be sternly suppressed by our commanders San Domingo insurrections and massacres are indeed to be feared, but not from the policy which is here proposed In our armies, under our officers, the blacks would be completely subject to our control But if the contrary policy is to continue, if slaves are to be half starved, and treated with unusual severity, as they now are in consequence of the proximity of Northern armies and the rigors of an ever-tightening blockade, we may well look for savage insurrection and slaughter
God grant that President Lincoln, before it is too late, may strike this monster of secession in this vital part, and save the effusion of rivers of blood; at once preventing slave insurrections and crushing rebellion! 
NEW CUSTOM HOUSE, July 28, 1862.
P S.- At about 71/4 o’clock this A.M., I was requested by several persons, among others Capt H L Bidwell, to go to the door of the Custom House, on Canal street, and see a black woman whose master was trying to get her away from our lines I was told he was a Rebel, and the builder of the famous iron gun-boat "Manassas," and that the woman had been ordered by her mistress, in the following language: "You put out, and go to Old Butler I can get white servants enough”. Coming to the <illegible> who was seated near the front entrance, surrounded by a crowd of persons, white and black, I heard one of the white men asking her whether she had rather go to prison or back to her master She was sitting with a child of a few months’ of age in her arms, and crying She made no reply I asked which the master was He was pointed out to me His name is John Stephenson, and he lives in Carondelet street I asked him if he was the builder of the "boat. " He said ", "Yes" The following conversation, substantially, ensued:-
"Have you taken the oath of allegiance?"
"No."
"You had better take it before you undertake to get this woman back."
"Perhaps I shall take it, and perhaps not."
"You have no right to take this woman by force."
"I don’t propose to take her by force."
"If she wants to go, she of course can go; but you have no right to use force or violence, or to disturb the peace."
"I am not going to use force I wish to take her peaceably home, or to jail."
"She is a Unionist You are an avowed Rebel She has fully as much right to use force on you as you on her She has just as much right to take you to jail as you to take her, for all I can see."
"That’s new law."
"That’s military law You must not break the peace, nor make any disturbance within the United States lines Be very careful, sir, how you conduct yourself within our lines."
"I have not come within your lines."
"This city is within our lines You had better take the oath of allegiance What right have you, a Rebel, to seize a Union woman and carry her off?"
"I have a right according to law to take my slave."
"You are the builder of a Rebel gunboat, and you have not yet taken the oath of allegiance You had better 'skedaddle.'"
"It was not a Rebel boat It was a private boat"
"A private boat! What did you build your private boat for?"
"I built it to defend this river and city."
"To defend this river and city against whom? Against the United States?"
"Yes, sir, against the United States."
"This city and river-property which the United States bought and paid for. You are what I call a Rebel, and your boat was a Rebel boat."
"I don’t wish to enter into that question I only want my slave according to law."
"You must not use the slightest force or violence No one has a right to use force or violence to remove her, but the United States authorities She has just as much right here as you It’s rather cool in you, the builder of a Rebel gunboat to keep the United States forces out of this city, to come here after her, refusing to take the oath of allegiance It’s not according to our law to deliver her up to you."
"Your law! I should like to know if you made that law."
"Yes, sir; we made that law This city is under martial law You must not molest this woman here without permission from the United States authorities She has a right to stay here until they remove her."
Quite a large crowd of blacks and whites having collected, I ordered them to disperse, which they did!
The woman told me her name was Lydia; that her mistress had repeatedly ordered her to "put off and go to Old Butler," and she at last took her at her word; that her mistress was accustomed to "damn" Gen Butler, using a good deal of profane language, and to say "I should like to smack his damned old face," (meaning not to kiss, but strike him,) &c.; that she has been called a first-rate housekeeper, washer, and ironer, and is ready to do anything, and "work her fingers off," if she can only be saved from going back to her mistress; that her master treats her much better than her mistress, who frequently beats her with her fists and hands, &c.
The woman remains now (8 o'clock A M.) in front of the Custom House Says she wants to see Gen Butler 
P S 2, July 28, 3 P M.-The contraband "Lydia" has just been turned away from the Custom House, and will probably be lodged in jail, and whipped as a runaway before night Pray how long shall these odious State laws be allowed to override justice, and that too in the very presence of martial law, and in the midst of our New England armies?
<c02>
INCIDENTS IN NEW ORLEANS.
We have received some interesting private letters from New Orleans, not suitable for publication, narrating many incidents of the emancipation of slaves by the military authorities, but also many counter incidents of the return of the fugitives to their owners Some of the owners take the oath of loyalty, while others are not asked to take the oath, and are strongly suspected of being rebels Gen Butler is not thoroughly and heartily for freedom, but Gen Phelps, his second in command, is a true friend of the oppressed, and seeks in every case to do justice to the slave.
A correspondent says: "I could tell you of women cruelly beaten, who, failing to rescue their children, came without them, for protection; of a girl with a gashed arm who had been brutally kicked by a negro at the bidding of her master; of a woman who came with an iron yoke about her neck, with head-pieces to fit close to the side of the head; of a young mother who, with a babe of lighter complexion, was marched off from before our lines between two men."
Will it sound well in Massachusetts ears, in view of such facts as these, to learn that General Butler is eloquently commended in the Picayune for his readiness to return fugitive slaves? His conduct is creating disaffection in some of the regiments. We are informed of some indignant protests from New England soldiers, who say, "We did not enlist for slave-catching."
A young man nearly white-an octoroon-applied for a musket to serve in the ranks He came near being enlisted, but was refused as soon as it was known that his veins had a dash of the tainted blood His father, an elegant gentleman of the city, and now an officer in the rebel army, who always treated the son cruelly, will thus be saved from a musket which was meant to be pointed with deadly aim at his head.-N Y Independent.

PERSECUTION AT F0RTRESS MUNROE.
FORTRESS MUNROE, Aug 8, 1862.
To the Editors of the Independent:
Have you room for a few words about the sorrows and sufferings of the colored people in this Military District? Few of your readers have any idea of them.
Gen Wool instituted a plan to provide labor for the "contrabands," and secure for them justice and protection In spite, however, of his utmost efforts, his plans were thwarted, and their beneficial tendencies prevented by the determined resistance of under-officials His successor, Gen Dix, has avowed his approval of the plans, and his determination to give them full effect; but the change of commanders has been taken advantage of by pro-slavery under-officers to renew the opposition, and hinder every good work undertaken for their benefit Just now they have "come down in great wrath," and I hope it is because their "time is short."
About, a week since, four soldiers went to the house of two colored men, (father and son-in-law.) Two of them seized a colored woman in the front yard, each in turn gratifying his brutal lusts, while the other stood guard with sword and pistol The other two went to the house, one stopping at the door to stand guard The other, after a desperate struggle, succeeded in ravishing a young woman in the house in presence of her father and grandfather The father gave vent to his bitter anguish by an irrepressible groan, when the guard at the door rushed upon him and struck him, and the one outside also came in and threatened his life A neighboring white woman came in, and the brutes, after abusing her with the vilest language, left The grandfather and girl came to us, and told us the sad story of their wrongs, and we laid it before Gen Dix; but there were then some fifteen thousand soldiers at Newport News, where these came from, and the villains were not found.
Two days ago, while we were seated at dinner, a light-colored woman, almost frantic, rushed in, and besought us to save her husband from being carried violently away A large number of others soon flocked to the office of the "Superintendent of Contrabands," with the same sad story and plea A squad of cavalry from Newport News had come down to Hampton, and seized every able-bodied colored man they could find, bond or free, and carried them off, to send up to Gen McClellan’s army Probably not far from one hundred were seized within five miles of Hampton In doing this work, the soldiers plundered the shops and persons of their victims, and shot at some who did not promptly yield.
You may imagine the consternation that seized their helpless wives and families. Some of the women were well nigh frantic I hope I may not soon witness another such scene.
The Superintendent of the "contrabands" and I laid the matter before Gen Dix who was as much surprised as we were He immediately ordered a stop to the proceedings, and an investigation of the facts The victims returned to their homes that night and the next day The quartermaster at Newport News said the soldiers had made a mistake There is ground to suppose that the "mistake" was part of a plan to annoy and distress the people to the utmost extreme If the men behind the curtain can conceal themselves from Gen Dix’s investigations, they may be safe If they cannot, an example will probably be made of them The violation of his authority is as manifest as the outrage upon the people These are but instances (among the more outrageous, it is true) of the injuries inflicted upon this people Not a day passes without some of them being plundered; and it is exceedingly difficult to get any redress, through all the forms that must be complied with, and guarded as the passes are by their enemies The general idea is that a colored man’s word no white is bound to respect.

CASSIUS M CLAY ON THE WAR.
Cassius M Clay made a rousing speech on the war, a few days since, at a fair held in the Odd Fellows’ Hall at Washington Here is a sample of it:-
I shall speak with that freedom which becomes the deference I have for those in power, and that regard for truth which I have always secretly maintained First, then, gentlemen, when this rebellion first broke out, and when the blood of American citizens, marching to the defence of their own flag, and of their own capital, was shed by the hands of rebels, and we stood there not knowing what might be done with the President, and the commanders, and others in authority-whether we should not be cut to pieces, as they a thousand times threatened to do-your humble servant addressed you from the balcony of Willard’s Hotel I told you that, for twenty years, I have been warring against this institution of slavery, and to effect its overthrow was willing to sacrifice property, comfort, and even life itself, and that I had always stood by the Constitution, the Union, and the enforcement of the laws (Loud applause.) I never advocated the immediate and unconditional abolition of slavery I wish to deprive no man of that which he regards as property, and as so regarded and protected by the Constitution of the United States But, inasmuch as the slaveholders had refused to submit to the arbitrament which the Constitution had prescribed, and appealed to war measures, I see no principle upon which they can be successfully met, other than in proclaiming, in the language of our fathers once more-and I trust their descendants are not less ready, valiant and just than the men of ‘76-that all men are created equal, and entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness (Prolonged applause.) That was my platform when I spoke at Willard’s-that is it now (Renewed applause.) Well, now, you are going to conquer the South How? by my friend Seward taking dinner and drinks (Laughter and applause.) You are going to conquer the South by taking the sword in one hand, and shackles in the other You are going to conquer the South with one portion of your force, while the other is detailed to guard rebel property You are so magnanimous that you are going to put down this gigantic effort at our national life, in the language of Jim Lane, "By fighting their battles and your own." (Cheers.) How long have you tried it? For nearly eighteen months Some of the best men in the country have gone down to their graves; 250,000 of the loyal troops of the United States have died on the battle-field, or been disabled by sickness How many millions have you expended? Why, a sum rolling up to one thousand millions, almost one-fourth of the national debt of England that has been accumulating for ages, and still you have been carrying on the war upon such principles that you cannot stand upright in the eyes of the world On these principles you never can conquer; and I am told by men high in power
<c03>
that the capital is still in danger Gentlemen, how much longer is this thing to continue? As regards the finances of the country;, I must say, in justice to the Secretary of the Treasury, that, if it had not been for the eminent abilities with which that Department of the Government has been administered, long since you would have come down to the Southern standard of shin-plasters, which no man in any portion of the world, with any common sense, would have taken, except on compulsion Now, gentlemen, I know that there were difficulties in the way, but I think this manner of conducting the war should be changed When I spoke so boldly at Willard’s, some time since, a great many said, "Here is that abolition leader come again to disturb us." (Laughter.) Wait-a-little-doctrine run ripe (Laughter.) People will gradually get ready Well, thank God for once they told the truth The people will be gotten ready, and are now ready when the Government is Fight this war upon the principle of common sense As for myself, never, so help me God, will I draw a sword to keep the chains upon another fellow-being (Tremendous applause.) Suppose, gentlemen, that you succeed upon the present policy, what have you gained? Better recognize the Southern Confederacy at once, and stop this effusion of blood, than to continue in this present ruinous policy, or have even a restoration of the Union as it was Change your policy, and say that you are in earnest Send as an ambassador, me if you will-as much as the slaveholders hate me, and I them-to Jeff Davis with a message, that if he will consent to have the rebels lay down their arms, and come again under the protection of the old flag and Constitution, that protection will be granted to him; but if not, warn him of the consequence, and then go to work in real earnest; and, if necessary, desolate the whole South As regards the disposition of the negro, I am opposed to colonization, because it will be the means of delaying emancipation; in fact, only tending to perpetuate the institution of slavery, by raising the value of the slave.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 22, 1862.
THE PRESIDENT ON AFRICAN COLONIZATION.
A spectacle, as humiliating as it was extraordinary, was presented to all Christendom on the afternoon of the 14th inst in the White House at Washington By special invitation of President Lincoln, a committee of the colored people of that city appeared before him, to listen to a proposition, on his part, for their removal to Central America, under an act of Congress appropriating a sum of money to effect that object His address on the occasion may be found on our first page, in its proper department Can any sensible, humane, upright man read it without a blush, alike for its author, and for the county which he officially represents? Can anything be more puerile, absurd, illogical, impertinent, untimely? "Will it not excite the derision and scorn, if not the astonishment, of all Europe? Look at a few particulars.
1 From an early period, the African slave trade was prosecuted with great activity in various parts of the country, and sanctioned and protected as a legitimate branch of commerce, for twenty years, under the Constitution of the United States The result of it was the burning and destruction of hundreds of African villages, horrible slaughter, and the kidnapping of hundreds of thousands of native Africans, to be transported to these shores, for slave-driving purposes, in the holds of those "floating hells," the piratical slave-vessels used for that diabolical object Of course, vast multitudes of them perished, during "the middle passage," from the suffocating manner in which they were packed Such as survived were doomed to a life of bondage, bitter, excruciating and bloody Had it not been for the cupidity of their white enslavers, not one of their race would now be found upon this continent They came not hither either as intruders or adventurers, but compulsorily as victims The original stock has long since been exhausted; but from it the four millions now held in galling chains have sprung, by natural birth, on the soil which they have reddened with their blood, and many times earned by their unpaid labor They are as much the natives of the country as any of their oppressors Here they were born; here, by every consideration of justice and humanity, they are entitled to live; and here it is for them to die in the course of nature It is as mean, perfidious and brutal an act to conspire for their expatriation, as it would be to seek the expulsion of the fairest of the fair, of Anglo-Saxon origin It is for them to exclaim as proudly and enthusiastically as others-
"Breathes there the man with soul so dead,
Who never to himself hath said,
This is my own, my native land!
Whose heart bath ne’er within him burn'd,
As home his footsteps he hath turned,
From wandering on a foreign strand!
If such there breathe, go, mark him well;
For him no minstrel raptures swell;
High though his titles, proud his name,
Boundless his wealth as wish can claim;
Despite those titles, power, and pelf,
The wretch, concentred all in self,
Living, shall forfeit fair renown,
And, doubly dying, shall go down
To the vile dust from whence he sprung,
Unwept, unhonored, and unsung."
And such are the feelings and sentiments of our colored population, whether bond or free It is impudent mendacity to pretend that this is not their rightful abode, and, consequently, to insist upon their colonization in some foreign region They are not only indigenous to the soil, but adhere to it with a tenacity which no form of persecution has been able to break; and none can show a better right to remain here in the unmolested enjoyment of liberty, and all its blessings As well attempt to roll back Niagara to its source, or to cast the Alleghany mountains into the sea, as to think of driving or enticing them out of the country For more than forty years, the whole proscriptive force of the nation has been brought, through the American Colonization Society, to bear upon such as are nominally free, in order to "get rid of them";"; but, during that long period, at an expenditure of millions of dollars, not more than six or eight thousand have been induced to go to Africa, notwithstanding the crushing disabilities under which they have labored Even Hayti, a republic of their own complexion, offers generous overtures to them in vain, with a few exceptional cases They may possibly be exterminated, but they cannot be coaxed or compelled into banishment.
2 In view of these facts, what could be more undeserved, or what more insulting, than the remark of President Lincoln to the committee whom he was addressing, "But for your race among us, there could not be a war it is better for us both, therefore, to be separated"? Being here as legitimately as the President himself, by the creative power and will of God, what right has he to make that fact the ground of a most serious imputation against them? What have they done to cause the bloody strife which is now raging in the land? Whom have they wronged? what outrage have they committed? whose rights have they sought to overthrow? Surely, they had no hand in plotting treason, bombarding Fort Sumter, perfidiously stealing the public treasure, laying violent hands upon post-offices, custom-houses, mints, arsenals, fortifications, naval ships, and dockyards, and disowning and defying the authority of the Federal Government! Why seek their banishment, and not that of the traitors? As well pretend that, but for the money in the pocket of the unsuspecting traveller, there would have been no highway robbery; and, therefore, to end such violence, he ought to divest himself of the tempting treasure, and travel no more! But it is not simply a complexional difference that is the exciting cause of social division and popular violence: these also emanate from sentiments, opinions, ideas and measures, which are regarded as fanatical and dangerous because of all-abounding corruption, though truly reformatory in their spirit and tendency.
<c04>
Hence, for the sake of the general tranquillity, all dissenters from established usages should be persuaded or made to leave the country; else they will cause a great deal of disturbance Such was the case with the old prophets; with Jesus and his apostles; with Luther, and Huss, and Fox, and Wesley, and their "exciting" associates And should such, on being pressed to depart, "come to the conclusion that they have nothing to do with the idea of going to a foreign country," Abraham Lincoln being judge, "it will be taking an extremely selfish view of the case"! Just God!. what but the meanest selfishness stimulates the scheme for the removal of millions of native-born Americans to another land, solely because of the color of their skin! And what a vulgar conception it is to say of those who, natives of the soil, and loving their country as intensely as the most impassioned, choose not to exile themselves abroad for the gratification of their shameless persecutors, that they evince a selfish spirit! The very reverse of this is the truth: by maintaining their ground, hopefully and firmly, but without vindictiveness, in the midst of grinding oppression and brutal ostracism, they manifest the true martyr-spirit which constitutes the redeeming power of the world, and makes saints and heroes; and incontestably prove their fitness, as well as their natural right, to occupy the soil upon which they stand But there is evidently nothing in the breast of President Lincoln to appreciate this independent, liberty-loving, indomitable will His education (?) with and among "the white trash" of Kentucky was most unfortunate for his moral development; so that there seems to be nothing elevated and noble in his character Had there been, he would sooner have had the earth opened and swallowed him up, than to have made the preposterous speech he did at the White House.
3 Here is a country whose domains extend from the Atlantic to the Pacific, covering an area of millions of square miles, and sufficiently capacious to contain the present population of the globe It proudly boasts of being the refuge of the oppressed of all nations, millions of whom have already come from the old world, and millions more are coming; for there is "ample room and verge enough" for all How despicable, then, as well as ridiculous, is the effort of President Lincoln to procure the transportation of the entire colored population, as fast as practicable, (for that is what he means,) to a distant shore, on the ground that they are "a different race"! A different race?
"Skins may differ, but affection
Dwells in white and black the same."
Are they not human, and is it not true that "God hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on all the face of the earth"? A different race? What!
"Does then th’ immortal principle within,
Change with the casual color of the skin?
Does matter govern spirit? or is mind
Degraded by the form to which 'tis joined?"
They no more differ from the President and his family, than do these from them; and the obligation to leave the country is no more binding upon the one party than upon the other What if they should propose the banishment of all the Lincolns, on the ground of "race"? Would it not be deemed a very impertinent act on their part? But it would be just as decent as it is for the President to make a similar proposition to them Mark how coolly, and with what utter disregard of all moral duties and relations, he says, "Whether it is right or wrong, I need not discuss"! As if everything did not depend upon the rectitude of the measure! And he coolly adds-"-"This physical difference is a great disadvantage to us both, (!) as I think your race suffer very greatly, many of them by living among us, while ours suffer from your presence (!) In a word, we suffer on each side." What a shocking blunder it was, on the part of the Creator, to make so great a "physical difference" in the workmanship of his hands as to lead to such disagreeable consequences! It was a conceited Castilian, we believe, (of course, he had not sense enough to be impious,) who said, if he had been consulted at the creation of the world, he could have suggested many important improvements Mr Lincoln seems to take the same view of the subject But why does he make complexion a test of fitness for remaining or going? Everybody differs from everybody else in height, bulk and looks; some are very tall and ungainly, some very short and genteel, some handsome and others ugly, some as "thin as a rail," (we intend nothing personal here,) others of monstrous corpulency, and so on through an endless category Is any one of these "physical differences," more than another, a justifiable ground for colonization? The whole thing is supremely ridiculous Besides, there are insuperable difficulties in the way of this sifting process, inasmuch as there are thousands of colored persons who are of the fairest Anglo-Saxon hue, and thousands of white persons who are of a very dark complexion Where shall the line be drawn?
4 "You and we are a different race," says the President; and, therefore, "you" had better be off for Central America! But, for more than a century, this "physical difference" was utterly disregarded by the whites, in their eager prosecution of the African slave trade, who delighted to stock their plantations with undiluted negroes; and so long as the victims were held in bondage, their closest proximity excited no prejudice It is not their color, but their being free, that makes their presence here intolerable For if no such repugnance has been felt to them as degraded and imbruted slaves; if, on the contrary, under Fugitive Slave laws, the entire nation has vigilantly conspired to prevent their escape, under heavy penalties; and if the dainty, chivalric sons of the South have been and continue to be suckled at the breasts of slave mothers, and amalgamation has been universal and continuous, till the original negro complexion has given place, in multitudinous instances, to a predominance of Anglo-Saxon blood; it is certain that there is no natural aversion to a black skin, and that it is nothing but negro "liberty" that is so intolerable at this time.

ENROLMENT OF COLORED CITIZENS.
In response to an inquiry concerning the enrolment of colored citizens under the recent order of Gov Andrew, Attorney General Foster has given his opinion upon the subject, of which the following is the material portion:-
The regulations issued by the War Department for the enrolment and draft of three hundred thousand militia, Aug 9, 1862, contain the following order:-
"Third The Governor of the respective States will cause an enrolment to be made forthwith by the assessors of the several counties, or by any other officers, to be appointed by such Governors, of all able-bodied male citizens between the ages of eighteen and forty-five, within the respective counties, giving the name, age, and occupation of each, together with remarks showing whether he is in the service of the United States, and in what capacity, and any other facts which may determine his exemption from military duty."
It thus appears that all able-bodied male citizens of the respective States are to be enrolled in the militia of the United States, and that Congress and the War Department both leave out the word white from the description of the class to be enrolled, an omission which can hardly be supposed to have been accidental, when it is considered how recently and frequently the subject has been extensively discussed.
The same obedience to constitutional law which required the enlistment to be confined to white citizens while the act of 1792 remained unaltered, now renders in obligatory upon the assessors to enrol all citizens within the prescribed ages, of whatever complexion The authorities of Massachusetts have no more right to diminish its quota of troops, by refusing to enroll black men, than they would have to reduce the age at which the obligation of military service terminates from forty-five to forty years.
The only possible question now open is, whether colored men are citizens of Massachusetts, which no one, I presume, will have the hardihood to deny inasmuch as they are tax payers, voters, jurors, and eligible to office, and there is no inequality founded upon distinction of races known to our laws.
Contumacious and law-disregarding Mayor Wight-man, therefore, must "toe the mark."
<c05>
A HOUSE DIVIDED AGAINST ITSELF.
The United States have long occupied before the world the position of a great nation Those classes in the old world who hate the Democratic theory of government are now comforting themselves with the idea that this nation, having become divided against itself, cannot stand.
The Northern half of this people might be, if it chose, a nation greater than both halves have hitherto been If we had chosen to separate from the South, on the right grounds, and in the right manner, we should have advanced with accelerated speed in the career of greatness, physically relieved and morally strengthened, like the Pilgrim who, in Bunyan’s tale, cast off his burden Instead of following that dictate of wisdom and virtue, we lingered and dallied until we were cast off, until we were contemptuously rejected as a burden and a nuisance This would have been a blessing and a benefit, had we known how to meet it aright If we have not virtue and self-respect enough spontaneously to leave bad company, to be kicked out of it is the next best thing that can happen to us But, after being kicked out of it, and kicked out by such people, and for such a reason, to have our desires fixed, and our efforts bent, mainly upon a restoration of the Union as it was, augurs ill for our future prosperity, since it shows us deficient both in wisdom and virtue.
Precisely this is our present position Most of us are resolutely bent on having back the Union as it was; while we are divided against ourselves in regard to the method of meeting the brutality and injustice of our late partner Some of us counsel an acceptance of the known good will, the loyal hearts and strong arms of our black neighbors; others of us scornfully refuse that alliance, in spite of the increasing tokens of our ill-success without it Meantime, our soldiers are dying, our treasury is bleeding, our friends are getting alienated, and our foe is getting encouraged.
Some of us have complained, and most justly, of the President’s course in relation to this matter But the evil lies still deeper The People, who if united would control the President, the People are divided against themselves.
Saddest of all the sad spectacles in this war is the sight of General Hunter’s soldiers, wantonly counteracting the provision made by that intelligent commander for their own relief and welfare, and destroying, at the same time, the experiment most hopeful of any yet tried towards the relief of our national troubles If we have half as much ill-success at Port Royal as before Richmond, those white soldiers who broke up the negro regiments by a systematic course of annoyance and insult may yet be obliged to flee or to surrender for want of that very aid.
The fastidious Brummel said to a stranger who offered the use of his carriage in a sudden storm,-"But where then will you ride?" The favor thus repulsed was not again offered But the wit’s jolly companions, who treated this specimen of his customary arrogance as a capital joke, cared as little when he afterwards died, in utter destitution and wretched ness Nobody can afford systematically to return kindness with insult.
When the managers of the Great Eastern, on her first visit to our shores, asked a dollar for the privilege of inspecting her, and found that the public did not choose to pay that sum, Barnum said to them, "A dead curiosity can never be revived Put the matter into my hands now, before the public disappointment has settled down into indifference, and I will not only guaranty your ship’s expenses, but put plenty of money into your pockets and my own." They refused, and lost their money, as they deserved.
A greater ship, a weightier enterprise, is now in question The Ship of State, the American Union, is in peril Her captain, first trying means so moderate as to excite the derision of his piratical assailants, has made, successively, as greater and greater need appeared, stronger and stronger appeals for help Again and again has he sent a thousand miles off for volunteers, and now he has ordered a draft, among the people remaining at that inconvenient distance Yet, all this time, he has been rejecting the offer of abundance of volunteers, living on the battle-ground, familiar with the country, and acquainted with the movements and resources of the enemy And now the very soldiers who are needing help, and who are about to need it more, drive away with arrogant contempt those who are offering such help Do we suppose that a dead enthusiasm can be revived? Is it safe to go on throwing stones in return for kind offers? If we often repeat, to the negroes, just such brutal treatment as they receive from the slaveholder, can we count, at last, when the need shall be yet greater, upon their siding with us against the slaveholder?-C K W.
It is said that the news of President Lincoln’s first call for the raising of seventy-five thousand men was received by Jeff Davis and his associates with shouts of derisive laughter.
Most of us have little idea how many pamphlets and volumes have appeared in England in regard to the present crisis in this country Many of these authors are in the interest of the Slave Power, some showing all the impudence and mendacity of our own pro-slavery writers, North and South, and some, like Mr Spence of Liverpool, presenting a cool and plausible statement, in which deceit is rather insinuated than asserted.
Among the best of the English books which take part with the North, and show the necessity of a thorough overthrow of slavery to prevent the recurrence of such troubles as we now suffer, is the work of J E Cairnes, M A., Professor of Political Economy in Queen’s College, Galway, and in the University of Dublin This handsome octavo volume, inscribed "To John Stuart Mill, Esq.," is entitled-"The Slave Power: its Character, Career, and probable Designs: being an attempt to explain the real issues involved in the American Contest." The author does explain these important matters with distinguished ability and correctness Being a cool and cautious man, he favors progressive rather than immediate emancipation; but this is from no want of zeal for the complete extirpation of slavery, only from a strong appreciation of the difficulties in the way of so vast a change In passing, he unravels some of the sophistries of Mr. Spence; and he insists strongly on the duty of Europe to render a moral support to the cause of freedom, while abstaining from intervention in the outward struggle.-C K W.
The Unitarian Herald, a paper published weekly at Manchester, England, contains an extended and warmly appreciative notice of the English edition of "Theodore Parker’s Prayers." The critic points out various characteristics of Mr Parker which this book reveals, and dwells with affectionate emphasis upon his constant recognition of the life of God, continually actively operative in nature He finds these prayers not only rich in Bible thought and language, but everywhere animated by the best spirit of the best men of the Bible He commends them to all earnest and devout persons, and hopes that the second edition will be enriched by the excellent portrait of Mr. Parker which accompanies the American edition.-C K W.
THE ATLANTIC FOR SEPTEMBER is received 
The Unitarian Herald, a paper published weekly at Manchester, England, contains an extended and warmly appreciative notice of the English edition of “Theodore Parker’s Prayers.” The critic points out various characteristics of Mr. Parker which this book reveals, and dwells with affectionate emphasis upon his constant recognition of the life of God, continually actively operative in nature. He finds these prayers not only rich in nature. He finds these prayers not only rich in Bible thought and language, but everywhere animated by the best spirit of the best men of the Bible. He commends them to all earnest and devout persons, and hopes that the second edition will be enriched by the excellent portrait of Mr. Parker which accompanies the American edition.-C.K.W.
THE ATLANTIC FOR SEPTEMBER is received.
 The following are the articles: David Gaunt, by the author of "Life in the Iron Mills," Cerebral Dynamics, by Isaac Ray, M D., Superintendent of the Butler Hospital, Providence, R I A new Sculptor, by Mrs Julia Ward Howe Plays and Play-Acting Off shore Life in the Open Air, by the late Theodore Winthrop Rifle Clubs, by H W S Cleveland Two Summers, by Mrs Elizabeth Akers Mr Axtell Methods of Study in Natural History, (illustrated,) by Louis Agassiz Gabriel’s Defeat, by Thomas Wentworth Higginson Bethel, by A J H Duganne The Horrors of San Domingo, by John Weiss The Life of Birds, by Thomas Wentworth Higginson A complaint of Friends, by the author of "My Garden." The New Opposition Party Reviews and Literary Notices.
<c06>
LETTER FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS.
BOSTON, AUGUST 14, 1862
MY DEAR SIR-You inclose me the card of three persons, styling themselves "Directors of the Illinois Central Company," misquoting one of my speeches and stating that they do not know me I presume this is true That I neither claimed their acquaintance, nor quoted their opinions, you will see by the copy of my speech which I enclose Whether these <illegible> agree or disagree with me, in my estimate of General McClellan, as dilatory, and utterly unable to say yes and no, their card does not inform us They carefully avoid giving any opinion on this, the main point concerned It is, however, of no consequence, as my statement rests on sufficient authority, fully as <illegible> worthy, to say the least, as any they could furnish.
With thanks for your courtesy,
Truly yours,
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
S C CLARKE, Esq., Chicago.
ANXIOUS FOR CONVICTION.
The telling speech of Mr Phillips at <illegible> is not, it would seem, to be lost, as a pretext on the <illegible> of malignant and hunkerish editors to call out the hatred of pro-slavery toward Abolitionists In <illegible> breath we are told that our little, despised <illegible> is of no mortal account, and in the next, words of <illegible> and bitterness are sent forth to neutralize the influence exerted-by words spoken and written Have it as you please, gentlemen! for whether you <illegible> or keep silent, the work of excoriation must <illegible > on while wrong and sin exist, especially the <illegible> sin of American slavery.
It seems some very sensitive gentlemen, connected with the Illinois and Central Railroad, have published a card denying a criticism made by Mr Phillips is respect to Mr Lincoln and McClellan’s want of back-bone sufficient to say "no." An apt and ample <illegible> to this sensitiveness, I clip from a correspondence in last week’s Chicago Tribune, a very able and <illegible> promising paper:-
WENDELL PHILLIPS AND THE ILLINOIS <illegible> RAILROAD DIRECTORS.
Editors Chicago Tribune:
After the effort of W H Osborn, J M <illegible> and W R Arthur, to convict Wendell Phillips <illegible> falsehood, let us see what it all amounts to <illegible> Phillips's speech, as reported, he said: "I asked <illegible> lawyers among whom Lincoln had practices what kind of a man he was? Could he say <illegible> They replied,' "He has no backbone.'" <illegible> Douglas and Arthur, in their note to the public <illegible, that, indirectly, this means them After <illegible> on what Mr Phillips said, or is reported to have said about McClellan’s ability to say no, they go on to say "Indirectly, similar remarks are attributed to us relation also to the President." How <illegible> you, gentlemen? Unless any and all <illegible > mankind generally, mean the Directors of the <illegible> Central Railroad You seem to so measure your <illegible> importance: and why not, if the expression, <illegible> lawyers," means the president and general <illegible> superintendent of a railroad company?
Now as to McClellan Nowhere in Mr Phillips speech does he mention the names of either <illegible> Douglas or Arthur, and probably is so unfortunate <illegible> never to have heard of them He is giving a <illegible> that commenced with "Illinois lawyers," <illegible> says, "I asked." Asked who? Three or four <illegible> back, he represents himself as talking with <illegible> lawyers "I asked,' ‘Is McClellan a man who <illegible> say no?'"’" The management of Illinois Central <illegible> "He never decides," &c Now, Douglas,<illegible> born and Arthur say this means that Mr Phillips talked with them, and they so replied Remember that Mr Phillips gives all this as a conversation <illegible> "Illinois lawyers," and no one else.
Suppose Mr Phillips had asked Illinois lawyers George Smith was a good banker, and they <illegible> "The management of the Bank of America <illegible> yes," would that mean that E W Willard, the <illegible> ager, had told Mr Phillips so? Mr Phillips <illegible > say that the managers of the Illinois Central <illegible> How common a form of expression to say that the management of any enterprise by A speaks or <illegible> well or ill for him! It is asked, is Erastus <illegible> good railroad man? Some one says, "The <illegible> of the New York Central Railroad answers <illegible> That is, the way he has managed that road <illegible> speaks conclusively on that subject; and would <illegible> claimed that the managers personally said this <illegible> the "management" of the road was spoken of <illegible> were not the managers of the road, but "lawyers" At any rate, Mr Phillips nowhere says that <illegible> Osborn or Arthur made any remarks to him <illegible> body, clearly the "Illinois lawyers.''
One of these three gentlemen is a lawyer, <illegible> good one We ask him to look again, and careful at the speech These gentlemen say they do <illegible> know Mr Phillips, and have never talked with <illegible> Is he not aware of that fact, and does he not also <illegible> that his speeches go through the length of the <illegible > And he certainly could not expect that those in <illegible> of the Illinois Central would forego the pleasure <illegible> in proving him a liar.
As indicative of his meaning, can it be <illegible> that, a total stranger to these three gentlemen, <illegible> would publish remarks as coming from them <illegible>, he knew would be read in Chicago in two days, <illegible> in fact he had never conversed with one of them.!
This important correspondence is published in the Journal, and thereupon it says, "Shame on them Good for the Journal It always says "shame, <illegible> shame," and not often anything else Its <illegible> repository is a curious compound of worn-out executives and diluted neighborhood moralities.
Well, Messrs Osborn, Douglas and Arthur, it is <illegible> very little consequence what you said to Mr Phillips or whether you said anything to him Just now <illegible > country is interested, not in what is said about McClellan, but what is the fact about him Inasmuch <illegible> as you thought it worth while to publish a <illegible> at all on the subject, why could you not <illegible > what qualities McClellan did exhibit in the share <illegible > took in managing the Illinois Central Railroad! <illegible> tell us a good deal about Mr Phillips, whom you <illegible> you never saw, but nothing about McClellan, <illegible> you know very well You content yourselves <illegible> saying that you did not inform Phillips that McClellan could not say "no"; there you stop, and <illegible> a prudent silence about the qualities of your <illegible> friend, the attachment to whom called you into <illegible> public prints.
McClellan is in a time which calls-if ever <illegible> called-for high qualities, and it is to be hoped <illegible> all his friends claim If so, Mr Phillips ought <illegible> attack him; but above all, gentlemen, as you are <illegible> friends, do not be provoked into writing on his behalf another such note as that of Saturday last.
<illegible>
Thus, the reader will perceive, there has been much ado about nothing These gentlemen were quite too ready to deny that which was never changes at least upon them We have heard before of <illegible> who "ran before they were sent." G W S.

THE ISSUE.
"The issue before the nation to-day is, which <illegible> prevail-the idea and fact of slavery, or the idea and fact of freedom; freedom exclusive and universal <illegible> slavery exclusive and universal The question <illegible> not merely, shall the African be bond or free! but shall America be a democracy or a despotism?"
Theodore Parker thus spoke in 1854 More <illegible> thus speak to-day It was true then, it is true to-day as true then as now And it has been as true <illegible> the organization of this government When the antagonistic principles of freedom and slavery were <illegible> grafted into our Constitution, the issue was made up From that time, "the question before the nation" has been, "which shall prevail?" But the nation <illegible> has from the first, refused to recognize that issue <illegible> national administration refuses to recognize it to-day.
William H Seward, a greater traitor to <illegible> than Jeff Davis, is at the head of the Cabinet.
Halleck, who by his "Order No 3" disgraced himself before the world, is General-in-Chief of our enemies.
McClellan is "safe" under the protection of our gun-boats His "strategy" has accomplished <illegible> more for the "Confederacy" than for our Government.
Our noble army could not have been placed in a more "safe" place for the rebels, if Davis had been commander of them.
Fremont has been intentionally driven from his command, and Hunter is neglected Both of their noble proclamations were modified by the President as soon as issued.
Congress, after a long struggle, passed a law authorizing the President to offer freedom to all the slaves of rebels who would work or fight for our government This the President has refused to do He
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
seems to consider it no sin to disobey laws that are for liberty; but he can dismiss the noblest General of the army for going a step beyond the letter of the law in behalf of freedom. Slavery is still the only thing sacred with him. And notwithstanding all this subserviency to the Slave power, and all this infidelity to liberty, many wonder why our armies are not more victorious!
The truth is, we are not entitled to victory. We must first understand “the question before the nation,” and the issue involved, and conduct ourselves accordingly A hundred thousand noble lives have been sacrificed, and hundreds of millions of money spent, and still the rebellion is as formidable as ever. The Government has called for three hundred thousand more men, and they may all be sacrificed, and as many more, unless the issue is recognized by the administration. And this recognition must take place immediately, or it will be too late to save us. It may be too late already. Most of those who have come up to the point of emancipation have only come there as a “military necessity.” Not to save the salve, but themselves. Nothing higher than selfishness has actuated them.
As yet, neither the people, Congress nor the administration have shown any signs of a genuine repentance for the crime of slavery. Still we ask God to save our nation from destruction. But the prayer for salvation will never be answered till we repent of our former transgressions 
If this war is waged merely to ascertain which party shall hereafter sustain the institution of slavery, to decide whether the government shall be presided over by men like Davis', Toombs and Floyd, or like Buchanan, Pierce and Polk, as heretofore, then good men can have no interest in the final result, unless it be to see the government utterly destroyed from the face of the earth.
But if the North take issue with the South, and make this a war for freedom on her part; if our armies fight to make this fair land a home for the oppressed of all lands and of all complexions, then the good men, holy angels, and the infinite God himself will be with us, and we shall be entitled to victory, and victory will surely be ours.
Then, though nine out of every ten men shall die on the battle-field, and every dollar of our property shall be expended in the conflict, it will have been a cheap war. For no man, however fruitful his imagination, can form any just appreciation of the value of a government of the extent of ours, with its productive soil and salubrious climate, which is in truth and infact.
“The land of the free, and the home of the brave." 
What a field we should have then for the development of the human race! Free speech from the Lakes to the Gulf; a free press all over the land; the arts and sciences advancing as well South as North; all men allowed to learn the alphabet; and, more than all, each allowed to worship God according to the dictates of his own nature, with none to molest him or make him afraid.
Then true Religion, Temperance her handmaid, and all other reforms, could have free course and be glorified, and we could then justly challenge the admiration of the world.
Syracuse, N. Y. G.

“I AM NOT A RADICAL ABOLITIONIST."
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR-We had a meeting at our Town Hall, a few evenings since, called at short notice, and well attended, to take measures and offer inducements to able-bodied men to come forward, and fill up the decimated ranks of the Vermont regiments now in the field. The meeting was duly organized by calling to the chair James Lovel, Esq., and Mr. Ellis Secretary. After remarks by several gentlemen, my humble self was called to the stand; and having made some remarks not exactly laudatory of President Lincoln and his management of the war, and especially the slavery question, when I had closed, the Chairman rose and made an apology to the audience for suffering me to proceed, on account of my age. Thus, for once, old age saved me from the gag. The next speaker called was the Rev. Mr. Bicknell, a highly esteemed gentleman of the Baptist denomination, who, seeing the fate that I had escaped under the cover of gray hairs, commenced his address with the declaration at the head of this article, “I am not a radical Abolitionist"-a declaration so unlooked for from a man who has passed for an Anti-Slavery advocate, it still rings in my ears. The nation brought to death’s door by slavery, and not yet a radical Abolitionist! One hundred thousand men sacrificed to the Moloch of Slavery, and a thousand million of treasure squandered, and not a radical Abolitionist yet! During that meeting, except from my own lips, not a word of sympathy was uttered for four millions of bondmen agonizing for that liberty which God gave and not man, as no other people ever did' O, if the heavens were ever hung in blackness because of the wickedness and folly of man, they should be now! Like priest like people is seen every where; and if the ministers of every denomination had denounced slavery with a clarion voice, instead of fostering it by apologies, silence, or “South-side views," it would have been to-day among the things that were. Or, even if politicians had levelled their artillery against it, as they always have in its favor, it had long since been wiped out
It is lamentable to witness the anti-slavery sentiment of the country exactly in inverse proportion to the success of our arms. The disaster at Bull Run brought out the Confiscation Act of 6th of August, 1861,-a specimen of human folly which would disgrace an assembly of Hottentots,-and the first man. , Fremont, who attempted to carry it out in its letter, or anything like it, was sacrificed; and the statute, if the-breath of life was ever in it, was a dead letter. A series of successes on the Mississippi, and we forgot our bondmen and lost our anti-slavery, just as the butler forgot Joseph; and Congress labored three months, and labored in vain, to pass a more stringent confiscation act. Next comes McClellan's strategetic movement from Richmond, a new-fangled name for defeat, and the late confiscation act is born in a day; and although in its provisions better than the first: , if reports be true, as little likely to be executed by the President or his subordinates as the first. Even this contemplates the continuance of slavery, as it liberates only the slaves of rebels. I venture the assertion, that if every rebels was brought into court to-day on slaveholding territory, and all the angles of heaven should testify to their guilt, not one of them would be convicted. The salvation of the Union is at stake. Its importance can never be overrated, but .But rather than see it restored with slavery, let it be broken into as many fragments as ever a forest oak was shivered by a thunderbolt.
The destiny of the nation is virtually in the hands of the President. The crisis is fearful; and while he remains halting between the counsels of the Holts and the Crittendens on the one side, and the Sumners, Lovejoys, Hales and Julians on the other,-halting between liberty and slavery,-France and England may turn the scale in favor of cotton and slavery, and the free States, once more under the heel of the chivalry, may bid a final and eternal farewell to free institutions!
With these few thoughts hastily thrown together, I subscribe myself
A RADICAL ABOLITIONIST. 
Springfield, Vt., August 15, 1862.
Such was the demand for the Liberator of August 8th, containing the speech of Wendell Phillips at Abington, at the celebration of West India Emancipation, that we have exhausted every copy,-, and are in need of some copies for our files, &c. Those of our subscribers who do not file their numbers, and will send us that particular one, directed" “Liberator, Boston, Mass.," will confer a special favor. It is edifying to perceive how that speech of Mr. Phillips has set on fire the “patriotism “ of all the satanic, pro-slavery, sham loyal journals at the North!
<c02>
HANNAH WEBB.
GLOUCESTER, August 17,1862.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND,-I cannot express to you the feelings with which I read the obituary of our friend, HANNAH WEBB, of Dublin, extracted from the Anti-Slavery Advocate of London, into the Liberator of the 15th. Some of the most cherished and instructive memories of my life are associated with that pure, great-hearted, large-souled woman.
Thursday, October 27th, 1842, I landed in Dublin, after twenty-six days of unintermitting sea-sickness between New York and Liverpool, and between Liverpool and Dublin. I was a stranger in a strange land, and utterly prostrated. I was most kindly and hospitably welcomed to the home of Richard D. and Hannah Webb; and, until the 30th of January, 1843, I was under the nursing care of the latter.
I was in Europe, lecturing and traveling five years, during which time, the home of Hannah and Richard was my home-the center of my life, as it was of theirs. I did much printing while in that kingdom, and it was mostly done by Richard; and all was subjected to the strong judgment, the good sense, and correct taste of his wife. I came to feel, as all her associates and acquaintances did, most reluctant to differ with her on any subject, whether of domestic duty and economy, of social propriety and obligation, or of moral principle and action. I never met the human being, to whose instincts, conscience, reason, sympathy, good taste, intellectual acumen and discernment, and moral discrimination, I so naturally, and, as it were, necessarily deferred, as I did to hers. And this, so far as five years’ observation and experience confirm, might be said by all who were associated with her, or came under her influence in any department of life.
In regard to her own interior and exterior life, no judge could be more severe and exacting; she being the most sensitive to what she considered the least deviation from her own recognized standard of justice and right. She could find and offer no excuses for herself; but she was never without kindly apologies for the misdirection’s of others. Hers was a love that was keenly alive to any “extenuating circumstance”; and often have I heard her say, as she said in a letter to me while at Graefenberg, "If we only knew everything, we should seldom blame anybody severely." Never have I seen more perfectly embodied in human form the spirit manifested by the martyr of Calvary, when he said of his murderers, “Father, forgive them: they know not what they do." 
Hers was a love for all of human kind-that “think eth and doeth no evil-that is all-hoping, all-confiding, all-enduring"-a love, also, that “seeketh not its own." Self-forgetfulness-self-sacrifice.-was the one ruling element of her nature, the one controlling trait of her character. In her relations as a wife, a mother, or a friend, if sacrifices were to be made, whether in things small or great, she claimed it as her right to make them. Practically, as well as in spirit and theory, she never wounded the body or spirit of another for her own benefit. To conquer hatred by love, unkindness by kindness, cruelty by gentleness, evil with good, seemed but the very breath of her spirit-life. I never saw a more perfect illustration of this great heroic spirit than in the daily and hourly life of our friend. I do not believe a human being ever spoke harshly or unkindly to or of her, without conscious shame and reproach, and loss of self-respect; so true, so just, so earnestly loving and kind was she to all in all relations.
In my private journal-diary rather-extending over five years, are many records of the sayings and doings of that bright, sunny, heroic spirit, illustrative of the most striking and prominent traits of her character. Her life was an ever-present, ever-active sacrifice of self to the good of all around her, an heroic, august martyrdom to beautify and ennoble and make happy the lives of others. Oceans and continents presented no barriers to her sympathy and active goodness. The American slave in his chains and under the bloody slave-driver’s lash, the exiled in Australia, the crushed and cowed victims of power in Hindostan, the sable victims of Anglo Saxon cupidity and cruelty in the wilds of Africa, were objects of her sympathetic regard. Her great, womanly soul, without regard to creed, color, country or condition, embraced the human race in its loving devotion.
Never have I known, in my widely-extended and intimate knowledge of human nature, as made manifest, especially in domestic and social relations, a more perfect and living interpretation of my own conception of God and heaven, as expressed by the favorite follower of the gentle, but majestic martyr of Calvary:-":-” God is love; and he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, and God in him.” No definition of God, I ever saw, seemed to me so intelligible, so practical, so truthful, so adapted to express the presence and glory of the Divine in human relations, and yet so sublime. No heaven ever seemed to me so perfect, so living, and so full of that rest which consists in the most intense and ennobling activity, as that which consists in dwelling in love and in God-in a love and sympathy for all of human kind, and in God as seen and worshipped in living men, women and children. The religion and God of our loved and honored friend were facts, not fictions. She saw and worshipped God in the Living Present, not merely in the Dead Past. She revered man, not his incidents; and tenderly and reverently sought his elevation and happiness, and not the preservation and perpetuity of his mere appendages. Her daily and hourly life and conversation were full of facts to illustrate the truth of these remarks.
“Died at Greenfield, Kilgobbin, County of Dublin, on Wednesday, 16th July, HANNAH WEBB "-&c. No! no!! “Hannah Webb-the beloved and loving” wife of Richard D. Webb-is not dead, nor does she sleep. She has but cast off the outer garment of her being. The physical medium, through which that great, loving, womanly soul was made manifest to the exterior senses of all around her, is dead, and is now returning to its original elements; but the woman, the wife, the mother, the friend, so loved, so cherished, so reverenced in all relations, is not dead. I enter the presence of her husband and her children; I see not her bright, sunny face, with material eyes; I hear not her tones of affection and words of power; nor am I conscious of her corporeal presence; but “I cannot make her dead.” I am conscious of her presence, as a living, loving, thinking, social being, perfectly understanding and sympathizing with the loved ones with whom her existence and destiny will ever be blended. Her immortality, her eternal life, is, with me, a living and a sublime reality-is blended with the daily and hourly life of the loved ones she has left in bodily form in her home. In the great Anti Slavery movement in this land, and in the struggle for liberty, and against slavery in every form, throughout the world, "“I cannot make her dead.” No! Hannah Webb,-the true, loving, devoted wife, the tender, wise, and ever-watchful mother, the all-trusted and ever-sympathizing friend, the world-wide philanthropist, the great heroic martyr to her self-sacrificing, all-hoping, all-confiding, all-enduring love for human beings, and sympathy for human suffering,-",-“I cannot make her dead.” She lives and labors, and reigns over human hearts, as one of earth’s truest saviors, and most loved and honored queens.
Dear friend, we have both known Hannah Webb; and to know her was to honor her. With you, I respond to every sentiment of affection and respect, expressed in the obituary. My heart is very full of pleasant, and only pleasant memories.
The beloved huband and children will pardon me the above expression of affectionate respect for one so truly dear to them, and to all who knew her.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
After a protracted, malicious and perfidious imprisonment, Col. Michael Corcoran has been liberated by the rebels. He has had the most enthusiastic receptions at Washington and Baltimore, and advocates a vigorous prosecution of the war.
<c03>
LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL POSTER.
WASHINGTON, August 17, 1862
FRIEND GARRISON.-The Massachusetts 33d Regiment started for the seat of the War on Thursday last. We went by the way of the Sound over the Providence railroad, to New York. They had prepared for us a great reception in New York city; but our Colonel had orders from Washington to come directly through, making no stop anywhere. So we landed in Jersey City, and did not go over into New York at all. Col. Howe furnished the soldiers a breakfast at the depot. While there, waiting for the cars, a large concourse of visitors came to see us. I send you a straw, as showing the direction the tide is running. A clergyman of the Old School Presbyterian church from Brooklyn, named Lamson, introduced himself to me, and in the course of a long conversation said, “I have been, heretofore, strenuously opposed to the Abolitionists; but now I wait and pray for the President to proclaim immediate emancipation,. I am satisfied there is no other way to suppress this rebellion.” I am surprised and gratified to see how extensive is this conviction. I take every opportunity to state my own convictions on this subject, and the grounds on which I base them. I am satisfied that the people are coming to see that there is no exodus for us out of this war, to a prosperous and beneficial future, except in freeing the slaves. The desire for this is growing daily wider and deeper. All honest men see that slavery is the cause of the war, and they are beginning to see that the Border State policy, of holding slavery sacred while fighting to suppress the rebellion, is utter madness and ruin. The people are far in advance of the Government on the vital issue of the age.
We had a tedious journey to Philadelphia, reaching that city about 10 o'clock, in the evening. We had then a splendid supper at the Soldiers’ Retreat, where the managers told me they had fed 220,000 soldiers in the same way they had fed us! I will testify that it was well done. There was a chance for all the men to wash, and the tables were well supplied and tended. Our men will remember Philadelphia. We went on our way thence with cheerful hearts. We reached Baltimore at 10 o’clock the next morning. There we had to wait four hours for cars. I should think about half the people of the city are thoroughly loyal, but there is a bitter secession feeling which is very manifest. During that four hours’ delay, I had the privilege of preaching the Gospel of Freedom to many persons, some of whom heard me gladly. In Baltimore, and all the way through Maryland, as far as daylight gave me an opportunity to observe the state of things, we were welcomed with profound cordiality by the colored people. At all their humble cabins and in the field, the blacks hailed us with loving salute. One old slave in Baltimore said to me, “We wait on the Lord for our freedom, and we know he will give us liberty.” And so He will, at the expense, if necessary, through our blindness and unbelief, of the destruction of our Government and Union. What I can do to make this a war of liberty, I shall do; but if the people refuse to strike down slavery, then shall I welcome emancipation through the overthrow of our fathers’ work. Let slavery perish, and the Supreme Justice be vindicated at any and all sacrifices.
We are to cross the Potomac to-night, and bivouac on the ground without tents, none being as yet ready for us. I have roughed it in Kansas, and can do it on the sacred soil of Virginia. Recruits are beginning to pour into Washington. Next week will see the advent of some fifty thousand, and so on till the whole of the last immense call are in the field. Well, if the President will only use the armies in earnest for the overthrow of the rebellion and its wicked cause, we shall be blessed indeed in all the sacrifices of this, war. 
DANIEL FOSTER.
[We shall be glad to hear from this inflexible, friend of freedom as often as he can find time to write.]

ADDRESS OF GOVERNOR ANDREW. 
A very great throng of people was addressed by Governor Andrew at the camp-meeting at Martha’s Vineyard on Sunday afternoon. The reporter for the Traveller describes the address as a grand and successful effort, worthy of the man, the place and the occasion. The correspondent of the New Bedford Mercury gives the following sketch of his remarks:
After announcing the correct doctrine that all right government is based on the “will and teachings of divine truth," instead of that atheistical dogma that “government derives its authority from the consent of the governed," he said-“We stand where the ways divide. There is such a thing as wearing out the divine favor. There must be a time when forbearance ceases to be a virtue, in heaven as well as on earth. The rebels have taken their choice. They had certain rights as peaceable citizens of the republic. They have chosen to throw them up, for those of belligerents. He was a peace man. He abhorred war. But as the Executive of the Commonwealth, he had called on his fellow-citizens to lift up the arms and doctrines of the old Bay State, in the belief that when the rebels’ power was overthrown, that of the oppressor would fall with it, and four millions of fellow-beings rise up from their enslavement, disenthralled, redeemed. He had never expected this war to cease without this object being accomplished. He was not superstitious, but could not fail to recognize the fact, that from the day that the government turned its back on the proclamation of General Hunter, the fortunes of war had turned against us. Till that day, our standard moved steadily on to victory. With our aid or against it, God has determined to let the people go.’ But he had faith in the success of the issue. He could not think that the prayers, tears, labors of the fathers were to be all lost,” &c. Toward the last he said-“Some of you may think this a singular kind of address from me. I don’t know as men holding the position with which I have been honored are accustomed to speak thus in such a place as this; but the brethren asked me up and gave me liberty, and I felt that before God I could not refrain from freeing my mind. I must speak the truth. I must set forth the right. If men choose to oppose Providence, and rush to destruction upon the thick bosses of Jehovah’s buckler, I cannot go with them." He closed with “some practical remarks," an eloquent call for recruits.
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:
SIR: I am surprised to see that you, crediting for once the falsehoods of the pro-slavery journals, allege or admit that Wendell Phillips “discourages enlistments in the Union armies." The charge that he does so is based on his late speech at Abington, an authentic report of which I herewith send you. If you will read it, you will perceive that it contains nothing to warrant such a charge. True, he criticises the administration somewhat sharply-perhaps you will say too sharply-but his purpose is, not to discourage enlistments, but to stimulate the government to take more decisive measures for the suppression of the rebellion, and to warn the people of the North that the shilly-shally policy heretofore pursued leads to a fearful waste of money and life, and promises us defeat rather than success. Northern sympathizers with treason may say that such criticisms tend to discourage enlistments. They constantly affirm that your criticisms have the same tendency; but they know right, well that your purpose, and Mr. Phillips’s no less, is to stimulate the government to such action as would fill the ranks of the army without resort to drafting.
The pretence that Mr. Phillips said anything at Abington about “superseding our present Republic,",” is utterly false, and the quotations on that head are so many forgeries, as you will see if you will look at the speech itself as phonographically reported. Since the Union was broken up by the secession of “Death and Hell," Mr. Phillips, and those who cooperate with him, have ceased to talk of disunion.
PH1LO.
NEGRO RIOTS. 
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR: The recurrence of these riots at this crisis suggests to the observer that there is some instigator of these outrages, and that the mobocrats are tools in the hands of designing knaves. There is no doubt that the secessionists and their abettors here-have determined, if possible, to introduce confusion and anarchy into the North; hence these riots. No one can read the New-York Herald's inflammatory diatribes against Abolitionists and negroes, without feeling sure that the peace and harmony of the North is not the object desired by that press. Having already inflamed the South against the North, now it seeks to divide the North against itself, by incendiary appeals to the prejudice against negroes. The sham-Democracy is seeking resuscitation by the most desperate means-that of mobbing negroes. If these mobs are not immediately checked, a spirit of anarchy will arise and sweep over the land, unless, indeed, met by the determined opposition which checked rioting in New-York a few years ago. 
New-York, Aug. 5, 1862. T. B.
<c04>
THE COLORED REGIMENT.
LITTLE COMPTON, R. I., Aug. 11.
I do not hear that any great progress has been made as yet in the organization of the Colored Regiment for which Gov. Sprague has called. The entire able-bodied black population of Rhode Island would not make a full regiment, and the black men of Massachusetts would, naturally prefer to organize under Gov. Andrew. Mr. Wm. H. Johnston, however, a lawyer of New Bedford, and until 1860 the captain of the colored company of that city, has offered his services to Gov. Sprague. Mr. Johnston was commanding officer of this company for five years, from 1855 to 1860, during which time it numbered nearly the orthodox seventy-eight, and made several excursions, after the manner of our 7th regiment, into neighboring cities. The drill and deportment of the company is said to have compared very favorably with that of troops less fitted for the endurance of tropical heats. Many of these men. have now gone into the navy; for Jack has never been squeamish. Com. Stringham set Hatteras negroes to working guns on his flag-ship nearly a year ago. It would not be difficult to fill up this company, however, in New Bedford, should Gov. Sprague conclude to accept men from Massachusetts, and Gov. Andrew decide to let them go.
In Providence, a company of 106 men was organized soon after the fall of Fort Sumter, by Captain Samuel Dorrer-about the time that the police in this city broke up the drill-meetings of black men as disorderly gatherings. This company offered to go with the 1st Rhode Island Regiment, which did such noble service at Ball Run. Being refused as a company, many of its members attached themselves as servants to the Rhode Island regiments and batteries. Four of them, being of constitutional color to fight, according to the United States mustering officers, as well as according to the Constitution of Rhode Island, which deals with men, and not with skins, are now sworn into the service of Uncle Sam-two as infantry soldiers, and two as artillerists. I will not say precisely where, as some nice-nosed traitor might object to their countenance in the army, and threaten to resign if they were not immediately expelled. Enough that they are somewhere in the 104 Rhode Island regiments, and that no Rhode Island man will aid in exposing their whereabouts to the rebels on our side of the lines.
On inquiry at the Adjutant-General’s office, in Providence, as to the officering of the colored regiment, I was surprised to be met, not by any objection to black officers as black, or any timid expression as to what would or would not “do,",” but by the simple remark that they did not know any black man who was qualified to command a regiment, but that there were some as good black line officers in the State as any.
How true it is, that along the path of progress little States move fastest! A State of 175,000 people, with a Governor whose election was claimed by the organ of Jeff. Davis in New York as a triumph for the Montgomery Constitution, is to-day months in advance of a State of 4,000,000 of people, with a Governor whom the same organ denounced as a rabid Republican of the blackest hue. But we can rely upon destiny. The tide-wave rolls from east to west. C. E. W. 
COLORED REGIMENTS. Gen. Lane has divided the State into two districts for the purpose of facilitating the organization of the two regiments expected to be raised in this Department. Capt. J. M. Williams, of the 5th Kansas, has been appointed Commissioner for recruiting in the district north of the Kansas river, and Capt. Henry C. Seaman, 5th regiment, for the district south of the same. Both gentlemen are well known to our people as Abolitionists, and as gallant and able officers. Capt. Williams has. established his headquarters at 62 Delaware street, and has appointed a number of recruiting officers in this and other counties. About fifty persons were enrolled yesterday.-Leavenworth (Kansas) Conservative. 
GEN. JIM LANE AT KNOXVILLE, ILLINOIS. The largest and most enthusiastic public meeting ever held in Knox county, assembled at Knoxville on Thursday. The meeting was held in a grove a little south of the town, and among the number of distinguished speakers from Chicago and other places was no less a personage than Gen. Jim Lane, of Kansas. Gen. Lane spoke for about an hour and a half, interrupted every few minutes by the most vociferous applause. He laid down the proper way to conduct the war to a speedy and successful termination, in a style that met with the hearty approval and concurrence of every loyal man who heard him, and their approval was given in deafening cheers. One secesh sympathizer ventured to express some dissent, and commenced cursing the war, the Abolition Administration, &c., when he was seized hold of by the outraged people, and the oath of allegiance administered to him on the spot. He refused to take it, when a rope was procured, (the people suspected him of being an “old liner,") and a noose made on one end of it. The effect was magical, and secesh beginning to realize his situation, at once subscribed to the oath. The meeting was, altogether, we are told, the most imposing popular demonstration ever witnessed in that section. Bands of music were in attendance, and the wildest enthusiasm manifested.-Peoria (III.) Transcript.
GENERAL McCOOK MURDERED BY GUERRILLAS. Gen. Robert McCook, so ill as to be unable to stand, was travelling at a little distance from his brigade in Northern Alabama on Tuesday the 5th, lying helpless in an ambulance. Having stopped for water, information was given, doubtless by the persons on the plantation, to guerrillas at hand, who quickly pursued and overtook the ambulance, and brutally murdered the sick man by deliberately firing a pistol bullet into his side. He died in a few hours, in great pain, but undaunted and cool, sending word to his brother that “he had tried to do his duty." The 9th Ohio regiment, formerly his own, on learning the story, marched back to the place, burned the houses and devastated the lands all about the neighborhood, caught several of the scoundrels engaged in the affair, and hung them right up.
The lesson of this frightful murder is the more impressive, because Gen. McCook has been one of the most lenient and conciliatory to secessionists of all our commanders.
FIENDISH CONDUCT OF THE REBELS TOWARD PRISONERS FROM GEN. POPE'S ARMY. The Richmond Examiner of the 12th inst. has the following: “The officers who arrived yesterday from Gordonsville, twenty-eight in number, and who were captured on Saturday by Gen. Jackson, will not be considered prisoners of war so long as the recent offensive and uncivilized orders of General Pope remain unrepealed. They have all-Gen. Prince included-been placed in the "Libby prison, and will in a few days be separately confined, and treated and finally punished as felons, should the brutal Government of the North persist in claiming the right to murder and pillage."
Dr. James Moore, of Philadelphia, a returned prisoner, states that at the Fair Ground of Lynchburg, where 2500 prisoners were not long since confined, five or six die daily from sheer exhaustion, in consequence of poor and insufficient food. But all they endure was nothing compared with the torments which those fiends-the rebel leaders-are inflicting upon the offers of Gen. Pope, who have fallen into their hands-some twenty-eight of them. These poor fellows are confined in close and dark rooms like common felons. They are not allowed to buy anything to mitigate their sufferings, even at the usual exorbitant rates. They are allowed to have no meat, and, nothing but an insufficient supply of bread-sour at that-and water poisoned with the filthy sewerage which flows into the James river-water that a dog or a hog would refuse. In addition to these horrors, our brave men are liable at any moment to be hung by these monsters in human shape.
THE REBEL CHEAT ON EXCHANGES. The rebel officers who were released and sent to Richmond last week, were Gens. Buckner, Tilghman, Mackall, Pettigrew and Gantt, with Commodore Barron, Captains Mitchell and Kennon, and a host of inferior officers of both navy and army. The Federal officers who were to have been exchanged for these men are still detained in Richmond. A correspondent of the Philadelphia Press says:
“News finally came to Adjutant General Thomas that they would not return at present, the Confederate Government having concluded to detain them. And this after General Thomas had confidingly liberated all their officers, and tenderly sent a number of their sick to City Point by the Georgia, that they might be taken to Richmond on cars. On the return of this boat to Aiken’s Landing, the guard on board, under Lieut. Miller, 10th New Jersey regiment, were indignant in the extreme: had they not been restrained by Lieut Miller, would have retaliated by setting fire to Aiken’s house and all his outbuildings. If any reason had been given for this treachery to General Thomas, he did not communicate it to his subordinates. It was generally considered by them as a retaliation for Pope’s recent orders. The indignation of the country on receipt of this news will be great. It will hasten enlistments."
A WILLING LIBERATION OF THEIR SLAVES BY VIRGINIANS. The Fortress Monroe correspondent of the Philadelphia Press says:
“The liberation of negroes now going on throughout the State does not create much concern. They have been expecting it, and are not surprised; Many tell their negroes to go when they wish it, and on a stampede owners often indulge in a semi-congratulation that their uncertainty is over, and that much care and future responsibility is saved to them."
<c05>
RETALIATORY. Jeff. Davis has had the unblushing impudence to issue a long manifesto, charging the U. S. War Department and Gen. Pope with unparalleled barbarity in the issue of the recent orders; assuming the most humane, considerate and tender regard for honor and right on the part of the Confederate States, and concluding thus:-
7. Therefore it is ordered, that Maj. Gen. Pope,. Brig. Gen. Steinwehr, and all commissioned officers serving under their respective commands, be, and they are hereby expressly and especially declared to be not entitled to be considered as soldiers, and therefore not entitled to benefit of cartel for the parole of future prisoners of war. 
Ordered, further, that in the event of the capture of Maj. Gen. Pope, or Brig. Gen. Steinwehr, or of any commissioned officer serving under them, the captive so taken shall be held in close confinement so long as the orders aforesaid shall continue in force, and unrepealed by the competent military authority of the United States, and that in the event of the murder of any unarmed citizen or inhabitant of this Confederacy, by order or under the pretext of one of the orders; herein before recited, whether with or without trial, whether under pretext of such a citizen being a spy or hostage, or any other pretence, it shall be the duty of the commanding General of the forces of this Confederacy to cause immediately to be hung out of the commissioned officers, prisoners as aforesaid, a number equal to the number of our own citizens murdered by the enemy.
GIDEON PILLOW ON THE NEGRO QUESTION.-NEWARK, (Ohio,) Aug. 5.-The North American of this city has an important letter, captured by the 1st Ohio Cavalry, written by Gen. Pillow to his brother in Tennessee.
The General is alarmed about the new policy, and says that we will go to catching negroes in less than thirty days, and will sweep the river bottom. He thinks the only safety for the negroes is to carry them into the interior, and wants his brother to help him get off his negroes before they are caught; and he thinks the South will receive its independence, but will lose a thousand millions of dollars’ worth of negroes. He has a plantation in Arkansas, and wants to get his negroes across the river into Mississippi, but Curtis is in the way. He says that the safety of their property depends on immediate action, and wants his brother to give out that the negroes, taken by the Federals, will be sold to Cuba after the war is over. 
A SERIOUS BLUNDER. The associated press correspondent at Fortress Monroe states some curious particulars of the recent affair at Malvern Hills. After taking possession on Tuesday, all the Generals of the army went to examine the position; Gen. McClellan, sent back for the greater part of his army, but the messengers took the wrong road! and thus delayed so long that the troops did not get up until too late-in fact, only a part of those sent for came at all, and they but just in time to make a hasty retreat. A great battle would have been fought on Wednesday had McClellan’s forces arrived in season; but they did not, and as 100,000 rebels were advancing from Richmond, a retreat was made to Harrison’s Landing. “Gen. McClellan had planned for a great battle, but the enemy were not asleep, and have taken possession of Malvern Hills with an immense army.” All these plans seem to have come to nothing, because the messengers did not know the road. How would it do to furnish the army of the Potomac with a Pathfinder?
ARREST OF KIDNAPPERS. The public will, perhaps, not regret to learn that Officers A. R. Allen and J. H. Wise were yesterday arrested by Gen. Wadsworth, on the charge of an illegal attempt to capture fugitive slaves. They had a hearing before Gen. Wadsworth this afternoon, and the result was that they were removed to the Old Capitol Prison. On the way down, they were allowed to stop at Justice Donns, to whom they stated that Gen. Wadsworth said: “That the Circuit Court had no right to appoint Commissioners under the Fugitive Slave law, and therefore they were kidnappers.” The charge against them is that they, upon the warrant of Samuel S. Phillips, one of the Commissioners appointed by the Circuit Court, arrested seven slaves claimed by Mr. E. Berry, who, after an examination by Mr. Phillips, were restored to Mr. Berry.
A REJECTED RECRUIT. Among those who presented themselves for enlistment at one of the armories yesterday, was a middle-aged person of Irish birth, who entered a name upon the roll. Several of those in the armory thought they saw a familiar face, and a closer look convinced them that she was the person they thought her to be. She was handed over to the police, who gave her a night's lodging, and this morning was suffered to depart, with the hint that the war could be prosecuted without her aid as a soldier. She was dressed in male attire, with a high, old-fashioned black hat, under which she had secured her long hair.-Lowell Courier 27th ult.
The Richmond! papers, in common with the rest of the Southern papers, have kept very quiet, lately, on the subject of balloons, as used by McClellan’s army on the Potomac, but they have one themselves now, as our informant saw it inflated in Richmond, in the presence of many of the rebel Generals. It was manufactured in Petersburg, and arrived in Richmond on the 29th ult. They say now that they will be able to cope with the Yankees in aeronautic strategy.
All the necessities of life are frightfully dear, and still on the increase. In cotton prints, there is little to he had even at $1 per yard, as they have been compelled to use every kind of calico, even to chintz bed furniture, to make shirts with which to clothe their troops. The following list of prices will serve to show the state of the city: Coffee $2 50 per pound; butter, $1 per pound; sugar, 70c per pound; tea, $16 to $20 per pound; Irish potatoes, 50c per quart; cabbages, 75c to $1 per head; shirts, none less than-$6 each; boots, from $20 to $30 per pair. Gold is worth 125 per cent, premium in Richmond, on Confederate bonds or Virginia bank-bills.
The Washington correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette makes the following statement:
“At the close of our famous change of base, when we were within four miles of the James river, the rebels, 30,000 strong, had penetrated to the road ahead; of our army, and lay there expecting our advance. An Engineer officer riding ahead of the column, was informed of the fact by a negro from a neighboring plantation, who also showed him an old road by which the army could avoid the rebel position, and strike the river a little lower down. The army took the negro’s road, and reached the river in safety! If true, is it not strange that that magnificent army should owe its preservation-not to strategy but a “nigger "?
Even the enemy bear witness to the valuable services of negroes to the Union cause. The Peters-burg Express complains that a well-laid plan for the capture of some of McClellan’s men who had invaded Prince George County, was frustrated “through the perfidy of a negro."
The negroes who come within our lines, report that Jackson is driving all the colored people before him, and has ordered that they be shot upon making the least attempt to escape.
Upwards of two thousand negroes have been sent to Gen. McClellan, and the demand for more is urgent. The following notice was some days since issued in Norfolk:-
All idle negroes in Norfolk and Portsmouth will at once find employment or report themselves to the Provost-Marshal. All negroes found hereafter without evidence of employment will be sent at once to the Provost-Marshal’s Office.
By command of Brigadier-General and Military Governor, E. L. VIELE.
J. H. LIEBENAU, Asst. Adj. Gen. and Provost-Marshal.
THE WAR AND NEGROES. The Memphis Bulletin has an article upon the use made of negroes in the war, in which it declares that more negroes have been stolen from Union men in Tennessee by rebels, to put at work on their fortifications, than have been liberated by the Union forces throughout all the States combined, and that, too, with scarcely a protest from the robbed Union men.
A NEGRO PROPOSITION TO GUARD REBEL PRISONERS. Governor Todd of Ohio having refused the services of colored volunteers, the colored men of Cleveland and Cuyahoga counties have made him an offer to raise some regiments to guard the rebel prisoners at Camp Chase and Sandusky, and thus relieve two regiments of well-drilled soldiers for service in the field. The Governor, however, declined the proposition.
NEW EMPLOYMENT FOR THE CONTRABANDS. Large numbers, of negroes having been brought down to Port Royal from Edisto and Stono Points, abandoned by the Federal troops, Gen. Saxton has issued an order that they may be employed in the manufacture of rush baskets and cedar tubs, in order to guard them from the evils of idleness and enable them to earn their own living. The baskets and tubs will be shipped to the North for sale.
WHY NOT? Major-General Cassius M. Clay has returned to throw his sword in the scale against the enemies of the Union. Why not erase Buell from a place he has occupied only to disguise loyalty and pamper treason to greater daring, and give the command to a generous Kentuckian who has a love for “the Union and a hatred of slavery as its greatest enemy. Perhaps the last is the reason why not; but it is no good one.-Chicago Tribune.
A rebel near Warrenton, the other day, while applauding the enterprise and ability of Stonewall Jackson, remarked significantly, “He is our Fremont."
<c06>
A SURE SIGN. Parson Brown low says whenever you hear a man eternally mouthing the words " “abolition and “abolition war," you can safely set him down as a rebel sympathizer. This sign, he says, has never been known to fail. It is their favorite lingo from Jeff. Davis down to the meanest Vallandighammer at the North.
Dr. Edson B. Olds was arrested at Lancaster, Ohio, a few days ago, on a charge of disloyalty, using treasonable language, and interfering with enlistments. He has been sent to Fort Lafayette.
The Memphis Appeal of the 14th, a copy of which had reached Cincinnati, says: “It is stated that the river back between Vicksburg and Napoleon, (Ark.) has, for the last ten days, been one mass of burning cotton. The cotton-from Napoleon down has all been burned. It is reported that a few planters, who hauled their cotton back and hid it in the cane, had been imprisoned."
On the 12th, a part of the robber Morgan’s band were surprised at Gallatin, Tenn., by two Union regiments from Nashville. Six guerillas were killed, among them Capt. J. C. Breckinridge, son of that stern old loyalist. Dr. Robert J. Breckinridge. The young man had just cast his lot with the traitors.
Col. Joel Turchin (now Brigadier General) has been acquitted of the charges brought against him.
DETROIT, March 15.
Twelve Persons Drowned.-The schooner Oriole, with a cargo of iron ore, collided with the steamer Illinois in Lake Superior, and sunk. Captain McAdam, his wife and mother, and nine of the crew were lost. The vessel is a total loss.
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.-A mass Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at ELLENVILLE, (Ulster Co., N. Y.,) in Warren’s Hall, to commence on Thursday evening, Aug. 28, and continue through Friday and Saturday, the 29th and 30th.
Rally, friends of justice and impartial liberty! in large numbers, for the redemption of the slave and the salvation of the nation.
Able and eloquent speakers will address the Convention, among whom will be Parker Pillsbury, Ernestine L. Rose, Susan B. Anthony, Aaron M. Powell, James M. De Garmo and others.
An Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at the Free Church in Cummington, on Saturday and Sunday, August 23d and 24th, commencing on Saturday, at 2 o’clock, P. M. Parker Pillsbury and E. R. Brown will be present as speakers.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, will address the people of HARWICH, upon The Rebellion, its Cause and Cure, on Sunday next, August 24. He will also speak as follows:-
Chatham, Tuesday, Aug. 26.
Brewster, Wednesday, Aug. 27.
East Dennis, Friday, Aug 29.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in 
South Gardner, Sunday, Aug. 24, at 10 1-2, A. M.
Gardner Centre, Sunday, Aug. 24 at 1 1-2 P. M.
Hubbardston, Sunday, Aug. 24, at 5, P. M.
WILLIAM A. JACKSON-late Coachman of Jefferson Davis, Rebel President of the Southern Confederacy-will address the citizens of Boston on matters pertaining to Slavery and the War, at the MEIONAON, on Sunday evening next, August 24th, at half-past 7 o’clock. Admission ticket 10 cents, to defray expenses.
Mr. JACKSON is well known to several colored persons in this city, and the authenticity of his case is unquestionable. He addressed a highly interested audience, for the space of two hours, on Monday evening last, in Rev. Mr. Grimes’s church. We trust he will draw a full house on Sunday evening.-[ Ed. Lib
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from. 2 to 4, P. M.
MARY WATERS (formerly a slave) is well recommended as being capable, intelligent and deserving. She desires employment in washing and ironing, house-cleaning, &c., and does other housework satisfactorily. Any who will give her work will be conferring a kindness, as her regular employers are out of town, and she is very destitute, being left with four small children. She resides at 29 Anderson Street, formerly West Centre, Boston.
DIED-In this city, August 9, GRACE ANNA, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George W. Potter, aged 2 months and 14 days.
In Salem, July 28, Mr. DAVID MERRITT aged 87. He was born in Ticehurst, in the Southeastern part of England, April 20th, 1775, but embarked for the United States in August, 1804. The Observer contains a long and interesting biographical sketch of this venerable, highly esteemed, and truly good man, which we should be pleased to copy entire, were, it not for the crowded state of our columns. " “For nearly seventeen years beyond the allotted term of life,",” it says, “this worthy and much respected citizen was seen in our streets and found at his office, in vigorous transaction of his serviceable business. From the tender sympathies of many friends, occasioned by bereavement and sickness, he has passed on to rejoin the beloved in that life where there is no toil, pain, war, or death. His life was various and eventful before he came among us, abounding in incidents, some of which would be truly touching in narration. Integrity and honor were the principles with which he set out, and he held fast to them to the end. It may be added, that our venerable friend was a sincere advocate of the great reforms of the day. Slavery and all its concomitants were his utmost aversion. He gave up a beloved son to the present demand of the country, with the utmost cheerfulness; and he bore the tidings of his death on the field of battle with heroic fortitude. Surrounded by a family of loving sons and daughters, and their several families, his last long sickness had the most tender alleviations. He has now departed in a good old age, and his works follow him. Blessed are they that die in the Lord. It is a singular coincidence that the day of Mr. Merritt’s funeral commemorated the 58th anniversary of his marriage, which took place July 30th, 1804."
It was our privilege long to enjoy the personal friendship of this revered friend of the whole human race; for at a very early period, he became deeply interested-in the Anti-Slavery cause, and was always ready to give it his countenance and aid. He was a constant reader of the Liberator, which he highly appreciated. A friend at Salem writes-"-Mr. Merritt's most earnest and last prayers were for the cause of freedom, and, above all, freedom to the slave. He said to Rev. Dr. Briggs, his pastor, on his first visit to him after the death of his gallant son, (Lieut. Colonel Meritt.) ‘There is no alternative: we must either fight slavery, or become slaves ourselves; and Henry [his son] is one of the sacrifices.'"’ We shall miss his friendly grasp, his cordial welcome, his encouraging presence at any future Anti-Slavery gatherings we may be permitted to attend in Salem; but we trust the time is hastening when these may be dispensed with, by the ushering in of that long desired jubilee, when neither slaveholders nor slaves shall exist in our land, but all shall be in the full enjoyment of their inalienable rights, “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."

Hopedale Home School
THIS Institution, after a suspension of some months, will be re-opened to well-disposed pupils of good habits, on Wednesday, Sept. 3, for a term of fifteen weeks. 
For particulars, address
WM. S. HEYWOOD,A. B. HEYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Mass., Aug 6. 4t

BRISTOL BOARDING-SCHOOL FOR GIRLS.
THIS School is located in the borough of Bristol, Pa., on the Delaware River, twenty miles above Philadelphia. It will open its fall session on 2d day, Ninth month, 1st.
Terms-$75 per session of five months. 
For circular, address
RUTH ANNA PEIRCE, PRINCIPAL.
REFERENCES.
JAMES MOTT, Philadelphia.
ANNE CHURCHMAN, 908 Franklin street. Philadelphia,
C. N. PEIRCE, 501 N. Seventh street, Philadelphia.
HENRY W. RIDGWAY, Crosswicks, N. Y.
DAVID L. GRISCOM, Woodbury, N. J.
WM. LLOYD GARRISONS, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE SPIRITS QUESTIONING.
BY MRS. M. B. JACKSON.
While musing on the scenes of woe
That overspread our nation's sky,
And seeking earnestly to know
If underneath the cloud might lie
Some fringe of golden light to cheer
The darkened prospect of the hour,
Or, blest with open prophet’s ear,
Might catch some word of saving power,
We sighed–How long, O Lord, how long
Shall loyal blood in torrents flow,
And countless victims, young and strong, 
Be laid by rebel foemen low?
Must myriads of our sons be slain,
And earth made rich with patriot gore,
And shall the sacrifice be vain,
Nor to our country peace restore?
In mild, but just rebuke, we heard
The still small voice in accents clear,
And listened to each solemn word
That fell upon our saddened ear:
“Ask not how long your blood shall flow,
And mothers weep their children slain;
But ask, who holds the cup of woe
For Afric's burning lips to drain.
Not on the slave alone shall fall
The curse Oppression’s victims know,
But in its sure rebound must all
Th’ oppressors feel its fatal blow."
God from His throne of justice hears
The bondman’s clanking chain and wail,
And treasures all his bitter tears,
Nor shall His righteous judgment fail.
He warned us to forsake our sin,
And waited with forbearance long;
But we our golden harvests win,
And listen to the syren’s song.
Our judges oft the ermine soil,
And crush whom they are sworn to save;
The weak and helpless still they spoil,
And weld the fetters of the slave.
Our Senate floor is stained with blood
Drawn from our noblest patriot’s veins;
In crouching attitude we stood,
Th’ assassin greet with gifts, not chains.
The giant evil of our land
Has poisoned e’en the air we breathe,
Till all but one small martyr band
Bring flowers its hideous form to wreath.
The wailing of the colored race
Is lost upon our deafened ear,
And we still turn away our face,
Its wrongs will neither see nor hear.
But God in mercy sent the storm,
Whose thunderbolts the air shall clear,
And raise the nation’s prostrate form,
And open wide her deafened ear,
Till she shall list the faintest moan
Of sorrowing Afric’s sons to hear,
And every sigh, and every groan,
Shall thrill upon her quickened ear.
Then, stripped of every fair disguise,
The nation’s sin shall stand confessed,
And loyal hearts, become more wise,
Shall seek to make their country blessed,
By sundering all the chains that bind
A child of God, or dark, or fair;
Till every suffering slave shall find
The bliss of breathing Freedom’s air.
Then shall our sons, with joy elate,
Their eager footsteps homeward turn,
To greet the loved, who for them wait,
And on the household altar burn
Fresh incense to the goddess fair,
Who rules supreme o’er all the land,
And fill with jubilee the air,
And place the sceptre in her hand.
Boston, August 14, 1862.
From the London Athenaeum.
SUMMER.
Lo! lazy <illegible>,n the sun
Lies panting, with bare breasts, upon the hills,
Swathing her limbs in hazes warm and dun,
Where splendors into dusky splendors run,
And sultry glory all the heaven o'erfills.
Not a white dimple stirs amid the corn,
Not a low ripple shivers through the leaves:-
Since, wrapped in gold and crimson gleams unshorn,
Came, flashing through the east, the regal morn,
No throated twitterings gurgle round the eaves.
Flooded in sunny silence sleep the kine;
In languid murmurs brooklets float and flow;
The quaint farm gables in the rich light shine,
And round them jasmined honeysuckles twine,
And close beside them sun-flowers burn and blow.
Amid the growing heat I lie me down,
And into visions swarms the moted air:
Gleams up before me many a famous town,
Pillared and crested with a regal crown,
Out shimmering in an orient purple glare:
Lo! lowly Tadmor, burning in its sands,-
Baalbeck and Babylon;—I see slow streams
Gliding by mosque and minaret, —see the gleams
Of seas in sunset—slips of strands,
And drowsy Bagdad buried deep in dreams;-
See swarthy monarchs flushed in purple rings
Of silken courtiers;—through half open doors
Catch the spice odors, and the cool of springs
Leaping forever in a maze of wings-
See light forms dancing over pearly floors;-
Sleeping seraglios, spire and tremulous dome
Winking in drowsy splendor all the day,-
See forest haunts where thick the lions roam,-
See thirsty panthers splashed in bloody foam,
Leap terrible as lightnings on their prey;
Or stand with Cortez on a mountain peak
Above the Aztec city,—see unrolled 
Gem-threaded shores of Montezuma weak,-
See the white temples swarming thick and sleek,
And sunny streets stretch up by towers of gold;
See silken sails float by, ambrosial,
Laden with spices, up a Persian glen;
Or stand on Lebanon, ’mid the cedars tall,
Or hear the soft and silver fall
Of water down a jut of Darien.
But, lo! a waking shiver in the trees,
And voices ’mid the hay-cocks in the glen;
The sun is setting, and the crimson seas
Are shaken into splendor by the breeze,
And all the busy world is up again!
From the Troy Daily Times.
PROCLAMATION.
BY E. C.
Black men, prepare! close, close at hand,
Behold the hour when you may stand
In column massed, and for this land
May fight and bleed, may do and die!
The land has marked you with its hate,
Has chained you with its Church and State;
But now you must decide its fate!
Strike, strike! or it shall broken lie!
How Retribution calls on you! 
Have you been false? then be ye true!
Put forth your strength, help forge anew
This massive ring of shattered States!
But shall we spurn your service still;
Blocking the way when there’s the will?
Shall we decree your further ill?
Then God is just–the doom awaits?
<c02>
The Liberator.
REPLY TO MR. MAY’S LETTER.
MR.GARRISON,—I am glad that Mr. May responded so promptly to my letter of the 27th ult., although I regret to learn by his response that my information as to his position is correct, and that he boldly justifies it. He affirms that I knew perfectly well that his views of the war differ essentially from my own. I beg leave to assure him, that I knew no such thing before; that, although I have known him at anti-slavery meetings and in private for many years, and during the past year of this war, I have often “met him on the street, at my own place of business,” and at anti-slavery meetings, I have not before heard him say, or heard of his saying, or seen any other intimation of his ability or disposition to engage in the active support of a pro-slavery government for any purpose whatever.
I did not call on him at his residence “six miles” from here, because he is not responsible to me privately, but only as the official agent of those societies that I have somewhat tried to sustain for a quarter of a century; and he is responsible, not to me alone, but to every other member and patron of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies; therefore I called his position in question before them in the Liberator, as I desired also to do in the Standard, but its editor, in an unkind personal note to me, declined to publish the letter.
I did not desire to elicit any personal feeling. Abolitionists, in their labors and criticisms, should know only the slave, and him in chains; and I waive all notice of unkind allusions as not pertinent to or worthy the matter in hand.
I think Mr. May’s informant must have misunderstood what I intended to say, in reporting me to say I was as willing to have the Davis government over my head as the Lincoln government. I do not think I ever loved the old Union well enough to say that; I feel too disloyal to have given vent to such a remark intentionally. The Davis or slaveholders’ government has ruled the nation for long years, till some more than a year ago, when they proposed to withdraw their guardianship over us, disgusted with our growing disloyalty thereto, and, setting up by themselves, govern their own immediate followers. The national government, distressed at their retirement from us, are endeavoring by force of arms to bring them back to their old status,—hitherto with great unsuccess. But I do not propose to help enlarge its armies to aid its success. I am not sufficiently in love with the slaveholders’ government to labor for its restoration over us. Neither do I think Mr. May is; but that, nevertheless, is the purpose of the Administration; and if he puts men into its hands, they will be used for its purposes, and not for his own.
Mr. May, “looking beyond the President, his Cabinet and Generals, sees a country, a cause, institutions of freedom, and a possible future, all imperilled.” Alas! I see the peril too; and I see them imperilled alone by this very President and Cabinet; and until they are changed in purpose, or removed out of the way, I see no hope of salvation to this nation, though I have hope for institutions of freedom; for I cannot believe God can risk their perpetuity upon the life of so wicked a nation as ours. This nation can, if it choose, propose JUSTICE, by which alone, if at all, all these things can be saved to it. All anti-slavery authorities assert that emancipation alone can save us; that, in the hands of the Administration, by the logic of events, is the rightful power to enforce emancipation. This power was not in their hands before, being limited by their constitutional obligations. Mr. May and we all refused all aid or support to any Administration that was even compelled to be pro-slavery by its situation; but now, when they are not so compelled—when their hands are not only loosed, but the force of events seems to almost crush them into the right—they steadfastly persist, voluntarily and wickedly persist in the wrong. I cannot, will not sustain them, or furnish them more men to murder in a war for political supremacy. And I see not how Mr. May, or any other of our old associates of the doctrine of “no support of, or complicity with, a pro-slavery government,” who could not sustain one involuntarily so, can now sustain one voluntarily and persistently so. No! I say, and shall not we all say, with Mr. Phillips and Mr. Whipple, not a man or a dollar in such service.
Mr. May speaks of my charging the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies with having been, the past year, in the active service of the Government. If he will read more carefully, he will find that I do not speak of the societies, but of their “official representatives”; and again, in another place, in Miss Martineau’s words, of the “proved leaders”; for I do not believe that the rank and file of these societies have so done, or that they have approved the course of such of their agents as have. I spoke as I did, partly on the strength of my own observation, but mainly on the strength of Mr. Whipple’s article, I before referred to, when he says, “the Abolitionists” have been supporting the Government the past year without making “conditions.” This is more than I had supposed, and I do not now believe that the mass of the Abolitionists have done it, and I should not have dared to say “without conditions,” on my own observation. Who, then, are “the Abolitionists,” of whom Mr. Whipple speaks? He may intend these societies, but he must be mistaken here; for I think of no action at their meetings that could be so construed—unless, possibly, we might so construe the resolutions of the last annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, which affirm that, as between the Government and the secessionists, the Government is wholly right, and they are wholly wrong. But I think this resolution was adopted more in deference to its author, than from a firm conviction of its truth or propriety; and I doubt not, had other and more consistent resolutions been offered, the Society would gladly have adopted them. This view is illustrated by the proceedings of the New York State Convention, which met at Albany soon after, and adopted the same resolutions, apparently out of deference to the proved leader, who offered them; and then proceeded to adopt certain other resolutions in testimony of its own faith. Mr. Whipple must, I think, have intended those Abolitionists with whom he is directly and daily associated, and they are the “official representatives” of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies. And when he speaks, being as he is a member of the Executive Committee of both Societies, and also of the Board of Trustees of both the Hovey and Francis Jackson Anti-Slavery Funds, and using as he repeatedly did the pronoun “we,” it seemed to me a “semi-official” announcement, as I designated it.
But how do we stand to-day? The last New England Convention, on motion of Wendell Phillips, reaffirmed its old testimony of “No Union with slaveholders, no support of any government which upholds or allows slavery in its limits.” That is a proposition that does not look much like enlisting men for the army, I think.
Mr. May claims that many of the speakers at the Abington 1st of August meeting took essentially his ground, and he heard no one rebuked. I cannot tell what was said there, as I was not present; but I have read what was reported of these speeches in the Liberator and Standard, and these reports do not contain anything that, by the utmost stretch, can sustain Mr. May’s position. Mr. Garrison announced there that “this nation has been, and continues to be, a slavehold-nation.” Did he, or could he, call for enlistments to ing, slave-breeding, slave-driving and slave-trading aid such a nation? I think not Mr. Conway followed in a speech of the severest denunciation and criticism of the Government; and, so far from calling for support for it, he called on foreign nations to intervene, and aid the South to crush it to such a depth of humiliation, that it must needs proclaim emancipation to save itself from its otherwise sure destruction.
<c03>
Mr. Phillips is reported, next, as denouncing in terms of unmitigated severity the government and its position, affirming that the government was “murdering” its soldiers in a purposeless war, and calling on us to pray for the capture of the capital by the South; and said that what we need most is, “a stunning blow, a baptism of blood”—and much else in the same strain, to the end of arousing the North to compel the government to free the slave. Could Mr. Phillips, with such utterances, ask men to enlist to be murdered in the service of such a government? I think not. And I cannot understand how Mr. May could help feeling rebuked by almost every sentence of these three speakers.
The last Anti-Slavery Standard speaks editorially of this quota of men that Mr. May is desiring to fill, as “the three hundred thousand who are now about to be led to sacrifice.” Can Mr. May ask men to enlist in a corps that are “to be led to sacrifice” to be “murdered”? I cannot. It would better <illegible> suit me fold my hands,” as he suggests, though I do not purpose to do that.
Mr. May quotes R. D. Webb as hoping that the “Barons of the South” would not also become the Lords of the North. “So I most deely feel” myself; and I am ready to make any personal sacrifice, save of principle, of right, to prevent it; but of these never. I doubt if Mr. May can quote a word of Mr. Webb’s that will justify his labors to sustain this pro-slavery government. Indeed, if I recollect aright, Mr. Webb has, more than once, in the present year, expressed surprise and regret that the American Abolitionists tended so much in that direction.
But a truce to all this. In following Mr. May, I have written too much of it. It matters not the right of the case what this or that one says or thinks, though I think that Mr. May, in his action, stands alone of the old guard. The question is—“Is it consistent or right for an Abolitionist, who has for years repudiated action under and in support of a pro-slavery government, to give it that support now?” I say no! Mr. May says yes!
Please, Mr. Garrison, to ask the editor of the Standard to tell its readers what is Mr. May’s position; for I think it is of more importance that his employers should know what it is, than that the readers of the New York Journal of Commerce should be assured of his loyalty to the government. I am willing that paper should consider me a traitor; for loyalty to such a government is treason to God.
Mr. May will please understand that I do not at all impugn his intentional integrity to the cause of the slave. I have the highest faith in his personal conscientiousness and careful desire of rectitude. But it is the consistency of his position, mistakenly taken, as I think, that I impeach; and that I do most decidedly and earnestly. I can do no less.
And now I close by repeating, that it is not more men that the government needs to save “the country, the cause, institutions of freedom, and a possible future”; more men cannot possibly save it, or them through it, in its present position. A new position alone, if any thing can, will save it. RIGHTEOUSNESS and JUSTICE are the needful elements; and-these do not need, to perfect their work, hosts of armed men, or horses or chariots.
“Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help, and stay on horses, and trust in chariots; but they look not to the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the Lord! He will arise against the house of evil-doers! When the Lord shall stretch out his hand, both he that helpeth shall fall, and he that is holpen shall fall down, and they all shall fail together."
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND.
Worcester, Aug. 10, 1862.

RIGHTEOUS RETRIBUTION.
FRIEND GARRISON,—It is seldom I see in the Liberator anything from the State of Maine at this momentous crisis; and I feel, though your columns are crowded, that I must occasionally send in my testimony, that justice may be done in the great struggle between Liberty and Slavery. I wish it to be known that all my desires, all my hopes, all my prayers, all my sympathies are with my brothers and sisters in bondage. Just so far as the Government does anything towards their freedom, just so far do I wish it success, and no farther. If the President, Cabinet, Congress, and every officer and soldier on the battlefield get destroyed, but a small portion of the debt we owe will be paid. This debt has been accumulating ever since the landing of the first cargo of slaves in James river, Virginia, in August, 1620. We justly feel horrified when we hear of thousands being shot on the battle-field; but, in the language of Rev. E. M. Wheelock, “let us not forget that, on the Southern plantation, blood is always flowing.” Yes; and now that we are paying the debt by the law of compensation, let us not forget how long it has been flowing. Justice must be done, no matter how many raise their hands against it.
For more than thirty years, righteous men and women have cried to this wicked Government, “Let the oppressed go free!” But it turned a deaf ear. Now the plagues are coming! Mr. Garrison told them that judgment would be laid to the line, and righteousness to the plummet; that it was under falsehood they were hiding themselves; and that they would all be <illegible> away when the flood came. Now where are they? Justice is now being done. Had they heard the warning words of the prophets, lamentation and mourning would not be now heard all over the land.
I am a peace man. For seventeen years, I have done what I could to abolish slavery and prevent war. You and your associates have done a vast deal more. Every warning has been uttered, every personal sacrifice has been made, every argument has been exhausted; still, the Government has gone on in its wicked course till justice has overtaken it. We are free from the blood of the slave; we have not brought on the war; why should we not be happy?
I will not forget to ask the question, where is the Church in this terrible struggle? Why is she not pouring in her petitions for the freedom of the bondman? Those who know her history for the last thirty years will not be at a loss to answer the question.
To every abolitionist in the land, I will say, LET ALL OUR SYMPATHIES BE WITH THE SLAVE!
Yours, for the redemption of man,
SEWARD MITCHELL.

A POOR INVESTMENT.
A little less than a year since, spending a leisure hour in Springfield, I called at the office of the Republican, and subscribed for the weekly issue one year. Abating the ability of this paper, which no one will doubt, I must say I have been sadly disappointed. True, I expected revelations of political conservatism and party trickery; but I was not prepared to witness such an entire absence of fairness and honesty for the cause of Liberty and Northern self-respect.
The editors allow no opportunity to pass, without showing a settled spleen and cherished bitterness toward the Abolitionists, and Wendell Phillips in particular. Not that they seem to dislike Charles Sumner less, but Wendell Phillips more. Many of the recent editorials would grace the columns of Bennett’s “Satanic” Herald. Take for instance a notice in the last number, of Mr. Phillips’s speech at Abington on the 1st of August:-
“Wendell Phillips made one of his most insane speeches at Abington on the 1st inst. He called in the name of God for the dissolution of the Union, and the laying of the corner stone of a new one; called President Lincoln a turtle and various other opprobrious names; abused pretty much all our Generals; made the false and silly assertion that ‘the Government fights to preserve slavery, and therefore fights in vain’; declared that ‘no public opinion will support Charles Sumner,’ which is true enough— ‘though a loyal Commonwealth stands behind him,’ which is not true in either sense, for the Commonwealth does not back him in his peculiar opinions and measures, while in the matter of loyalty and its sensi-
<c04>
ble and effective exhibition, the Commonwealth is an age ahead of him. Mr. Phillips considers the war, as at present conducted, as ‘without a reasonable object, and a total loss of blood and treasure.’ Smart rhetoric is an entertaining thing, and Mr. Phillips’s pungent sentences were received with delight by the old ladies and non-resistant men at Abington Grove; but no man who talks as Mr. Phillips does should make any claims to respect as a loyal man. It is a very strange style of loyalty that calls for the destruction of the Union in the name of God. Mr. Phillips is loyal only to the single idea of abolition, and has no regard for Constitution or laws, except as means to that end. It is at least creditable in him, that he has now openly abandoned the patriotic dodge, which he managed but awkwardly, and has returned to his old cry of down with the Union."
To all who heard the speech referred to, or who may have read the same so admirably reported in the last Liberator, comment is unnecessary. The Republicanism of the type here revealed, compares poorly with the words and work of some of the hard-shell. Democrats, who are honest enough to confess with Mr. Phillips that either the Union or slavery must perish. It is true now as of old, that while “publicans and harlots shall enter the kingdom of heaven, Scribes and Pharisees will wonder and perish."
My poor investment will soon end, and with it my patience for all such Republicans, who, in the name of Liberty, work to destroy the very corner-stone upon which it rests. Should Mr. Sumner be defeated, and his place in the U. S. Senate be filled by a time-server, the blame, and I may say everlasting shame, will in a great measure rest upon just such psuedo Republicans as feed upon the diatribes of the Springfield Republican. For, with the exception of the really excellent articles from the Boston correspondent, “Warrington,” this sheet is suited to any pro-slavery meridian. G. W. S.

DEATH OF ANTHONY BURNS.
The following letter from Rev. Hiram Wilson to Rev. Mr. Grimes, of Boston, announcing the decease of ANTHONY BURNS, of Fugitive-Slave Law notoriety, has been kindly furnished us for publication in the Liberator. Its intelligence will be received with regret by the friends of the colored race; for Mr. Burns gave promise of much usefulness in the field he had chosen, and showed himself to be “every inch a man.” His case has become historic, and will form a conspicuous figure in the drama of the times. It was signally overruled for good.
ST. CATHARINES, (C. W.,) July 28, 1862. REV. MR. GRIMES:
DEAR BROTHER—Having just returned from the burial of the Rev. ANTHONY BURNS, I feel it to be my duty to write you promptly respecting the termination of his earthly pilgrimage.
I am the more inclined to address you as a brotherly act, inasmuch as you took a deep interest in him in Boston, some years ago, raising the means of his ransom, and putting yourself in serious jeopardy to obtain his freedom, going down personally into the dark-and horrible prison-house of slavery in the South to accomplish so noble a purpose.
Anthony Burns is no more! His immortal spirit took its flight to the spirit-land at 3 o'clock yesterday (Sabbath) morning, after a decline of some four months, of consumption. Thanks to God, he “rests in peace.” Having called on him frequently, during his illness, to administer comfort and consolation to this worthy brother, I think the language of the Apocalypse justly applies in his case: “Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from henceforth; yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them."
Brother Burns gave me to understand, time and again, and expressed the same to others, that “all was well” with regard to his prospects for eternity. His illness was brought on, perhaps, by over-exertion and exposure, last winter and early spring, in trying to clear the Zion (Baptist) Church here of debt, of which he had been pastor for a year or more. Success attended his efforts; he not only cleared it of debt, but succeeded in making some important repairs, improvements, &c.; and when everything seemed to be going on prosperously, his health failed, and he was laid aside. It was a great trial to him, as he told me, to be laid aside from his active and useful labors. He retained a very affectionate remembrance of his friends at the East who had taken so much interest in him, and often spoke of them.
He was not confined to his bed till his case was of such a nature as to baffle the skill of physicians, and yet for a long time he seemed to have hopes of recovery; but the Lord was pleased to order it otherwise. During his protracted illness, a deep and tender sympathy was felt towards him by many of the colored people, and a considerable number of the white population. The members of his church were strongly attached to him. Some of the female members were untiring in their endeavors to contribute to his comfort; and I may add, that my own family took pleasure in doing all we could for his comfort, in the way of furnishing daily such nourishments as he could relish. The funeral to-day was truly a solemn and impressive scene. It took place at 3 o’clock, P. M. Some five or six ministers of the Gospel were present, and a large concourse of people. The services were conducted by Elder Cary. An appropriate hymn was sung, commencing-
“Servant of God, well done!
Rest from thy loved employ!
The battle fought, the victory won,
Enter thy Master’s joy!”
After prayer by the writer, part of the 15th chapt. I. Cor. was read by Elder Cary. Prayer was again offered by Rev. Mr. Norton, (Pres. minister.) In solemn silence the procession moved slowly to the Cemetery, about two miles east of the village of St. Catharine’s. At the grave, Rev. Mr. Hawkins, (colored,) Methodist, offered prayer in a very solemn and appropriate manner. He thanked God, on behalf of brother Burns, for the evidence that he was now “where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest”; that he was where he could no longer hear the clanking of the chains of slavery, nor pine and suffer within prison walls, but embosomed in the paradise of God forever. The concourse around his peaceful grave were mostly colored—the adults of whom, like himself, had fled from bondage; and yet there was quite a number of white people of various churches and different nationalities. While there consigning his mortal remains to the silent dust, I thought of the awful excitement a few years ago in Boston, attendant upon his arrest, and rendition to the hands of bloody men, who are now in open rebellion against the government, and against God and humanity. I seemed to have a sort of panoramic vision of the pro-slavery treachery—the arrest, the court proceedings, the mass meetings, the vast array of marshals and of the military, and the countless throngs of people blocking up the streets of Boston—his dark and awful doom as a victim of the Fugitive Slave Law, and the hellish exultations of the Slave Power on the one hand—while lamentations spread all over the coasts of New England, and rolled back to the Rocky Mountains. I thought of that iniquitous system as having culminated to the awful crisis now hanging over the American people. The name of Anthony Burns fills an important place in the history of events which led to the great conflict now pending between the marshalled hosts of freedom and the fiendish friends and minions of slavery, and will be pronounced with honor when the fetter shall have fallen from the limbs of millions of his suffering brethren.
Brother Burns was much respected in this quarter. Since he left Oberlin and came over into Canada, he has made good impressions where he lectured in various places. Mr. Cary, the Baptist minister here, has taken a very great interest in him, and would do any thing in his power to honor his memory. He is to preach his funeral sermon at the Zion Baptist Church, St. Catharine’s, (bro. Burns’s,) at 3 o’clock, P. M., second Sabbath of August
Very respectfully
Yours, in the gospel and love of Christ,
HIRAM WILSON.
<c05>
MR. GARRISON AT WILLIAMS COLLEGE
[From the Anti-Slavery Standard.]
Williams College, at Williamstown, Berkshire Co. (the oldest Orthodox College in Massachusetts,) not only holds a high literary rank, but has always been preeminent for conservatism. Its President, Rev. Mark Hopkins, D. D., is one of the Chief Rabbis of our American Israel, being President also of the American Board of Foreign Missions. Incredible as it may seem, one of the Literary Societies of this College chose for its orator this year, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, who not unwillingly accepted the appointment. His oration, which formed a part of the literary entertainment of Commencement week, was delivered on Monday, August 4. The only account that we have seen of it is in the following extract from the correspondence of the Springfield Republican:-
“The address of Mr. Garrison, before the Adelphic Union Society, was a wonderfully calm, dispassionate and inoffensive representation of the speaker’s well known views on the subject of emancipation. He took for his subject, ‘Our National Visitation’; and the timid people who expected all sorts of infidel propositions were pleasantly disappointed to hear a thoroughly Christian address, and one which contained a greater amount of direct quotations from the sacred Scriptures, we venture to say, than any sermon or oration that will find utterance in this town this week. To the great mass of the speaker’s propositions I could respond a hearty “Amen,” though there were points in which he was unfair and unjust, especially to the North. The address was wonderfully vitalized and wonderfully clear—with-out denunciation and without bitterness.
Ten years ago, Mr. Garrison said, the strength and security of the Union seemed infinite. Its dissolution seemed among the most improbable of all possible things. All declared that the Union must and should be preserved. To make it sure, Union-saving committees were organized, speeches were made, the shade of Washington was periodically invoked, and his farewell address repeated. Nothing was left undone to make the Union one and inseparable. Where is it now? Broken by the same Slave Power which dictated the terms of its formation, and there is no sign that its reestablishment is possible. The speaker gave a most graphic and impressive picture of the present condition of affairs, and the awful change that had been wrought in the brief space of twenty months. The justice of God has been too strong for us, and brought us down to the dust. Let people say what they may as to what is the cause of all our calamities, it remains that this heavy judgment is from God. To attribute it to the ambition of Southern politicians, or to the work of the handful of Northern Abolitionists, is to insult the Divine Majesty.
The adherents of European monarchies say that Democracy has been a failure. It has not been a failure in America, because it remains yet to be tried here. Democracy embraces all men. The rule of slavery in this country is despotism, in its severest form. A Democratic slave State is as ridiculous an anomaly as an idolatrous Christian State. The American revolution was not a struggle for the rights of human nature, but for colonial independence. To this day human liberty is not comprehended in this country. Half a million of slaves in ’76 have swelled to four million in 1860; and nothing has been so unpopular, nothing has been so dangerous, for the last thirty years, as to advocate their emancipation. If to enslave a man on the shores of Africa be a piratical act, so is it in the slave States of America. If freedom is good for one man, it is good for all men.
In speaking of the dangers of emancipation, as they are believed in by the public, Mr. Garrison gave a long and interesting sketch of emancipation in St. Domingo and the British West Indies, and stated that all the facts and statistics which he gave, though trite and familiar to every Abolitionist, are unknown to the great masses of the American people, who really suppose that West India Emancipation has been ruinous. The speaker held the South responsible for instituting the war. She had not a grievance. She had had everything her own way from the formation of the government, and still held things in her own hands. But the North is morally responsible, to a fearful extent, by its concessions, by its defences of slaveholding, by its denunciations of the only class which has opposed the wrong, by pro-slavery mobs, and by the proscription of colored people upon our own soil. While the North is innocent of every crime which is charged upon it by the South, she must remember her past complicity with slavery. He thought that so far, however, the North had manifested very little penitence for her sins, and very little humiliation in view of them.
Mr. Garrison closed with a long plea for the immediate emancipation of the blacks as the only means of ending the war. We could never have again the Union and the Constitution as they were. His arguments did not differ from those with whom he sympathizes, as they have been given to the public in newspapers, and the arguments themselves, are nothing more, really, than assertions. The address was a strong and earnest thing, and given in admirable spirit. Indeed, I do not doubt that it will rank among the best of the week. It certainly, though thinly attended, met with a hearty reception and response."
The thin attendance was doubtless attributable, in part, to religious prejudice, the fruit of years of misrepresentation, but more still, probably, to the unusual circumstance, for such an occasion, that every auditor had to pay twenty-five cents before entering the church.—Ed. Anti-Slavery Standard.

THE PROGRESS OF IDEAS.
It was a philosopher of olden time that persisted in saying, under very discouraging circumstances, that “the world does move.” But his persecutors could not see it, and therefore not only would not believe in such a monstrous heresy themselves, but were determined that no one else should. The philosophers of to-day not only believe that the world commenced to move a good many years ago, but has since continued to. Human progress is slow under all circumstances, but the great change in public opinion on the leading topics of the day, within the last year, is so marked that he is a very blind man who can’t perceive that at least the animate world is moving towards Christian toleration and human perfection. We are as much reminded of it as from any other circumstance, when we read in the newspapers that a hitherto very unpopular individual, unpopular because he has advocated opinions that the multitude could not understand, has been selected to deliver addresses at our college commencements. This week Wm. Lloyd Garrison, who has made it his especial duty for the last thirty years to rebuke the nation for slaveholding, and has been reviled for it, has been to Williamstown, and delivered an address on his favorite topic before one of the college societies, and even Dr. Holland, of the Springfield Republican, states that “it was the address of the week."
When an institution of learning invites Wm. Lloyd Garrison to deliver an address, a man who has scarcely seen the inside of a college, and who graduated from an obscure printing office, and claims the world as his alma mater, then there is reason to believe that what he has said and written has found response in the hearts of the young men who are to go out into the world to take an active part in the affairs of life.
Mr. Garrison has labored zealously for what seemed to him an all-important idea, against obstacles that few would have had the courage to encounter. He has been misrepresented, despised, mobbed, and almost crucified, for opinion’s sake; yet he has never deviated from what he considered absolute truth. Whether his opinions have always been right or wrong, it is not our purpose now to discuss, but we do believe that no candid person can otherwise than admire his devotion to his convictions of right. Mr. Garrison is not what would be considered a practical man—one who could adapt himself and his philosophy to surrounding circumstances, and move on without coming in collision with some of the prevailing opinions of the day. He is an agitator by nature, and so long as there are evils to be reformed, he would regard it as a duty to call public attention to them. So long as there are so many that are always ready to sacrifice right for expediency, it is well that there are some who are willing to hold up the standard of absolute truth. The honor conferred on him by Williams College must be gratifying to himself and friends, especially after having labored so long to convince the people of the sin of slaveholding.—Northampton Free Press.
The guerrilla forces in Missouri are estimated at from five to eight thousand men.
<c06>
AN APPEAL IN BEHALF OF THE PERSECUTED COLORED CITIZENS OF THE FREE STATES.
Last evening, a large and attentive congregation was assembled in Shiloh Presbyterian Church, Prince street, to hear an appeal in behalf of the persecuted colored citizens of the Free States, by the Rev. Henry Highland Garnet, pastor of the church.
He commenced his discourse by setting forth the disadvantages under which his people in the Free States were laboring, the insults and the assaults to which they were subjectd by the prejudices of the dominant class. He said, if the question is asked by what agencies has this alarming and discreditable state of things been produced;—by what power has one class of the community been arrayed against another— the strong against the weak—the many against the few;—you all know what influences have consummated the sad work. Enemies have been busy among us—enemies to a weak and oppressed people—enemies to law and order, and enemies to the Government under which they live, and to the principles of the Christian religion. It cannot be denied that a limited portion of the newspaper press of this city, and a few in other sections of our country, have been the principal instigators of this murderous mob movement Foremost in this seditious and bloody crusade are the N. Y. Herald and the N. Y. Express. He described the slanderous and mischievous course of all such journals, and charged that whatever the consequences might be, their conductors would be held responsible. He continued: Brethren, I call you to bear witness, that this crusade was commenced against us simultaneously with the beginning of the rebellion. Mark that. Now, it is my opinion that all this is an important part of the programme of this bloody secession drama. Let me tell you why I believe this. The sagacious leaders of the rebellion knew that their success depended upon these three things. 1. The services of their slaves to slaves to feed their army and build their fortifications, and to perform all other necessary labor. Second, The division of Northern sentiment in regard to the war. Third, To create <illegible> strong a prejudice against the free colored people in the North, as to keep them out of the Union army. And this plan has thus far been successfully carried out. Their Northern emissaries have been as devoted to their duty, as the not more active slaveholding traitors. He appealed to his people and all their trials to be calm, cautious and manly in whatever they said or did. He urged them to nobly bear insult and vituperation, and to remember that words cannot harm a noble mind, although they may wound the feelings. A gallant and dignified bearing would do more to disarm malice, and to make friends, than an attempt to avenge every trifling insult.
In reference to the character of his people, he said: We do not claim for ourselves perfection; yet I affirm, and am sustained by statistics, that we are as industrious, and as sober, and as provident, as the corresponding classes of our white fellow-citizens. The most of our people belong to the laboring classes, and it is seen by our school reports that we have a larger number of children in the Public Schools of this city than the same class have among the whites. It is proverbial that we have but few beggars among us, and we have fewer persons of our race supported by public charity, in proportion to our number, than any other class of people. Driven, as we have been by the power of caste, and negro-hate from nearly every lucrative employment, yet we live comfortably and respectably. With our scanty earnings we support our churches and institutions of benevolence.
We declare without fear of contradiction, that we are loyal to the Government under which we were born, and under which we live, and have never failed, as a class, to obey the laws of the land.
At the very commencement of the rebellion, thousands of our men offered their services to the Government; and although in every instance they have been rejected with scorn and insults, many from this and other congregations of the city have joined the army as menials, rather than not be permitted to go at all. There are to-day in this city, and throughout the North and South, tens of thousand who are ready and anxious to peril their lives in defence of the Government whenever they are called as free citizen soldiers—not to be armed only with the spade and pickax, but to be armed and equipped as the law requires, and then they will be ready to fight or dig as they are commanded. 
He concluded his eloquent discourse with an appeal to Christians and Christian ministers to consider well their duties and obligations in this whole matter, and advised all to seek counsel from God the great commander and leader of armies.-New York Tribune.
"WE KNOW NOT WHERE ELSE SO MUCH AUTHENTIC INTELLIGENCE OF THE REBELLION CAN BE OBTAISED."
"No OTHER WORK POSSESSES THE VALUE WORK <illegible> WORK OF REFERENCE."
“IT IS RELIABLE, COMPLETE, AND DESIRABLE”

THE
Rebellion Record,
EDITED BY FRANK MOORE,
Is the only publication which gives the HISTORY OF THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR FREE GOVERNMENT NOW GOING ON
IT IS
Full, Impartial and Reliable.
A RECORD WHICH THE COURTS, THE DEPARTMENTS AND THE PRESS quote as the
HISTORY OF THE TIMES.
It appeals to the intelligence of every citizen. By reference to it, every person can be fairly and truthfully posted up in relation to this
GREAT REBELLION.
IT CONTAINS,-I.,
The Causes of the Great Struggle and the Great Issues before the Country,
BY EDWARD EVERETT.
II.
A DIARY OF VERIFIED EVENTS:
Commencing with the meeting of the South Carolina Convention, Dec. 17th, 1860–giving, in the form of a Diary, a concise, succinct, and truthful history of every event as it occurs.
III.
Documents, Speeches, Extended Narratives, etc.,
CONSISTING OF ALL THE
OFFICIAL REPORTS OF BATTLES, SKIRMISHES, &c., MESSAGES AND PROCLAMATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
SPECIAL ORDERS, &c. &c.
GRAPHIC ACCOUNTS of the Movements of Troops, IMPORTANT SPEECHES AND LETTERS, from leading Men, North and South.
PICTURESQUE NARRATIVES, (from eye-witnesses) of the GREAT BATTLES, SECESSION ORDINANCES, MESSAGES, PROCLAMATIONS, &c.
IV.
Rumors, Incidents, Patriotic Songs and Ballads. Illustrated with correct Portraits, engraved on steel, of the NOTABLE MEN OF THE TIME, AND WITH MAPS AND DIAGRAMS OF THE PLANS OF BATTLES.
The Rebellion Record
Is publishing in PARTS, each Part Illustrated with TWO FINE PORTRAITS, 50 cents each
ALSO, IN VOLUMES.
Six Parts, with Copious Index, comprise a Volume.
NOW READY,
VOLUMES ONE, TWO AND THREE.
Bound in cloth, $3,75 each; sheep, $4.00; half <illegible> or half calf antique, $5.00 each.
A NEW EDITION,
Sold EXCLUSIVELY by Canvassers and Agents, is now publishing in Nos. at 25 cents each. Each number illustrated with a Portrait on steel.
G.P. PUTNAM, Publisher,
532 BROADWAY, New York
C. T. EVANS, GEN. AGENT.
