THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT
231 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO, 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS– Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, is advance.
Five copies will be send to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the peenuiary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisments inserted at the rate of five cents per line:
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:– WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; that, under that state a of things, so far from its being true that the State. where slavery exists have the exclusive of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITES STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGREES extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power…. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACR OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martialarray, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.” –J. Q. ADAMS
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 39. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1651.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
A specimen of the Boston post’s “Democracy”!
THE ABOLITIONISTS.
Radieal, Garrisonian Abolitionism is not a cause nor a principle. It is an unhealthy excitement. It is based on the wildest and most indefinite vagaries. It is a sort of disease with a set of people who are full of caprice and bed humors. It comes of sentimentality, and not of philosophy. Its advocates are the men who, in all other respects, in business and in the ordinary managements of affairs, are the unwisest counsellors, the most dangerous guides, and the most thiftless laborers. They are the impracticable and awry members of American society. They are ideal and sentimental. They have intelligence, ability and disputative power; but their intelligence, ability and disputative power are of such a sort that they always falls suddenly sort of the full healthy reson. The peculiar cut and features of these men mark them at once. Bright but shallow; eager but erratic: earnest but adrift. No mater what the cause, they push it it to an extreme. They clutch at idea. But not at its surroundings; they pursue it, but forgot them. conceiving that an end is desirable, they rush on to attain it, regardless of consequences, overturning everything. doing incalculable injury, subverting all good institutions. They are reckless and unforeseeing inconolasts. They can see that slavery is wrong, and ought to be abolished. But they do not see what disastrous consequences its abolition, effected in their way, would involve. They forgot the maxim, which underlies the foundation of all right morals- that we shall not do evil that good may come. Nay, priding themselves on their regard for higher law, they are the first to break it. They hang ten innocent men to punish one guilty one. In order to secure the abolition of slavery, they proceed, with a deliberate declaration of their purpose, to embroil the country in civil fends,- to snap asunder all the bonds of good feeling and fraterrial love on which the Union rests,- to break down under the weight of redicule and attack the seared arch of the constitution, though they know it is our only palladium of good order and social harmony,-to upon the land the horrors of civil war,- to put to shame the civilization of the 13th century by renewing bloody triumphs and military regime of the dark ages,- to lay waste cornfields,- to burn villages,- to butcher men,- to lead out captains and soldiers like sheep to the slaughter. And yet they are honorable men!
Abolitionism is a sentiment so mock and unhealthy that it has perverted the good sense of its adherents, and filled the community with a sham and pretentious political pharisaism. The women, who
“have no other than a women’s reason,”
have found it a fertile theme. With it they have filled the ears of sentimental men in office and out, out office. Young ninnies in the pulpit have made it an excellent subject for their vapid eloquence. All the narrow and peaked men had learned that it is an easy sort of virtue, and a cheap sort of charity to dwell upon the sufferings of a class of people too far off for receiving actual assistance- and to offer a noisy sympathy, which costs nothing but the disruption of the government under which we live. The office-seekers have found this mock sentiment a bountiful help to them. They enlarge upon it at all times. They profess it stoutly. They appeal to the hearts and the tears of men and women. They, too, talk of the higher law-though they have no idea what it means. They use the commonplaces about enormity, and wrong, and chains. They, too, do what they can to disorganize and disrupt. They throw dust on the Constitution and its restraints. And they, too, are ready to do what they can do destroy the union, in order to secure the abolition of slavery.
These Abolitionists, as might expected, are the most intolerant of beings. They profess liberlism, but they are bigots. They assume to themselves all goodness. They are impatient of all views that conflict with their own. They are the salt of the earth. They go about full of vague ideas of reform, and of, abolishing evils. Adrift on the yeasty surface of American life, impractical men, who are unable to earn a living in homely ways-pricked with some of radical and efferveseent notions of the day, they talk of doing good, of putting down wrong, and think that they want to be Luthers and Husses. But they deceive themselves. They do not know that they are the victims of a restless ambition-that they labor not to do good, but with indefinite visions of having their names in anti-slavery prints, of marking a speech in anti-slavery meetings, of getting cheap martyrdom out of hisses and egg-shells and undangerous arrests, and of being patted on the shoulder by the women and dreamers, who write abolition on books and poems.
It really weakens one’s faith in human nature that a class of people of considerable intelligence and ability- such as the Abolitionists- professing to be governed only by the higher law, should so often infringe it, and fall so far sort of all christian sweetness and humility. Some allowance is undoubtedly to be made for people, who are stung for being laughed at for their ridiculous behaviour, and there are, to be sure, among them, men of some culture and grace, who, because they cannot help a feeling of mortification at finding themselves herded with the shawls and long hair, the narrow views and intense prejudices of the anti-slavery agitators, fortify their spirits by venting their spleen in a sort of bitter eloquence. But making all allowance for them, can these men tell us why, with such high pretension of goodness, they are so irascible and unforgiving; why they hate everything but blacks and Abolitionists; why they get together in the groves and halls, and use such abusive and scalding words; why they attack the president and the Federal Generals; why they see no good in any save the extremists of their own sect; why they hold up John Brown as their modal of a man, and so, to their shame be it said, incite the worst anarchy, the blackest treason, the foulest murder, the most dangerous civil commotions leading to revolutions and mobs, and a state of things in which no man shall have any other rule than that of his own frenzy or fancy; why they write stories like John Lamer and the White Slave, and numberless others, in which they appeal to the worst passions of the human breast, from which no reader, especially none of the readers for whose benefit they were intended, can rise without a temptation in his heart to take life, and in which are artfully suggested assassination- the slaughter of men and women in their beds; why they, who send tracts and Sunday school books to contrabands, desire with their whole heart to see Negro insurrections, and encourage them by citing former ones in minute and horrible detail for appetizers; why they-the elite of morality-ignore the rules of war, the compacts of nations, and invade private rights and destroy private property, and do no urge upon public notice their schemes for wholesale confiscation as to rid our cause of the sympathy of the world, and to make the
<c02>
disinterested nation of Europe look on the efforts of, the accurested Rebels with interest and favor; why they ridicule the Constitution, and make light of breaking it, whenever in their judgment the circumstanees of any case demand, craftily concealing the fact that the integrity of the Constitution and the right conduct of affairs are things not incompatible, and wiekedly advising the people, even though it be a time of agitation, when no man’s mind has any true guides of its own, to throw away the landmarks of precedent to break through the wholesome restraints of the Great Compact to act without reference to anybody’s rights or claims to do anything, however false, to our institutions or our laws or the laws of nations, and so to superinduce a state of confusion, in which there is no law but each man’s views of circumstances, and so no law but that of might– a state forerunning Reigns of Terror and Days of Military Despotism. And yet they are honorable men!
You have heard these Abolitionists on the platform. But you never heard them talk with anything like Christian kindness. They are ascetic and jaundiced men. They are jealous, bitter and arrogant. They seem to be full of venom and spleen. Something rankles in their hearts. They speak no good of any. They rail, and abuse, and call hard names. But thereby they fail of influence or success. For what have they done? They have retarded and for many years to come defeated the spontaneous abolition of slavery in some of the Border States. By attacking the institution of slavery, they have put its protectors on the alert, and have thus tightened the chains of the slave. They have made our great political parties sectional parties. They have embroiled an united people in mutual jealousies and hate. They have kindled volcanoes under the earth. They have broken the arch of the union asunder. They have, moreover, divided the councils and strength of the North in the present contest. They have given the rebels handles for apology and pretence in the eyes of the world. They have fettered the conduct of the war by hanging about it incidental and needless but vexatious questions.
And still they cannot see. Their heads arc still full of schemes of emancipation, confiscation, and what not As if abolition of the negroes were possible when we cannot even get at them! As if it were anything to issue proclamations for the emancipation of the slaves, when we have not even broken through the ranks of their masters! As if such proclamations would inspire the blacks to action, when it is true that they would never see them, and that they show as yet no disposition to lift a hand in their own aid, but, poor, ignorant wretches that they are, seem to know no other allegiance and to want no other liberty than such as they already possess! As if the wishes or prejudices even of the Border States were of no consequence, as if they were a hindrance more than a help to us, when even with their aid substantial aid in the form of regiments and full quotas we are still struggling, buffeted with reverses, to reduce their insurgent sisters !
No one is more aware of the evils of slavery than are we. No one more desires its abolition by those agencies which have it under their jurisdiction. But we cannot help feeling that in these trying days of the Republic, there is something better than Abolitionism and Abolitionist, –something better than complaint and dyspeptic hate, and abuse by men in; Kossuth hats,- something better than insisting on the emancipation of slaves whom we have not in hand, even had we the power, to emancipate. Emancipation is nothing, “circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing,” but there must needs be stout arms and willing hearts ready to do battle and fight for the flag. There is such a thing as a hearty support of the President in his efforts to crush the rebellion. There is such a thing as ignoring, as he declares he ignores, every other question, and expending all our treasure, and putting forth all our strength, in the struggle to maintain the integrity of the government, to overcome this impious rebellion, and preserving the Constitution as it is, to restore the Union as it was. Boston Post.
THE RADICAL FACTION OF THE NORTH
It cannot be and ought not to be overlooked that the demand for more men for the army is made necessary by the conduct of the radical faction of the North, in Congress and out of it. Well might Mr. Lincoln say to one of the rabid Senators who declared to him that we were not more than a mile from a certain unnamable place for want of an emancipation policy, that the mile was just about the distance from the Presidential mansion to the building in which Congress assembles. We have had occasion before now to compare some of the exhibitions in the Capitol of the country to an assembly in Pandemonium, which is the same thing as in an outright Abolition meeting; and we are glad to see that our Chief Magistrate coincides with us in opinion.
In fact, while we have been emancipating and confiscating, or threatening both, which had the same effect, the Confederates have been concentrating. Our mad and reckless action has nerved their hearts to self-defence, until we see with what ardor and unanimity they resist our forces, and to what vast proportions a rebellion, derided a year ago, as so insignificant and so easily to be reduced, has reached. We say that this has been owing to the conduct of the radical emancipation faction, and to nothing else. Without that, peace might have been obtained before this, with no loss of national honor, and no sacrifice of any principle valuable to any true American citizen. There would have been battles, no doubt, and losses of life: but with unquestioned right on our side, and with every motive of reason and true interest to weaken the force of the rebels, they must have broken long ago, had we avoided those measures which have stirred them up to such fury, which have made them believe they were fighting for a real cause, instead of the delusion with which they set out, and which now calls for such a large and indispensable accession to our forces.
We hold, then, the men who have thus urged those measures which have protracted and aggravated the war, and which now make such larger sacrifices of life and treasure necessary, responsible for the result—and to all generations they will be held traitors and parricides, if their mad conduct brings about the final ruin of their country. Of this state of the case we believe the President is now well aware, and that he is conscious there in no safety for the country but for him to throw himself upon the support of the supporters of the Union and the Constitution, and to leave the rest to do their worst— which is little enough when they are disregarded, as they deserve to be. What now we want is an army powerful enough to make resistance at Richmond futile: and when that city falls, we may look for events which we trust will make the question between the sections of the country no longer one of war, but as the means to make and to secure peace. —Boston Courier.
<c03>
A RECONSTRUCTED CABINET
It may be instructive to consider into what sort of hands the government would fall if the Cabinet were reconstructed in subservience to the ideas of the ultra emancipationists. Such a reconstruction would necessarily carry with it a change in the head of the army; for at present we suppose General Halleck is a more influential adviser of the President than almost any member of the Cabinet. In the re-cast which we here present, we are quite sure that we include the names of the ablest and most eminent champions of the new policy attempted to be thrust upon the President: Charles Sumner, Secretary of State; Gerrit Smith, Secretary of the Treasury; Henry Ward Beecher, Secretary of the Navy; Horace Greeley, Secretary of the Interior; Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Postmaster General; Wendell Phillips, Attorney General; John C. Fremont, General-in-Chief of the Army.
These are unquestionably the eight most distinguished emancipationists in the country; preeminent among all their compeers for ability, influence, and thorough identification with the cause. And yet, if this Cabinet were appointed, there is no intelligent man in the country, who would not think the government in their hands like a ship in the rapids above Niagara Falls. Even in the smoothest of ordinary times, these men could not carry on the government. They are mere spouters, agitators, and extremists; facile phrasemakers and adepts in vituperative rhetoric, but notoriously destitute of the solidity of judgment, political sagacity, and experience in affairs requisite for conducting a government in a period of convulsion. But, strange to say, it is insisted that the crude notions of this set of men shall be the chart and compass of the Administration. But if Mr. Lincoln is to follow their advice or submit to their dictation, why not take them into the Cabinet, where he can have the full advantage of the superior sagacity that assumes to sit in judgment on his present policy, and pronounces it weak, timid, and foolish?
If the cast of a Cabinet here indicated is absurd to the degree of being grotesque, we can only say that we nave made the best use of the materials. The positions assigned to Sumner, Clay, Greeley, and Fremont are precisely those their own friends would select for them if they were to be put in high office at all. We have given Gerrit Smith the Treasury for no other reason than that he is a gentleman of wealth. Though Phillips was bred a lawyer, we dare say he would make as queer an Attorney General as Mr. Beecher would Secretary of the Navy. The truth is, the whole suggestion is an application to the Abolition denouncers of the Administration of a practical reduction absurdum, by placing in a clear light the utter incompetency to administer the government of the set of men who claim a monopoly of political wisdom. —New York World.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier:
“White spirits and black—red spirits and grey–
Mingle, mingle, mingle you that mingle may.
I was an eye-witness to an event a few days since, which I then thought trivial enough in its character, and of probable daily occurrence in the vicinity in which it happened. It has, however, assumed a more important aspect since the publication of Mr. Sumner’s letter to the Worcester Convention With your leave, I will relate it. On a warm day, with the thermometer indicating about 85 degrees in Walnut street, Ward 6—Mr. Sumner’s “own Ward” – that Ward which has just honored him, by so far adopting his sentiments, as to send a negro or two to represent its citizens at the Republican Convention –there was to be seen, a Negro-stalwart in frame– uncontaminated by any mixture of white blood in his veins, to all appearance, lounging up the street– with a white female; his arm encircling her neck in close embrace and she by no means reluctant. Is this not significant of the approaching end so much desired by the honorable Senator and is not this act as “bright,” as “touching,” and as “suggestive,” as that which Banks has borne witness to, and which Sumner dwells on so emphatically? And when art shall hereafter record in dusky colors that scene of the negro girl riding on a cannon, shall not the incident I relate be also commemorated by the same artist as a fitting pendant?
A WHITE MAN
Selection
GENERAL FREMONT.
HOW HE CAME TO BE RELIEVED OF HIS COMMAND IN WESTERN VIRGINIA.
At this moment, when our country needs the inspiring voice and strong arms of all her sons, it is well to inquire why one of her representative Generals is permitted to remain idle from active service. All the information which has been given to the public of this important event in the history of the war is the order of Mr. Stanton relieving Fremont, quoting as the reason from a portion of the General’s dispatch, that “he could not with self-respect serve under his subordinate officers.” There are additional facts connected with this matter, which the people will be interested to learn. And most important of all is this:–
Gen. Fremont never asked nor thought he should be relieved from active service. He still believed that he was in command of the Mountain Department.
For a clear understanding of this affair, it is necessary to go back to the moment when Gen. Fremont received at Franklin a telegram from the President, begging him to come to the relief of Banks, who was flying; before the. overpowering columns of Jackson Instantly responding to this call, Fremont moved his forces back on the line of his supplies, filled the bellies of his half-starved troops with food, and their knapsacks with five days’ rations; leaving wagons and baggage behind. He made that most extraordinary march of one hundred miles over the mountains, and struck the rear guard of Jackson’s army at Strnsburg. Then commenced that pursuit, conducted with such untiring energy and rare military skill, ending in the crowning victory of Cross Keys. Let me say here, that the escape of Jackson by burning the bridge behind him at Port Republic has never been laid to the charge of Fremont. With his weak but heroic band of 10,000 noble men, he accomplished all that mortal man could accomplish.
By order of the President, he then fell back upon Mt. Jackson, and subsequently upon Strasburg. At that time, the writer heard both Generals Banks and Sigel express their opinions of the necessity of a consolidation of the forces in Western Virginia, and the justice of appointing Fremont to the command in chief, as he was entitled to such a distinction by virtue of his rank, and the brilliant campaign just ended: and they said openly, that they would be glad to serve under him. The news of
<c04>
the appointment of Gen. Pope to the Army of Virginia, which, under the new order, was to embrace the entire forces in the Valley, came upon all with the suddenness of a clap of thunder from a clear sky.
At once, Gen. Fremont asked for ten days’ leave of absence. He did not suppose that he was deprived of his former command; he could not understand the nature of his new position. All of this could have been determined in a few minutes’ conversation with Mr. Lincoln. Besides, he needed rest; he was sick with fever and fatigue. The answer to his despatch was curt and decided: “No; stay with your command.” Aside from the question of rank, which, though important, was a subordinate one, Fremont’s personal relations with Gen. Pope were of such an unfriendly character, as to render a service, under him absolutely impossible. He therefore asked to be relieved from the command of the “First Army Corps of the Army of Virginia.” Before Gen. Fremont could obtain any answer from Washington, he received two telegrams from Gen. Pope, one of which informed him that there no longer existed any such thing as the “Mountain Department.”
I am sure that the foregoing revelations of facts and explanations, hitherto unpublished, which never could have come from the lips of the Pathfinder himself, will be gladly welcomed by the many thousands to whom the results of the campaign in Western Virginia have been a most unsatisfactory mystery.
This communication is addressed to you by one who has no higher thought nor more absorbing purpose than the welfare of his dear mother-land, the interest of freedom, the upholding of the great Democratic Idea. He knows Fremont to be a true man, a single-hearted patriot, and he hopes yet to see him where Fremont best loves to be, in the front rank of the nation’s defenders. CROSS KEYS. —Boston Transcript.
WASHINGTON AND FREMONT.
To the Editors of the Evening Post:
In your paper of Monday, October 13, 1856, will be found a very long and very able editorial article entitled “Washington and Fremont,” designed to show some striking coincidences in respect to the character, position, persistency and baseness of the respective defamers and slanderers of the two men.
It has occurred to me as highly proper to continue the parallel thus commenced, by calling attention to an incident in the life of Washington, strikingly similar to the supersedure of Fremont.
In the fall of 1754, one of the darkest periods in the colonial history of Virginia, when the French were <illegible> on all hands, and with their Indian allies were pressing down upon her frontiers, Gov. Dinwiddie thought it a fit time to reorganize the forces of the colony. By this arrangement, Washington, who had been a Colonel, with an independent command, and as such had received the thanks of the House of Burgesses for the sagacity and courage with which he had conducted his campaign, was degraded to the rank of Captain, and placed under the command of officers whom he had theretofore outranked, and had often commanded. Washington, “with a soldier’s just feelings,” as Sargent says, (History of Braddock’s ex.) at once resigned, though extremely anxious to serve the colony. On the fact becoming public, he was solicited by many, including the Governor of Maryland, to continue in the service with the same rank, nominally, as before; but Washington refused, saying, “I shall have the consolation of knowing that I have opened the way, when the smallness of our numbers exposed us to the attacks of a superior enemy; and that I have had the thanks of my country for the services I have rendered.”
Of this affair Sparks, in his life of Washington, (page 56,) says, “Such a degradation, of course, was not to be submitted to by a high-minded man.” And Chief Justice Marshall remarks, (Life of Washington, vol. 1, p. 29,) “Colonel Washington possessed too entirely the proud and punctilious feelings of a soldier to submit to a degradation so humiliating as this. Professing his unabated inclination to continue in the service, be retired indignantly from it, and answered the various letters which he received, pressing him still to hold his commission, with assurances that he should do so with pleasure when he should be enabled to do so without dishonor.”
And Burke, in his History of Virginia, discussing this matter, says, (vol. 3, p. 19,) “...He (Washington) was determined to discountenance, by his own example at least, an insult which, if carried into precedent, would have the most injurious effects on the character and courage of his countrymen.”
Irving (vol. 1, p. 45) notices this incident, and applauds the conduct of Washington.
I have no desire, even if it were proper, to comment upon these matters. I only wish to present them in their historic aspects: others can make such observations as may seem fit.
ONE OF THE PEOPLE.
CRIME AND INFAMY.
Whatever criticisms may be made on the treatment of “the nigger” by the directors of the war for the Union, it is certain that those on the other side have pursued a vigorous, straightforward, consistent policy. Before even the bombardment of Sumter, a free black man in the service of the United States, who fell into the hands of the Rebels at the South, was at once consigned to slavery. Three free blacks recently captured by a Rebel force in Kentucky were without ceremony sold as slaves. (We say three, because that particular instance is reported; the number actually so treated has probably been thousands.) It is a standing complaint of Kentucky and Tennessee Unionists of the “conservative” sort, that the Rebels have stolen more negroes in one year than the Abolitionists have done in forty. This, we doubt not, is true; but it should in fairness be added that the Abolitionists freed those they are accused of stealing, while the Rebels enslave their booty, or at least perpetuate its enslavement.
The facts in regard to those kidnapped on the 30th ult. on the battle-field near Manassas Junction are established by concurrent testimony from both sides. Here is the statement of one of our correspondents, who relates what he saw and heard:—
“The ambulances were soon filled, and started for the orchard rendezvous, not, however, before a violation of the flag of truce by some Southern men, who took four or five colored drivers off their seats.
An English gentleman, present as a volunteer, made a strong remonstrance in the case of a free colored man of Washington, whom a scoundrel in citizen’s clothing, with a major’s star on the collar of his greasy coat, had claimed. This man, dismounting from his horse, after remarking that he did not care whether the negro was a slave or not, took him by the collar, and, with the words, ‘I’ll make a slave of you, and a slave yon are from this moment,’ dealt him a flat-handed blow on the cheek, which drew a rush of tears from the eyes of the trembling wretch.
<c05>
The rest of the Rebels looked on approvingly, and the fellow turned to the Englishman, and asked him what he had to say to that? The reply that the flag of truce recognizes as sacred all beneath its folds, and that he had grossly violated it, made not the least impression. Other officers of the Confederate army, to whom remonstrance was made, utterly disclaimed such proceedings, and said that Gen. Lee, to whom they would report the outrage, would doubtless return the negroes, if he could find them.”
Now read the corroborative statement of the Richmond Examiner of the 5th inst:—
“A flag of truce was sent a day or two after the last battle by the enemy, asking permission to bury their dead. It was granted. Soon after a regiment of negroes, armed with spades, appeared, and after performing their work, they were very properly taken in charge by our troops, most of them being runaway contrabands.”
Here, it will be noted, are two distinct outrages, but occurring on the same battle-field, involving the same principles, and displaying an identical spirit. The Rebel writer glories in a state of facts quite as flagrant as that alleged by our correspondent. Let us look at its essential features:
I. In the battle of Saturday, August 30th, Gen. Pope’s army—owing to the refusal of Gens. Fitz John Porter, Franklin and Griffin (acting, as they allege, under orders from Gen. McClellan) to obey Gen. Pope’s orders, and take part in it—were worsted and driven from the field, leaving it covered with their dead and wounded.
II. Hacks with their drivers were impressed in Washington by Gen. Wadsworth to go down to the relief of our wounded. Many of the drivers of these backs were colored men. Other colored men, the Examiner says, were sent by our Generals to bury their dead.
III. The Rebels (on Sunday) held the battle-field. They did not bury our dead. They did not (perhaps they could not) care for our wounded. But they gave us permission to do both, under a flag of truce. Our nurses and our grave-diggers went upon the battle-field accordingly, under the protection of this flag.
IV. While there, doing what they were sent and had permission to do, and not accused or suspected of doing anything else, the colored drivers of our carriages for the wounded, the colored diggers of graves for our dead heroes, were seized by Rebel officers, made prisoners, and consigned to slavery! There was a pretence that some of them were fugitives from slavery to Rebels, but this (though it could in no wise excuse the outrage) was sheer humbug. “Most of them were runaway contrabands,” says the Richmond Examiner. But had they all been runaway murderers and parricides, that could not have justified the truce-breaking. They were within the Rebel lines by consent, and for a specified purpose. Their enslavement, under such circumstances, was theft aggravated by perjury. “I don’t care whether you are a slave or not,” said the Rebel Major to one of them; “I’ll make a slave of you;” and striking him a blow in the face, he took him into possession.
We do not know that what we have to call our Government will effectually resent this outrage. Probably it will not. But a Government that tamely suffers such is on the high road to be placed beyond further suffering.—New York Tribune.
TREASON IN WASHINGTON.
Let us review, briefly, the important operations of the war.
THE CAMPAIGN OF THE POTOMAC.
 For seven months the Grand Army of the Potomac wasted away inactive in front of Washington. From the first of October to the day when it advanced upon Manassas, in March, there was never a day when, well handled, it could not have swept before it, like chaff, the rebel force between it and Richmond. Up to the 15th of January, it is now known to the public, and was then known to General McClellan, there were never at one time over 42,000 in the enemy’s entrenchments. There was not a Major General in the army, there was not a military man in Washington outside of McClellan’s staff who entertained the slightest doubt that that army should move and could move upon the enemy with the certainty of victory. Gen. McClellan himself authorized Mr. Secretary Chase to assure the New York capitalists in November, that he should immediately advance. Early in December he made to Members of Congress the most positive declarations that he should not go into winter quarters. Why did he not attack the enemy? Even after being urged, implored, peremptorily ordered by the President, why did he hold back? There can be but one answer. That secret, malignant, traitorous influence which controlled him did not intend that the rebel armies should be defeated in battle or captured. This, as Mr. Seward had said, “would aggravate existing evils,” and look too much like an “attempt at coercion which would assume the form of direct war against a revolutionary State.” Who informed the rebel commanders that at length he was compelled to advance? Was it accidental that, after he received the positive order of the President, he delayed just long enough to give the rebels time to remove everything but the “quaker guns”?
 Why, having reached Manassas, did he not fellow the retreating enemy? Why that exhausting march back, not to their comfortable huts, but to bivouac in the worst weather of winter around Alexandria?
Then followed
THE PENINSULA CAMPAIGN.
Who adopted that insane expedition? McClellan’s natural inclinations would have led him to, creep on by way of Manassas. That campaign could not have originated in his brain. Every military man of any capacity in Washington disapproved of it,—every member of the Cabinet, Secretary Stanton, General Hitchcock,—all opposed it Why was it adopted? The power behind the throne.
When the expedition was decided upon. General McClellan selected the corps be wished, had every man he asked for assigned to him, and agreed that 55,000 men should be left in front of Washington. Of these he took away, in violation of his own agreement, 14,000, and ordered 30,000 more to join him! If they had joined him, there would have remained 11,000 troops between Washington and the enemy! Fortunately, before these 30,000 had embarked, the President stopped them. Had they followed McClellan, Washington must have fallen into the enemy’s hands.
From the day that McClellan landed on the Peninsula, till he left, he was never under fire, he never ordered an attack, every battle was fought without his orders or presence, and on grousnd selected by the enemy; and yet in every battle, the advantage was substantially with us; and if McClellan had held his army in hand, and had promptly seconded the splendid fighting of his Generals of divisions, he could have annihilated the enemy. Mr. Raymond, of the New York Times, who was upon the most intimate terms with McClellan and
<c06>
his staff during nearly the whole of the campaign, says, and all the Major Generals on the Peninsula uniformly said the same thing, that, four times, at least, McClellan might have walked almost unopposed into Richmond. This is what Mr. Raymond says in the Times:—
“Everybody knows that if McClellan had pushed upon Yorktown as soon as he reached the Peninsula, he would have taken it; that if he had followed the rebels with his whole force after Williamsburg, he could have routed them; that he could have taken Richmond after Fair Oaks; and that he could have routed the enemy at Gaines’s Mill, if he had thrown his fresh troops upon them, instead of withdrawing to James river.”
Why did he not take Richmond? Because the secret POWER did not want the rebel armies defeated. Richmond evacuated might do; but Richmond conquered, would prevent the return to “the happy family.”
Gen. Butler was sent to Fortress Monroe. For what? To whip the enemy? No; good care was taken that he should not have troops enough to do any mischief. He was sent solely to garrison the fort, and to stand guard over two or three guns at Newport News, which commanded the mouth of James river. Gen. Wool succeeded him in the same inglorious service. For seven months the old veteran chafed like a caged lion, cooped up on the beach, rebel scouts taking their daily rampage within two miles of his guns, and rebel bayonets on Sewall’s Point, flashing daily defiance under his very nose. For four months before the President’s visit, he begged the War Department to give him 6,000 troops, pledging his head that with them he could take Norfolk. Why was all this? Why was not Gen. Wool allowed to cooperate with the army of the Potomac by threatening Richmond, up the Peninsula, any time after the first of October ?
General Butler was sent to Hatteras Inlet. For what? To take possession and to advance into the enemy’s country? No; but with express, positive orders to take the forts, destroy them, sink the stone fleet in the Inlet, and “skedaddle.” Perceiving the importance of the fort as a base of operations, in case any operations were intended, he garrisoned the fort, and hurried back to Washington to justify himself for disobedience to orders.
Then followed the “Burnside Expedition,” from which the country expected such great results. We had a right to expect; for it was under the command of a leader, skilful, brave, and thoroughly in earnest. What has come of both these expeditions? Absolutely nothing. Why? Because the POWER determined that nothing should be done, and withheld the forces that were indispensable to any effective action Has nothing come of it? Yes; we forget: Gov Stanely!
Following the coast, we come to the
“PORT ROYAL EXPEDITION.”
Why were the great expectations of the country in regard to this expedition so cruelly disappointed? No man can answer this question better than Gen. Sherman, the commander of the expedition. In a letter to the National Intelligencer, under date July 26th, he says, “The expedition was not fitted out to operate in the interior; nor on Charleston and Savannah. The object was to seize and hold two harbors of on our southern coast for depots and harbors of refuge for the vessels of our blockading squadrons in perilous storms.” After saying that “no means of transportation were taken along, with which to operate in the interior—all our transports were sea going vessels, and of too deep draft for the rivers and creeks and inland passages,” &c., &c., he makes the following remarkable statements: —
“However, immediately after effecting a landing at Port Royal—a place that had not been agreed upon to land until after the departure of the expedition— I studied the general state of affairs as far as I was able, and concluded that in consideration of the unlooked-for extent of the success of the combined expedition thus far, (which involved the capture of the whole coast from Edisto to Ossabaw Sound,) with a reinforcement of ten thousand men, five light-draught steamers, a certain number of row-boats, and a certain additional amount of land transportation, a system of internal operations that would not conflict with the general plan of the campaign, but would be a great support to it, might be wisely conducted from Port Royal as soon as our positions were secured, and that would lead to the capture of Savannah and Fort Pulaski. and, as an immediate consequence, the whole coast, South, and, afterward, Charleston. This plan, as a generality, was proposed to the War Department, and the re-enforcements and means, as above, asked for.
The plan of reducing Pulaski was fully and specially approved, and the armament for the siege asked for was ordered. The armament, I believe, had mostly to be manufactured, and did not reach me in sufficient quantity to authorize an effectual assault till the last of March. The general plan was supposed to have been also approved, inasmuch as the siege armament, the steamboats and rowboats, were ordered to be sent me. But the steamers that were sent from New York in the latter part of December never reached me—not one; the reason. I suppose, will some day come to light. Two hundred rowboats, though I had been officially advised in the middle of January that they had been hurried on, never reached me until the 24th of March—five days before I was relieved from duty there, and even then but half the number that had been asked for. The reason for this extraordinary delay, it is hoped, will also some day come to light. In the course of the winter, I received, also, a re-enforcement of four regiments of infantry, one of cavalry, and one harnessed light battery. So, unless the army could have been possessed with the attributes of a Moses, my plans, or, indeed, any system of internal operations, could not have been carried out or pursued during the time I commanded the expedition.’
After recapitulating what he did accomplish with inadequate means, he says:
“There certainly is no ‘confusion’ in all this, and all that is unsatisfactory about it to me lies in the fact of the transportation I timely asked for failing to reach me. Had that transportation arrived when it ought. Savannah would have been in our hands in January: the whole coast South would have fallen as a consequence; the whole railroad system of Georgia and Florida would have been under our control: the States of Georgia and Florida, as a part of the military chess-board, if not politically also, would have been more than neutralized, and the problem of Charleston would then have become so very simple as to demand comparatively but little care or labor.”
Does any sane man doubt that every word of this is true?
Gen. Hunter succeeds Gen. Sherman; and he pledges his military reputation that, with only his handful of troops, if the government will authorize it, he will raise 50,000 colored soldiers, and drive the enemy out of South Carolina. Why has the Port Royal expedition, opening so brilliantly with its naval exploits, proved such an abortion? Because, as Mr. Seward says, “only an imperial or despotic government could subjugate thoroughly disaffected and insurrectionary members of the State”! And so, as Gen. Sherman’s proclamation had failed to call out a single “loyal” white man in South Carolina, the POWER leaves South Carolina to send, troops and supplies to Virginia.
Gen. Butler takes New Orleans, and the country
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
is delighted. Now something is coming! What? Good care is taken that he shall not have troops enough to budge an inch out of the city or beyond the range of the gunboats. He is simply Grand Provost Marshal, cooperating with the police in returning slaves to rebel masters. He was sent there to do only that and nothing more, and he does it well.
Where is the Grand Army of the West?-two hundred-two hundred and fifty thousand men! What has it accomplished? Where is it? What is it doing? What can it do? It would have taken Corinth and “bagged” Beauregard, had Halleck remained in St. Louis a week longer. The capture of that army would have interposed a “"real obstacle to a reunion,” as Mr. Seward phrases it; and Gen. Halleck, giving the enemy time to evacuate with all his munitions and supplies at leisure, without “coercion,” entered Corinth!
We refer to only one more illustration of the operation of this omnipresent, malign, mysterious 
POWER.
Our readers will recollect that a few weeks ago, the National War Committee of New York proposed to the War Department that the three months’ regiments should remain after their term of service had expired. Gen. Halleck replied, very curtly, and as was felt, insultingly, that these regiments having refused to comply with a request to remain when their services were more needed, the Department declined the offer. Last week General Halleck writes as follows:—
"WASHINGTON, Sept. 8.
W. H. ASPINWALL, New York:
When I last saw you, you volunteered to request one or more of the New York three months' regiments to remain in service for an additional term. The same proposition was directed to be made to the other regiments; and as they went home at the end of their enlistment, it was presumed that they had declined to remain. I now learn that an order had been previously issued, without the knowledge of the Secretary of War or myself, to send these troops back to New York at the end of their enlistment. When I telegraphed the New York Committee, I supposed the regiments had, while here, declined to remain, but on their arrival in New York had offered to return. In this I was in error, and my telegram was calculated to do them injustice. Please explain this to them.
H. W. HALLECK, General-in-Chief.”
The Evening Post asks: "Who issued orders disbanding and sending home so many well-drilled regiments at a time when the enemy was approaching the gates of Washington, and when our army was in retreat before him?” Still more grave is the question, who issues such orders, at such a time, without the knowledge of the Secretary of War or the Commander-in-Chief?
We might add almost indefinitely to this catalogue; but these are sufficient to open the eyes of all who are not wilfully blind; to suggest to all patriots the inquiries, quoting from the Evening Post, “whether our grand cause is, after all, betrayed; whether we have been fighting for no end, and whether all these losses of men and means have been incurred to enable a few politicians to yield the government and the capital into the hands of a malignant foe?”
There is TREASON in Washington; treason which gives “aid and comfort to the enemy” by depriving us of the victories to which we are entitled, and which aims to protract the war until the exhaustion of the resources of the loyal States shall compel a restoration of the “Union as it was,” by abject submission to the Slave Power; treason which thrusts itself between the President and his patriotic purposes. In the people alone is our hope of the rescue of the nation from perils such as no nation in history ever yet survived. They must stand between the President and his betrayers, strengthening him and baffling them, or the Republic is lost. “The blood of our fathers, let it not have been shed in vain; the great hope of posterity, let it not be blasted!”-Commonwealth.

THE PENINSULAR CAMPAIGN.
When McClellan's hosts landed on the Peninsula, it seemed sufficiently numerous to trample our little band into the earth, like so much mire beneath its feet. It appeared before our lines, where our men had determined to make a last desperate stand. Night fell upon the opposing forces. To us it was a night of intense anxiety. Our gallant leader expected to be assaulted at daybreak, and saw no better fate prepared for him than that which befel the 
<illegible>
next morning, instead of assaulting him and crushing him to the earth, he found that McClellan's prodigious force were actively engaged in throwing up earthworks for their own protection, and to enable them, by means of their long-range guns, to shell his works with impunity. It is impossible to account for this strange oversight of McClellan, on any other supposition than that Providence interposed in our favor. He never recovered from it during the campaign. The opportunity thus thrown away could never be regained. It was the turning point in the enterprise. Reinforcements began to pour in, the position became stronger every hour, until at last our General felt no uneasiness for the result. We all remember how McClellan wasted the time which should have been spent in advancing upon Richmond, in besieging the position which he might have carried in a few hours; how, when he found it convenient, Gen. Johnston evacuated that position without losing a man; at Williamsburg, another opportunity was offered him, to destroy the army of Johnston in a great battle. But he seemed in no hurry to take advantage of it. On the contrary, a mere rearguard action gave him such a dose, that he permitted the Confederate General quietly to move off and drop back, until he found himself in the vicinity of Richmond, with his front covered by the Chickahominy. How Lee overcame the Yankees—-how he contrived to throw the larger part of his force on his left, while his right held McClellan’s left at bay-how he brought down Jackson from the mountains to operate on the flank and rear of the enemy-how, for seven long days, he drove the enemy before him, until he finally lodged him at Berkeley, thirty miles from Richmond-how McClellan claimed a victory every day, and called a race for life “a change of base”-how he lied until he lost all claim to be considered even a gentleman-how he finally left his wounded, stealing off like a thief in the night, with an army scarcely more than one-third as strong as it had been originally-all this it would require more space than we have at command to tell as it should be told. For it comprises some of the most splendid combinations known to the art of war, the conception of which has placed the author in the front rank of Generals. It is true that the success was not so great as the General had a right to expect, but it was no fault of his. It was still immense. It freed the Capital of the Confederacy from danger, it paralyzed and almost destroyed the largest and best equipped army that ever marched upon American soil, and it paved the way to results which are even now in process of development, and which promise to be important beyond all that have yet taken place since this war began.-Southern Illustrated News, Richmond.
Observe-this is no "Abolition" attack upon Gen. McClellan, but a revelation and confession, by the rebels, of the ease with which he might have captured Richmond months ago, if he had possessed true military genius and intrepidity. What has his "masterly strategy" not cost the nation in loss of time, money and life? And a third time he has allowed the rebel army to retreat, at its own chosen time and way, without any loss of supplies, and in an orderly manner.

THE NORTHERN TRAITORS.
While all patriots and true men in the land are contributing their time, their means, their talents, and their energies to the work of raising the men that are now imperatively needed to fill the armies of the Union, to render them sufficiently large and efficient to overwhelm our enemies and restore the country to peace, unity and prosperity, a few sneaking, cowardly, politicians can find nothing better to do than sneer, grunt and croak against the Abolitionists, the Government, and the loyal workers throughout the land. While true men are fighting the country's enemies to save the Union, these dirty knayes are fighting the Government to save the institutions of the enemy that is seeking to stab the nation to the heart.
We are sick, fired and disgusted with the foolish and treasonable efforts of these mere politicians to divide the people, weaken the Government, and play into the hands of the rebels. A popular storm is gathering to break over the heads of these cow-boys and tories, by which, unless they come to their senses and learn decency soon, they will be over-whelmed in eternal infamy.-Hastings Banner.
<c02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26,1862.
PROCLAMATION OF EMANCIPATION.
Freedom of the Slaves in Rebellious States on the First Day of January Next.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
A PROCLAMATION.
I, ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States, and Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy thereof, do hereby proclaim and declare, that hereafter, as heretofore, the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically restoring the Constitutional relation between the United States and the people thereof, in which States that relation is or may be suspended or disturbed; that it is my purpose at the next meeting of Congress to again recommend the adoption of a practical measure, tendering pecuniary aid to the free acceptance or rejection of all the slave States, so called, the people whereof may not then be in rebellion against the United States, and which States may then have voluntarily adopted, or thereafter may voluntarily adopt, immediate or gradual abolishment of slavery within their respective limits, and that the effort to colonize persons of African descent, with their consent, upon this continent, or elsewhere, with the previously obtained consent of the governments existing there, will be continued; that on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any State, or any designated part of a State, the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward and forever, free; and the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom; that the Executive will, on the 1st day of January aforesaid, by proclamation, designate the States, or parts of States, if any, in which the people thereof respectively will then be in rebellion against the United States; and the fact that any State or people thereof shall on that day be in good faith represented in the Congress of the United States by members chosen thereto at elections wherein a majority of the qualified voters of such State shall have participated, shall, in the absence of strong countervailing testimony, be deemed conclusive evidence that such State and the people thereof have not been in rebellion against the United States; that attention is hereby called to an Act of Congress, entitled, “"An Act to make an additional Article of War,” approved March 13th, 1862, and which Act is in the words and figures following:-
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, that hereafter the following shall be promulgated as an additional article of war, for the government of the army of the United States, and shall be obeyed and observed as such:
Article-. All officers or persons in the military or naval service of the United States are prohibited from employing any of the forces under their respective 
commands for the purpose of returning fugitives from service or labor who may have escaped from any persons to whom such service or labor is claimed to be due, and any officer who shall be found guilty by court martial of violating this article shall be dismissed from the service.
 Section 2. And be it further enacted, That this Act shall take effect from and after its passage.”
 Also to the 9th and 10th sections of an Act entitled “An Act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate property of rebels, and for other purposes,” approved July 17, 1862, and which sections are in the words and figures following:-
"Section 9. And be it further enacted, That’ all slaves of persons who shall 
<illegible>
rebellion against the Government of the United States, or who shall in any way give aid or comfort thereto, escaping from such person, and taking refuge within 
the lines of the army, and all slaves captured from such persons, or deserted by them, and coming under the control of the Government of the United States, 
and all slaves of such persons found on or being within any place occupied by rebel forces, and afterwards occupied by the forces of the United States, shall be deemed captures of war, and shall be forever free of their servitude, and not again held as slaves.
Section 10. And be it further enacted, That no slave, escaping into any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, from any of the States, shall be de
livered up, or any way impeded or hindered of his liberty, except for crime, or some offence against the laws, unless the person claiming said fugitive shall 
first make oath that the person to whom the labor or service of such fugitive is alleged to be due is his lawful owner, and has not been in arms against the 
United States in the present rebellion, nor in any way given aid and comfort thereto; and no person engaged in the military or naval service of the United States shall, under any pretence whatever, assume to decide on the validity of the claim of any person to the service or labor of any other person, or surrender up any such person to the claimant, on pain of being dismissed from the service.”
And I do hereby enjoin and order all persons engaged in the military and naval service of the United States to observe, obey and enforce within their respective spheres of service the Acts and sections above recited; and the Executive will in due time recommend that all citizens of the United States, 
who shall have remained loyal thereto throughout the rebellion, shall, upon the restoration of the Constitutional relations between the United States and their respective States and people, if the relations shall have been suspended or disturbed, be compensated for all losses by acts of the United States, including the loss of slaves.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington, this 22d day of September, in the year of our Lord 1862, and of the independence of the United States the 87th.
By the President,
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
REMARKS. Though we believe that this Proclamation is not all that the exigency of the times and the consequent duty of the government require,-and 
therefore are not so jubilant over it as many others,-still, it is an important step in the right direction, and an act of immense historic consequence, and justifies the almost universal gladness of expression and warm congratulation which it has simultaneously elicited in every part of the Free States. It calls for the prompt and efficient enforcement, by the army and navy, of the Confiscation Act, as passed by Congress, whereby the slaves of all rebels who may be captured, or who may seek protection under the national flag, are to be liberated unconditionally; and as the great mass of the slaveholders are in furious rebellion, it emancipates more than three-fourths of the entire slave population, as fast as they shall become accessible. It also forbids any person connected with the military or naval service to arrest or send back any fugitive slave whatever. These commands, if faithfully executed by the army and navy, will speedily give a staggering blow to the rebellion. The objectionable features of the Proclamation are its avowed readiness to return to bloody stripes, and horrible torture, and life-long servitude, (if he be not killed outright,) any hunted bondman on the mere oath of the villain claiming him, that he is loyal to the government-its seemingly contradictory talk (for the first portion of it is a characteristic jumble of words) about emancipating the slaves in all existing rebel States, on the first of January,1863, (a time sufficient to enable Jeff. Davis and his traitorous confederates to anticipate that measure 
 themselves, and thus secure their independence by foreign intervention)-its proposition to make a new overture to the Slave States to sell their slave system at a bargain-and its mean, absurd and proscriptive device to expatriate the colored population from this their native land.
<c03>
DRAFTING-WHAT IS THE DUTY OF THE ABOLITIONISTS?
In our last number, we endeavored to show why Non-Resistants may properly claim to be exempted from the operations of the draft, and why certain other professed peace men cannot consistently make any such claim. As the former, however, are neither a sect nor the members of a sect, like the Friends or Shakers, there has been no legislation for their relief; and, consequently, they must either abandon their principles, or quietly submit to the penalty of disobedience, in case they are drafted.
We now turn to the consideration of the question, “What ought Abolitionists, upon whom the draft may fall, to do? Can they consistently uphold the government by entering the army?” Of course, it means such of their number as are not Non-Resistants, and do not vote under the Constitution on account of its pro-slavery compromises. The question has no reference to Republicans.
Our reply to it is, that the decision will be, and must be, according to the stand-point occupied by each individual. Already, some Abolitionists have joined the ranks as volunteers, feeling that, in so doing, they are justified by the nature of the rebellion, and the altered relations of slavery to the government. There are others who, abhorring the treasonable conduct of the South in the strongest manner, are still precluded from entering into the conflict, so long as the government refuses to “proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.”
Both parties are equally sincere, equally zealous to procure universal emancipation; and neither should deal censoriously with the other. For the difference between them is not one relating to Anti-Slavery principles, but only to the application of those principles in the present anomalous state of the country. Nevertheless, concurrence of judgment and unity of action are desirable, as far as individual conscientiousness will permit; and we shall be glad if we can say any thing to promote them.
The readers of the Liberator must have observed that, since the organization of the Southern Confederacy, we have ceased to make any distinctive issue with the Constitution of the United States. In the lecture the editor gave at the Cooper Institute, in New York, in January last, he declared-" When I said I would not sustain the Constitution, because it was a covenant with death and an agreement with hell, I had no idea that I would live to see death and hell secede. Hence it is that I am now with the government, to enable it to constitutionally stop the further ravages of death, and to extinguish the flames of hell forever." It is on this ground, solely, that we have felt justified in invoking, first Congress, and next President Lincoln, to lose no time in decreeing the entire abolition of slavery; and in sharply reproving them for not performing that act. For it would be grossly inconsistent to arraign them as recreant to present duty, in one breath, and in the next maintain that the old covenant continues unaffected by the rebellion. Before the rebellion, the Abolitionists scrupulously abstained, through a thirty years' struggle, from asking Congress or the President to emancipate a single slave in all the slave States; because they recognized the conditions upon which the Union was formed, and were too conscientious to ask for any exercise of power, even to break the chains of the oppressed, which could not be legitimately used. Their course has always been equally honorable and consistent. It may suit the satanic pro-slavery journals of the day to represent them as seeking to make this a war for the abolition of slavery per se, through the violation of the Constitution, and in the spirit of a highhanded usurpation; but all candid inquirers will find that none have been more scrupulous than themselves, in reference to the legal rights and duties of the government. Much as they desire to see the termination of their labors in the total abolition of slavery, they do not belong to the class who are ready to do evil that good may come, and who profess to believe that the end sanctifies the means, no matter how dishonorable those means may be. Unselfish, and actuated by the purest motives and the highest moral considerations, they have been careful from the beginning till now to do nothing wrong, and to ask nothing of the government but what it has a right CONSTITUTIONALLY to enact. If they now invoke it to exercise extraordinary powers, it is because the revolt and secession of the South render the resort to those powers not only legitimate, but indispensable. None but “fools and blind,” or actual sympathizers with the Southern traitors, can fail to see that slavery is the teeming source, the inspiring motive, the aim and end of the rebellion;-that where slavery is not, there is no rebellion;-that the one is essentially coextensive with the other;-that it is an uprising of the slave oligarchy to establish an independent slaveholding confederacy, which shall be in their hands as clay is in the hands of the potter, to the subversion of all free institutions;-that all who are prominent in the rebellion are slaveholders, and absolute dictators over the ignorant and deluded masses under them;-that they make loyalty to "the Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is," (seeing that these no longer answer the exigencies of slavery,) a treasonable act, and trample under their feet the flag which they once professed to adore;-that eleven Slave States are confederated together in open revolt, and defy all efforts of the government to exercise any legal authority within their domains;- that the Border Slave States are kept loyal only under martial law, and in consequence of the occupancy of their soil by an immense Northern army;-that Southern independence is declared to be irrevocable, and is to be maintained at whatever cost of blood and treasure;-that, in the accomplishment of their traitorous designs, their vast slave population constitutes a working power of immense efficiency, to be applied in every direction and wielded at will, in building fortifications, digging trenches and rifle pits, raising food, furnishing supplies, and doing all manner of serviceable labor;-that, consequently, though the government has incurred a debt of not less than twelve hundred millions of dollars, and expended a hundred thousand lives, and brought into the field a million soldiers, to reduce them to submission, its efforts, during eighteen long and weary months, have been unavailing;-that, so far from their being defeated or disheartened, they have recently turned invaders, and threatened the safety of the Capital itself, carrying consternation even into Pennsylvania and Ohio;-that nothing decisive has been accomplished by the terrible conflicts of the past week, so far as the Federal forces are concerned, the rebel army having retired in good order, and without loss, to the Virginia side of the Potomac, where it remains ready to contest every inch of ground to the bitter end;-that, by this protracted struggle, indicating the inability of the government to maintain its supremacy, there is imminent danger that the European powers (anxious to put down all semblance of democracy on this continent)will deem themselves justified in recognizing the independence of the Southern Confederacy forthwith, and helping to perpetuate it by their united military and naval strength;-and that, under these circumstances, it is madness to suppose there can be a reunion effected, on the old basis, or on any conditions whatever, leaving the slave system in operation as heretofore. By their rebellion, the Confederate States have ceased to have any claims upon the Constitution, in regard to its pro-slavery stipulations; they have made themselves outlaws; they have forfeited whatever property they possess; they make the abolition of slavery not only a military necessity, but A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT, and a solemn moral and religious duty, on the part of the government; they have already forced the people of the Free States to sacrifice a larger amount of money, in the prosecution of the war, than the market value of their entire slave population before the war, to say nothing of the immense losses arising from, the derangement of business universally; and they have carried death, and lamentation, and woe, throughout the nation.
The government, therefore, stands in a new relation to them, and they to the government. Theoret-
<c04>
ically and practically, its preservation is of paramount importance to that of any local institution under it; hence, its right to destroy such institution, root and branch, is unquestionable, when bloody rebellion is seen to be its all-controlling spirit. The war power then becomes competent for all the necessities of the government, to be vigorously applied in every direction; and its exercise is as CONSTITUTIONAL an act as the election of a President or the "enforcement of the laws." To say that it is a despotic power, or that it supersedes the Constitution for the time being, is to forget the radical distinction which exists between an hereditary and a popular government. As claimed and used by European dynasties, it is ever without reference to the popular will, and therefore despotic; but what THE PEOPLE have expressly provided for, in their organic law, to be used whenever the emergency arises, according to the imminence of the peril that threatens the public safety and the stability of the government, is neither despotic nor outside of the Constitution. True, it may be resorted to unnecessarily, or wielded in a tyrannous manner; but the remedy is in the hands of the people, and they will not fail to hold their servants to the strictest accountability. Of course, it is legal only in time of war; and then those civil processes which obtain in a state of peace may be set aside, as the crisis demands. Silent enim leges inter arma.
We hold, therefore, the argument to be impregnable:-It is the Southern slave oligarchy who instigated, who inspire, who direct this murderous rebellion, 
in avowed hostility to all free institutions, and in order to establish an independent slaveholding despotism: by their treasonable course, they have pronounced sentence of death against themselves and their accursed slave system: consequently, the “covenant with death” is broken, and the “agreement with hell” no longer stands.
To this it may be replied, that there are at least a few loyal slaveholders (few indeed!) in the Border States, and that their constitutional rights remain unimpaired; so that a decree of universal emancipation by the government would be an act alike unjust to them, and unconstitutional in itself. But exceptional cases are to be provided for, not to baffle the necessary measures of the government for its own preservation; and this can easily be done, either by making good whatever pecuniary loss may be sustained, or by insisting that, as the loyal men of the North are expected to count neither property nor life dear unto them in the maintenance of the Union, so the same obligation rests with equal weight upon the loyal men of the South, and they have no right to demand that the war shall be so conducted as to impose no hardships upon them. Thus, every obstacle to CONSTITUTIONAL EMANCIPATION is taken out of the way, and the government is, and must be, if true to itself, wholly on the side of liberty. Such a government can receive the sanction and support of every Abolitionist, whether in a moral or military point of view.
But, it may be said that, however true this may be in theory, it is practically nullified by the attempt of the Administration to restore “the Union as it was” with all its pro-slavery guaranties; and that, until it decree the extinction of slavery universally, Abolitionists cannot consistently comply with any draft that may be made upon them. Upon its face, this objection is plausible; but we think it is rather technical than solid and conclusive. We admit that President Lincoln has been hoping and trying to restore the old state of things, with as little damage to slavery as possible; but, surely, nothing can be more preposterous than such an expectation-an expectation happily no longer indulged in, even by himself, as witness his recent Emancipation Proclamation. His hesitancy, hitherto, to use all the means constitutionally lodged in his hands, under the war power, for the abolition of slavery, and thus to strike an effectual blow at the root of the rebellion, must not be allowed to commit the government to the further support of slavery as a constitutional obligation. On the contrary, he must be spurred to the performance of his duty, and held culpable for not coming up to its utmost requirements. In the mean time and in view of the fact that the old Union has literally ceased to exist and cannot be restored, we think that the Abolitionists who may be drafted, and who are not committed to radical peace principles, will be justified in standing loyally by the government as such, on the battle-field or in any other capacity. If, at the termination of the struggle, a new “covenant with death" shall be made, or the old one renewed, it will then be their duty to stand outside of the government, as they have heretofore done. But “sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof” The government must exterminate slavery, or slavery will overturn the government. The government is bound to be victorious, and slavery is doomed to perish in the struggle.
Those Abolitionists who Cannot subscribe to this view of the case will, of course, firmly and serenely meet the penalties of refusing to comply with the call of the government, in case they are drafted. They must and will be true to their convictions of duty.

THE PROCLAMATION.
The twenty-second of September, 1862, will henceforth be a memorable day in this Nation's history, if our National life is yet to continue. After seventeen months' waiting for the event, we at last hear the President speak the word which, had it been spoken at first, would have commanded the sympathy and applause of the world, and cut short the life of the Rebellion with a comparatively small loss of life and treasure. But a foolish people and Government, preferring their own wisdom to the wisdom of God, exalting their own narrow policy above the grand policy of Justice and Right, have chosen to go in the path of bloodshed, death, terrible suffering, and grinding debt, only to learn at this late hour the simple truth which the Anti-Slavery people have long been urging upon them. Pray God it may not be too late!
But now that the word Freedom is spoken, why, we ask, is the great Act of Justice delayed for three months longer? The postponement to January next is much to be regretted. The delay was not called for by any consideration of forbearance due to the Rebel States, or to any portion of their population. Warning enough, time enough, fourfold, had been already granted them. A patience, as extraordinary on the side of the Government as it has been unavailing in its effect upon the South, has been exercised towards them. They have met it with scorn, derision and insult-imputing that to cowardice and a sense of inferiority on our part, which was really dictated by forbearance, (however misplaced and weak,) towards them. The three months' delay will afford opportunity to the enemies of the Great Measure, North and South, but particularly at the North, to concoct plans to strangle it if possible, to postpone and cripple it at any rate. That they will be busy at this work, no one can doubt for an instant. All the energy and craft these people possess, find scope only in plans to circumvent justice and human liberty, and strengthen the power and dominion of slavery. They pursue this evil work with a relish. Let them be closely watched. Whether banded in secret societies, or proposing traitorous schemes in public journals under a thin mask of professed loyalty, let the people watch and expose them. Their infernal projects will then be frustrated and scattered to the winds.-S.M., JR.
FRATERNITY LECTURES. We call attention to the advertisement of the fifth course of these popular and progressive lectures. It is really a superior list of speakers. Hon. Henry Wilson, Hon. Owen Lovejoy, Hon. B. Gratz Brown, (the Missouri emancipationist,) Theodore Tilton, Esq., of the Independent, and other able and tried anti-slavery men, appear. Of course, 
the tickets will all be sold early.
Ex-President Roberts, of Liberia, who has recently visited the United States via England, sailed from Boston in the steamer Asia for Liverpool on the 17th inst., on his return to Liberia. For an interesting account of his reception in England, see our last page.
<c05>
WHAT THINK YE OF ABRAHAM? WHOSE 
SON IS HE?
Everybody knows that President Lincoln is opposed to the extension of slavery. That very ground was the basis of his election. However tolerant he may 
be of slave-catching in Illinois and Massachusetts, he would die rather than consent that either should be made a slaveholding State.
But as to the President's feeling about the continuance of slavery, in those Southern and Border States where it has hitherto existed, it has not been so easy to decide. The vacillations and inconsistencies of his course have prevented the observers from deciding, or else have compelled them to frequent changes of opinion. He has done several things against slavery, and several things for it; and a further uncertainty exists, as to which of these opposite courses sprang from individual preference, and which from the compulsion of circumstances. We have all been left in doubt, both those who wish him to protect slavery, and those who wish him to oppose it. A period has now arrived which must necessarily bring us further evidence, either positive or negative.
In July last, Congress passed a Confiscation Act, whereby the slaves of all rebels were confiscated (substantially emancipated) after sixty days notice, by a presidential proclamation. The President officially approved this act at the time of its passage, and on the 25th of July he issued the Proclamation, calling upon the insurgents to return to their allegiance within sixty days, on penalty of losing their slaves.
It is as easy to call rebels back to their allegiance as to “call spirits from the vasty deep.” It is claimed in these latter days that spirits actually come when called for. But our rebels, far from coming in submission at the President's call, have come nearer than ever to the capture of Washington, have driven McClellan and his forces from the vicinity of Richmond, and have brought the war to the very borders of two of the loyal States.
The day on which this paper is printed, Thursday, the 25th of September, is the expiration of the sixty days grace, given July 25th by the President, and used as we have seen by the rebels.
From and after the 25th of September, the laws of the United States will forbid slavery as far as it may exist in States rebelling against the national government. The duty of the President will be to execute those laws, to notify his subordinate officials that they have come in force, and to require their zeal and vigilance in the execution of them. From that time, every act of authority of a rebel master over a slave will be an additional act of rebellion. From that time, every person claimed as a slave in the rebel States will be entitled to protection as a loyalist. From that time, the President of the United States-who is required by the Federal Constitution to “take care that the laws be faithfully executed"-will be required by law to resist the claims of the slaveholder and protect the person of the slave, as far as the rebel States include such persons, and as far as his voice, and the influence of his civil and military officials, can be made to reach them. The question now is, Will the President execute this part of his duty? Will he require of his subordinates a vigorous and active attempt to make this law effective?
Up to this time, the military and naval officers who came in contact with slavery, and the provisional Governors appointed by the President over rebel States, have acted in regard to slavery each according to his individual preference, often counteracting each other, and thus injuring the public service. Such of these officials as opposed slavery have generally been rebuked and counteracted by the President, and such of them as favored slavery have generally been allowed to do so undisturbed. Still worse: in three or four particular instances, when the officers in question, seeing the injurious effect of such diverse action upon the army and the war, made special request that a uniform action in this regard might be enjoined from headquarters upon all the departments, so that they might act unitedly, either for or against slavery, the President returned evasive and indecisive answers, allowing the discordant action to continue. Since some of our officers favor slavery, while others oppose it, this discordant action must still continue, very greatly to the public detriment, unless the President shall issue specific orders upon that point. The question is-Will he avail himself of the present opportunity to do it?
The friends of slavery have deceitfully pretended that the President had no right to act against slavery, and also that a Proclamation of Emancipation on his part would neither reach nor influence the parties concerned. The President thinks differently from them on both these points. In making his proposal, months ago, for compensated emancipation, he strongly intimated to the slave States, both loyal and rebel, that if this liberal offer were disregarded, stronger measures would follow; that the thing proposed would be done, and done in a manner less acceptable to them. Did “honest Abe” mean to bully the slave States by a futile threat? Not at all. The fact of his making this intimation shows that he was conscious of authority to take the ground in question, and of power to enforce it. He knows that he can overthrow slavery, both in the rebel and in the border States. He has refrained from doing this while it was simply at his option. Even in regard to the rebel States, notwithstanding the increasing exigencies of the war, he has chosen to refrain from action until the expiration of the sixty days of grace. That time is now expired. Now, the law requires him to execute an act of Congress upon this subject. Now, his official oath requires him to set the machinery of his power in motion against slavery, as far as the rebel States are concerned. The question is-Will he do it? Does the President favor, will he assist, "THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAWS"? Facts will soon show us. Let every man keep his eyes open.
Just after the foregoing had been written, there came to hand a partial answer to the questions contained in it, in the shape of a Proclamation from the, President, which may be seen in another column.
What is the purport of this proclamation? There is one bad thing and one good thing about it.
The bad thing is that the President chooses, in the exercise of his military power, to counteract and nullify the operation of an act of Congress (emancipating the slaves of rebels) for the period between September 25th and January 1st.
No doubt the President's authority, under the war power, allows even this interference with the ordinary operation of law. It must be remembered that we 
are now living under military rule, and that military law takes precedence of civil, regarding or disregarding it just as the interests of war are supposed to require. In this state of things, no doubt the President may suspend a law against slavery, just as he might suspend or abrogate any particular law in its favor, just as he might abolish slavery altogether, if he saw fit. His function at present allows this unwonted exercise of power, but it seems to me an injudicious movement, because our necessities (as well as duties) now require the limitation and repression of slavery in every possible way. This indulgence, however, is temporary. Three months will bring us to the end of it.
The good feature of the Proclamation is that it publicly declares emancipation to be decreed, (as far as the slaves of rebels are concerned,) fixes the time when the decree shall go into effect, and notifies all civil and military officers of certain existing laws favorable to the slaves of rebels, and requiring protection to be given to them.
Henceforth we may expect a cessation of that combination of folly and wickedness which has been too common in our army, the surrender of fugitive slaves 
to rebels. The kindred wickedness of surrendering such fugitives to persons pretending loyalty is still permitted, to the disgrace of the President and of the people. But slavery is now receiving blows from which it can never recover; and this Proclamation may well encourage and rejoice the true soldiers of 
freedom.-C.K.W.

<c06>
DARKNESS MADE VISIBLE.
There was a Comet seen in Boston on Monday,-in broad day and in the newspapers,-the head whereof was nigh half a column long, and the tail extended 
from Joel Parker, in Cambridge, to nescio <illegible> is Lowell. The “"glittering generalities” of the nucleus dazzled men's eyes for a moment; but the reaction which straightway followed induced a blackness mixed of Egyptian and Cimmerian, in which were, descried as it seemed, a mingling host of spirits, risen from college, counting-room, law-office, and factory, and 
working with all their might. But too many familiar shapes were there, to leave their purpose long in doubt. When the sun of the rebellion was setting in 
Maryland, its satellite shot out in the firmament of Massachusetts.
A careful inspection of the list of signers appended to the call for a People's Convention in this State, will probably discover every name which could be 
mustered in support of the Crittenden Compromise at the Faneuil Hall meeting of last year. Those who then saw nothing in that infamous proposition “to which any reasonable man could object,” are now unable to see why a rebel in arms against the Government has not the full constitutional rights of a loyal citizen stanch in his country's defence. The Boston bar forget to sympathize with the convict who leaves all his civil rights outside his prison-gate, but weep for the rebel who can no longer hang our Court House in chains, or buy, breed, sell and burn his negroes at home.
The humbug cry is, of course, “No party!—a species of Heads-I-win, Tails-you -lose game, with which we are tolerably familiar. It is immoral enough, at all times, to cry "No Party!"-when party is based on principle. But when the dividing lines of party are the dividing lines of war, such a cry is doubly treacherous and atheistic. As well might the rebels beseech us to have "no discussions about political, social or party measures and dogmas, about 
which men always have and always will differ;" a pass over the doctrine of secession and the divine right of slavery; and to throw down our weapons while they retain theirs. The fraternal embrace which would next ensue can be likened only to that nature of the Inquisition, where the victim entered the arms of the Virgin to fall pierced by a thousand knives concealed in her bosom!
After all the pother about a country in danger, and the necessity of putting aside [the Republican] party, in general, the whole tempest turns out to be confined to the Massachusetts, we might almost say the Boston, tea-pot, but that we do not wish to indulge in "party" reminiscences at the expense of our revolutionary sires. When the bold front of our Come dwindles down to a Convention for the choice of State officers, it is plain to see how words are meant to conceal ideas. It is idle for the fossil lawyers, traders and ex-treasury-pap-ists, to hope to subvert that choice of the people's heart, John A. Andrew, or sensibly in affect the support of the rest of the Republican ticket. There is but one election which it expects to indence, and that is the return of Charles Sumner to the U. S. Senate. "We are moving heaven and earth," said one of the signers of the call to a friend of our "to defeat that man; and I have just put my name to a paper to that effect." "Say, rather, earth <illegible> hell!” was the prompt rejoinder.
There is no need to be frightened by the long army of names which compose the Comet's tail. It is only a more thorough unmasking than we are used to, as an 
aggregation of the forces of the enemy. Probably not half-a-dozen Republicans of any standing or <illegible> have backslidden into this company; fewer <illegible> been cozened into joining it. Some, there may be who are afraid to publish their sneaking sympathy but they are of the kind of deserters who are <illegible> for leaving camp. They may be found (by the <illegible>)in the fold of the Springfield Republican.
We think we do but express the general "festine" feeling in this vicinity, when we exult that the <illegible> demanded and promised hearty support for “the
chosen and only head of the nation," the day before he signified by proclamation his conversion to the policy of emancipation. We recall with pleasure the language: "He is striving in this hour of peril, with all his strength, to save the country. Let the people not turn from him in coldness, or palsy his <illegible> with a feeble and half confidence. Let him be sustained and carried in triumph through the struggle. His patriotism and self-sacrifice deserve it <illegible> duty demands it." Well for the Comet, if the President have not to say to it: "I have piped unto yet and you have not danced; I have mourned unto yet, and you have not lamented!"-W. P. G.

A HAPPY COINCIDENCE.
How fortunate is it that, just at the time the President was writing the strongest and best document he has yet penned in relation to the treatment of the rebels, a large number of gentlemen of conservative tendencies, heretofore known as Democrat Whigs, or Belleverett men, should have banded together for his support, pledged themselves to uphold him in the pending struggle, and publicly certified that, for the sake of sustaining the administration in this trying hour, they are willing to ignore and abandon the party peculiarities that have hitherto distinguished them! Observe how strong is the following paragraph, written by Judge JOEL PARKER, of Cambridge, and signed by more than fifteen hundred of the people whom we have been wont to call “hunkers,” in an address "To the People of Massachusetts," recently published in the papers:-
"The hands of the President, the chosen and only head of the nation, must be strengthened by the People. He is striving in this hour of peril, with all his strength, to save the country. Let the People pledge to him their most generous confidence and support-and as turn from him in coldness, or palsy his efforts with a <illegible> and half confidence. Pledge, then, to the President the lives and fortunes of an united People. Let him be sustained and carried in triumph through the struggle. His patriotism and self-sacrifice deserve it—<illegible>
duty demands it."
Such affectionate devotedness as this puts to shame the coldness of many who call themselves Republicans. If the solid men of all the other parties admin that the Republican President deserves, and that their duty demands, the bestowal upon him of their most generous confidence and support, surely those Who elected him ought to act with no less vigor.
This change of policy on the part of so many gentlemen of wealth, weight and influence, must of course secure the reelection of Messrs. Sumner, Wilson, Andrew, and those other public men who most strongly favor the present policy of the Federal Executive. And no one can doubt that so decisive a step on the part of the conservatives of Massachusetts must have its influence upon the corresponding class in all the Northern States.-C.K.W.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for October, has been received. Its contents are—Autumnal Tints, David Gaunt; Euphorion; House-Building; Mr. Axtell; Leamington Spa; Sanitary Condition of the Army; An Arab Welcome; Elizabeth Sara Sheppard; Resources of the South; The Battle Autumn of 1862;, Reviews and Literary Notices; Recent American Publications. Ticknor & Fields, Boston.
THE REBELLION RECORD, monthly edition, part 22, has been issued by G. P. Putnam, 532 Broadway, New York. It is embellished with two fine steel engravings of Gen. Heintzleman and Ben McCullock. The diary is carried down to April 12th of the current year. This part is an important link in the invaluable whole.
Hon. Charles Sumner, in a letter to the Boston Post, emphatically denies the report that he has opposed the promotion of Col. Cowdin. On the centrary, he has favored the promotion, and only a few weeks ago, forwarded to the President a warm letter in his favor from Mr. Opdyke, Mayor of New York, urging his appointment as Brigadier General.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A MARVELLOUS CHANGE OF OCCUPANTS.
FORTRESS MONROE. Va., May 21, 1862.
MR. EDITOR,-I write this at Ex-President Tyler’s summer residence, known here as Camp Hamilton, about three miles west of the fort, and on the direct road to Yorktown.
The building is of the first class. Everything in it is of a modern style. The furniture which the family left, when they moved away about the time the present rebel war broke out, is also of recent style; and its peculiar carve and shape remind you of the arrogant and haughty look of its now departed owner. When I awoke this morning, and found myself lying upon one of the fashionable iron bedsteads in this house, I could not help thinking what a terrible rage its owners would be in, if they could but step into the door!
Every room in this house, except one which is occupied by teachers, is now filled with the ex-slaves from the surrounding peainsula; in fact, this whole neighborhood reminds us of a pioneer California settlement. On every side there are innumerable little shanties, varying from 12 to 16 feet square, and averaging from 10 to 12 persons in each; of all ages, from the baby to the decrepit great grand-parent. I must say that the scene is painful beyond description for one who has not become inured to such a state of things as exists here.
To observe, on the one hand, the hope and anxiety manifested by these modern Israclites, who, in their own minds, seem to think that they are approaching the wilderness of Mount Sinai, where they may find <illegible> form their tormentors; while, upon the other hand, you can see the distress with which they regard the mysterious movements of the Government officers in regard to everything which relates to them.
There is an irrepressible foreboding, which seems to have fixed itself upon the countenace of every one; and it is not without good cause, for there has been, and is still, meanness of every conceivable grade practisted upon them. Officers take advantage of their ignorance in every way possible, and torment them like fiends, while the government retains them on its highways and public works, and the quartermaster refuses to pay them. Thus these people have lived in this uncertain condition for nearly a year, and with this shameful and glaring reproach to the government, open to all who wish to know anything about the condition of the colored people here.
The Northern press is constantly raising the cry, how can the emancipated slaves take care of them-selves? They have taken care both of their masters and themselves for more than two generations, and now, while the paymaster pockets their money, they have to do the government work, and find themselves! This is a wonderful change in political economy. Government wise, I am looking every day for a general strike among those who are employed upon the government works. Such a move would be in no wise rebellious, but would result in showing up the mean-ness of Quartermaster Talmadge, who, I am informed, has been more than once ordered to pay off the laborers, but still refuses.
But there seems to be no end to the sorrows through which this people seem doomed to pass, before they shall securely reach the land of promise. One of the most trying features of their present condition is, now that they have built their little houses of which I have already spoken, upon what should be confiscated land, -its owners being in the Confederate army. A good many of the rebels are returning, since the evacuation of Yorktown, and, with that bold effrontery characteristic of their kind, are ordering those people off their lands! And they move without a murmur to some other place, and squat for a day, only to be removed by the next rebel who shall come to claim what he terms his property; and the officers of the government, as yet, have not interposed.
JOHN OLIVER
ILL TREATMENT OF BLACK MEN BY THE ARMY.
NEWPORT NEWS, Va., Aug. C, 1862.
Mr. EDITOR, -The time has been, and is within our memory, when Gen. McClellan would not allow the panic -stricken slave who sought his lines to enter, and there find protection, whatever might be the valuable information he or she could impart. He was the Palladium, against whom the fates of war need not attempt to contend.
But there has come a change in these human affairs -he has met his reverses. God has his way of teaching men humility. Since Gen. McClellan's defeat before Richmond, he has sent men in all places where black men may be found-not to persuade or coax them by the offer of eight or ten dollars per month, which they rarely if ever get, but to force them into his army, without one moment of time being allowed them to arrange for their departure: and if they manifest the least disposition to inquire where they are being sent, as they are never informed, the sabre and revolver are brought to bear upon them in the most brutal and reckless manner.
At this moment, the cavalry company which are on guard here are driying them to the guard-house like beasts; from there they are to be sent on board the steamer Kent, which now lies at the wharf.
This order, which is now being fully carried out by Quartermaster Wormesly, to whom it was sent, is rigid and unreasonable. It says, take all colored persons-and they are taking the free as well as the contrabands.
Mr. B. A. Boseman, of Troy, N. Y., who is in business here with Cornell, Davis & Co., was taken to the guard-house. The writer went to get him released; but as soon as I reached the door of the guardhouse, I too was taken-and though I had a government protection in my hand, it availed me nothing. Two Irishmen were on guard, and to have me in the guard-house was as gratifying to them as a month’s pay would have been. These civilized guards drew their sabres upon me, and I was forced with great violence into the Bastile of Newport News, in which one colored man has, within a few days, already perished.
The above named act was unwarranted, for all the guards of the post know that I have an order or protection for this place, Norfolk, Suffolk, and Fortress Monroe. Mr. Boseman and myself were released, however, in about half an hour; and others, who are free, in the course of the afternoon.
The Secesh could not have been guilty of a more disgraceful raid among the colored people than that of the cavalry of Newport News to-day. Sick men were forced from their shantics, where they have been lying for several days under the care of the doctor, while their panic-stricken wives were running through the camps from every quarter to the guard-house, begging for their release. But Pharaoh was never more determined to carry out his wicked design, than were those whose business it was to send those ex-slaves up to Harrison’s Landing.
I am at a loss how to decide in my own mind, whether the good resulting from this war to the slaves is an equivalent, so far, to the cruel treatment they have met with in our Union lines.
while I do not despair of the ultimate result of this war in regard to slavery, yet it is clear that there is wanted a policy in reference to the treatment of these people by the army after they are in our lines. The cruel treatment which the ex-slaves now receive at the hands of their-friends will have a decided tendency to force them back to their Southern masters, when they will decide to stand by the rebel cause. And I appeal to your readers, Mr. Editor, if a man's fate is uncertain, it is not natural that he should choose to accept the condition of which he has some knowledge, sooner than undergo that which is more uncertain?
Now, he doubtful position of the President is the cause of the bad treatment which these people everywhere receive. Officers, with but few exceptions, will not protect them; and the private soldier, with his Northern prejudice, believing as they do that the slave is the cause of the war, vent their petty malice on them in every conceivable manner. I repeat-the uncertain position of the government with reference to the slave, whose 
<c02>
fate is that of the nation,; is a licence to bad men to treat these now helpless people according to the dictates of their depraved passions. If the government, whose business it is to be now the final arbiter in this question, cannot see and does not believe in the humanity of the slave, what right has the common soldier, who is only a machine of the will of the government, to care?
From what a limited judgment allows me to perceive and understand, I fear that the hope to save slavery to the South is yet to be the means of breaking the nation in pieces. JOHN OLIVER.
THE HAYTIAN JOHN BROWH FUND,&0
NOTES ON JOHN BBOWN’S MEN.
A CARD.
After deducting expenses incurred in the Island, the fund contributed to the relief of the families of the martyrs of Harper’s Ferry, by the people of Hayti, amounted to <illegible>3,349,47.
The Haytian Committee directed that an American Committee be requested to disburse this amount, according to a letter of instruction which enumerated 
the parties and sums.
Messrs. B. C. Clark, Charles Sumner, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and the undersigned were named the Amercan Committee.
They have disbursed the following amounts to the parties below named:-
Mrs. John Brown, Senior $1,674.47
Mrs. Cook, (widow of John E. Cook,) 209.35
Mrs. Leary, (widow of Lewis S. Leary,) 209.54
John Brown, Jr., (son of Capt. John Brown,) 209.34
Owen Brown, (son of Capt. John Brown,) 209.34
O.P. Anderson, (only colored survivor of 
John Brown's men,) 209.34
$2,721.19
There remains to be distributed §68.28. By a mistake in the letter of instructions, not more than one -third of this amount can be disbursed until further directions from the Haytian Committee. The friends of Leeman, Tidd, Kagi, Stevens, Hazlitt, Oliver Brown, Copeland and Coppoe will please regard this card as an answer to their letters; they may be as-sured that, as soon as there is any authority received under which they can be aided, no time will be lost in communicating with them.
Of the five followers of John Brown who escaped from Harper’s Ferry, only three now survive,-Owen Brown, F. J. Meriam and O. P. Anderson. Tidd joined Burnside’s expedition, and died at Roanoke Island on the eve of a victory; Barclay Coppoc, whose brother was executed at Charlestown, was one of the victims of the Platte Bridge atrocity. John Brown, Cook, Thompson and Leary leave widows-all poor. Leeman, Kagi, Hazlitt, Tidd, Copeland, and, I believe, Stevens also, leave parents-all poor.
Mrs. Hazlitt has given four sons to the Federal army; one was wounded at Gaines's Mill, and we are told that the last seen of another, “he was fighting the rebels hand to hand like a tiger.”
The brother of Tidd is in the Western army.
Owen Brown is physically unfit for military duty; John, Jr., was a captain in Jennison’s 2d Kansas regiment until sickness compelled him to resign. His place is now filled by Mr. Hoyt, the young Massachusetts lawyer who volunteered to defend John Brown at Charlestown.
The mother of the Coppocs is old, infirm, poor, childless, and almost blind. Europe and America have produced many heroic women, but I question whether the annals of Rome, England or America, preserve the memory of a truer heroine than this sublime old mother. This is an extract from a letter I recently received from her:-
I had two noble sons in that conflict, who subsequently lost their lives by that monster, Slavery; viz., Edwin and Barclay Coppoc. But, if the great Disposer of Events has seen fit to accept the sacrifice as a sweet-smelling savor to the great cause of Freedom, I cheerfully submit..... My desire is, that every branch of the great Upas Tree Oppression may be lopped off and the trunk hewn down, that the true spirit of Christianity may be promulgated throughout the world.”
The two men who treacherously seized poor Cook as he was escaping North, and sent him back to Virginia to be murdered, are both in jail-one in a felon's cell,the other under guard as a traitor, but not a prisoner of war; both, probably, will be hanged, as he prophesied they would be.
Who knows but that the hemp may have already ripened which, properly prepared, shall end the earthly life of Henry A. Wise, the eulogist and hangman of John Brown?
The people who rejoiced at the murder of the old hero of Harper's Ferry, have had their country made a blackened wilderness, wet with the blood of their children.
The last news I heard of Copeland, the father of the colored martyr who was hanged at Charlestown, announced that he was in a regiment which had encamped on the very spot where his son was murdered.
Truly, “the mill of God grinds slowly, but it grinds exceeding small."
As Sojourner Truth quaintly said, “God is not dead yet”; and we all know that John Brown’s soul is marching on, in the direction of the White House-determined to go through it or over it. Let us hope he will be cordially welcomed, and that Abraham Lincoln may soon be numbered in the list of brave and noble heroes to be known in history as John Brown's men. JAMES REDPATH.
VISIT TO CONTRABANDS, IN WASHING TON, D. <illegible>
I have been, with my companion and some ladies, in the midst of contrabands. The place of their habitation is nearly two miles from the Capitol. They are under the supervision and care of Rev. D. C. Nichols, known as connected with the Reform School at Chicago, III. He has been here three months. Two thousand have been admitted from slavery, mostly from Virginia. Fifty-seven have died; the greater number of them diseased when they left the land of slavery. They have come in every condition. Homes have been found for nearly all of the men, women and children, who are able to leave the premises, and labor for their own support. Clothing, books and teachers are furnished by charity. The Government furnishes food, shelter, medicine, and superintendent. A single ration is at the rate of fifteen cents per day. There is a Hospital in the same connection, with an average number of fifty patients. It is intended to make the institution self-sustaining by opening a Laundry for the soldiers. The Government pays twenty five dollars per month for men as teamsters. More applications are made for servants than can be sup-plied. As these people have just emerged from slavery, no true marriage has ever been recognized among them. Our friend, Mr. Nichols, will soon perform the first marriage among the contrabands. He is just the man for the place. The prejudice of color toward these poor people is fast dying away; and under his kind and judicious management, he will do much to accomplish this object, as, also, to improve their general condition.
CHARLES SPEAR.
LETTER FROM GERRIT SMITH
PETERBORO’,(N. Y.,) Sept. 21, 1862.
MY DEAR FRIEND,-I have just read, and with satisfaction, your “Drafting-the Hoar of Trial.” It is a beautiful specimen of clear and unanswerable reasoning. The Non-Resistant” should go clear. The Quaker, merely as a Quaker, should not. He should not, unless he be also a Non-Resistant” a self-disfranchising Non-Resistant. I look with interest for your continuation next week.
Your friend, GERRIT SMITH.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
We have received “THE CONTINENTAL. MONTHLY,” for October, freighted with interesting and valuable reading. A more extended notice of it, with its table of contents, next week.
<c03>
THE C0NTRABANDS.
Among those who have sympathetically volunteered to look after the educational welfare of the contrabands at Newport News, Fortress Monroe, &c., is Mr. JOHN OLIVER, an intelligent colored citizen of Boston, whose labors are thus referred to by a correspondent of the New York Tribune:-
“At Newport News and Hampton, there are prosperous negro schools, under the charge of John Oliver, of Boston, and supported by the contributions of the New York Union Missionary Society. The first steps toward opening the schools were taken in May last with the approbation of Gens. Wool and Mansfield. About 50 children and adults gathered together for instruction. The project has succeeded so well that there are now some 250 of all ages and both sexes in the two schools. At Newport News, the use of the building formerly occupied as a military theatre has been granted to Mr. Oliver, and every morning he has it well filled with young and adult contrabands. They are of every shade of complexion, from the olive skin of the octoroon to the jet-black one of the Congo of whole blood. Some of the children are very apt scholars, and one class of nine have learnt to read with tolerable fluency in a little over a month. I am told that, with few or no exceptions, the adults show great joy when some new idea or bit of information is communicated to their minds from their books. A slave named Frank Robinson was specially pointed out to me as a diligent student. In the intervals of his work, he pursues his studies with real enthusiasm. Sometimes he will sit on his bench, spelling over the sentences with difficulty, wholly absorbed in study; and when he gathers the meaning of the words, thus disjointedly learnt, his face lights up with smiles, he hurriedly reads the sentence over, and with a cry of joy he jumps from his seat.
The branch school at Parrish’s farm in this neighborhood is also in a flourishing condition. Here Mr. Oliver has 43 scholars, who are learning the rudiments of education. This community has about 60 acres of land under cultivation, and is gaining a comfortable livelihood. I am sorry to say that depredations have been made upon the property of these industrious people by our soldiers. In one instance, about §125 worth of potatoes were stolen, and latterly a staff officer violated a guard which had been placed over the property, and had two cows and a horse driven into camp, although the poor negroes showed him receipts for the money they had paid for the animals. The matter is under investigation.”
The following is the authority under which Mr. Oliver has acted:-
NEWPORT NEWS, June 10,1862.
The bearer, JOHN OLIVER, is entitled to the protection of the Government and Government Officers, being engaged by permission to aid and assist the contrabands to support themselves.
He is hereby authorized to go to Fortress Monroe, or Norfolk and Newport News, on his duty. I have given him a horse, saddle and bridle, my private property, for his use.
I commend him to the protection of the Provosts Marshals at the above named places.
MANSFIELD, 
Brig. Gen. U. S. A.
Head Quarters Army Corps,
FORTRESS MONROE, Aug. 4, 1862.
The Military Authorities at Newport News are required to give the protection to the bearer, specified by General Mansfield.
JOHN A. DIX, Maj. General.
Gen. Mansfield has recently fallen on the field of battle, and is greatly lamented.
In another column, we have copied from the Anglo-African two interesting letters from Mr. Oliver, the first of which, though not of a late date, furnishes a curious illustration of the changes brought about by the war. His account of the brutal treatment of the poor contrabands at the hands of officers and soldiers of the army is truly heart-rending.
THE REPUBLICAN STATE CONVENTION 
AT WORCESTER-CHARLES SUMNER.
The Convention felt, with an intense earnestness begotten of times of revolution, the conviction that the main-spring and motive-power of this rebellion is American Slavery, and they determined to put that conviction upon record. Men were their favorites, not from a feeling of personal regard, or previous party association, but because they had been identified with and advocated this view.
And here we have the key to the endorsement of Mr. Sumner, which has dissatisfied some Republicans, and awakened violent denunciation from partisans of the opposition. Mr. Sumner was far-sighted enough to recognize the potency of slavery as an instrument in the hands of the rebels, and the necessity of striking it out of existence, in advance of most of his associates among statesmen. His attention had longer been directed to the evils of the institution –he better understood its corrupting influence upon men, its unscrupulous and insane lust of power, than American public men generally. He early pointed out-what is now become obvious to every foreigner, and is fast penetrating the minds of the most prejudiced partisans at home-the fact that slavery is the rebellion. He anticipated the public conviction just one year, in stating that it is slavery which maintains the rebel armies, clothes and feeds their troops, digs their intrenchments, and makes it possible to meet the loyal soldiers on the vantage-ground which it provides. One year ago, he proposed to take from the enemy this grand source of their strength. The nation was then not ready to second his policy. His insight went farther than their convictions. But a year of fruitless effort has shown them the wisdom of the course he urged. The sentiments of Mr. Sumner have since penetrated the minds of thousands, whose ideas were closed to the real issues of the struggle. These are not alone Republicans. Among them are Daniel S. Dickinson, O. A. Brownson, Robert Dale Owen, Daniel E. Sickles, Richard Busteed, Senator Rice, of Minnesota, and others, of the Democratic party; and we doubt not, when their real sentiments are obtained, we shall be able to add the names of Joseph Holt and Andrew Johnson to the number. Nay, the belief is becoming stronger, each day, that we are soon to add the name of President Lincoln to the list of converts, and that this is to be the policy of his administration.
We submit to the personal opponents of Mr. Sumner, that this is a matter not of passions, or of antipathies, but of principle. We do not act in the interest of any individuals. Personal idolatry was never more out of place than in this crisis of our history, whether we apply it to generals or to statesmen. Mr. Sumner was endorsed by the late Convention at Worcester, solely because he is the representative of ideas which are uppermost in the minds of earnest, loyal men at the North: Had the tendency of opinions been against the views which he advanced at Worcester a year earlier- had our experience in the war shown them to be fallacious -had we failed to strengthen the sentiment in the Republican party in that direction, and to bring over large numbers of our late opponents to take the same view -we confess that there would be weight in the charges of personal favoritism. But no such state of things exists. That the earnest loyal sentiment of the North is with Mr. Sumner’s position, will not be denied; that those who believe with him are receiving daily large accession-in short, that public opinion is setting largely that way, and not the other-is a fact too palpable to be questioned.
We went to that Convention, not careful or concerned whether this or that man received a complimentary resolution. We felt that the endorsement of the principle carried the man with it. The rest seemed to us measurably certain. We never contemplated the injustice of committing a great party to the support of a vital principle, and then turning round and ostracizing the man who had earliest, most earnestly, and with greatest power asserted that principle. Personal prejudice such as that we can understand; but we understand only to -abhor it, and we do not question that every right-minded man will do likewise.
The Convention which sat at Worcester was as truly a spontaneous expression of the people's sentiments- as little affected in its origin by wire pullers, and as little controlled in its deliberations by partisans of an individual-as any one which ever sat in Massachusetts. It endorsed Mr. Sumner because he had faith-fully represented a principle, and for no other reason. If there was any personal element in its deliberations, it came from men who have a personal antipathy to Mr. Sumner, and who could not endure that he should reap honor from the adoption of ideas which he had been the earliest to advocate, and the most persistent to urge-ideas now in a fair way to be adopted as the standards of national policy.- Norfolk County Journal.
There is no pretence that any section, class or interest which has aught in common with Republicans was excluded. The representation was very large, and the spirit evinced excellent. The virtual renomination of Mr. Sumner was carried with hardly a show of opposition.
Of course, the Boston Courier, Post, &c., are distressed. They dread to see the Republican cause thus placed in jeopardy. But the Springfield Republican is in still sorer affliction. That journal, since the departure of its responsible editor for Europe in quest of health, has been run by the opponents of emancipation, and is of course hostile to Mr. Sumner's re-election. It is dumbfounded by this exhibition of Mr. Sumner's strength with the Republicans of Massachusetts, and knows no better than to betray its chagrin by mere railing.
The Republican does not attempt to explain the unanimity and earnestness of the Convention in sup-port of Mr. Sumner. It gives no reason why their
<c04>
representatives should have been for Mr. Sumner, if the people were against him. It simply abuses the delegates of its own party for approving and upholding the intrepid standard-bearer of that party, whose fidelity to principle, to conviction, to Human Rights, has won for him the hatred of every opponent of Republicanism, as his strength with the people whom he has faithfully served has excited the envy of every trimmer. Mr. Sumner has reason to be proud alike of his friends and his enemies,- Dedham Gazette.
THE SO-CALLED PEOPLE’S CONVENTION.
The Boston Traveller, which is not a Republican paper, but which is in favor of the vigorous prosecution of the war, thus alludes to this malcontent movement:-
“The Call for a People's Convention has been out for some days, and is signed by a number of good men, while others are expected to sign it. To most of what it contains we could all subscribe, for it is in favor of prosecuting the war, and that is the common sentiment of the North. The only really bad thing in the call is the call itself, for that means that an organized effort is to be made to prevent the reelection of Mr. Sumner to the U. S. Senate. We all know that such is the meaning of the movement, and that the ablest man in it, and its chief, has said that Mr. Sumner ought to go over to the enemy. Now, an attempt to defeat Mr. Sumner's reelection ought to be opposed by the people of Massachusetts as decidedly as they would oppose an attempt to place a secession democrat in the gubernatorial chair of their State. Mr. Sumner's presence in the Senate is indispensable to the proper management of an important branch of the public service. He is the only man in Congress whose acquaintance with foreign affairs is extensive, accurate and minute-the only man there who has an European reputation; and he is also one of the very few of our public men who are respected abroad. We say nothing of his anti-slavery views, which are those of a large majority of his constituents, but confine ourselves, for the present, to matters of another character; and we put it to intelligent men whether it is wise, at this time, to seek the removal from the Senate of a man of Mr. Sumner’s peculiar and well employed knowledge merely to gratify the personal feelings of a few discontented spirits.”
GEN. SHERMAN’S SPEECH AT MEMPHIS. General W. T. Sherman recently made a speech at Memphis, in the course of which he said:-
What does this war mean? mere independence to the South? This is not all; the leaders mean power for them, predominance to the Slave Power, an injury to the liberty of the masses. It is an attempt to give one interest-slavery- the predominance over all others. If the intention is to simply govern the new republic on the principles of the old one, why not use their power at the ballot-box to improve or change what they desire? But they want a power for a class the old system will not permit them to possess; they want a strong government, therefore they fight against it.
It is an oligarchy they want, and the North cannot permit such a kind of government to exist side by side with her free republic. If an agreement for separation was made, and such a government well established beside their free one, the very signers of that agreement would seize arms to put an end to such a government before the ink was dry with which the agreement was signed. The struggle must be fought out now. It is useless to dream of a peace which would cut this country in two-such a thing cannot be done.
No dictation is wanted, no subjugation. The South must not dictate to the North, nor the North tyrannize over the South-the East must not domineer over the West, nor the West lord it over the East. We must have one harmonious Congress legislating with unprejudiced fairness for the whole people.”
Speaking out. The Norfolk (Va.) Union publishes a letter from a distinguished Judge who has always been a Democrat. Here is a portion of the letter:-
This is no longer a war to restore the Union as it was. It is a war to make the Union what it never was, but what it ought to be. I would not make war to end slavery, but slavery having made war, I would put down the rebellion, and if slavery falls, as fall it must, let it fall. The great bloody monster will die hard, and in his death-struggle he will devour whole armies of devoted men. The struggle is far from over yet. Slavery is the most cementing power that ever existed on this continent. The firmest bond of union, its enchantment is of hell, and its power is beyond belief. It enchains the poor and rich in every border State. It hates liberty, intelligence and progress. Its arrogance, malignity and cruelty have no bounds. It is a terrible power, in terrible earnest. It will fight to the death, it will not yield until it is thoroughly conquered, and conquer it we shall, if We are not degraded sons of noble sires. Separation is destruction and division of the North. The country must remain one, and the South must be conquered. It will take time and blood and money; but by far the cheapest mode of settlement is by conquest; any other settlement entails endless wars, barbarism and eternal degradation."
JUDGE HUGHES ON PARTY MEN. Judge Hughes of the United States Court of Claims, always a Democrat of the ”straightest” sort, recently made a speech at Indianapolis in response to a serenade. A report of his remarks says:
He denounced in strong terms those who profess devotion to the Union, and yet are so frightened at the idea of subjugation and emancipation. 'These men,’ said he, ’seem far more anxious to preserve the bond of the slave than the bond of the Union.’ He was opposed to a war specially for the purpose of emancipation, but if, as an unavoidable incident of the war, slavery should perish, let it die. (Loud applause.) He didn’t believe in preserving slave property for men whose hands are red with the blood of our neighbors, friends, and kindred. For the disposal of all such men he had a plan. If a Douglas man wanted to know here to go, he would say, follow Douglas, and act upon the patriotic precepts of his last speech. If a Douglas man were disloyal, he would say, follow your candidate or the Vice-Presidency, Johnson, who is in the rebel Congress. Go there! A loyal Breckinridge man should follow Stanton, and Dickinson, and Butler. A disloyal Breckinridge man should go after Breckinridge. A loyal Bell man should follow the illustrious Everett. A disloyal one should go where Bell is. For the rest of those neutral men, who believe in fighting rebel battles on loyal soil, he would form them all into a procession, with secession flags and Marshals selected from the 8th of January Convention, and march them South to the tune of 'In Dixie’s land we’ll take our stand.’” (Laughter and cheering.)
A DEMOCRATIC GENERAL’S OPINION. The Rock-land Press contains a letter from an officer at Baton Rouge, (undoubtedly Col. Nickerson, a life-long Democrat.) We commend the following extract to the notice of all our readers:-
I am ready to state upon my oath, that I saw negroes among the most advanced in the line against us. On the night after the fight, we sent out three hundred colored men, armed, to watch the movements of the enemy. It only shows that they can be trusted when needed. In my opinion, they will prove themselves among the most brave and efficient soldiers. We brought in one hundred and fifty of them this morning, and, if need be, they shall have a chance to fight. The present policy is a mistaken one. Our forces are insufficient. There are negroes enough, and they will fight. Every man in my regiment will testify to the correctness of what I have said upon this subject.”
And again, writing from Baton Rouge, under date of the 15th ult., he says:-
All this settles nothing. We can never conquer the South without arming the negroes-never, never, never! I fear it may be too late, even now. I fear we shall never be able to penetrate their territory far enough to get hold of the numbers that first flocked to us, and were turned back! My God, how foolish seems to be the present policy! How many lives have been sacrificed, how much money has been spent to gratify a theory! There ought to be no theory but to conquer. Let this be the motto-let not only money and life be sacrificed to this, but prejudice, and we may yet succeed. I hope for the best, but it is mingled with fear.”
CONVERSATION BETWEEN LOUIS NAPOLEON and Mr. Slidell. It is positively asserted in political circles that in the late audience given by the Emperor of the French o Mr. Slidell, his Majesty spoke at length upon the slavery question, and gave Mr. Slidell to understand that it would be very difficult for him to recognize the Southern Confederacy unconditionally, and without reference to that institution.
He said that such an act would expose his government to the severest censure, not only at home but abroad, where France is looked upon as the friend of freedom and humanity, and the liberator of all races. In such a position and with the perils attending such a course, he should like to know beforehand whether or not the Confederate government felt disposed to adopt some measures concerning the emancipation of the blacks in a time more or less remote, and whether or not he would communicate on the subject with the French government.
To this demand of the French Emperor, Mr. Slidell is said to have answered that he would communicate the wishes of his Majesty to his Government, and sent to that effect his private secretary, Prince de Polignac, to Richmond.
<illegible> The Archbishop of Canterbury and Earl of Harrington are dead.
<c05>
PRESIDENT LINCOLN SERENADED.
Washington, Sept. 24. A large crowd assembled at the Executive mansion to-night on the occasion of a serenade to President Lincoln. Having been cheered and called for, he appeared at an upper window, and spoke as follows:-
FELLOW-CITIZENS: I appear before you to do little more than acknowledge the courtesy you pay me, and to thank you for it. I have not been distinctly informed why it is, on this occasion, you appear to do me this honor, though I suppose (interruption) it is because of the Proclamation. (Cries of “ Good,” and applause.) I was about to say I suppose I understand it. (Laughter. Voice—“ That you do; you thoroughly understand it.”) What I did, I did after very full deliberation, and under a very heavy and solemn sense of responsibility. (Cries of "Good”:" God bless you!” Applause.) I can only trust in God I have made no mistake. (Cries-“No mistake-all right”; "You've made no mistakes yet-go ahead-you’re right.”) I shall make no attempt, on this occasion, to sustain what I have done or said by any comment. (Voices-“ That's unnecessary”; “We understand it”) It is now for the country and the world to pass judgment on it, and, may be, take action upon it. I will say no more upon this subject. In my position I am environed with difficulties-(a voice, "That's so”)-yet they are scarcely so great as the difficulties of those who, upon the battle-field, are endeavoring to purchase with their blood and their lives the future happiness and prosperity of this country. (Applause long continued.) Let us never forget them. On the 14th and 17th days of this month there have been battles bravely, skillfully and successfully fought. (Applause.) We do not yet know the particulars. Let us be sure that in giving praise to particular individuals, we do no injustice to others. I only ask you, at the conclusion of these few remarks, to give three hearty cheers to all the good and brave officers and men who fought those successful battles.
Cheer after cheer was given, when the President bade the crowd good night, and then withdrew.
Secretary Chase was next serenaded, and made a congratulatory speech.
BANGOR, Me., Sept. 24. One hundred guns were fired here at noon to-day and the bells rung, in honor of the President’s Emancipation Proclamation. There was also a bonfire in the evening.
SEIZURE OF NEGROES AND STORES AT HARPER'S FERRY. Soon after the place surrendered, companies detached for that purpose proceeded to hunt out all the negroes in the village from their various hiding places, and start them off in a drove toward Charlestown. It was a pitiable sight, the woe-begone expression which rested on the countenances of these poor unfortunates. Many of them were free negroes, but a general “clearing out of this paradise of niggers must be made.” They attempted to seize the negroes which belonged to the various regiments. I overheard the severe verbal castigation which one of the officers of the Garibaldi Guard administered to a burly Georgian who had laid hold of his colored servant to carry him off.
After the capture of the place, Jackson’s trains marched through it, on their way to the valley of the Shenandoah. They were hurried rapidly along, and seemed to be well filled with supplies of all kinds. Over one hundred and fifty wagons, containing one article of salt alone, obtained at Frederick, were in one train. Other wagons contained clothing, shoes, and other articles much needed by the rebels. The entire train was immense, and would stretch for ten or twelve miles, and all were filled. The story that Jackson had but a small train of wagons with him in this foray is thus shown to be incorrect.-Corr. of N. Y. Tribune.
”Buell.” Everybody knows that the enterprising General, at the head of 75,000 men, whom the rebel Sidney Johnson kept at bay at Bowling Green with 12,000, was named Buell. Everybody knows that the dawdler who nearly lost the battle of Pittsburg Landing by his criminal delays was named Buell. And all the world knows that Buell was sent to liberate East Tennessee, but is held in such thorough contempt by the rebel Generals that they do not stop to fight him, but march past him and leave him in their rear, in perfect confidence that all he will do will be to restrain, perhaps court-martial such of his officers as may be disposed to make war. Buell is, furthermore, the remarkably intelligent officer who don't know “what the war is about!” “The little that remains to be known about Buell is furnished by the Chicago Tribune:-
“Before the war broke out, he was merely a paymaster in the army who lounged about the taverns of Washington, spending his leisure in cursing the ‘Black Republicans’ and eulogizing slavery. He is a brother-in-law of the infamous old traitor Twiggs. He professes to be loyal to the Union, but his actions show that his first allegiance is to the ‘divine institution.’”
<illegible> A correspondent of the Baltimore American writes from the city of Frederick as follows:-
<illegible> After three months’ campaigning in the Valley of Virginia and on the banks of the Rappahannock, I am once more at home. It is impossible to realize that the Confederates have actually polluted with their presence this good old city.
The almost dream-like remembrance causes a shudder to the narrator as he or she describes the filthy appearance-the worse than squalor of the wretched, half-naked crowd that tainted the atmosphere with odors not of ”Araby, the blest.”
Horror of horrors! Shall we own the truth? These wretched men, so saturated with filth that they fairly stunk; these bundles of rags, cough-racked, diseased and starving creatures of despotism, excel in soldierly conduct and discipline our well-fed, well-clothed and well-armed Union army."
REBEL PRISONERS. Mr. Washburn, of Worcester, was at Frederick, Md., says the Worcester Spy, when five hundred rebel prisoners arrived- and a more ragged, starved, barefooted crew he never before beheld. They clamored for food, but yet, as the officers who captured them declared, they fought with great bravery.
THE NATIONAL Loss at Richmond, ky. Colonel Monson, in his official report of the loss at this place, in the attack of the rebel General Kirby Smith, says his loss did not exceed 200 killed, 700 wounded, and 2000 prisoners, with nine pieces of cannon, and some wagons. His force, he says, consisted of 6500 men, and the rebels 16,000.
The Richmond Despatch says that six hundred Maryland refugees in that city have marched to join the army of General Jackson.
BEAUTIES OF BORDER STATE LOYALTY. A correspondent of the Philadelphia Press, writing from near Darnestown, Maryland, says of the population in that portion of the State which Jackson has recently invaded:-
“The farmers hereabout, who have been saving their crops, and whose harvests and farms have been guarded by Union soldiers, flocked to Poolsville with wagons and all manner of vehicles, negro slaves, and working men, carrying forage, food, clothing, articles of necessity and luxury for man and beast, and offering them to the rebel soldiers.”
The 12th Massachusetts Regiment which went into the fight with nearly five hundred men, came out with only thirty-two!
Hundreds of Marylanders were present to witness the battle, which could be seen from many of the surrounding hills. The sharp rattle of 50,000 muskets, andthunder of 100 pieces of artillery, is not often witnessed.
The strength of the armies in the battles in Maryland has not been stated. Probably each of them was over 100,000 originally, and each was reinforced while the fights were going on.
It is reported that twelve Federal Generals have been killed or wounded in the Maryland battles.
The loss of the rebels in this battle was very heavy, and evidently exceeded ours. A wounded soldier of the 2d North Carolina regiment, said his regiment left Richmond a month ago 700 strong, and on Thursday morning could muster only 200.
The result of the week’s operations by no means gives promise of a speedy overthrow of the rebellion, but it is calculated to increase our confidence in the grand army of the Union. It shows what it can do when brought face to face with the foe; and it should teach our government the necessity and the value of vigor in the prosecution of the war. We trust there may be no suspension of effort now. Demoralized as the rebel hosts must be by their recent disasters, they should be followed by the eager soldiers of the Union, till they are thoroughly routed. And we may also express the hope that now, when success crowns our arms, the grand proclamation of emancipation may be made, which shall detach from the enemy the millions who are unwillingly supporting them.-New Bedford Mercury.
MEETING OF THE LOYAL GOVERNORS. Governor Andrew arrived in New York yesterday morning, on his way to attend a meeting of the Governors of all the loyal States, at Altona, Blair Co., Pa. It is understood that this Convention assembles at the suggestion of Gov. Tod, the Democratic Governor of Ohio, and Gov. Pierrepont of Western Virginia, and other conservative heads of State governments arranged most of the preliminaries. The influence of this consultation must be highly conducive to the public good.
DEATH OF COUNT DRGAPARIN. Count de GASPARIN, formerly Minister of the Interior under Louis Philippe, died a few days ago at Orange, (Vaucluse,) France. He is best known in this country as the author of “The Uprising of a Great People.” and other writings in defence of our government and the war against rebellion.
<c06>
ANOTHER EARLY AND FAITHFUL FRIEND OF THE SLAVE DEPARTED.
The announcement comes to us of the decease at Pantucket, R. I., on the 16th inst., of DANIEL MITCHELL, after a long and wasting illness-one of the earliest, most reliable, most untiring friends of the millions in bondage- ever ready to labor and to <illegible> is their behalf whose home was alike the refuge of the fugitive slave and the resort of his lecturing advocates. Modest, amiable, and of a serne and hopeful spirit, he was also firm in his position, and entirely true to his highest convictions of duty. None more worthy has been tranalated from the Anti-Slavery ranks to a higher and nobler sphere of life.
An esteemed friend at Valley Falls writes us as follows:-
DANIEL MITCHELL passed away on the evening of the 16th inst., after a day of much suffering. To-day we attended his funeral. There was much speaking, but no allusion was made to his labors for Humanity- to the excellence of his examaple as a devoted friend of the slave. Oh, how I did long to hear some commendation of a life spent in doing good, and the people urged to “ go and do likewise”! It has been delightful to visit him during his sickness. He has throughout preserved the same cheerful spirit, the same thoughtful care for others, the same greathearted philanthropy which eharacterhed him in health. While suffering severely, and unable to respond as formerly to every call for anti-slavery effort, he has been always ready to cheer the friends of the slave with his words of encouragement and hopefulness, and, on the occasion of our last visit, he expressed the warmest affection and attachment for thee. We shall miss him more than words can express. For nearly a quarter of a century that he has been our neighbor, we have always found him ready to work heartily and generously in any effort in behalf of the slave. No business ever hindered him, no fear of public opinion ever deterred him. The slave’s most despised and uncompromising friends he took by the hand, and hesitated not to stand by them even if he stood alone. I am sad that we have so few such in Rhode Island. But I feel sure that he has not deserted us, and that, in whatever peril we are yet to suffer and to labor for the final overthrow of our nation’s crime and curse, he will still stand by us, and perhaps move earnestly and effectively than ever, urge on the blows that shall insure its downfall.
No words can do justice to the beautiful serenity, the unfaltering cheerfulness and unwearying attention of our friend’s devoted wife, during this long and painful illness. She cast no shadows over his pathway, but helped him constantly to keep it all bright before him. It was ever a benediction to those who visited him. E. B. C.
DIED-In Nantucket, 22d inst., Mr. LOUIS P. NEW-ELL, (colored,) aged about 20.
Louis was for several months employed as a compositor in the office of The Pine and Palm, which he left on account of ill-health. During his stay in Boston, he won golden opinions not only from his companions, but from all with whom he came in contact, whether as employer or fellow-workmen. His exemplary deportment, good conduct and unassuming manners marked him as a youth of true worth, and the announcement of his death is received with sadness by a wider circle of friends than probably he even knew he had made. J. R.
FRATERNITY LECTURES
FIFTH COURSE
The public of Boston and vicinity, are respectfully in-formed that the FIFTH COURSE OF LECTURES fifth COURSE of lectures under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will commence on 
TUESDAY EVENING, October 7, 1862,
At TREMONT TEMPLE, when an on address on the State of the Nation will be made by
HON. HENRY WILSON.
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:-
October 14.? HENRY M. DEXTER.
October 21.-ROBERT COLLYER.
October 28.-THEODORE TILTON.
November 4.-MONCURN D CONWAY.
November 11. ANNA E. DICKINSON.
November18.- HENRY WARD <ILLEGIBLE>
December 2.- B. GRATE BROWS.
December 9.-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
December 16.-RALPH WALDO EMERSOW.
December 23.-JACOB M MANNING.
December 30.-GEORGE WN, CURTIS
Lectures to commence at half-past 7o’clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at $2 each, may be obtained at Williams & Everetts, 234 Washington St.; Oliver Ditson & Co’s. 277 Washington St.; of Solomon Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets. Sept. 26tf s attle of 50,000 muskets, and THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY, “The Tribe of Asa,” Asa B. Hutchinson, Lizzie C,Hutchinson, Abby Hutchinson, Freddy Hutchinson, O. Dennett Hutchinson,-respectfully announce to the ladies and gentlemen of Boston and vicinity, that they will give one Concert at the Melodeon, on Tuesday evening, Sept. 30; when they will introduce from their extensive catalogue a choice selection of new and old compositions, which have been enthusiastically received everywhere.
Tickets, 25 cents. Children 15 cents. Doors open at 7., Concert to commence at 8.
"The Hutchinson Family” are always deserving of a full house, for their long and hearty support of the cause of Humanity, Liberty and Progress, in their spirit -stirring strains and patriotic songs. Let them have a bumper!] -Ed. Lib 
ANDREW T. FOSS, on behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, is now in the State of Vermont, and will speak as follows; his subject, Slavery and the Rebellion:
Ryegate, Friday, September 26
Wells River, Sunday September “28
Topsham, Tuesday September 30
West Topsham, Wednesday, Oct. 1
Barre. Thursday oct 2.
LECTURES BY PARKER PILLSBURY-In
Warren, Friday evening, Sept. 26.
Northampton,Saturday, " 27.
Florence, Monday, Sept" 29
Williamsburg, Tuesday Sept, " 30
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak in Quincy, Sunday, Oct 5, at half-past 10, A.M., and at half-past 2, P.M.
A.T. Foss will please inquire for a letter at Albany, (Vt.) post-office; or send thither for one mailed at Leicester, (Mass.) on Monday last.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D 
Office hours from 2 to 4,. P. M.
DENTISTRY.
DD. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 146 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper. 
Dr. M. also uses a somewhat similar preparation for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for filling with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
Boston, September 20,1862
Hopedale Home School
THIS Institution, after a suspension of some months, will be re-opened to well-disposed pupils of good hab its, on Wednesday, Sept. 3, for a term of fifteen weeks.
For particulars, address
WM. S. HEYWOOD
A.J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co,. III
Especial attention given to <illegible> and collecting Claims for Eastern 
August 8 tf,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO JAMES GORDON BENNETT,
HIGH PRIEST OF NORTHERN TREASON.
Great Judas of the nineteenth century!
Foul journalistic traitor of the age!
Persistent liar, scabbed with falsity!
Defamer of the prophet, saint and sage!
Come, sit now for your portrait I will paint 
As others see you men who love their God,
And hate not even you-aye, you attaint
With every vice that rots the mental bawd!
Behold the picture! see a vain old man,
Whose age brings nothing but increase of sin;
Some pelf, perchance, and always the same plan
To heap new lies on lies to burrow in!
This is the central figure; and around
It is a lurid band of hottest wrongs!
Oppression gloats on it as on the hound
Of blood, and slanders smile on it in throngs!
Now see it stretching out a slimy palm, 
And striking hands with Slavery! Nay, nay!
It grasps Columbia by the throat and arm, 
And seeks to give her to that beast of prey!
‘Tis true to nothing save to all untruth;
It nothing loves save hate and injury;
It rues no deed except some deed of ruth;
The Devil is its only deity!
Troy, Sept. 13. ED. H.G. CLARK.
From Zion’s Herald.
EMANCIPATION.
BY MRS. J. H. HANNAFORD.
Land of the Christian’s hope!
Land of the patriot’s pride!
Let Freedom like a river flow,
A broad, deep, sparkling tide! 
Break each accursed chain,
Let the enslaved go free, 
Or never hope a righteous God
Again will prosper thee!
Earth’s heathen millions wait
For light to beam from thee:
How can it shine through that dark mist
Of cruel Slavery?
Crush the rebellion foul,
And with it crush its cause,
The deadliest foe in all our land
To just and humane laws!
By martyred Torrey’s blood,
By Lovejoy’s honored name,
Shake off the shackles of disgrace,
Wipe out the nation’s shame!
Let not our heroes fall
In this great strife in vain,
Nor leave it for our children dear
To fight it o’er again!
Proclaim the edict now-
Be tardy justice done
To those so long by us oppressed-
And then the viet’ry’s won.
God's smile will clear our sky,
And paint the promise-bow
On each retreating cloud, to be
The pledge of glory now.
Then speak the magic word:
Say to the slave, "Be free!”
Let Northern bells ring in the year
Of Southern jubilee!
Shrink not in coward fear,
Be merciful and just,
Or look to see the stars and stripes
Dishonored in the dust.
Nay, lift the dear old flag,
More proudly let it wave 
Above a nation purified,
A people true and brave;
A North and South made one,
In bonds that none may break,
While shouts of "Peace and Liberty!"
Our whole broad land awake.

THE WORD FOR THE HOUR.
Between the living and the dead
Great Moses stood, and thus he said:
“Haste, make atonement; incense bring;
Make to the Lord an offering.
Bring fire from his own altar-flame,
To pierce the heaven from whence it came,
If haply His fierce wrath shall cease,
And this great People go in peace”.
Oh, fiercer plague than then befell
The wasted tribes of Israel,
Is raging now in this our land,
With none to help on either hand.
Oh, where is he-our Moses-where?
The man of faith, and zeal, and prayer,
To stand, the Leader and the Head,
Between our living and our dead?
O Lincoln, in thy chair of State!
The truly good are truly great:
Men name thee honest, prudent, wise,
And so, with ever-longing eyes, 
We look to thee:-our Leader be!
Speak but one master-word-“Be free!”
Than incense more divine that word,
And owned more truly of the Lord!
One word-the noblest ever spoke-
But one, and the dark charm is broke;
Whose lip shall utter it, his name
All earth shall shout it with acclaim.
From East to West, from South to North,
One grateful anthem shall go forth: 
While Heaven shall add its sweet “Well done!”
And sing God’s reign on earth begun.
Fitchburg, Mass. CAROLINE A. MASON.
Numbers, xvi. 48.
AFTER ALL.
BY WILLIAM WINTER,
The apples are ripe in the orchard,
The work of the reaper is done,
And the golden woodlands redden
In the blood of the dying sun.
At the cottage door the grandsire
Sits pale in his easy chair,
While the gentle wind of twilight
Plays with his silver hair.
A woman is kneeling beside him;
A fair young head is prest,
In the first wild passion of sorrow,
Against his aged breast.
And far from over the distance
The faltering echoes come
Of the flying blast of trumpet,
And the rattling roll of drum.
And the grandsire speaks in a whisper-
“The end no man can see;
But we give him to his country,
And we give our prayers to Thee.”
The violets star the meadows,
The rose-buds fringe the door,
And over the grassy orchard
The pink-white blossoms pour.
But the grandsire’s chair is empty,
The cottage is dark and still;
There’s a nameless grave in the battle-field,
And a new one under the hill.
And a pallid, tearless woman 
By the cold hearth sits alone,
And the old clock in the corner
Ticks on with a steady drone.
“The golden opportunity
Is never offered twice; seize then the hour
When fortune smiles, and duty points the way;
Nor shirk aside to ‘scope the spectre Fear,
Nor pause though Pleasure beckon from her bower,
But bravely bear thee onward to the goal.”
<c02>
The Liberator.
SLAVERY, AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS.
No.III.
BY JOSEPH F. BRENNAN, OF LOUISVILLE, KY.
“In all the Slave States,” said the Presbyterian Synod of Kentucky in 1836, "there are not twelve men exclusively devoted to the education of the slaves. We know,” continues the report to that body, of which this is an extract, “of but five churches in the slave holding States built exclusively for their use. They are unable to read, as both law and custom prohibit their instruction.”
To keep them in as nearly a condition of barbarous ignorance as possible, is the tendency of all laws made for their restraint and coercion. The effect of this, upon the free population of the Slave States, though not obvious at first sight, is disastrous. While every day we notice attempts made in the Free States to alleviate the condition of the humble and more exposed classes of society, no such attempts are ever made in the Slave States. The poor white people are a nuisance and a burden to the land, and are generally, if they express the least inclination to go, helped out of it. They are an eyesore to the wealthy slaveholder. He can neither use them nor abuse them to his satisfaction. If it was possible for him to paint them black, and convert them into slaves, they would at once become objects of value in his estimation; but, as it is, he cares not whether they live or die. His own children he will educate by sending them to a Northern school, or have them educated at home by a Northern teacher, whose eyes and ears must be blind and deaf to the wrongs perpetrated by the peculiar institution, and whose lips must be hermetically sealed, except to praise it. With his disposition towards the poor whites of his neighborhood, he would not be likely to, as he does not provide school or teacher for their children. What benefit is it to him for them to be taught anything, more than the negroes? To illustrate by figures this fact, I will take Connecticut from among the Free, and South Carolina from among the Slave States, as most removed from any disturbing influences, such as emigration, &c. In Connecticut, there were, in 1850, 200,000 persons in round numbers over twenty years of age. In South Carolina there were, at same date, 120,000 free persons of the same age. Among those of Connecticut there were but 500 persons who could not read nor write, while in South Carolina there were 21,000 free white persons, over twenty years of age, unable to read or write. In 1837, Gov. Clarke, of Kentucky, declared in his Message to the Legislature, that one-third of the adult population in that State were unable to write their names. Yet Kentucky had, at that time, a school fund of $1,250,000, while South Carolina not then, nor at any time, has had a dollar of a school fund. Within the past fifteen years, free schools have been instituted in the Border Slave States of Kentucky, Missouri and Maryland-that is, in the principal cities of those States; but in neither city nor country is such an institution known in the Cotton or Sugar Slave States as a free school. 
Not only is the common education of the white people affected in the Slave States in the manner described, but their religious education-the doctrines taught them in the name of God-have an evil tendency by inhibiting the truth. As in other lands prelacy, monarchy, aristocracy appear in the public teachings of Christianity-in the Slave States, and, to our shame be it said, in too many of the Free States, submission to slavery is taught as an ordinance of God, justified by Christianity, and proven by the Bible! Thus, as the public religion is elsewhere made to subserve and uphold kings, nobles, priests, so here it is made to prove the justice of enslaving men, women and children. Truly may it be said, there are no chains so strong and oppressive as those wrought in the name of God, and welded upon their victims by the teachers of religion. The efforts of the clergy in the Slave States are thus confined to polemics. Conspicuous among their sermons are those in defence of slavery, generally calculated to leave the impression upon their hearers that were Christ now on earth, he might as consistently be a slaveholder as Abraham was. While the Southern churches and ministers teach that slavery is a Christian institution, the Northern churches and ministers in the main, either ignore the subject or join in the same teaching. Here and there a pulpit voice in the Free States has been lifted up against it; but, outside of its own circle, generally to meet with obloquy and dissent, and, wherever heard of in the Slave States, to be cursed. The names of Parker, Beecher, Cheever, Bellows, Thompson and Tyng are held in utter detestation by slaveholders; and if curses loud and deep would destroy the lives of these bold and strong men, they would all have ceased to exist long ago. Yet when Southern ministers come North, they are treated with all due courtesy and respect. A slaveholding clergyman a few years ago made the tour of the Free States, boasting that he owned thirty slaves, and would wade knee-deep in blood to defend his right to them. He was received, as he said himself, by the Northern churches, with the utmost cordiality, and invited on every hand to pulpits with welcome from the large and powerful denomination to which he belonged. He returned, he says, leaving that hot-bed of abolitionism (Boston) without being once rebuked.
In some of the Slave States, it is a penal offence to teach slaves the elements of common learning. By the more recent codes of Virginia and Kentucky, any one who undertakes to teach reading and writing to slaves, or even free colored persons in Virginia, may be fined from $10 to $100. The same is the code of Georgia. In Alabama the fine is increased to $500; in Mississippi, to imprisonment in the common jail one year. Louisiana forbids teaching slaves, and prohibits any one from using language in public, calculated to produce discontent among the free colored population, under penalty of imprisonment or death, at the discretion of the court. We have seen, within the past few months, by the action of Gov. Stanley, what the law is in North Carolina. In fine, both law and custom prohibit the education of slaves in the most common rudiments of the language, as a necessity of the institution of slavery.
I will now touch upon the effect of slavery upon law and politics.
In the settlement of America, only the people came over. Neither royalty nor nobility became an element of this population. The people, the third estate of England's institutions, brought to this country the institutions of religion and law. They also brought sentiments and ideas hostile to the national English habits, which, unable to find a resting-place in that country, were brought here, planted and bore fruit; and three of those ideas, in a short time, became incarnate in the institutions and laws of America. The first of those ideas is, that, by virtue of his manhood, each man has inalienable rights not derived from men, nor to be taken away by men, but derived only from his Maker. This idea is the natural and first fruit of religion. Second, that in respect of these rights, all men are created equal; third, that the sole design of political government is to place every man in the entire possession of his inalienable rights.
These ideas, I say, grew here. Nor priest, nor king, nor nobility of England or continental Europe share these ideas. They were emphatically of the people; and they became the frame-work of that Democracy, that government of all, for all, and by all, that the mass of mankind believe to be, as they desire to enjoy it, the true government of the earth. In the Constitutions of nearly all the Free States of America, these ideas are thus embodied; while in the Constitutions of the Slave States, these ideas are ignored,-but one Slave State, viz., Virginia, in her Constitution, expressing her belief in the natural equality of man. Now, as this idea is, consistently with their possession of the institution of slavery, rejected by the politicians of the Southern States, and consistently admitted by the politicians of the North-
<c03>
ern States, it follows that a constant and irrepressible conflict must take place in the administration of the common law which they both inherit.
The most prominent and important institutions inherited from England are trial by jury. This involves the impannelment of twelve peers of the accused, and the presumption in favor of innocence, life and liberty. Second only to this is the right of every man under restraint or accusation, in times of peace, to have a legal reason publicly shown for his confinement by a written parchment, styled in law habeas corpus; in other words, a written reason why the body of an accused should be seized and held subject to law. These institutions have long been regarded as the great safeguards of justice, and in the legislation of the Free States have been undisturbed, and the benefits of them are extended to every person therein, irrespective of color or nationality; while in the Slave States the whole class of bondmen, constituting one-third of the people of these States, taken as a whole, are deprived of them. Contrary to the common law of England, the American slave is in law regarded merely as a thing. In some of the Slave States, trial by jury is allowed him in capital cases. But in South Carolina, Virginia and Louisiana, the slave is not allowed a jury trial in any case. In every Slave State he may be punished to the extent of “thirty-nine lashes, well laid on,” by the decision of two or five justices of the peace; while in no case is he tried by men who regard him as a man,-never by a jury of his peers, nor even by a mixed jury of slaveholders and slaves, or even free black men. As a thing, the slave is not allowed his oath. No slave, free negro, or mulatto to the fourth degree of descent, is allowed to testify against a white man; and, as if this were not enough, in South Carolina and Louisiana, if a slave is injured or killed when only one white person is present, and the presumption of guilt fall on this person, he is allowed by law to clear himself by his own oath. The slave has no right of defence against his master’s assault. The laws of Georgia direct that if any slave shall presume to strike any white man, such slave shall, for the first offence, be punished as the justices see fit, not extending to the taking of his life or the destruction of his limbs; for the second offence he shall suffer death. In South Carolina, a slave may strike a white man on his owner’s account; but even in this case the offence is capital, should he be guilty of it a second time on the same person. The same law obtains in Kentucky, extended to free men of color as well as slaves: the penalty, however, is less severe.
A black man cannot be a party to a civil suit. Indeed, if his condition is doubted, and the law recognizes that it shall be, he must apply to a court to authorize a guardian to bring an action in the case. But the burden of proof remains on the black man to show that he is not a slave, but free. This is the rule in every Slave State, except North Carolina, where the slave code is more humane than elsewhere in the American Slave States; and by statute in South Carolina this rule is thus declared, “It shall always be presumed that every negro, Indian, mulatto and meztizo is a slave.” No possession of himself, however lengthy, may make a slave or his offspring born while possessed of himself free. In Kentucky, I have known men born in Free States taken up, lodged in jail, advertised, and but for the intercession of some white man interested in such persons, they would have been sold as slaves, in consequence of being unprovided with means of proving their birth. I could give names and dates, if necessary, of such instances. In Mississippi and Alabama, every negro or mulatto not able to prove that he is free, may be sold by order of the court as a slave. Nor in the matter of emancipation are the laws less severe. The Roman code, as well as the laws of England and Germany, favored emancipating slaves two thousand years ago. But in this the nineteenth century, and in the civilized republic of America, the laws are made to throw obstacles in the way of emancipation. In South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi, no man can emancipate, his slaves, except by authority of a special enactment of the Legislatures for that purpose. In Georgia, a will setting free a slave is null and void; and any person attempting to execute it shall be fined the value of the slave. In Virginia, Kentucky, Missouri and Maryland, no man is permitted to emancipate his slaves if he has not fully paid his debts, and provided for his widow’s dower. No bargain made between master and slave is valid or recognizable by law, no more than it would be if made between owner and animal, horse and man. 
Take all the slave laws of this nation together, consider the race of human beings who have made them, their religion, the political ideas of their government, and the era in which they exist, and they form the most revolting work of legislation to be found in the annals of any pacific or civilized people. The codes of the Barbarians, the Goths, the Vandals, and the Huns, who sat amid the ruins which they had wrought at the Roman Empire,-the Burgundians, the Bavarians, the Allemamic, with the Visigoths and their northern kin, have left enactments certainly more terrible. But the darkness of that period, shrouding as it did all legislation in a general and homogeneous gloom, must plead for them. While here, with us, it is “the freest and most enlightened people in the world,” as we call ourselves, who keep, extend and intensify these dreadful laws which, making men and women THINGS, bind and sell them as the beasts that perish.

LETTER FROM THE FIELD OF CONFLICT.
FORT DE KALB, (Va.) Sept. 13, 1862. 
MR. EDITOR: Since I last saw you, from my quiet “down east” home, the call has gone forth for new thousands to take the place of myriads who have fallen victims to our country’s “Moloch.” And, in response to the call, thousands have pressed eagerly forward, “ready to be offered.” Little as my education or my principles tended to war, I find myself on the “sacred soil” of the Old Dominion, ready to do battle for God, Liberty and Humanity, under the Stars and Stripes. I need not say to you that the hesitancy of the President in adopting the policy of Emancipation has again rolled back the tide of war upon the very suburbs of the capital, ay, has even given the rebels a lodgment in Maryland, and the power to threaten Baltimore and Philadelphia. Those who have studied the power and effects of slavery for half a lifetime need not be told the only policy that can bring ultimate victory and peace. But it is not of abstractions that I purpose to write, but of the war and the army, as I see them. The continual marching and countermarching of troops, now of infantry, then of cavalry, and again of artillery, first South to fight, then back and over the bridges into Maryland, leaves to a raw recruit but little time to turn from the consideration of these various exciting movements, and inquire for the moral and intellectual condition of all these thousands. A reformer who observes the debasing influences of, and incident to, army life, might almost wish that individual education might, for the time being, remain in statu quo; but a little close observation will show him that such a wish were futile.
Every species of vulgarity known in speech or act is of constant occurrence. All the startling changes of profanity are continually ringing. Lying, stealing and gambling constitute the daily practices of the soldiers, that is, the majority, for there are honorable, saving exceptions. Yes, there are men in the ranks, of noble life and purpose, of high manly character, of refined feelings; but these exceptions are far too few; and the chance of a good word being heeded is very small indeed. True, we know not what results may follow; but to all appearances, all wholesome advice or counsel, relative to conduct or conversation, is as the seed that fell on stony ground. All these things may with truth be said of the soldiers who have been in the field but a short time. Added to these, the older troops-those who have been in the service for a year or more-have acquired a recklessness of character and life amounting almost to desperation.
<c04>
Oh! the effects of a half-million of soldiers disbanded, and scattered throughout the entire land, corrupt, dissipated, lawless, ready for any outrage! Some benefits ought surely to be secured, to compensate for the certain and awful violence done to society through the war. Doubtless the system of sending chaplains with the army is founded in a pious intention, and a wise discrimination of the wants of the soldiers; but I state it as an indisputable fact, a lamentable fact, that the soldiers have very little respect for their chaplains, and, so far as my observation extends, the chaplains take very little interest in the men. 
There is a very strong prejudice existing among the soldiers against the negroes, although all seem to recognize the fact that the war is waged on the negro’s account; and most men admit, that through the war the negroes will ultimately obtain their freedom; how it will or can be brought about, none seem to have a definite idea. There are many negroes with the army, some as laborers, others as waiters, and, so far as I have seen or heard, they are quiet, peaceable, industrious, and honest. Certainly, they deserve freedom for their good behavior, if there were not a better and eternal reason before and above it. In conversation with an intelligent negro, a few days since, I learned a fact altogether new to me-that there are some slaveholders who tell their slaves they have no right to own them. He told me that he had known ever since he was a small boy that he had a right to himself; and he was born before the war of 1812.
I greatly miss the Liberator out here, seeing no papers excepting dailies, containing the latest war news. 
Yours, for God and Humanity,
M. L. WHITTEN. 

Translated for the Liberator, from the Pionier of Sept. 17.] 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN TO JEFF. DAVIS.
I have received your letter, and read it with due attention. 
If you have therein accorded to my literary ability that justice which has been denied it elsewhere, I think I may be permitted to accept your compliment, since I do not thereby act contrary to the Constitution. If you recognize my capacity as a statesman, I need not decline this recognition, since it does not come in collision with my oath of office. But if you bear a laudatory testimony to my conduct of the war against yourself, I can only pass it over in modest silence, since it does not belong to the duties of my position to lend aid and comfort to the enemy,
If any one could doubt that I manifest my conservatism in my conduct of the war, I need only point him to the fact that, after a year and a half’s fighting, I have just got back to where I started; that Washington is again safe; and that the Potomac also will being safe once more, as soon as it is blockaded anew. If it is not yet blockaded, you have this to answer for, not I. If I do not conserve the lives and money of the citizens as I do the statu quo, I am comforted by the fact that the Constitution has not a single word demanding this of me. If I maintain the Union “under the Constitution,” I do all that the past makes my duty. If I can save the Union by saving slavery, I am also bound not to suffer the ruin of those, without whom slavery would not exist. If you likewise desire to save the Union by saving slavery, I am sure that between us both the work will succeed. If, therefore, you contend against me, you are at bottom my rival for the rescue of the Union, and as such, I must spare you. If the Constitution is the basis on which we can join hands in saving the Union, you need only alter your Constitution a little, or take in hand the execution of ours, and all difference is at an end. If I contemplate the possibility of the destruction of slavery by the war, I see that in such a case the clauses of the Constitution which relate to that institution would have no longer any sense or significance, and that, consequently, the Constitution cannot endure without slavery. If the Constitution depends on slavery, and the Union on the Constitution, it follows that the Union can as little endure without slavery as the Constitution. If I seek to save both without “ideas,” I am all the time sticking to the legal path. If I have had an exceptional “idea” in regard to the negroes, it has happened because they do not stand under the Constitution.
If I remain President, do you remain in the Union; and, vice versa, I will remain true to you. 
If we reflect that the Union began with a couple of million inhabitants, who were proportionately poor, we can still wage war for many years, before we restore “the Union as it was.”
If I may, in closing, beg a favor of you, it is this, that you will not order my Generals to be shot at so much in future, so that our best friends may not be lost. 
Your suspended brother,
A. LINCOLN.

A GOOD MAN GONE.
A recent arrival from England brings us intelligence of the death Mr. GEORGE RICHARDSON, at Newcastle-on-Tyne, which occurred on the 9th ult., in the 89th year of his age. The deceased was a member of the Society of Friends, and a consistent advocate of Peace, Temperance and Freedom. He early espoused the cause of the oppressed of the West Indies, and quit using the products of slave labor as one of the means of bringing about emancipation. In him the American Abolitionists had a firm and unwearied coadjutor. He labored zealously and most successfully for the amelioration of the condition of the poor in his own town. His door always opened to welcome the stranger, no matter of what country, clime, or color. In each outspoken action of his life one sentiment was ever prominent, and that the noblest one that ever actuates a human soul, the sentiment of duty. Few indeed have trodden with more care and less weariness “the straight and narrow path,” or followed more faithfully that light which lighteth every man into and through the world. The outcast and needy of Newcastle will not soon find another George Richardson. The young may well imitate his character, while all can view his life as a beacon calling them on to higher and holier duty in the great work of making the world better. No unkind thought will follow him to his grave, but it will be a place sought out by the pilgrim from a distance, as well as by the poor that loved him so well while living.
“Thus sleep the good, who sink to rest,
By all their country’s wishes blest:
When Spring, with dewy fingers cold,
Returns to deck their hallowed mould,
She there shall deck a sweeter sod
Than Fancy’s feet have ever trod.
There Honor comes, a pilgrim gray,
To bless the turf that wraps their clay,
And Freedom shall a while repair,
To dwell a weeping hermit there.”
W. W. B. 
THE REAL FEELING A Maryland correspondent of the Boston Traveller says:-
“The conduct of the enemy most plainly indicates their belief that the sentiment of the people is friendly to the cause of the South, and three days’ intercourse with the people of a section hitherto counted on as true to the Union convinces me that the Confederates are correct in their estimate of the Marylanders. I find that the past year has worked an unmistakable conversion of these people from a wavering loyalty to an unwavering disloyalty. I do not speak of the exceptions. I speak of three-fourths of the population, which I firmly avow are as hostile, really, to the success of the North, as the people with whom we have been in intercourse in Virginia.
This being the case, the invaders have abstained, with a forethought which we might well have considered, from all acts of violence and hostility to the people through which they have passed. A negro, just from the rebel lines, tells me that not a finger is laid upon private property; that the army abstain from all evidences of hostility and all the usual acts of invaders; that they seem to be among their friends, and are far more careful of private rights and private property than they were while in Virginia.”
A railroad accident happened at Bridgeport, Illinois, recently, by which five soldiers of the 98th Illinois regiment were killed, and thirty or forty wounded.
<c05>
MARRIAGE OF AN EX-SLAVE IN ENGLAND.
INTERESTING CEREMONY AT BRIGHTON—THE BRIDE A NATIVE AFRICAN.
We find the following story in the Brighton (England) Gazette:-
“This morning a marriage is to be performed at the parish church, Brighton, to unite two persons of color, whose previous history gives to the ceremony peculiar interest, chiefly to those who have been long and deeply interested in the African race, and who have watched the progress of civilization caused by the influence of Christianity on the negro; and the ceremony will also tell our brethren on the other side of the Atlantic, that British ladies and gentlemen consider it a pleasure and a privilege to do honor to those of the African race who have proved themselves capable of appreciating the advantages of a liberal education.
The lady, supposed to be an African chieftain's daughter, was presented, when about the age of five years, to the late Captain Frederick Forbes, R. N., who officially visited the King of Dahomey with a view to aid the suppression of the slave trade in the interior of Africa, and in his book giving an account of the mission he thus describes the little girl: ‘I have only to add a few particulars about my extraordinary present, the African child. In a former portion of these journals, I have mentioned the Okeadon war; one of the captives of this dreadful slave-hunt was this interesting girl. It is usual to reserve the best born for the high behests of royalty, and the immolation on the tombs of the deceased nobility. For one of these ends she had been detained at court for two years, proving, by her not having been sold to the slave-dealers, that she was of a good family. So extraordinary a present would have been at least a burden, had I not the conviction that, in consideration of the nature of the service I had performed, the government would consider her as the property of the Crown. To refuse would have been to have signed her death-warrant, which, probably, would have been carried into execution forthwith. Immediately on arriving, I applied through the Secretary of the Admiralty, and received for answer that her Majesty was graciously pleased to arrange for the education and subsequent fate of the child. 
‘Of her own history she has only a confused idea. Her parents were decapitated; her brothers and sisters, she knows not what their fate might have been. For her age, supposed to be eight years, she is a perfect genius; she now speaks English well, and has a great talent for music. She has won the affections, with but few exceptions, of all who have known her, by her docile and amiable conduct, which nothing can exceed. She is far in advance of any white child of her age in aptness of learning, and strength of mind and affection; and with her, being an excellent specimen of the negro race, might be tested the capability of the intellect of the black.’
Her Majesty has provided the means for completing the education of Miss Sarah Forbes Bonetta, whose knowledge and accomplishments make her an ornament for any society, and prove most satisfactorily that the African mind is capable of the highest intellectual attainments. Her Majesty has taken a great interest in her marriage, and given it her full sanction. At the same time she has, besides presents from the royal family, herself provided the whole of the outfit, &c. Mr. James Davis, the bridegroom, was originally a slave, taken by one of our cruisers, and educated in the schools of the Church Missionary Society at Sierra Leone. He afterwards commenced trading on his own account, and is now a prosperous and influential merchant at Lagos, employing upwards of one hundred of his fellow countrymen, and trying to improve their moral and intellectual status. The ceremony is to be performed by the Bishop of Sierra Leone and the Rev. H. Venn; and Mrs. Thompson has lent the garden at Westhill Lodge for the wedding breakfast. We understand there will be a large wedding party, including about twenty Africans. The bride will be attended by sixteen bridesmaids, of whom four will be ladies of color.”
To march from Washington to Richmond, overland, is and has always been impossible. Sufficient “transportation” cannot be provided; the “long lines of communication” cannot be kept open; the roads are too bad. But to march from Richmond to Washington-and that, too, by a roundabout road-to drive back and within the fortifications, an army, which lacked only leaders, and upon the top of all this to march thirty miles further to a line from which to threaten Maryland and Pennsylvania, is the easiest thing in the world. Ah, these sad contrasts! One cannot bear to pursue them.
General Hunter asserts publicly that had he been encouraged and commanded to raise black troops in the South when he first went to Port Royal, he could have had by this time under arms an army of not less than 150,000 able-bodied men; sufficient to restore law and order in all the Southern tier of States, without asking us to sacrifice another single son or brother.-New York Evening Post.
The rebel army that entered Maryland contained many negroes, it being perfectly constitutional for them to arm blacks to fight against the Union, while it is unconstitutional for us to arm them in defence of the Union. Isn’t it singular that negroes should be so useful to the Southrons, while it is declared that we can make nothing of them, and that they can do nothing for us?-Boston Traveller.
Slaves of the value of $1,000,000 have run away from the blessings of their lot in two counties of Mississippi. What ungrateful creatures, to abscond after so much pains had been taken to civilize them, and even war had been made especially to maintain their condition!-Ibid.
The London Army and Navy Gazette, which has always been friendly to the Federal cause, says that Gen. McClellan’s campaign against Richmond is the completest failure of the nineteenth century. This is strong language, recollecting that this nineteenth century saw Napoleon’s failures in Russia and Germany, in ’12 and’13, and England’s Walcheren failure, in 1809.-Ibid.
Harper’s Weekly has a good satirical illustration a cut entitled “A Consistent Negrophobist,” represented by a drowning gentleman; to whom, by dint of great exertions and personal risk, a stout negro extends a rope, himself hanging by one hand to the dock. The white man, consistent to the last, cries: “Take away that rope, you darned nigger! What decent white man do you suppose is going to allow himself to be saved by a confounded nig-” (and sinks for the last time.)
RIGHTEOUS That great apostle of the Bible argument for slavery, Rev. Doctor of Divinity Ross, of Huntsville, Alabama, having been preaching secession and treason, as a matter of course, has been arrested and sent to jail by Gen. Rousseau, a Kentuckian now in command at that place. The Rev. Doctor is to come to Camp Chase, for the improvement of his health and morals.
The day on which President Lincoln was inaugurated-March 4, 1861-United States six per cent. stock sold at 92½. After increasing the public debt, which then stood at $76,455,000, to $350,000,000, the stock is now selling in the market at 94.
THE DIFFERENCE. Montreal papers notice a significant fact. Before the rebellion broke out, all the fugitives escaping from the United States into Canada were blacks. Now not a black is to be seen on the track, but a host of cowardly white shirks have taken their place.
QUAKERS NOT EXEMPTED IN RHODE ISLAND. The Rhode Island Legislature, at its late session, passed a militia bill by which no person is relieved from draft, unless exempted by the laws of the United States. Consequently, even Quakers are not exempted.
THREE COTTON-BUYERS HANGED. A gentleman of truth and veracity, who has reached Louisville from Alabama, informs the editor of the Louisville Journal that three men were hung at Atlanta, Ga., recently, their only offence being that they were cotton-buyers.
SICK AND WOUNDED SOLDIERS AT WASHINGTON. The total number of sick and wounded soldiers in the various hospitals in and around Washington is 14,500. The hospitals in Alexandria and vicinity contain about 3000-making a grand total of 17,500.
FATAL RAILROAD ACCIDENT. The Salem Register states that Mr. John T. Junifer, a colored man about forty years of age, was killed at the Eastern Railroad station in that city on Thursday morning, 11th inst. He fell while attempting to get upon a train of cars in motion, and was run over by the wheels.
GENERAL MANSFIELD. Gen. Mansfield, killed in the Maryland battle of the 17th, was born in New Haven, Connecticut, in 1803. At the age of fourteen he was appointed a Cadet at West Point, and graduated in 1822, the second of his class. Until 1846, he was engaged in the construction of coastwise defensive works, including Fort Pulaskie, at the mouth of Savannah river. In 1846 he joined Gen. Taylor in Mexico, and was his chief engineer through the war. 
A destructive fire occurred in Buffalo, on Friday, by which grain, buildings, and other property, were destroyed to the value of a half million dollars.
<c06>
PRESIDENT BENSON IN ENGLAND.
The two months’ sojourn of this eminent man in England appears to have been a complete ovation. Of unmixed African blood and complexion, Mr. Benson has shown distinguished talents and virtues. Taken by his parents, in 1822, when only six years of age, from Cambridge, Dorchester Co., Md., he rapidly became a merchant, Senator, Judge, General and President of Liberia during the last six years. 
The following interesting and gratifying account of President Benson’s reception abroad is from the pen of Gerard Ralston, Esq., formerly an esteemed citizen of Philadelphia, but for some years past an honored resident of England:-
“LONDON, June 2, 1862
MY DEAR SIR—You have no idea with what courtesy and kindness President Benson has been received by the high and low, and all grades of the community in this country. Dinner and evening parties, public meetings, and invitations into the country, and all kinds of hospitable attentions have been showered upon him. He is treated with the greatest respect <illegible> regard as a negro gentleman of distinction. The President and I walked in the procession for the opening of the International Exhibition. We each had a silver star upon the left breast of our black coats, which is the Liberia uniform. Mr. Benson was the observed of all observers, the “cynosure of all eyes,” he being a fine looking man of upwards of six feet, and a negro; the only one of that color in an assembly of forty thousand persons. He was treated with great consideration as President of Liberia.” 
“LONDON, June 21, 1862
The most extraordinary kindness and country is shown to President Benson by the highest and lowest of society. So, also, at Lady Charlotte Denison’s “reception” at the residence, in the Parliament Houses, of her husband-the Speaker of the House of Commons, where eight magnificent rooms were filled by some twelve hundred ladies and gentlemen, the elite of society of England. So, also, at Lord Granville’s ‘fete champetre,’ at Chiswick House, in the country, where all the principal nobility and gentry, and distinguished foreigners were present. Also the convocation of the Royal Society, (evening party at the Lord Mayor’s,) and numerous other public meetings, as well as private dinner parties and evening parties, where such men as the Bishop of London, Sir John Bowring, Sir Rowland Hill, and the first ladies of the land, come up and shake hands with the President, and address some amiable conversation to him. In taking him to church to listen to the most eminent preachers, I find that ladies and other respectable persons come up and shake hands with him, and say something complimentary to him. In the United States, when Mr. Benson goes to our country, he will be a ‘nigger,’ while here he is the black ‘gentleman,’ received everywhere with the distinction be deserves from being the chief of a nation of respectable people on the coast of Africa. I hope I may be disappointed in regard to our country’s reception of Mr. Benson. 
I am happy to say that the address to him, of which I enclose a copy, which is already signed by several hundred most worthy Englishmen, and will be further signed by many Scotchmen and Irishmen, will be presented to him at a public banquet, to be presided over by that eminent ami des noirs, Lord Brougham. This address is beautifully engrossed on vellum. The banquet will be given at Willis’s rooms, on Friday, the 27th of June, 1862, at 91-2 o’clock, P M. Tickets for gentlemen, twenty-five shillings; for ladies, ten and a half shillings. There will probably be one hundred ladies and two hundred gentlemen present at this meeting, many coming from Leeds, <illegible> fax, Bradford, Liverpool, Manchester, and other remote places in the country. It will be, altogether, a most complimentary occasion for the President of Liberia.
President Benson, Ex-President Roberts, Secretary Johnson, and myself, have just returned from the Admiralty, where, in an interview with Admiral Washington, we have been setting the Liberian boundaries conterminous with British possessions. Every thing most satisfactory.”
“LONDON, June 28, 1862.
Last evening, the magnificent banquet to President Benson came off at Willis’s rooms, presided over by Lord Brougham, and assisted by Samuel Gurney, Dr. Hodgkin, and a number of other kind friends of Liberia. Nothing could exceed the success and the entire triumph of this festive occasion, and its utility to Africa will be great, as it will show to Americans that the first people of England are forward in doing honor and paying respect to the first real negro President of Liberia-for Mr. Roberts, his predecessor, has much more of the white man’s blood in his veins that of the black man’s. The friendly feeling manifested to President Benson and his nation is certainly of the most gratifying kind, and all of us any way connected with Liberia ought to be grateful. How rejoiced! Would be if my countrymen-laying aside the <illegible> in which they have been born, and, therefore, I fear, invincible, against color-could treat Mr. Roberts and Mr. Benson with a tenth part of the consideration and respect to which they are entitled, and which they receive everywhere they move in England. Mr. Roberts goes to America in the Great Eastern on the 2d of July, and Mr. Benson will probably follow is a few days-say five or six days-later."
“LONDON, July 10, 1862
President Benson left London on the 5th inst, for Hamburg and the Continent- expecting to be absent some five or six weeks. It is therefore unlikely that he will visit the United States. Everywhere in England he has been treated with the greatest possible kindness, courtesy and respect. The last three invitations he had before his departure from London were to breakfast with the Duchess of Argyle, to dine at the Lord Mayor’s Banquet, where the Viceroy of Egypt was, and to a magnificent evening party at Miss Burdett Coutts. He had innumerable invitations more than he physically could accept.”
A SLAVE’S APPEAL TO LORD PALMERSTON.
The following letter (says the London Anti-Slavery Reporter of Sept. 1st) has been addressed to <illegible> Palmerston, by a slave at Charleston. The original was forwarded by us to his Lordship, as sent, namely, in a sealed envelope. We presume we are violating no confidence to publish the appeal, which, though <illegible> curiosity in its way, probably indicates the feelings of the intelligent portion of the slave population in the South, who have access to European news:-
CHARLESTON, 1st, 1862 
MY LORD,-We take this as the fit time that you and the world should know how we are treated in this part of the globe. It is generally believed here, in Charleston, South Carolina, that in less than ninety days time, that England and France would recognize the so-called Confederacy, and raise the blockade, so that this slave country may be independent for even. Now, my lord, we, as poor, down-trodden, oppressed creatures, would ask the entire Christian civilized nations of the earth, if they really intend to open their hands of liberty and freedom, and take within their bosom a people wrapped in the labors of four millions of oppressed and helpless creatures, and whose hands are dripping in the sweat and blood of the same. We will appeal to England and France, and to the rest of Europe: we will ask, in the name of heaven and earth in the name of all things that are good and great, in the name of the great and most high God, shall such a recognition ever be obtained by this people! God forbid, heaven forbid, angels forbid, and let all <illegible> join and forbid it for ever; for if this people ever be recognized as a slave nation, our doom will be fixed for ever, our hope everlastingly lost, and the dark, black clouds of slavery would hang over us for ever, until the trump of God shall sound to awake the nation from the chambers of the dust! O England, Christian and true England, is it possible that you, who first brought us into this country, will now extend your power so as to keep us in slavery for ever! My lord, your lordship must have a very faint knowledge of what slavery is. If you would but know what slavery is, and see all its horrors, you must visit the plantations of South Carolina, the State street-brokers office, and the workhouse of Charleston: there will you find a treatment upon human beings carried on by white men, proud of their education, Christianity, civilization, and their high, true honor; and yet these same pretended Christians carry on in these places the most brutish, inhuman, degrading and diabolical practice that earth ever saw, or heaven ever beheld. They prostitute our minds and our daughters, forcibly take away from them their, ah! their sacred right, brutalize them, and then sell them to the highest bidder. And, my lord, since this war has begun, if we are <illegible> in the road without a clear pass signed by General Ripley, we are immediately shot down like brutes, for fear we might escape and go over to the Yankees, who have proved themselves the only friends we have on this earth, God alone excepted. 
The South came out of the Union, because she has made cotton king, and believed that England and France would immediately crown him king of all the earth, and the South would then place him upon a throne made of the life, flesh, and blood, and labor of not less than four millions of helpless souls. O thou great Jehovah, wilt thou not rise up in the power of thy might, and with thine Almighty hand sweep human slavery off the face of this earth, henceforth and for ever! My lord, you might think that this is addressed to your lordship by some white man, or by a Yankee in Charleston; but believe it not: it is done by a poor, down-trodden slave, who feels sorely the terror of the yoke, he and his whole family.
Lastly, allow this poor slave to beg of you and all England a great favor, namely, if you love God, liberty and human freedom, put this letter in the London Times, and in the London Post. I have a great deal more to say, but good night, my lord! May my God put it in your heart to do something for the poor slave in this country! If you will recognise this country, you would recognise it as a free country only.
