THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
W.M. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 43. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1655.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
“LET THE GALLED JADE WINCE!”
The Boston Courier has a vision of Provost Marshals, and is exercised as follows:-
No public notice has yet been given, so far as we are aware, of the appointment of the Special Provost Marshal for Massachusetts, under a recent order of the War Department, sigued by the Judge Advocate General. Ah, Mr. Holt! that we should ever have seen your name appended to a manifesto, which must be either totally inefficient in operation, or ruinous to public and private liberty. We find, however, that the appointment has been made for Rhode Island, and the officer in question has issued an order, comprising a series of provisions, from which we extract the sixth, as follows:-
“VI. It is expected that the citizens of the State will cheerfully, and from a sense of duty, co-operate with this department in aiding the General Government in suppressing the existing rebellion, by promptly reporting to these headquarters the names of all disloyal persons, and by giving information of any treasonable practices which shall come to their knowledge, to the end that the instructions of the Government may be fully and efficiently carried out.
(Signed) WILLIAM E. HAMLIN, Special Provost Marshal.”
It is evident that by force of instructions, couched in these general terms, every man in the community is liable to be reported as a disloyal person, by a political opponent or a personal enemy. The whole community, so far as it assents to the conditions, is converted into one vast field of espionage; all freedom of opinion and of action is repressed; all confidence in associates, excepting where they are perfectly known to one another, is checked, if not absolutely destroyed; the seal upon the lips must lock up the sympathies of the heart, and cramp the exercise of the faculties of the mind; the hush of death will brood upon the surface of society; and a nation of professed freemen will lie prostrate and helpless, until it rises to redress itself, at the feet of irresponsible and arbitrary power.
The great and inalienable safeguard of private, rights, THE LAW, is no longer to be relied upon for defence and protection; because by the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, that ever ready shield, behind which, heretofore in this country, no man in office of out of office could step to assail the personal liberty of another, unless by the authority of the law,” is taken away. Upon the private information of any political or personal opponent, any man in the country is thus liable to be arrested, and without the liberty to claim inquiry-plain, open, impartial inquiry before a responsible tribunal, according to the requirements of the law, he is subject to imprisonment without means of redress, at the dictate of an official created without law, and who is certain to hold political opinions hostile to his own. For this official is constituted by a political party in power, and so anxious to retain it, that this very system of spies and informers which we are discussing affords the surest evidence of the means to which it is disposed to resort to attain its end. We have heard of such things in our own day, or not much before it, in Russia, Austria, France,-under a despotic monarch, while this land was held to be, as it was intended to be, the refuge and asylum for those able to escape from the cruelty of selfish power-in a republic never, since Venice, under the name of free institutions, degenerated into an oligarchical tyranny, so hateful, so remorseless, so insufferable, that the shuddering imagination shrinks appalled from the infernal catalogue of her proverbial crimes committed in the name of “Freedom.”
To what extent the attempt will be made, to enforce an order so open to abuse, in States which are about to exercise their constitutional and legal rights, so as to overawe the people in the choice of their public servants, we cannot yet judge. But it is certain that a system so obnoxious, even in contemplation of its most partial and casual application, to the free condition of the States not engaged in the rebellion, could be endured but for a very little time. In every aspect, and under the most limited terms, it is totally inconsistent with the very nature of our free institutions. The people of the United States will not submit to any change in those institutions, under the pretence of upholding the Government, or for any other cause. They will uphold the Government, but it must be that which is established by the Constitution of the land, and no other. The party which seeks to pervert it, in order to maintain itself in power, becomes a traitor to popular rights, and the enemy of the Government which it pretends to sustain. The people are the source of power, and will not be disposed to yield their high prerogative, upon any specious pretext, which must deprive them, in the end, of all the liberty which they have so long and beneficially enjoyed. We believe that the order in question will be found in practice as inoperative as the President’s Proclamation. There might be a few victims, if the purpose was made manifest to use it as an instrument of wrong; but they could be only a very few. But it is essential that we should early, and with reason, look this matter squarely in the face. Every exercise of the power claimed under this order should be vigilantly watched. Every undue exercise of it should be promptly and respectfully remonstrated against. Let the spirit of the Roman freeman be our example, as it was to our fathers:-
“Brutus had rather be a villager,
Than to repute himself a son of Rome,
Under these <Illegible> conditions as this time
Is like to lay upon us.”

WHERE ARE WE DRIFTING?
The Texas refugee, Hon. A. J. Hamilton, who declares himself opposed to the “Union as it was,” is extolled by the press and public men of New England and New York, and recommended for a government appointment of great importance. If we are not favoring and fighting for the “Union as it was," in Heaven's name what are we fighting for? What is the programme? What is to be the end? What are our soldiers abandoning their homes, pining in camps, bleeding on battle-fields, wasting in hospitals, and being borne to their graves for, if it be not for the “Union as it was"? Mr. Hamilton's objection to the "Union as it was," is that his neighbors looked upon him with coldness, aversion and suspicion, and the children of his neighbors insulted him for his opinions! What of it? Does be, or anybody else, want a government extending over this broad continent, that shall have power to regulate the public sentiment of every State and township? God forbid! The old Union left every community to govern itself-every State to create and regulate its own institutions according to their own wisdom. They held slaves or not, had universal suffrage or not, placed all creeds on the same basis or not, made rum-selling free or not, as it suited them; and we hope the sun will go out in the 
<c02>
heavens and the elements melt with the fervent heat of that great and terrible day we read of, before the people shall lose their local independence, and be subjected to any central despotism.  The old Union was the best government human wisdom ever devised, and if we are not to have that renewed, will somebody tell us what we are to have? Newburyport Herald.

THE WORCESTER DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION.-On Wednesday, 8th inst., the Democrats held their State Convention at Worcester, and adopted the ticket nominated the day before at Faneuil Hall. This arrangement gave very great satisfaction to the people generally who are opposed to the Emancipationists,-those who insist that the President by his own act can emancipate the slaves. We do not think that the new coalition cares much about the State officers. What they aim at is, an organization in detail by which they can defeat Sumner, which will do more to satisfy the South that the North do not mean to trample on their rights than anything else. At present, no State in the Union is so much hated at the South as Massachusetts, held to be the parent and main stay of Abolitionism. The defeat of Sumner would show that he has not and does not represent a majority of the people of Massachusetts, and will inspire, some confidence in the action of our Legislature tending towards justice and peace.-Boston (Catholic) Pilot.

THE SPIRIT THAT ANIMATES. According to a report which we cannot hesitate to accept, (as we find it in the Boston Herald,) the Honorable John C. Tucker, of Boston, in the caucus preceding the Worcester Democratic Convention, Oct. 8th, said:-
"My only business in coming here is to see what can be done to defeat Sumner and Andrew, one as bad as the other, and a d-d sight worse.  I come to the Convention to-day, believing that the only way to defeat the traitors-Sumner and Andrew-is to walk up man-fashion, and unanimously endorse the Faneuil Hall nominations."

Selections.
A THOROUGH SPEECH.
Clark E. Carr, Esq., of Galesburg, III., made a speech at the recent great Emancipation meeting in CHICAGO, where of the following is an extract:-
“I am for the emancipation proclamation. I believe that it is just, and right, and constitutional, as a war measure. The Constitution gives the President authority to put down insurrection, and it follows that he has a right to make use of all necessary power to do so. If confiscation or emancipation, the President is authorized to proclaim confiscation or emancipation. It is our duty to use everything in our power to weaken the rebels and to strengthen ourselves. In the language that fell from the inspired lips of Patrick Henry, ‘We are not weak, if we make a proper use of the means which God and nature have placed in our power.’ At this time God has placed emancipation in our power, as a means to put down rebellion, and it is our duty to ‘make a proper use of it.’ The rebels are killing off our brothers and sons. We even hear of their using their skulls for drinking cups. They are inciting savage and merciless Indians to murder peaceful missionaries and defenceless women and children. I say, give traitors confiscation, emancipation, annihilation, extermination and damnation-anything and everything to conquer them. (Great applause.)
I think that the proclamation ought to go into effect immediately. If a citizen of Chicago were tried and found guilty of treason, however bitterly he might deplore his crime, and with whatever humility he might repent, he would be executed. No probation till the first of January for him. He must be punished, not simply by taking away his property, but he must be hanged by the neck till dead. The rebels have been tried and found guilty by every loyal man in the nation. Still they are allowed to repent, and are given until the 1st of January to do so, and if they do repent, their sins are all to be forgiven them. Is it possible that a loyal man can think that the proclamation is unjust? Mr. Lincoln says to the rebels, if you don't lay down your arms before the first day of January, the proclamation will be carried into effect. If you continue to murder our brothers and sons, there is the proclamation. If you continue to incite savages to murder women and children, I refer you to the proclamation. (Applause.) Choose ye this day whom ye will serve. You have a fair warning. (A voice-‘You are an abolitionist.’) You may call me an abolitionist or anything, if you don’t call me a traitor or a sympathizer with traitors. (Cheers.) What loyal man can object to the proclamation? If you are in favor of using all other means to put down rebellion, why not make use of this? Certainly we have a right, under the rules of war, to cripple the enemy in every way in our power, by destroying his resources and cutting off his supplies. Soldiers in the rebel army have slaves in their places on the plantations. Free these slaves, and the soldiers must go home.  But you say, ‘All the negroes will come North.’ I venture the prediction that if the slaves of the South were all set free today, and if it was safe for a free negro to go South, the free negroes of the North would go South rather than that the negroes of the South would come up here. The southern climate is far more adapted to that race than this. If they could be colonized, it will, no doubt, be far better for them and for us.
There is no reason, as I attempted to show at the opening of these remarks, why Illinois should have any sympathy with rebels. The South has no right to ask anything of us. In the language of the brave General John A. Logan, (cheers,) ’I would not stretch forth my arm to save her from destruction, if she will not be saved by a restoration of the Union.'
It was a favorite sentiment with Lamartine that "He who puts a chain around his neighbor's neck will one day find the other end of the chain about his own neck.” If the rebels do not repent within the time of probation prescribed, I shall be surprised if the prediction shall not prove true. If the proclamation goes into effect, the position of master and slave may be reversed.
But I hear some of the members of the late Springfield Democratic convention say, “I am for the Constitution as it is, and the Union as it was.” So say I I am for the Constitution which gives the President authority to put down insurrections. I am not for the Union as it was when James Buchanan was President. A Union that would allow a member of the Cabinet to steal the arms and money for the traitors. A Union that would allow a man to talk treason in the halls of Congress, and even in the presence of the President. A Union that would allow State after State to secede, without an effort to restrain them. A Union that would quietly see
<c03>
batteries planted against a fort on which waved the banner of the republic. No! I am not for the Union as it was in these degenerate times. But I am for the Union as it was in the days of the fathers-when the power of the government was respected; when pure and wise men occupied high positions; when plunder of the public property was regarded as a crime; when insurrection and rebellion were put down; when the genius of liberty presided at the Capital. I am for the Union as it was. (Prolonged applause.)
Fellow citizens, let me say in closing, that the grand object we should seek to attain should not be peace. Let us not be of those who are looking on all sides to find some way to conciliate traitors. When those old barons assembled the people to meet the army of King John at Runnymede, they did not demand peace, but they demanded and obtained that great charter of English liberty, which foreshadowed our own declaration of independence. Our forefathers did not ask how they could conciliate the mother country, but they fought for and gained their liberties. So we are not laboring simply for peace, but to put down this rebellion. The President can, with our help, drive every traitor from the land. Let us sustain him with heart, and soul, and voice, thankful that he is about to “make a proper use of the means which God and nature have placed in his power.” (The speaker retired amidst prolonged applause.)

“THE UNION AS IT WAS!”
The Hon. Alexander J. Hamilton, a distinguished citizen of Texas, a friend of the Union and of the old flag, who has been compelled to flee from the iron despotism now reigning there, has been talking to crowded meetings in New York and Brooklyn. At the Cooper Institute the other evening, he thus referred to the supremely ridiculous idea entertained by some semi-secessionists, that the "Union as it was" can be restored:-
"In Mexico there are now 500 men who left as I left. They are in the mountain fastnesses, hunted like wolves. Are they to have help? Give them a chance, and they will bleed for their country, die for it, redeem it; and there are men enough there today to redeem it, if they were organized and had arms in their hands. Let no man be permitted to live in the Government who will dare again to strut his little hour upon any stage, and preach treason to his fellow-man. (Cheers.) Restore the Government, its Constitution, and its laws to all, fellow-citizens. With all my heart. Restore the Union as it existed for the year just preceding the rebellion. God forbid. (Loud, prolonged and repeated applause.) Am I to be remitted back to the soil of Texas, to be hunted by assassins the little remnant of my life? (‘No, no!’) Am I to go there to teach my little son that the chief blessing of his great future is to run from street to street, and from man to man, and insist that he is as sound a man upon this subject of slavery as lives? (Cheers.) Am I to see my neighbors and friends hung by the neck because they have doubted that the chief business of the Great Ruler of the Universe is not in directing and controlling and maturing and perpetuating the institution of slavery? (Cheers.) No, fellow-citizens; if I cannot go there and strike hands with my friends at home; if I cannot be again united with my family, except upon the terms that I am to live in such society as existed there, hard as it is to utter, I can find it in my heart to say, let me never see them. But if you mean by the restoration of the ‘Union as it was a restoration of that Union such as our fathers intended it to be, then, with all my heart, let us have it. (Great applause.) The issue is simple; it is plain. The wayfaring man must read it as he runs, though he be a fool: Slavery on the one hand, and Liberty on the other.” (Loud applause.)

THE WEAK POINTS OF OUR GOVERNMENT.
At the Annual Autumnal Convention of the Unitarians held at Brooklyn, N. Y., Rev. Dr. Bellows delivered an able and eloquent sermon. The discourse was largely devoted to national affairs, and as the distinguished author, in his capacity of President of the Sanitary Commission, has had rare facilities for observing the operations of the Government, and judging of the practical efficiency of its machinery, we quote some of the most striking points of his address. Of President Lincoln he says:-
“Give the unbounded support of the people to the President. He deserves it. A conscientious, sagacious and humane man, anxious to do his duty, exercised with greater trials than any man in the nation-a solitary man in his undivided responsibility, who has earned the confidence and love of the American people, and who ought to be regarded not merely as the four years’ President of a party, but as the Abraham of a new political dispensation. I know that his gentleness has been mistaken for indecision, his contempt for pomp a lack of official dignity, and his patience and pondering prudence for inability to appreciate the crisis. These misjudgments are not shared by those who know him nearest and best.
Beneath all the playfulness of his mind burns a solemn earnestness of patriotism; amid his prudence a great courage; in all his gentleness and compliance a determined grasp of the reins, and a firmness not inferior to Gen. Jackson's, though without its passion and caprice. I hold him to be a wise, true, sagacious, earnest and formidable leader. I wish he were seconded by his Cabinet or his Generals as he should be. The country must rally round him, and see that he is-see to it that he assimilates his servants to himself, and makes the government do and be-what the nation, the people, desire and demand.”
Dr. Bellows points out four weak points in our political organization and character, developed by the war, viz:-
“1. A want of fit national representatives in Congress, cabinet bureaus, army, and in all public places-of course with brilliant exceptions-but as a rule. The best heads, hearts and wills are not in public life; and the government, in all its departments, is administered by second-rate persons.  And this is due mainly to the influence which the Slave Power has had upon our politics, making political life party life, and party life a mesh of concessions and compromises to which high-toned men could not lend themselves. I cannot conceive a more disgraceful and dangerous state of things in a free country, than that in which politics and political life come to be disreputable pursuits, or in which political ambition is not an honorable and open confession. There is, there can be no secular occupation equal in essential dignity to that of a legislator and statesman. It should be the noblest ambition of our most gifted men to fill these stations. They ought to seek them as they do in England, and even in the South. And the man who allows private interests or fastidiousness, or any other excuse than incompetency, to keep him from accepting public office at the call of his fellow-men, corrupts the public conscience and forgets the most sacred duty of a good citizen.
<c04>
2. A second weakness is the extraordinary absence of any machinery for fixing the responsibility in great public matters. The constitution of our Cabinet is a source of infinite weakness. The heads of departments hold their places at the will of the President. No amount of public distrust, no vote of censure moves them to lay down their power. The whole country may distrust or despise a Secretary, but there he sticks so long as the President chooses to have him. You saw how it worked under Mr. Buchanar, who chose to have thieves and traitors in these places-and the country could not help itself. You see how it works now when no amount of public dissatisfaction stirs a head of department out of his place. It is too much responsibility and care to throw upon the honestest and ablest President. Our Cabinet officers ought to retire on the first expression of Congressional distrust of their competency for their places.
I suspect if one really knew how solitary the President was, how little the Cabinet represents or has any policy, or is a consulting body, we should look with amazement at the autocratic position, and with the utmost concern and pity on the solitude in which a President of the United Slates is placed.
3. A third weakness is the local distribution made of offices high and low, in order to propitiate States and counties. Every State and county has its number of officers apportioned out with mathematical exactness; and the last thing to be considered is who is the best man for the vacant place.
4. The irresponsibleness of the Cabinet to the nation begins an irresponsibleness of bureaus to heads of departments, and of officials to heads of bureaus-which is a marked feature of a most terrible weakness-running through the civil, and by contagion extending to the military life of the nation. The absence of discipline in the Government, from the crown to the base, is the most alarming aspect it presents to my eye. Indeed, that we live along in civil and military affairs without positive ruin-with so little strict accountableness anywhere, with such slack and suspended examination into complaints, with such slow or feeble administration of penalties, with such utter negligence and inertness in the established rules, whether civil or military-is one of the highest proofs of the general good will and good sense of the people, who manage somehow to get along in spite of such a dreadful deficiency.
If anybody imagines this government is perishing of red tape, they may abandon their fears. The painted stripes on a barber's pole have as much significance as most of the tape against which I have run. If all the rules and regulations of the government in all its departments were rigidly enforced; if every tape was blood red and tightened to its utmost capacity, then one would know where one was, and where accountability was to be placed. But it is a bit of tape here and a tow string there-a rule enforced to-day and forgotten to-morrow-pressed by this officer and utterly despised by that other (having the same duties)-which makes the dreadful confusion and abortion found in so many of the departments.”
A discussion followed the address, in which Rev. Dr. Osgood, Dr. Lothrop, of Boston, and others took part. The speeches were mostly of a very patriotic and anti-slavery character.

LETTER FROM GENERAL KEARNY.
A good many references have been made of late (says the Boston Daily Advertiser) to a letter said to have been written by the late General Kearny, giving some severe strictures upon various military officers. The letter has finally been printed in Wilkes's Spirit of the Times,-a paper which has recently taken up the cudgels in various military disputes,-and we now print it below as matter of record. We have simply to remark that we have looked with interest but in vain among the sharp censures of the gallant and lamented writer, to see if there was any officer of whom he did think well. There are slight indications of a favorable judgment upon Pope; but we fear that Kearny, like the public, had occasion to modify this some time, before the sad day when he fell at Chantilly:-
“HARRISON’S LANDING, 4th August, 1862.
“DEAR PET,- I thank you for your kind, long letter. You extend to me hope. You suggest with drawing me and my Division out of this ignoble position. With Pope's army, I would breathe again.
We have no Generals. McClellan is the failure I ever proclaimed him. He has been punished, just as I at once comprehended the moves of the parties. He will only get us in more follies, more waste of blood, fighting by driblets. He has lost the confidence of all. Nor has he a single officer about him capable of bettering us. Sumner is a ‘bull in a china shop,’ and a sure enough blunderer.-lost his corps gratuitously at Fair Oaks. He is not now in his right place, and will be much worse. -is a small brain, ossified in a '4 company' on the frontier. He was not ‘of us’ in Mexico, but in a rear column once saw a distant flash in a guerilla fight. His skill is a myth, a poetical version of his own part at Bull's Run. Porter is good in nature, but weak as water-the apparent cant of all this disaster for his want of generalship on the Chickahcminy.- and Franklin are talented engineers. They might make good generals if they understood the value of elements in their calculations; as it is, they are dangerous failures.
When-was drunk, he had some few men drowned before Yorktown. I know of no other feat, of his. Franklin's battle of West Point was a most runaway picket fight of ours. His part on the Chickahominy was unpardonable. He sent over a division, (his own,) was present on that side out of fire, and never interfered to prevent them from being sacrificed by driblets, and rendered a prey to their false position. I was horrified at it, as described by General Taylor and all others. Is it surprising that I want to get out of this mess? Besides, they have sent me a Major-Generalship, like all these others, dating from 4th July, muddled in a batch of new and very ordinary junior officers. Do they forget that I was appointed twelfth on the original list? That I, on the heels of Bull’s run, faced the enemy with a Jersey Brigade, in advance of all others, McClellan, McDowell, et id omne genus, nearly forcing me to come back of the 'Seminary'? Do they forget me at Manassas? My Jersey Brigade that infected with panic the retiring enemy? Has Williamsburg never come to their ears? Oh, no! I really feel aggravated beyond endurance. Discipline becomes degradation if not wielded with justice. Patriotism cannot, amid all her sacrifices, claim that of self respect. Generals, victorious in the past, are not called on to expose their troops unless those brave men are acknowledged. Their identity in their chief’s promotion claims a date of their own high acts. Oh, no, I am nearer returning to the home I have given up, to the interests I have sacrificed, to my cherished wife, whose anxiety oppresses me, than I ever dreamt of in a war for the Union. But if the infatuated North are weak enough to let this crisis be managed by ‘small men of small motives,’ I am not willing to be their puppet.
<c05>
My dear Pet, I am too lazy, and too little interested, to dive into the future of this ‘little box of heresies,’ so do tell me-what do the people at the North look forward to in the future? I fear lest the war will die out in vapid imbecility.
For McClellan, he is burnt out. Never once on a battle-field, you have nothing to hope from him as a leader of a column. How do they expect Pope to beat, with a very inferior force, the veterans of Ewell and Jackson? But these are episodes. We deceice ourselves. There was a people of old-it was the warrior Spartan, with his Helot of the field The South have realized it. There was an ambitious people of recent times, and a conscription pandered to her invasions. At this moment the South exemplifies them both. ‘Peace, peace,’ but, there is no peace. No, not even with a disruptured Union. Let the North cast away that delusion.
Draft we must, or the disciplined THOUSANDS of the South will redeem scrip in Philadelphia and yet the true North must accept it, and quickly, to a man, or the moment it draggles in debate, Maryland, Tennessee and Kentucky will cast past victories to the winds, and rise with their nearly allied rebel kin. My dear Pet, I shall be delighted when Henry can come on. As to Colonel Halstead, I think that his case is a type of the insane and unnecessary despotism introduced into the army, under the auspices of McClellan and his very weak aids. It is now too late, but why was not the cavalry put in my charge at the commencement? Two nights ago the rebel batteries fired from across the river, and killed and wounded some thirty men. Last night Hooker started out on a crude expedition to Malvern Hills He went out four miles and came back again. Still, a ‘false fuss’ injures the whole army. McClellan is dangerous, from the want of digesting his plans. He positively has no talents. Adieu. Get me and my ‘fighting division’ with Pope.
With best regards, yours, KEARNY.
To Mr. O. S. HALSTEAD, Jr., Newark, N. J.”

THE HORREIBLE PERSECUTION OF UNION MEN IN KENTUCKY.
A PLAIN STATEMENT OF THE CASE OF A KENTUCKY SENATOR.
From the Cincinnati Time.
We are permitted to publish the following private letter, from a member of the Senate of Kentucky to a friend. It is a plain story of the awful barbarity of the Rebels from a gentleman whose veracity none dare dispute:-
CINCINNATI, Oct.  8, 1862.
L. W. Hall, Ravenna, Portage County, Ohio:
DEAR SIR,-In great distress of mind, I will attempt to recount to you the misfortunes and troubles I have recently had to encounter in Kentucky. I am now a refugee. The torch of the incendiary Rebel has been put to my mills, my store, and my dwelling. All is consumed; the labor of nearly twenty years is destroyed. On last Wednesday night the Rebel Cavalry of John H. Morgan, to the number of 800, encamped within two miles of my place. Through the whole night they were momentarily expected to come upon us. Every person left the road and hid in the woods. I could not do so; my wife was near her confinement, and my anxiety for her kept me near my dwelling, but to allay her fears for my safety I had to appear to be absent. Nothing occurred during the night. As the morning dawned, I went further from my home, and took a view of the premises and the roads leading to them. I could see no Rebels, and I determined to see my wife, let the consequences be what they might. As I was near my door, eight Rebels suddenly appeared before me, with their guns presented to my breast, and took me prisoner. Soon the whole Rebel band was upon me. Morgan cursed the men for taking me prisoner, saying that he ordered them to shoot me down upon sight. He then opened my store door, and told his men to rifle it of everything they desired, and then set fire to it. I implored him not to do so, as it was so near my dwelling that it also would be consumed. I informed him of the condition of my wife-for myself I asked nothing, but I begged of him, in common humanity, not to destroy my wife and little children. He answered, with a fiendish oath, that he intended to burn every thing I had-he would put fire to my house, and burn my wife and children up in it-the would wipe out the whole Abolition concern. This threat was applauded by many of his men, who said they went in for killing men, women and children. I was then placed upon a horse, without a saddle, and conducted to the front of their column, and orders were given to shoot me down if fired upon by bushwhackers, as they styled them. I assured them they would be fired upon if the people had any spirit, and I believed they had. When they saw the conflagration of their homes, they would waylay and fire upon them, even if their number was ten times greater. After firing my property, he (Morgan) rode past me, and said, pointing to the flames, “You find your loyalty to your Abolition Government pretty expensive, don’t you?”
Before we reached the woods, the captain of the men that took me prisoner removed me from my position in front, and placed me in his company, near the rear. Immediately upon entering the woods,-they were fired upon. I was surprised that I was not shot. Morgan rode past, and demanded the reason I was not shot as he had ordered. They said they had not heard the order. He told them, if fired upon again, to shoot the prisoner. They then amused themselves by pointing their guns at me, and saying they wished they could hear a gun, that they might have the pleasure of shooting me. After some time we were ordered to advance, and were soon again fired upon. I heard the guns click behind me, and felt sure that my end was right then at hand. Their Captain, John T. Williams, ordered them not to fire-that it was cold-blooded murder. He said that his men had taken me prisoner-that he was not yet mustered into the service, and did not belong to Gen. Morgan’s command, and would not obey him in this, but would take me to West Liberty, and put me in jail till further orders. This was some relief to me, you may be assured. Thus we proceeded for nearly twelve miles, my friends the bushwhackers emptying a saddle every few minutes, and my captors setting fire to every Union man’s house as they went.
At last they commenced falling close around me. My guardian friend, the Captain, said he could not save me any longer. I soon took advantage of the excitement prevailing, and jumped from my horse and fled to the woods unobserved, and made my escape. I reached Where had been my home at dark. I found my wife had been carried by some kind ladies to an unoccupied house and a physician was with her, who said be would stay with her. It was not it more than twenty minutes till Morgan’s guerrillas were again upon me I escaped through the fields to the woods making my way to Portsmouth,35 miles, my nearest point complete safety, where i arrived next morning, without food, sleep or rest. I immediately came to this city, where there was owing me about $75, with which I will purchase a
<c06>
Ballard rifle, and return to the vicinity of my family, hide in the woods and eaves, and pick off every butternut I see, until can get my family off to some place of security, and then-and then I will not make peace with them.
Why is all this persecution of me? It is because I condemned this wicked rebellion urged a vigorous prosecution of this war, and in my place in the Senate of Kentucky, opposed the temporizing policy of my own party. For this I am burned out and hunted out of Kentucky. I am now unequivocally for confiscation, subjugation, extermination, and hell and damnation.
I should like to hear from my old friends in Portage County, none of whom, have I forgotten. My address will be for some time to come Portsmouth, Ohio.
Yours, respectfully, W. C. GRIER.
(All loyal papers please copy.)

CONTRABAND LABOR IN ILLINOIS 
The tory prints have struck a new lead-opened a mine from which they expect to extract much partisan fuel. A few hundred contrabands escaping |from rebel masters have reached Cairo, and from thence disappeared into the interior, some going to Indiana, others to Wisconsin, and the residue scattered about among the farmers of Illinois. On this small matter a loud, long and wolfish howl is raised by the tory press of the State. Illinois is being turned into a free negro colony ! the constitution is being trampled under foot! says the big tory organ in this city. Illinois is going to be converted into a slave State, and white laborers deprived of work, chimes in the little tory organ that sails in the other’s wake. Tray, Blanche and Sweetheart in the rural districts echo the humbug cry.
In the first place, these contrabands have not sought Illinois as a permanent residence. They are sent North by the army to prevent them falling into the hands of the rebels. For a month or two past, in consequence of the do-nothing policy of Buell and other pro-slavery generals, the rebels have been allowed to crowd back our troops to the Ohio river, and they carried with them a number of loyal slaves who had taken refuge within the lines. A part of these have been sent to this side of the river for safety.
Secondly, As soon as it became known that there were some contrabands at Cairo, willing to work, the farmers of Southern and Central Illinois made a grab for them, and picked them up as fast as they could be obtained, and like Oliver Twist “cried for more.” This conduct of the agriculturists may be immensely unconstitutional, but the sturdy yeoman from the rural districts “don’t see it” in that night. The matter stands just this way: The farmers of Illinois have sent nearly 100,000 volunteers of the army to help put down the slaveholder’s rebellion. They have stripped themselves of farm labor to save their country, their crops are going to ruin for want of help to gather them; they are unable to plow their fields for next spring’s crops for want of men to hold the plow; tens of millions of bushels of corn will rot in the fields for the lack of human hands to pluck the golden ears and crib them. Who can blame these farmers for employing contrabands to help save the produce of their fields?
Thirdly, It is a fact that three-fourths of the applicants for contrabands are Democrats. The Republican farmers of Northern Illinois have secured very few of them. The Egyptian Democrats have almost monopolized the market, notwithstanding the diatribes of the tory prints. When a fanner has sent both of his grown-up sons and his hired man to fight for the Union, and is left with no help but his wife and daughters to thresh and bring to market a couple of thousand bushels of grain, and has a hundred acres of corn to husk, and fifty acres of fall plowing to do for his spring sowing, he will be grateful to any one who can show him where a few “contrabands” may be obtained. Necessity makes its own laws. The Western States have sent half a million of men to the army. Three-fourths of these are farmers and farmers’ sons. The labor of every man of them is needed at home. Their absence in the army will reduce the productive industry of the West more than three hundred millions of dollars per annum. There will be a constant effort on the part of farmers to fill the vacuum. Laborers of every color and nationality will be in high demand. Any one that ean husk corn, drive team, and do general out-door work, will be gladly accepted, no matter if he is as black aa the ace of spades; and no class of citizens will exhibit more solicitude to secure contraband help than the Democratic farmers of Southern Illinois.
But the number of contrabands that will find their way into the West is but a mere drop in the bucket compared with the demand for laborers. A few thousand will embrace them all, and they will be so widely dispersed as to be imperceptible to the eye of any but a tory demagogue. Resolutions may be passed by every political convention of both parties, denouncing the employment of contrabands, but that will not prevent a single farmer from hiring them if he can get them. The tremendous, irrepressible demand for farm labor will break through the resolutions of partisan conventions, and laugh to scorn the idle gabble of tory newspapers.
When the war is over and the rebellion put down, our brave boys will come home to resume their former places in society, while the few contrabands in the North will skedaddle to the sunny clime at Dixie, to work on the old plantations as free men and women; this is the natural solution of the whole matter.-Chicago Tribune, Oct 9.

THE CALL FOR LABOR.
VALPARAISO, Porter Co., Ind., Sept 22, 1862.Editors Chicago Tribune:
Seeing in your valuable paper, that Gen grant was sending North some 300 contrabands per day, I wish to know if it were possible for me to get some fifteen or sixteen good men, to work at fair wages, and how soon I could get them, &c Will, If necessary, give references.
P.S.-There are quite a number here who would employ them if they can be had. please answer, and oblige many readers of the Tribune.
Yours truly, D.
To all these letters as a class there can be but one response. There is no doubt of the great scarcity of labor in every department of industry, but no large supply can be looked for from the source indicated. It is impossible that there can or will be any large transfer of laborers from the South. The few from time to time arriving North, sent through the federal fines by the agency of the Government, bear only as significant relation to the number of laborers required to restore the equilibrium between demand and supply here. They come only upon compulsion, and reluctantly, a few waifs from the great mass with whose destiny deportation can have nothing to do.
The South is the home of the blacks, and the he
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all 
the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVER. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the way powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to <Illegible> all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
gira thence has always been constrained, the unfortunate exiles fleeing sorrowingly from their great prison-house of oppression. A better day has dawned, and the blacks will be swift and keen to read its promise. For their future they see freedom, and that, too, in a section whose climate and soil are most coveted by them. At no time in the history of the country has any considerable movement of blacks northward been less than now, and the period cannot be far distant when the current will set in quite the opposite direction. In farmer times the fugitives from bondage comprised the most vigorous and daring of the slaves. This is precisely the class the present aspects now most strongly appeal to that they remain where they are, and wait a little longer. The transfer of the more helpless and dependent class is a simple impossibility. They will remain at the South, save in the few scattered parties that find their way northward. The great problem of free labor will be wrought out upon the very soil where slavery has filled its measure of iniquities, conspired and failed; and with the very race it has made its victims.
In this pressing call for labor, we read a glorious promise of the future in store for this country when the war is past. The South impoverished, wasted and devastated, will furnish an abundant field for the employment of every fibre of muscle, white or black, within its territory, and under free labor will bloom as never before. The North, by the rich rewards it will offer for industry, will win back the sons it has lent to the trade of arms, and will invite on such terms as were never offered before, the immigration of the old world. The first and only duty now is to end the war. All the rest inevitably in store.—Chicago Tribune.

THE TRUE SOUTHERN LABORERS.
There is a systematic attempt making for political reasons, to produce the impression upon the laboring classes in the North, and particularly upon the Irish, that if slaves are emancipated, they will come into competition with them; and, by glutting the labor market, will reduce the price of labor, and interfere with their wages. To unthinking  men, there is so much probability in such statements as to demand examination and refutation. For if unprincipled men shall succeed in inflaming the passions of the laboring men in the North, and, to the hatred of race, shall add the blind fury of selfishness, a good cause will be impeded, and the Administration will be embarrassed in carrying out its beneficent plans.
Emancipation will bring no colored laborers to the North, but will drain a great many out of it!
There are physical and social reasons for this.
The colored man is a creature of the tropics, and all his aptitudes fit him for a warm climate. Even the temperate zones are not temperate to his heat-loving constitution. His skin is thirsty for the sun. He basks luxuriously in a heat that would scorch and consume a white man. In short, he is fitted by his nature for tropical latitudes, and is as much out of place in our cold temperate zones, as are oranges, plantains, or palm-trees.
Nor does he willingly wander away from warm latitudes. It is only as the less of evils that he is persuaded to such exile. There can be no more extraordinary testimony to the black man’s love of liberty, than that he submits to live in Canada. A white bear in the Gulf of Mexico, and a black man in the Arctic regions, are about equally misplaced.
Experience, likewise, shows that this reluctance to live in cold climates has a physiological basis. For the colored race do not thrive in climates. They do not multiply; they are not so robust; they fall into consumption easily, and waste away. This is clearly shown in the statistics of negroes in New England and New York. It is very plain, then, that black men would never emigrate from the South to the North, except under some extraordinary pressure. It is the dread and hatred of slavery that drives them, against their tastes, into an uncongenial climate. If slavery continues, there will be a great influx of freed slaves into the Northern States. This is inevitable. But, if they are allowed their liberty in the South, no inducements will incline the slaves to exchange the glowing airs of the South for the frigid and austere climate of the North. Their local attachments are known to be strong. They linger around the places where they were born and bred. They have a great deal of Southern feeling. They may be thankful for Northern kindness; but they are identified in their ideas, their pride, their whole method of living, with the South, and will never become Northerners.
If only slavery were removed, the black man would prefer to live among Southern men. Southern men understand his nature and necessities better than Northern men. A Northern man is methodical, industrious, enterprising. He expects from himself punctuality, diligence and frugality; and in even severer measure he extracts them from those who labor for him. He has learned to value time. In the North, “time is money.” In the South, time has very little value. Less labor suffices, upon the luxuriant soils of the tropics, for the production of the necessaries of life. The heat of the climate makes labor more intolerable. The true Southerner has a sympathy with the black man's easy and shiftless ways. Provided a black man keeps the place assigned to him, there is reason to believe that he is better treated in the South than in the North. He is not only allowed to follow any trade for which he has aptitudes, but he is encouraged to do it.
But, in the North, the black man has no place assigned him in society. The Irishman, no matter how low or beggarly, knows that his child may rise to any position in society. The father may be a vulgar, brutal wretch. But the child goes to the public school; he becomes intelligent; he has a vigorous stock, and as soon as be emerges from his own family, he finds nothing which industry may earn, or ability achieve, or genius deserve, that is withheld from him simply on account of race or parentage.
But it is not so with the black man. He is, for the most part, hindered in his efforts at education. As he grows up in intelligence, every step is marked with suffering. Except within the circle of his own people, he is excluded from the practice of the learned professions. A black lawyer would starve. A black physician could gain no considerable practice, however skillful, and though a perfect gentleman, and regularly educated, he could scarcely gain admittance into any medical society or association.
In what parish, except among his own people, could an African clergyman, though he were as learned, eloquent, and pious as Cyprian or Origen, be tolerated? Thus far, education seems to highten the black man’s susceptibility to social indignities, than to augment his power or increase his influence.
If we turn to the less informed, laboring classes of black men, what chance is permitted them? They are effectually excluded from the great staple industries by a prejudice which is a thousand times more effectual than could be a statutory law. There is hardly a single mechanical trade in which white men will allow blacks to labor by their side. Black men arc allowed to be sailors, and to mingle with white shipmates without prejudice. To a very limited extent, they can labor in agriculture with white men. But, besides these, there is scarcely any trade or calling in which white laborers will permit black men to toil by their side.
It is in the face of such almost insuperable obstacles that politicians would persuade the ignorant, that black men will leave a climate they love, for one they dislike; a society where they are at least tolerated, for one where they are hated; a section where all mechanical labors are put into their hands, for one in which they are excluded from all; from where they may be blacksmiths, carpenters, masons, coopers, to one where they may not even carry the hod, or blow the bellows, or push the drudging saw! There is more danger that water will ran up hill!
Everything dissuades the black man from the North. The climate pinches him. Labor disdains him. Social prejudice exclude him from position. The bitterest political animosities restrict his civil rights to a minimum. Even religion and philanthropy prefer to offer him inducements to colonization rather than to help him where he is.
On the other hand, should liberty be given to the black man, there would be a demand for his labor in the South greater than ever before. And upon a fair scale of wages, he would labor with vastly greater fidelity. The first effect of emancipation would be, to withdraw from field labor a vast number of women, who, instead of being beasts of burden, would remain at home, in the appropriate duties of wives and mothers. Their places would have to be made good. This would tend to draw laborers from the North. The black man, for the most part, can give only unskilled labor. This labor is far better fitted to the rude husbandry of the South than for
<c02>
the mechanical and agricultural industries of the North.
Every single circumstance tends to show that no fear was ever more unreasonable than that which evil-minded politicians are zealously diffusing among the unreflecting portion of Northern laborers. And it will be a good and wise tank for every true patriot to reason with his neighbors whose prejudices have been excited, and to show them that emancipation, while it is an act of sublime National Justice, will not disturb the industrial economy either of the North or of the South. Whereas, the direct and inevitable effect of slavery in the South will be to drive increasing numbers of black men into the North.
Slavery keens up a competition with Northern cheap labor. Emancipation will destroy all competition, and leave white labor in the North without impediment.—N. Y. Independent.

THE GIANTS TO BE SLAIN.
The Greenfield Gazette and Courier, criticising the late sham “People’s Convention” at Faneuil Hall, sensibly says:—
“The whole fight then is to be on Gov. Andrew and Charles Sumner. These are the giants to be slain. Why? Do not they support the President in all his measures? Has not Sumner eloquently rallied the people to do this same thing? Did he not do it, in words of living fire, in his letter to the Republican State Convention? Has he not just done it in Faneuil Hall? Could Judge Parker or Judge Abbott himself, (who wrote the present resolutions,) write a more patriotic letter? Why then put out Sumner? Why, except that years ago these men hated him politically, and they cannot rule out that old animosity? Certainly, we cannot send a man to the Senate who will make Massachusetts felt there as much as Mr. Sumner. To remove him is to belittle Massachusetts. Moreover, it would be hailed throughout the South as an indication of opposition to the war, and would encourage the enemy to new efforts. Thus it would very likely be the means of slaying many—no one knows bow many—of our own beloved sons and friends in the army. Now, do we hate Sumner more than we love our own children? There must be a devil in the heart if we do. Let us be careful how we cheer the enemy by a display of personal or political spleen against our own men. If we are agreed in our support of the government in all its measures it is folly to quarrel among ourselves, and thus diminish the power we might, if united, furnish to the government. It is like the men litigating about their cow—one having the cow by the tail, the other by the horns, while the lawyer laughingly milks the teats. The rebels, like the lawyer, will laugh and get the milk, while we, like the litigants, exhaust our strength in trying to pull the cow in triumph away from each other. Wise men, truly!
No, citizens of Massachusetts! It is not the time now to turn overboard true and tried servants. We are sorry to see the attempt, We are sorry that men, whose patriotism we do not doubt, are so blinded by old party sores which seem not to have healed, as to institute a course of action which, so far as it shall succeed, will be hailed as a triumph by the rebel sympathizers in the North, and as a star of hope by the rebels in the South. We had better look sharp before we join this political raid. We can support the President just as well and better, the old organizations. He will feel that the help he gets from the success of an opposition party in Massachusetts is help backwards instead of forward. Let the rank stand firm."

EXTREME PERSONAL HATE.
The partisanship of the People's Convention all centers in opposition to Charles Sumner. It is as pure an instance of personal hate on the part of its leaders as was ever exhibited. This animosity comes solely from the fact that he was the earliest and has been the most persistent advocate of what is now the policy of the nation. They hate Mr. Sumner, not because he is personally unamiable; not because there is a flaw in his moral character, or a doubt as to the purity of his intentions; not because he has not represented the opinion of Massachusetts, and faithfully advocated her best interests on every point affecting her material prosperity. They have commenced this personal crusade solely because he has been the most conspicuous and uncompromising foe to the encroachments of Southern slavery. And now that the President has ranged himself on -Mr. Sumner's side, in opposing him they oppose the Administration. No man needs to be. deceived who does not wilfully blind himself. All of us see the New York World, Vallandigham, and the Woods of New York, who are AVOWED opponents of the Administration, welcoming this new party as their ally. None of us question that the defeat of Charles Sumner would occasion a thrill of joy in the breasts of rebeldom, in and out of Richmond.
There is no charge brought against Mr. Sumner which can stand a moment, other than his anti-slavery opinions. His record, except in this point, has never been questioned. We have seldom witnessed an instance of grosser unfairness than Judge Abbott's charge that he had neglected other duties in pursuit of anti-slavery theories. Judge Abbott did not even attempt to sustain this. He knew it was impossible. Charles Sumner has never neglected the business interests of his constituents in any instance. He defies his assailants to point out even one such case, and no one of them has yet had the hardihood to accept the challenge. His record is without a flaw here. His only crime is, that, besides giving a scrupulous attention to his duties such as has been equalled by no man since John Quincy Adams, he has found time to carry on an unrelenting war against that terrible foe to the interests and happiness of this people—Human Slavery.
Let Republicans—let all loyal men, then—remember this,—that Mr. Sumner is opposed solely because he has been the most prominent advocate of the Emancipation policy—a policy the wisdom of which the nation has at length learned through years of blood and suffering, and around which the President now calls upon all loyal men to rally.—Roxbury Journal.

MR. SUMNER AS A PRACTICAL MAN.
The Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican says:—
“Mr. Caleb G. Loring, who spoke at the late ‘People's Convention’ in Boston, undertook to say that Mr. Sumner was not a practical man. I am reminded of a story which is current. Some weeks ago, while Mr. Sumner was on a visit to Washington, a Boston contractor, to whom the government owed considerable money, went to collect it.—He took certain other claims with him; among them one of forty thousand dollars which a Boston merchant of the most extreme and ultra hunkerism entrusted to him. When the contractor returned, he met the hunker merchant, and told him he had succeeded in getting his money. Overflowing not only with gratitude and joy but with surprise, hunker asked, ‘Why, how did you get it? I had no idea you would be successful in getting it.’ Oh,’ said the other, ‘I had nothing to do with it. Sumner happened to be in Washington, and I put the matter in his hands, and he fixed it.' ‘Well,' said hunker,' it does seem as if Mr. Sumner was growing more and more practical every year!' Under an administration like Buchanan's or Pierce's, when it was an open question whether Sumner should be on any committee, it does not seem a matter of surprise that he did not obtain the reputation as a practical man. But it would be difficult to name a man,—and this is the universal testimony of those who have been to Washington on business, and have asked Mr. Sumner's aid,—it would be difficult if not impossible to find a man so industrious, methodical, thorough, energetic and successful in attending to pure matters of business. This is the simple fact, and no exaggeration whatever. Does anybody suppose that the men who fought the battles of Wednesday at Worcester, would support so enthusiastically a mere ideologist and theorist? Absurd! We know better: and the State is learning better. It is because Mr. Sumner serves the people with practical talent, as well as inspires the country with devotion to an idea, that his friends adhere to him so unanimously, and will elect him so triumphantly."
There is no doubt that Mr. Sumner will be re-elected, bat we trust that the friends of universal freedom will be on their guard, and not let the cry of “patriotism,” which some of the politicians are using for effect, Mind them to the real question at issue. “Are you a supporter of Sumner?" should be a teat in the primary meetings, and no one that is not should be allowed to have a vote in any Republican Convention.—Northampton Free Press.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1862.
RETURNED.
The Editor of the Liberator has returned from his comparatively brief, yet somewhat extended and altogether delightful visit to Vermont, in company with his early and tried friend, the Editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, and will resume his labors with the text number. He went to obtain a little recreation, and has come back to the city in excellent condition, feeling all the better for his tour, in mind and body. To his much esteemed friends, LEONARD JOHNSON of Peacham, JAMES H. HUTCHINSON of Braintree, and LAWRENCE G. BIGELOW of Burlington, with their families, he tenders his grateful acknowledgments for their generous hospitality and unwearied personal attentions. Among other places visited by him was Bennington, where, in the autumn of 1828,—thirty-Four years ago,—he first raised the standard of emancipation, and commenced his Anti-Slavery labors, as Editor of the Journal of the Times. What changes, what struggles, what trials, what cheering results have transpired during that long period! Then, how few in the whole country knew or cared aught in relation to the slave system—its nature, growth, dominancy, demoralization; and sure destructiveness! Now, how the land rocks with the mighty struggle going on between the powers of freedom and the cohorts of slaveholding despotism—the year of jubilee swiftly approaching, indicating in its fruition a nation “redeemed, regenerated and disenthralled by the irresistible genius of universal emancipation”!
The loyal spirit of Vermont is of the most unquestionable kind,—so all-pervading, indeed, that that “satanic democracy,” which is but Southern treason under a thin veil of dissimulation, gets neither root nor nourishment within its borders. She is full of natural beauty, romance, grandeur, with her glorious array of mountains; and her industrious, intelligent, independent farming population constitute a bulwark against the brutality and demoralization of the commercial cities along the seaboard.
Vermont has completed her quota of troops under both calls, and the whole force will soon be on the way to the seat of war.
In every direction the liveliest interest was manifested in the pending election in Massachusetts, and the question was eagerly asked, “Is there any doubt about the re-election of Gov. Andrew, and especially of Charles Sumner?” And on the assurance being given, that, in the coming struggle, Massachusetts would be true to herself, true to her historic renown, true to the cause of freedom and to the whole country, in triumphantly re-electing those meritorious public servants, the highest gratification was expressed.
At the urgent solicitation of friends, the Editor so far departed from his purpose not to lecture during his tour as to give two addresses on Slavery and the War in the Congregational meeting house in Peacham, and one in Braintree. In each case, the audience was unusually large and of the most solid character; and the sentiments advanced were listened to with the closest attention, and elicited the warmest approval.

GENERAL CONVENTION OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
Our vigilant friend G. W. S. referred last week to some of the doings of the General Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church, which has just finished its sixteen days’ sessions in the city of New York. The majority of the-delegates to that body, as well as of the Episcopal churches in this country, continue faithful in their adherence to the interests of slavery. They have long been accustomed to see slavery supported by the United States Government, and to bear full and true allegiance to both these powers, welcoming to the Church that tyranny which was supported by the State. Now that the State has turned against slavery, they are disconcerted and puzzled, and hesitate even at condemning rebellion, when it is made by their friends the slaveholders, and supported by those venerable fathers in God, the Southern Bishops. Nothing could have interfered with their hearty and prompt expression of loyalty to the Government, but the conflicting habit of bearing true allegiance to slavery. As it was, they hoped to evade the trouble by silence; and not until the third day of their meeting was that silence broken.
On the third day, Mr. Brunot, of Pennsylvania, who had just arrived from the battle-field of Antietam, broached the tabooed subject. He was surprised to see in the Convention nothing that would indicate that the nation was at war, and at war with rebels; and he was surprised to hear that it was not intended that anything should be introduced relative to the state of the country and a divided church. He offered resolutions which—recognizing the two important facts that an extensive rebellion was warring against the civil power, and that a portion of the Church had separated itself from the portion there in session—went no further than to ask for a form of prayer suited to this double emergency.
This very moderate proposition raised a storm of excitement. The motion was vehemently opposed by some and defended by others, but, the majority desiring to avoid even discussion on that subject, the resolutions were laid on the table, by a vote of 75 to 31. A motion to reconsider, after a long and excited discussion, met with the same fate.
Hon. Mr. Hoffman, of New York, then offered a preamble and series of resolutions to the same general effect, but still more moderate. The next day, Judge Carpenter offered a very brief resolution as a substitute, touching the important subjects in question as gently as they could be touched, and this last, after opposition and debate, was adopted.
In the course of four days, the Triennial General Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church had got so far as to decide that the existing facts of rebellion, civil war, separation of the States and separation of the Church, demanded some action on their part, and that the appropriate and sufficient action was—the manufacture of a new “form of prayer.”
Further discussion of these matters, however, was found to be inevitable, and was resumed, from time to time, until the close of the Convention. The most energetic action of this body was the adoption, after long debate, of a lengthy series of resolutions, prepared by a Committee of nine, and read to the Convention by Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, of this city. The substance of them was a recognition, first, of “the duty of all men who are professors of the Gospel to pay respectful obedience to the Civil Authority,” and next, of the deep and grievous wrong which certain men, in certain States, “will have inflicted,” … “should they persevere in striving to rend asunder those civil and religious bonds which have so long held us together in peace, unity and concord.”
In all the action of this Convention was nothing recognizing slavery as the cause of the rebellion, or recognizing it as a sin or an evil, or referring to it in any way whatever.
Among the slaveholding rebels who are now waging a war of sufficient magnitude to endanger the very existence of this Union are thousands of Episcopalians, Bishops, clergy and laity. Neither their habitual practice of the enormous wickedness involved in slaveholding, nor their attempt to fortify that wickedness by rebellion, nor their inauguration and pursuance of that rebellion by robbery and murder, prevent the General Convention of the Episcopal Church from regarding them as Christian brethren. The chief desire of that body seems to be to have them back again just as they were before they took up arms to fight for slavery. They want a restoration of the Southern system” as it was!” Just as it was before it brought forth its natural fruit of rebellion!
Such is now the position of the Episcopal Church in this country.—C.K.W..
<c04>
OUR POSITION.
That faithful, vigilant journal, the Boston Pionier, regarding rather the shortcomings of the Emancipation Proclamation than (like the rest of the loyal papers North) its present virtues and glorious promise, contains, amid somewhat gloomy surroundings, the following paragraphs, in its issue of the 15th inst. They relate to the President’s postponement of the act of general emancipation:—
“If the rebels hold out till January, the (already liberated) slaves will be rewarded for it with freedom; but if the former succumb before January, the (already liberated) slaves will be punished for it with slavery. Vice versa; for submission the rebels are to be rewarded with the security of their slaves; for perseverance in rebellion they are to be punished by the liberation of their slaves. A crime (rebellion) is thus to be punished by a righteous act (emancipation); an abandonment of the crime is to be rewarded by a far greater crime (the renewed security of the slaves). Slavery, the greatest wrong and crime in the world; slavery,—that is, the rights or the destitution of rights, the freedom or the servitude, the happiness or the ruin, in a word the whole fate of four million of men,—is, in the hands of Mr. Lincoln, simply a counter, simply a means of speculation, which he reserves as a punishment or employs at pleasure, yes, which he chooses to reserve or employ in abrogation of a law of Congress, the Confiscation Act. And this infamous philosophy, this flagrant contempt of all decency and all right, is exulted in by the friends of the slave, and even by the Boston Liberator! Ought we to wonder that one in power treads reason and right under foot without scruple, when even his opponents, who have supported reason and right like jealous watchmen, assist him in such a procedure, and bestow upon him applause?
“To the Pionier once again has fallen the melancholy honor of being forced all alone to sustain reason, right, decency, truth and freedom, in the midst of a thousand pens which write for reason, right, decency, truth and freedom.”
The readers of the Liberator will certainly bear witness that its “exultation” over the President’s edict was discriminating, and far from rash. It did not overlook nor fail to censure the very points which the Pionier presents—the delay in the consummation of a measure whose importance, and especially whose justice, is now and not to-morrow—the opportunity which is afforded the rebels of yet outwitting us in our effort to secure the slave for our side—the absurd and unfeeling scheme to colonize the only Southern loyalists, and the veritable owners of the South by title-deed of labor—the madness of proposing a restoration of the status quo. At the same time, we were not cast down. The President had not stepped backward, on the whole, but forward. We trusted Jefferson Davis to make good the deficiencies of Abraham Lincoln. He would see to it that the rebellion should last till January first; the Northern capital, rushing upon the heels of our victorious armies, should demand the retention of labor on the soil where it is indispensable. God himself, finally, would ensure the rejection of the chance of reunion under the old conditions.
Our instincts thus far have not been deceived. Shall we quarrel with that measure which has become the test of loyalty all over the North? Which arrays, by the cleanest division, the virtue and the treason of the country over against each other? Can the South. teach us nothing,—which, as it formerly indicated by proscription our best and rightful leaders, now commends by its fears the Proclamation as the most formidable thunderbolt of the war? Believe it, we shall yet see the jubilee! The President has builded better than he knew.—W. P.G.

THIRD FRATERNITY LECTURE.
The lecture, last Tuesday evening, was given by Rev. ROBERT COLLYER, of Chicago.
He thought there was but one subject for men to think of, speak of and act upon now, the war, and the way to make it effective and successful. He had formerly been a peace man; but now, when he searched the Bible for texts to guide his conduct, he could find none but this—“He that hath no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one.”
He praised Mr. Lincoln, ascribing to him good intentions, honesty, and various other merits, but specified three serious errors that he had committed. First, he had chosen as his chief advisers men who had been aspirants for the Presidency at the time of his own election. Four out of six of his Cabinet (before Mr. Cameron was sent to Siberia) were defeated and disappointed men, not likely to be zealous in making his administration successful. Second, he chose his policy from the Belleveretts, the milk-poultice party; a party that under the guise of loyalty, brooded over the eggs of treason till they were hatched. The third and most fatal mistake was that he went to the pro-slavery Democrats for his Generals, keeping Banks, Hunter, Fremont and Phelps inactive, while he gave the most important commands to men who sympathized with the cause of the rebellion, and did not even wish to see the South conquered in the particular interest for which she has made the war.
The later movements of the President, he thought, gave much more encouragement for a successful issue. The light of morning appears, and the policy of freedom is inaugurated. A refusal to do justice to the negro would be the ruin of our cause and of our nation; but the prospect now was, that through penitence and reformation we should achieve success and regain prosperity.
Mr. Lincoln has emancipated the ministers as well as the slaves. The clergy and the churches are coming forward to uphold the policy of freedom. And by and by, no doubt, the American Tract Society will feel itself called, in the providence of God, to rebuke the Liberator for too strong a leaning towards conservatism!
Mr. Collyer spoke briefly of the aspect of the war in the West, and more at length of the spirit and resolution of the Western people, men and women. He declared them to be worthy descendants of New England, and urged that both sections should give the heartiest support to the President. One of the means of doing this was to sustain the strongest friends of the policy now pursued by the President; and this led him to speak of the elections now pending in Massachusetts, and of the need that Charles Sumner should still be her Senator. He ought to be zealously and triumphantly sustained. But if he was not wanted in Massachusetts, at any rate, he was wanted in the West, and the West would stand by the great principles which he represented.
Mr. Collyer’s lecture received frequent and hearty applause, and was heard by a large audience. THEODORE TILTON, of New York, is to give the next lecture.—C K. W.
NEW BUST OF WENDELL PHILLIPS. Mr. E. A. Brackett, well known to the public by his statue of the Shipwrecked Mother and Child, and by his bust of John Brown, has just completed a bust of Wendell Phillips. Some of the most competent judges esteem it a complete success, wanting nothing, either as a likeness, or as a work of art.
Thorwaldsen is said to have declared that clay was life, plaster death, and marble resurrection. The work in question forms a happy exception to this rule, having lost nothing in passing from clay to plaster.
Those who wish to see this bust are invited by the sculptor to call at his room, 24 Tremont Row, (up two flights of stairs,) at any hour between 9 and 2.
There will be published, on the first of December next, by Robert F. Wallcut, 221 Washington street, Boston, an interesting volume entitled “THE BLACK MAN, His Antecedents, His Genius, and His Achievements, with Biographical Sketches of many Distinguished Individuals of the Race; by Wm. Wells Brown.” Further details respecting this book will be given hereafter. Those who know the talent and the industry of Mr. Brown will expect to find both interest and instruction in his narratives; and the subject is one on which most of us need information.
For bargains in wholesale and retail clothing, see advertisement of L. D. BOISE & Co., 154 Washington Street, in another column.
<c05>
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for November, contains—The Causes of the Rebellion, by Hon. F. P. Stanton; Word-Murder; Stewart, and the Dry Goods Trade of New York, by W. Frothingham; Unheeded Growth, by John Neal; Red, Yellow and Blue; One f the Million, by Caroline Cheesebro; Las Oraciones, by C. K. Tuckerman; A Merchant’s Story, by Edmund Kirke; The Union, by Hon. Robert J. Walker; The Wolf Hunt, by Charles G. Leland; Maccaroni and Canvas, by Henry P. Leland; The Proclamation, by Charles G. Leland; The Press in he United States, by Hon. F. P. Stanton; Was He Successful! by Richard B. Kimball; Aurora, by Horace Greeley; From Mount Lafayette, White Mountains; The Homestead Bill, by Hon. Robert J. Walker; Literary Notices, &c.
We have already stated the addition to the editorial corps of this able magazine. The office of publication has now been removed to New York, whither all exchanges should be addressed.
The following is the table of contents of the ATLANTIC MONTHLY for November:—1. Wild Apples. 2. Life in the Open Air. 3. Louis Lebeau’s Conversion. 4. The Development and Overthrow of the Russian Serf-System. 5. Mr. Axtell. 6. At Syracuse. 7. Methods of Study in Natural History. 8. Blind Tom. 9. Kindergarten—What is it? 10. A Picture. 11. Two and One. 12. The New Atlantic Cable. 13. The Cabalistic Words. 14. Conversational Opinions of the Leaders of Secession. 15. The Hour and the Man. 16. How to Choose a Rifle. 17. The President’s Proclamation.
THE REBELLION RECORD, Part XXIII, illustrated with steel portraits of the late Maj. Gen. Kearney and Stonewall Jackson, continues its invaluable “Diary of American Events” down to the reduction of Fort Pulaski. New York: G. P. Putnam, Publisher, 532 Broadway; C. T. Evans, Gen’l Agent, 448 Broadway.
LES MISERABLES. Jean Valjean. A novel by Victor Hugo. New York: Carleton, Publisher, 413 Broadway.
This volume completes the wonderful series from the pen of the great French exile. The work has received almost universal admiration in this country; but, from the part before us, (not having read those which precede,) we hardly feel like forming a judgment, even on the principle of ex pede Herculem.
THE SLAVE POWER: its character, career, and probable designs: being an attempt to explain the real issues involved in the American contest. By J. E. Cairnes, M. A., Professor of Jurisprudence and Political Economy in Queen’s College, Galway; and late Whately Professor of Political Economy in the University of Dublin. New York: Carlton, Publisher, 413 Broadway. For sale in Boston by A. Williams & Co., and by Robert F. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery Office. Price, one dollar.
We have read four of the nine chapters of this excellent book, which will take rank with Gasparin’s “Uprising of a Great People,” in clearness of apprehension and soundness of judgment, and even surpass it in the accuracy of its details,—which ought not to be surprising. The two works differ essentially in their mode of regarding slavery, the Englishman confining himself to the economic, the Frenchman to the ethical side of the question. But each has its uses; and no more convincing argument than both combined could be placed in the hands of that American who will not heed the prophets of his own country, but is susceptible of being affected by words spoken from a distance of three thousand miles, and void of interest, passion, or prejudice.—W. P. G.

HON. CHARLES SUMNER IN BRAINTREE.
A mass meeting of the citizens of the East Norfolk Senatorial District was held in the Town Hall in Braintree on the evening of the 17th inst., which was addressed by Hon. Charles Sumner. At an early hour, the large hall was crowded to its utmost capacity. F. A. Hobart, Esq., called the meeting to order, and, after some pertinent remarks, read the list of officers for the evening, with Asa French, Esq., for President, and a number of the most prominent supporters of the Administration in the district for Vice-Presidents. The President made a brief introductory address, in which he referred to the great issues presented to the people of this State, upon which they were to pass at the coming election, and touched upon the origin and purpose of the so-called People’s movement, at the close of which he introduced Mr. Sumner.
No sketch could do justice to Mr. Stunner’s address. It was clear, logical and convincing. He emphatically denned the object of the war to be, not the destruction of slavery, but the crushing out of the rebellion. He dwelt upon the President’s emancipation proclamation, enumerating and answering all the objections which have been raised against it, and declared it to be, in his judgment, the only measure which can bring this war to a successful termination; and concluded with an eloquent appeal to the people of the State, forgetting all minor differences, to give the President their heartiest support in every means which he might use to restore the Union.
The address occupied nearly two hours in the delivery, and was listened to with closest attention, interrupted by frequent applause. The meeting was a decided success, and will do much good in that part of the State.
ANOTHER TRIUMPH OVER PREJUDICE. At the recent session of the Grand Division of the Sons of Temperance of this State, holden Oct. 15th and 16th,at Mercantile Hall, Boston, an organized effort was made to prevent the admission of Edwin G. Walker, of Monument Division, Charlestown, on account of his color. The effort was not only unsuccessful, but the blow aimed alike at Mr. Walker and the humanity of the organization rebounded upon the sinful men who struck it, and Mr. Walker, in the centre of about sixty candidates, was initiated, and took the obligation “to extend the fraternal circle until it shall embrace the entire brotherhood of man.” This is the third time that the Grand Division has endorsed Mr. Walker’s constitutional rights of equality in the order. The wounded prejudice against color became desperate, and proposed to hold a meeting at the Parker House at 2 o’clock. This proposition looking a little too intemperate for temperance men, ashamed of their own folly, they dunged the place of meeting, and retired from the hall, purifying the Grand Division by their exit. But, like a bad penny, they soon returned, to show the bad spirit of, and act upon, Train’s philosophy of elevating white Americans by creating prejudice against colored Americans. COM.
CHARLES SUMNER. The Amesbury Villager contains an able vindication of the position of Mr. Sumner and those who sympathize with bin, from the pen of John G. Whittier. We copy the closing paragraphs:—
“And, now let me say, that I favor the reelection of Charles Sumner, not because he is a personal friend, or a nominal member of the Republican party, but because I honestly believe that his defeat would weaken the Government at home, and its influence abroad, discourage the loyal and true in other States, and give a thrill of joy to the traitors in arms against the Union and their sympathizers everywhere, and because I believe that the blow professedly aimed at him is really directed against Abraham Lincoln and his policy and can have no other effect than to gibe aid and comfort to treason and slavery.
I freely admit that, in times like these, no man has a claim to office on merely personal or party grounds. But there are men who specially represent and embody vital ideas of loyalty and freedom, and such it is the duty of patriotism to support. I favor the reelection of Charles Sumner in Massachusetts for the same reasons that I would vote for the conservative Gov. Sprague of Rhode Island, for the Breckinridge Democrat, Denial S. Dickinson of New York, for such Douglas Democrats as GOV. Tod of Ohio, and McClernand of Illinois, or for O. A. Brownson, the Catholic Democrat of New Jersey,—careless of what their party names may be, so long as I know them to be loyal and true, and that their services are needed in this hour of the country’s peril.”
<c06>
UNITARIAN CONVENTION AT BROOKLYN 
SLAVERY THE EXCITING ELEMENT
DEAR GARRISON: The autumnal gathering of the Unitarian brethren and sisters took place last week at the beautiful city of Brooklyn, N.Y. The <illegible> were all held at the church of Dr. Farley, on <illegible> street A fair representation of Unitarian clergymen, brethren and sisters, was present. The meetings were fully attended, and were marked with more than common interest. Two sermons of thought and practical interest were preached by Rev. Mr. Everest of Bangor, Me., and Rev. Mr. Collyer of Chicago. The latter (Mr. Collyer) is a protege of our <illegible> Dr. Furness of Philadelphia. He graduated from the anvil in the blacksmith’s shop, a few years since, and is destined to become one of the most efficient preachers of a liberal faith. He is a live man full of live instinct, and not ashamed to avow himself “before all Israel and the sun,” to be an Abolitionists , ay, a Garrisonian one. He came from the <illegible> country a stranger, but through the good provider of God has worked his way up to become a minister not for sect, but for his suffering brother. In the <illegible> of his hand, the geniality of his open face, the <illegible> of his voice, you feel to bless God for the words of Burns—
“A mau’s a man, for a’ that.”
But, to the Convention. The great feature was the remarkable address of Dr. Bellows of New York. It was marked with the ability and peculiarities of its reputed author, and received the most professional as tention in its delivery, which occupied more than an hour. But the most striking feature in this production was the quite extravagant eulogy pronounced <illegible> Southern character. As these words of <illegible> rolled out of the mouth, there seemed to be a strange sensation passing over the audience. Our friend Conway looked for all the world daggers, and I think he felt so. For my own part, the fallacy of such eulogy was expressed in the words of the slave, who was questioned by a visitor in regard to his desire for freedom. Said the visitor, “You have a fine master, a good home, and seem to fare pretty well—do you desire to be free?” “Massa,” said the slave, “I guess you ain’t been all round, and me don’t like to tell <illegible> what I think—Massa has poisoned you with his <illegible> soup.”
That the reader may understand what Dr. Bellow did say in eulogy of Southern character and social life, perhaps I had better transcribe the words uttered which caused so much criticism too justly deserved, in view of the many facts which the accursed rebellion is now opening up. Here is the extract:—
“No candid mind will deny the peculiar charm of Southern young men at college or Southern young women in society. How far race and climate, independent of servile institutions, may have produced the Southern Chivalric spirit and manners, I will not <illegible> consider. But one might as well deny the small <illegible> and hands of that people as deny a certain inbred <illegible> it of command; a contempt of life in defence of <illegible> or class; a talent for political life, and an easy control of inferiors. Nor is this merely an external and flashy heroism. It is real. It showed itself in Congress early and always by the courage, eloquent skill and success with which it controlled majorities. It showed itself in the social life of Washington is the grace, fascination and ease, the free and <illegible> hospitality by which it governed society. It <illegible> shows itself in England and France by the <illegible> with which it manages the courts and the circles of <illegible> erature and fashion in both countries. It shows itself this war in the orders and proclamations of its General in the messages of the rebel Congress, and the essential good breeding and humanity (contrary to a generally encouraged public impression) with which not seldom divides its medical stores, and gives <illegible> sick and wounded as favorable care as it is able to extend to its own. It exceeds us at this moment the possession of an ambulance corps.
I think the war must have increased the <illegible> felt by the North for the South. Its miraculous sources, the bravery of its troops, their patience under hardships, their unshrinking firmness in the <illegible> position they have assumed, the wonderful <illegible> with which they have extemporized manufacture and munitions of war, and kept themselves in <illegible> with the world in spite of our magnificent <illegible>; the elasticity with which they have risen for defeat, and the courage they have shown in <illegible> again and again our capital, and even our <illegible>, cannot fail to extort an unwilling admirations and respect. Well is Gen. McClellan reported to <illegible> said, (privately,) as he watched their obstinate fighting at Antietam, and saw them retiring in perfect under in the midst of the most frightful carnage: “what terrific neighbors these would be! We must conquer them, or they will conquer us!”
An earnest discussion followed the address, giving the impression, at least that Southern character’s not all it seems on the surface. And to the justice of Dr. Bellows it should be remembered, that this extract appears to bad advantage isolated from the address which contained many faithful words of rebuke and truthfulness.
At the collation on Wednesday afternoon, at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, earnest words in reaction to the war and slavery were uttered. About a thousand persons were seated at the tables, one half of whom were ladies. The feast being finished and a few remarks made by the president, (A. A Low Esq., of Brooklyn,) Dr. Bellows was the first speaker. He alluded to the labors of Rev. Starr king in a most laudatory manner, and announced the cheering item that he had just received the second $100,000 from Mr. King as a gift from San Francisco to the <illegible> Commission for our sick and wounded soldiers Rev. Mr. Ellis of Charlestown praised the freedom of speech in the Convention, and contrasted it with the Triennial Episcopal Convention then in session in New York city. He then referred to the address of Dr. Bellows, which spoke of the “chivalry” of the South. He said that chivalry used to the synonyms for honor; it had now become the substitute for it. He had heard, too, something of the refined and polished society of Washington. “Now,” said he,” there were three times in my life when I felt as if I had willingly and wittingly withdrawn myself from under the Providence of God. The first was when I stood in the crater of Vesuvius, and the red-hot <illegible> and boiling lave made me think of nothing but the most expeditious mode of getting away from the awful gulf that yawned beneath me; the second was when I was seven miles under ground in the <illegible> Cave of Kentucky, where not a ray of light could enter; and the third was in Washington City, under <illegible> administration.”(Great applause.)
Our eloquent and earnest brother, O. B. Frothingham, of New York, dwelt upon the heroism displayed by the people in the present crisis, and forcibly <illegible> the honor and loyalty of the Northern people with the perjury and treason of the aristocracy of rebeldom
Dr. Bellows replied to the criticisms made on his address, and thought the same rather severe; still, however, adding, that he should bear in all, be hoped, with becoming grace.
AN EPISODE 
The address, progressive in character, by Mr. <illegible> of Brooklyn, delivered on Thursday, occasioned quite an earnest discussion. Rev. O. B. Frothingham led off in a speech of great finish and power. He portrayed the worth and character of the kind of preaching which the people of this earnest hour demand and would have. The soul was hungry for more than a liturgy of vesper—it wanted bread, and it was useless to give it a stone. The pen can do no justice to this speech, so full of thought and wisdom for such an hour and day as this. My whole soul was warmed and fired by the words of the speaker. After remarks from several other brethren, Dr. Gannett, who had till then, and near the hour of adjournment, failed to speak, was called for. He responded in a most fervent and eloquent manner. Differing from much that had been said, he labored to impress on the mind the value of the pulpit’s mission, to turn the soul to holiness and God.
At the close of Dr. Gannett’s remarks, our venerable friend John Pierpont, now of Washington, D. C. rose to speak. He, too, had been silent till this moment. He agreed with his esteemed brother Gannett in the power of the pulpit. But, alas! till the guns of Sumter, it had been in chains. “Slavery,” said 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Mr. Pierpont, “has raised its snaky fingers, and shaken them at the pulpit, and said, ‘Dare to speak on this subject, and I will silence your voice.’” If the war had only accomplished this work of freeing the pulpit, it were enough to rejoice the heart. The speaker went on to illustrate the slavery of the pulpit before the rebellion, and narrated the manner in which Abolitionists had been driven from the Tremont Temple in Boston; the fact, also, that Dr. Channing, whose sainted memory is so dear, was not allowed the use of the Federal Street pulpit to pronounce an eulogy on the lamented Dr. Follen. At this point, Dr. Gannett rose and protested that Mr. Pierpont was again reiterating a matter which had another version. A great deal of sensation was here evinced. Mr. P. invited Dr. Gannett to come and take the floor, and declare to the people if what he had charged was not true—if I am wrong in the matter, set me right: say, my brother Gannett, yes or no. At this point, Dr. Osgood of New York muttered dissent, and begged that all such idle issues might be stifled. The communion service was to be administered, in which be could not officiate if brother Pierpont was stopped, rather than to willingly waive the matter. Dr. Lorhrop, of Boston, also dissented, and thought the matter out of order. But Mr. Pierpont still insisted that Dr. Gannett should make the denial on the spot, that he (Mr. P.) had not stated the truth in the matter in question. If this was not done, then the audience would be left to the necessity of believing all that had been charged. A motion was made, while Mr. Pierpont was on the floor, to adjourn the Convention for the communion service, which was carried.
So you see the exciting element of slavery, like Banquo’s ghost, will not, thank God! “down” at our bidding. Mr. Pierpont, in the course of his remarks, spike of his early labors as an Abolitionist, when, in 1849, he worked side by side with Garrison; and such labor did not fail to acquaint him with the slavery of the pulpit, till Sumter had taken off its chains. This episode in the Autumnal Convention is not to be regretted, but rather hailed as a good omen—the administration of God’s rebuke for the past, and encouragement for the future. G. W. S.

LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
FAIRFAX COURT HOUSE, (Va.) Oct. 17, 1862.
DEAR GARRISON,—Watchman, what of the night? When and where will the morn of our deliverance dawn? With most anxious solicitude the patriot, from day to day, asks these and similar questions. The nation is convulsed with civil war, the like of which has rarely, if ever, been seen. What are we fighting for? The corrupt politicians of the old school say, “For the Union and the Constitution as they were.” By which they mean the supremacy of the Slave Power, and the subserviency of the great free North to the will of a few hundred thousand slaveholders of the South. Thank God, we have passed beyond the possibility of that! The Slaveholders’ Rebellion has arrayed the people against slavery, and now it is to be determined by the people, whether Freedom or Slavery is to possess this continent. The two cannot continue to co-exist in the United States. For my own part, I do not doubt, I never have doubted, the result. The Slaveholders’ Rebellion has been strong only through our refusal to strike down its tower of strength. Because for fifteen months we refused to call four millions of earnest hearts and strong hands within the rebellious South to our aid, and accept their proffered help, we have left to Jeff. Davis the power of compelling unity of action over the whole South, to call the whole effective white male force into the field, and with the slaves to provide for the subsistence of his immense armies, and build intrenchments over his extensive line of military operations. Thus we have turned the natural weakness of the enemy, SLAVERY, into his strength. It has been the “game” of this war, as Major Keys affirmed, to protract it—not to hurt the enemy seriously, but to wear out the patience of the North, and so, at the fit moment, restore the Breckinridge Democracy to power, and unite with the slaveholders again on such terms as they might dictate. In this way, and in furtherance of this policy, or “game,” our active, clear-headed, fighting commanders, like Fremont and Sigel, have been hampered and thwarted, and the leadership of the war, so far, committed to incompetence. So the Peninsula has been ditched, and a noble army there destroyed. So the treasure of the nation and the great-hearted devotion of the people have been wasted. At length, this miserable folly had brought us to the verge of ruin. We were every where defeated, and the army demoralized and discouraged, when the magnificent new army of three hundred thousand began to pour in, and revive the hope and the courage of all. Then came the invasion of Maryland, and the victory of Antietam, followed by the fatal delay of our army, by which the results of that battle, so immense and far-reaching, if secured, as they might easily have been, were lost. And now, at last, we have the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation. Already, we see the intense vitality of an authorized announcement of freedom in the exceeding fear of the slaveholders, and the trembling of all their Northern allies. It is evident, also, that this is the vital issue of this war, because every loyal heart responds to it with renewed hope and inexpressible joy. Such Democrats as Dickinson, Cass, Holt, Busted and Butler join with all other loyal men in the earnest cry, “God bless Abraham Lincoln for this word!” I know the effort has, from the first, been made, and is still continued, to create the impression that the army is opposed to freeing the black man. We were even told that multitudes of officers would resign, if such a proclamation were issued. It has come, and I have not heard of a single officer who is not “resigned” to obedience and his salary, not withstanding the word which dooms slavery to overthrow as the inevitable result of this war. Windy Train has seen the soldiers, and they, forsooth, have complained to him that they were “obliged to fight for the nigger.” No, poor deluded spouter! it is all a mistake. This Proclamation has infused new life into the army. The soldiers all bless Abraham Lincoln for it. At length, we know what we are fighting for. At length, we renew the pledge of the old Revolution, and mutually put life, property and honor all in the issue for a free and a united Fatherland. We begin to hope for a country built on Justice and Liberty, and protection under Constitution and Law for all classes and conditions of men. We can thank God for the prospect of leaving to our children a country, all free, united, blessed, worthy the fondest affection of all noble souls, the example and the hope of the world. 
Truly yours,
DANIEL FOSTER.
The Literary and Musical Entertainment at the Twelfth Baptist Church, October 17th, was rendered especially noticeable as the occasion of the debut of Mrs. GEORGE L. RUFFIN in a choice selection of readings and recitations, each of which gave evidence of intelligent and persevering efforts to be correct in intonation and gesture, thus doing justice to the author’s meaning, and bringing into exercise those accomplishments dcemed essential to win merit in the arduous profession she has adopted. She received marked and deserved applause, and every one seemed pleased with the success attending this first appearance. W. C. N.
[Mrs. RUFFIN is one of “the inferior race,” scornfully and vulgarly so characterized.]
A few copies of Rev. M. D. CONWAY’S work, “THE REJECTED STONE,” will be sent by mail free of charge to persons desiring it, and who may remit the amount or postage due, nine cents, in undefaced stamps, to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington street, Boston.
A few remaining copies of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY’S last Report, entitled “The Ant-Slavery History of the John Brown Year,” will be sent in the same way, on the receipt of the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
<c02>
GOVERNOR ANDREW'S ACCEPTANCE OF HIS RE-NOMINATION.
WORCESTER, Sept 12,1862.
My DEAR SIR,—As the presiding officer of the State Convention held in this city on the tenth instant, agreeably to a call addressed by the Republican State Committee to Republicans and all others who support the National and State Government, I have the honor to inform you that the delegates unanimously nominated you for the office of Governor of Massachusetts for the ensuing year.
Very truly and respectfully yours A.H. BULLOCK.
To the Honorable JOHN A. ANDREW, Boston.
BOSTON, October 18, 1862.
Hon. A. H. Bullock, President of the Republican State Convention.
My DEAR SIR,—I am reminded that until now I have left unanswered your letter of September 12th, apprising me of my nomination for reelection, by the Republican State Convention held on September 10th at Worcester. This delay I am sure you will pardon, since the. subject-matter is so far personal to myself that I felt entitled to place it on the file of those things, which , in the pressure of contending cares, might stand deterred with the least inconvenience to others. Meanwhile, silence was, in itself, an acceptance of the nomination.
And now I beg leave, my dear my dear sir, to avail myself of this opportunity to present, through you, my sincere acknowledgments for this repeated assurance of favor, and to express my hearty gratitude for the generous consideration with which the People of Massachusetts have received and seconded my humble efforts in their service.
Called, two years ago, to occupy the chair of Chief Executive Magistrate of the Commonwealth—uninstructed by any experience of office save that of one year's service in the lower branch of the Legislature,—I early found myself charged by the course of national events with duties novel, sudden, vast, and admitting no delays, without a precedent for my guide, and with no similar previous experience of any other person to assist me. Having long studied the character of that peculiar organization of society which distinguishes the rebel States, I was not surprised by the portents of the winter of 1860-61. In addition to the public manifestations making clear to my own mind the desperate atrocity contemplated by the rebel leaders, I had already been distinctly warned by the private conversation of one of the eldest and most distinguished of their number, that the slave-holding States had reached a settled determination not to remain longer in political relations with our own, and having once weeded there from, not to return until the principle of majority government should be changed by a new distribution of political power, nor until the New England States should repeal all laws by which slavery was forbidden within their own borders. It seemed already plain, therefore, long before the fall of Summer, that the Federal Union was to be assailed, the Government itself overthrown, and war to the bitter end levied and maintained against Democratic Republican Liberty, and the constitutional forms under which it was defined and preserved. The scheme involved a dissolution of the Union as the first fact to be accomplished, to be followed by a reconstruction on the basis of a new distribution of political power. It involved, as the second fact to be accomplished, the abolition of the majority principle in our Government, or in other and plainer words, the subversion of Democracy. And finally, it involved the legal establishment of slavery in all the States now free. The Dissolution of the Union, the Subversion of Democracy, and the Nationalization of Slavery—these are the three acts in the damnable drama of treason and rebellion, included in the original conspiracy, of which new and cumulative evidence is found in the words of Mr. Van Buren, recently spoken in New York in support of the election of Mr. Seymour, counseling a voluntary dismissal of the rebel States, read in connection with the words of Mr. Pettit of Indiana, spoken on a similar occasion, declaring the universal establishment of slavery, in all the States, to be the appropriate means of ending the rebellion. Meanwhile a body of political Bourbons, such as are found in every people—who cannot forget, and who will not learn—play half-consciously into the hands of the conspirators, by crying down every earnest, devoted and zealous public servant, civil or military, who delivers a telling blow against the public enemy, and by opposing every positive act or decree which weakens his power—substantially begging of Jefferson Davis and his confederates to name the terms of our concession and humiliation on which they will consent to return and govern the country without substituting a new name and a new flag.
Now—for one humble citizen of the American Union, for one son of the ancient Commonwealth which guards the ashes of the pilgrims, which cherishes the venerable cradle of our infant Liberty, and on whose rocky foundations are the earliest Revolutionary battle-grounds where that Liberty was the prize for which our fathers periled or laid down their lives—I am ready not only day by day to renew my its own allegiance, but with proud and high defiance to ha proclaim the eternal fidelity of Massachusetts to the ideas of her origin, and the traditions of her history, in With an immortal faith in right, and an undying hate of wrong, Massachusetts will pursue her bright career; nor will rest, nor be content, until the conspirators shall be overwhelmed, their armies conquered, their schemes forever frustrated, and the Union, Liberty and Democracy re-established on sure foundations, defying all the shocks and snares of fate and time. But, whether at an earlier or a later day, the brave endurance of our heroes on the field, and the patient hearts of their people toiling at home, will; finally reap a rich and enduring reward. Peace when it comes, will be secure. We shall hear no menaces or Disunion hereafter, to scare people out of their manhood ; and we shall hear no more that the fear of man is the beginning of wisdom. The industry and ingenuity of a free people will not hereafter be confronted by the brutal and devastating influences of slavery, contending for the mastery of capital over labor in the new lands and virgin soil of the nation. Immigration of free white laborers, carrying with them the humble gains of their industry, will be possible into States from which slavery has hitherto banished even their own sons, driven by that monopoly of and which slavery creates, away from fields, and mines, and waterfalls, and a thousand natural sources of wealth denied to them, and unimproved by their possessors. The States which now hold slaves, never yet cultivating more than a sixth part of their cotton land, nor one-fiftieth part of their whole soil, will beckon back to the shores of the Gulf, to their natural climate and its attractions, social and industrial, the poor refugees from slavery now among us, who, with an instinct of their destiny, as pilgrims and strangers and in the North, seldom purchase land or strike root deep down into Northern soil. A competition of colored labor from the South against the laborers of the North here at home, will be forever prevented by the only means by which it can over be rendered impossible—by rendering it possible for the colored man to live as a freeman in his own home, instead of being driven-out, as he now is, to seek refuge in a climate from which be always retires, when he can, to warmer latitudes. The hatreds and prejudices of race will melt away when consciousness of injustice shall cease to engender them, and when the freedom to migrate according to natural attractions, the instincts of race I and the interests of individuals, shall render possible the separation of all those who may be mutually repugnant. When society in two-thirds of the States this side of the Rocky Mountains shall cease to be swayed and demoralized by speculators in lands, slaves and politics, then manufacturing New England, with her ingenious and untiring artisans whose intelligent labor has made New England so rich and great, will find new markets for her wares and fabrics—a hundred purchasers to one—where all laborers are free to work for their wages, and where the soil shall be open all purchasers.
With these views, I hail the recent proclamation of the President. If emancipation is deemed an evil by the rebel States, then let the first day of January find them peaceable, loyal and submissive to their duties. If they still remain at war with the Union, then let the Government and the people see to it that rebel masters cease to make compulsory rebels of their servants. The greater relation of the subject to his government absorbs all the minor relations of individuals to each other; and the colored man who in the sense of the Constitution may be “a person owing service or labor”, under the laws of a particular State, to some other person therein, is still a subject of the National Government, owing the supreme duty of allegiance, notwithstanding his civil or social disabilities created by local laws. Nor is it endurable that his rebel master, who is only another subject of the same government, should be allowed to impress his own treasonable will. Their Government, older and more worthy, possessing rights and claiming duties more comprehensive than theirs to each other, demands and ought to coerce in time of war the obedience and fidelity of both.
Consecrating myself to the performance of my own part in this work before us, devoting thereto whatever is left to me of life and strength, and leaving it in solemn charge to my children, if, when I taste of death, it shall remain unaccomplished—conscious of no fear bat the fear of God—I desire to stand in my lot, wherever it may be cut, at a faithful servant of a cause whose service is in own reward.
If it shall please the people of Massachusetts to ratify the nomination of your Convention, I will endeavor to address myself to the duties which will ensue, in the same spirit and the same purpose with which such duties hare thus far been performed. I cannot promise greater effort, more industrious, devoted, self-forgetful, independent or painstaking service of the State. But within the limitations of whatever power I may possess, and in the light of the experience of the past, it will he my happiness and pride as it is now my too great honor, to devote my humble
<c03>
efforts to the duties of the place I occupy. And may God grant that the lengthening shadows of the next declining year may softly veil the sorrows of a people penitent, hopeful and serene amidst the reminiscences of the trials through which they shall have passed, and in the contemplation of peace, honor and happiness restored.
I am faithfully,
Your friend and servant,
JOHN A. ANDREW
CARD.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
It wilt be recollected a few weeks since a call was made by Joel Parker and others for a People’s Convention, to which my name was attached. I would now state it was placed there under a misapprehension, and that I am now and was then for the present State and National Administrations, and will support the Worcester nominations for State officers, and Charles Stunner for U. S. Senator.
ERASTUS ROCKWOOD.
Franklin, Norfolk Co., Oct. 16, 1862.
SERENADE TO GEN. PRENTISS.
HIS SPEECH ON THE MALTREATMENT OF PRISONERS IN THE SOUTH.
WASHINGTON, OCT. 17. Gen. Prentiss to-night was complimented with a serenade. He graphically described the scenes through which he and his fellow soldiers (taken prisoners at Shiloh) passed in the land of Dixie. He said he had cause to use harsh language when speaking of the demons of the South, whose conduct towards our troops was characterized by murder and barbarity.
Col. Jordan, Assistant Adjutant General to Beauregard, was the only man from whom they received the least particle of courtesy. “So help me Heaven,” said Gen. Prentiss, “ those who persecuted my comrades shall never escape retaliation in full at my hands. The negroes are the best Union men in the South.” (Voice—This is what you are fighting for.) “ Yes,” replied Gen. Prentiss, “ it is for the freedom of every man on earth.”
The General then went on to say that of the returning Shiloh prisoners, there were not fifty with sufficient clothing to completely cover their nakedness. Nothing in the way of garments was furnished them by the rebels, and beside, they were furnished with the most disgusting food.
After fully describing the unkind and offensive treatment they received, Gen. Prentiss inquired of his many listeners, including the ladies, what they now thought of the boasted Southern chivalry. The people of the South are determined.
There is a perfect reign of terror, and every sentiment in favor of peace or compromise is instantly stifled. He said he found Union men there bearing arms against our government, but they were compelled to do so at the bidding of their masters. The white race to-day in the South are in a worse condition than were the blacks before the war commenced. The rebel government has more men in arms than the North thinks it has. They fight well because their cause is desperate. They do not ask for transportation and comfortable supplies. They are compelled to take the field with or without food. It was time we should go to work without gloves. We punished them more at Antietam than many of us suppose.
The prisoners had opportunities of seeing the large numbers of wounded who were carried South on the trains, beside the stragglers. As to the Libby prison, it was a palace compared to the one in which they were confined. Combs were scarce and small guards plenty. He hoped there would be no halting until the rebellion is crushed. Hang the leaders, and grant an amnesty to the deluded victims of Jeff Davis.
Some one in the crowd inquired—” What do they think of Lincoln’s emancipation proclamation?” Gen. Prentiss replied that many of the officers with whom he conversed, blasphemously condemned it, saying that it was damnable, and never could be enforced. But he (Prentiss) responded to them, “If you say you can never be conquered, and that you are bound to whip us, what harm can the proclamation do you?” He would declare everywhere that the proclamation would do more to end the rebellion than all the battles fought.
Gen. Prentiss was applauded throughout his remarks. Col. Mulligan and others addressed the meeting.
GEN. SAXTON ON THE PROCLAMATION. Gen. Rufus Saxton, of Deerfield, Mass., an officer of the regular army, who was for some time at Port Royal as Military Governor, being invited to attend a meeting of the Port Royal Relief Committee in Philadelphia, sent a letter, of which the following is the conclusion:
“The glorious Proclamation of our honored President comes like a gleam of sunlight through the darkness which has enveloped us, bidding us be of ‘good cheer.’ I would rather have the blessings and prayers which will go up from poor oppressed humanity, on its toilsome, weary journey up to freedom, for Abraham Lincoln, than all the honors which have been bestowed upon our Presidents since the days of Washington. A year’s experience in the department of the South, where I had an opportunity to see human slavery as it is, stripped of its gloss, and glitter, and its apologies, has only tended to deepen my conviction that it is the foulest wrong which has disgraced humanity in the nineteenth century.
I am, very respectfully and truly, yours,
R. SAXTON.”

CASSIUS M. CLAY AND RICHARD O’GORMAN. After Mr. Clay’s anti-slavery address in Brooklyn last week, Mr. O’Gorman reviewed it in a speech in New York, taking occasion to say that the Republican party was in favor of liberty for the black man, but not for the white. Mr. Clay, in a subsequent speech at Cooper Institute, thus returned the compliment to Mr. Gorman:—
One of the most mournful sights to him was to see refugees from foreign tyranny to be the first here to turn and oppress a race because it was black.
VOICES—O’Gorman, Mitchell.
Mr. CLAY—I say to Mr. O’Gorman—he is in the I city, and I expect to be here for some time—I say to him, that if he says the Republican party is in favor of the liberty of the black man, and is not in favor of the liberty of the white, he knowingly lies. (Great applause.) I stood up for the right of O’Gorman and other foreigners to come here and enjoy our liberties, I when the Louisville Courier was oppressing them. And I say this, that any man who would barter for office the liberties of a race of black people, would barter the white race to-morrow, if it would meet his interests. (Applause.) He would say, that whether Mr. O’Gorman, or any other Mr., loved the pet tyranny of old England—the slavery rebellion of the South—native old Ireland had no other harp than for universal liberty.
WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH THE BLACKS?” The question, “What shall be done with the blacks?” is beginning to answer for itself. It is reported from New Orleans that recently a “delegation” of slaves from the plantation of a Mr. Maunsell White, one of the oldest and wealthiest planters in a river county below New Orleans, applied to Gen. Shepley for advice, in his character as Military Governor of the State. The correspondent of the New York Times says:—
“These men informed the General that they came for freedom; they said their fellow servants in other places were all leaving their masters, and that they wished also to improve their condition, but that it was not clear to their minds how was the best way to do so. They emphatically said, however, that they did not intend to labor much, if they could help it, without remuneration, and they concluded their requests and protests by asking that if they remained peaceably at home, they might have fair wages secured to them for their services. Gen. Shepley treated the matter with great consideration, and after conferring with Gen. Butler, permission was granted to these men to make terms with their roasters, who consented to have a partner in the transaction, and these men have gone to work, not as slaves, but as hired men.”

THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION. The Cambridge intelligencer, one of the most widely circulated and ably edited of the local journals of Maryland, and which is published in the large slaveholding county of Dorchester, gives a hearty welcome to the Proclamation of the President, and in the course of its remarks says it never doubted that the war which it inaugurated would prove the destruction of slavery. It adds:
“There is another sense in which this is a war of Freedom. There are other men in the South to be freed as well as the black men. The white men of the South need the strong arm of the government to lift the yoke from their necks.’ These have endured a slavery far transcending that of the blacks. The social system of the South has never been anything short of despotism—a tyranny equal to any of the age. The mind has forever been bound here. Freedom of opinion has never been tolerated below Mason and of Dixon’s line. Men have not been permitted to hold, much less express, their own opinions. A man might of conscientiously have believed slavery to be a burden upon the State, but he dare not let the public know to that such were his convictions.
“Let the mind be free! Let the faculties be unfettered! There can be neither prosperity or happiness where these are enslaved. It is degrading to any people. We shall never accomplish oar magnificent destiny until these are free. The war is unbinding them. The true glory of the war is not that it liberates the black, but the white mm of the South. They are beginning to shont for joy. And when the war doses, they will join their voices in one loud hallelujah to the God of Liberty for their deliverance.”
<c04>
WHITE AND NEGRO LABOR. Among the many attempts to excite opposition to the President’s Proclamation, there is none more false, detectable and atrocious than the assertion that emancipation will bring Southern negroes to the North to compete with our workmen, and bring down the price of wages. In his speech at Brooklyn, N. Y., on Tuesday evening, Cassius M. Clay thus alluded to this prejudice:—
“Germans, Irishmen, Frenchmen, why are you here at all? It is because you here find a government based upon the broad principle of liberty to all humanity. (Applause.) Show me the man who would today oppress a man on account of his color, and I will show you a man who will, should it meet his ends, oppress you tomorrow. But it is not true that this Interference with your labor will lake place in consequence of Emancipation. Emancipation will, in tact, but concentrate black labor in the South.”
DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH. An officer who has just arrived at Washington from the Department of Gen. Mitchell, says that everything is progressing most satisfactorily. Although Gen. Mitchell’s command is not so large as he desires, still he is not idle, but is infusing a little of that energy into military movements so characteristic of him while in Northern Alabama. With regard to the negroes, he is fully up to the views of his predecessors. He not only intends to arm and drill the negroes for garrison duty, but has detailed a school teacher from his command to enlighten them. System follows everything that he takes hold of, and that department, which has been idle for many months, will again teem with Union victories.
EMANCIPATION IN MISSOURI. The emancipation proclamation is heartily received by the unconditional Unionists of Missouri, whose leading organ, the Missouri Democrat, advises to meet the issue as boldly as it is tendered. Emancipation clubs are being formed, and an emancipation convention is to be called to nominate officers for St. Louis county. Union clubs have existed there for some time, and some of the hunker members have endeavored to exclude from them the subject of emancipation. But, at a recent meeting in St. Louis, the Democrat informs us that the great feature of the meeting was that Samuel Knox responded to the call of the meeting in the boldest and roost radical endorsement of the President's proclamation, and carried the meeting with him; and a resolution was passed, endorsing the proclamation.
THE GREAT DRAWBACK. Col. Forney makes the following observations, which contain altogether too much truth:—
“The great drawback in the prosecution of the war is the habit of many in and out of the army, in office and out of office, who think they are loyal, and yet who cannot rid themselves of the prejudices of party or of social life. Insensibly, such people accustom themselves to indifference to the great crime of the rebellion, and to a habit of criticising what they think the errors of the Administration. I hold it as a fact that in all my experience I have never yet known to be successfully contradicted, that whenever a statesman or a soldier allows himself to chafe against “Black Republicanism and Abolitionism,’ he generally, and at last, comes to consider Secession as a moderate offence, that may be readily excused and easily defended.
SLAVERY IN MARYLAND. The Baltimore American closes an article upon this subject as follows:—
“If there are any who think that slavery can exist in Maryland after this war is ended, as a system of profitable labor, the sooner they open their eyes to the inevitable future, the better for them. To suppose that after so terrible a conflict as that through which the loyal portion of the country will have passed, they will ever consent to the existence of the cause of the rebellion between them and their national capital, is simply preposterous. If the emancipation proclamation is rejected, all that are valuable will be spirited away, and the door shut from their recovery. Whether the slaveholders of Maryland, therefore, the great majority of whom are disloyal, wish it or not, the days of the ‘institution’ are numbered in our State.”
Webb Wilder, editor of the Leavenworth (Kansas) Conservative, is writing some spicy letters from the East. We give the following extracts from a recent Washington letter:—
West Point has furnished the rebellion with leaders, and may take the privilege of granting us a tyrant, It is needless to say that among its pupils (we will except Lyon and Hunter) the people have no friends, popular rights no exponents, democratic institutions advocates. These men sneer at the people who gave them their education, and care nothing for the success of a Government based on principles like ours. That way danger lies.”

“THE M’CLELLAN THEORY or THE UNIVERSE.
“That George B. McClellan is at the head of the human race as a military man. That all persons who doubt this statement are Abolitionists and Fiends. That McClellan has never been defeated. That the slight reverses in the career of the American Napoleon were caused by Congress and Stanton. That McClellan has never retreated. That the man who questions McClellan’s generalship is infinitely worse than a rebel, and richly deserves immediate assassination. That McClellan is a great statesman. That more fortifications are needed, and that McClellan must be granted an unlimited period for building them.”
REBEL ILL-TREATMENT OF UNION PRISONERS.—The statement upon the authority of Captain McCormick of the 77th Ohio, that he and other officers who have just been released from the rebel prison houses were treated as well as could reasonably be expected, evoked the great wrath of his associates, who fell upon Capt. McCormick and gave him a sound drubbing. They say so far from being treated like soldiers or men, they were fed like beasts, with loathsome food, and not enough of that.
They had nothing to eat but live meat and dodgers made of cobs ground with the corn. They were sometimes for a week without water to wash their faces. Gen. Prentiss was kept in solitary confinement for six weeks after the cartel of exchange was signed. Five were shot for looking out of the window—two of whom died of their wounds.

THE BATTLE OR PERRYSVILLE. This battle has resulted more severely in respect to losses than was at first supposed. The federal losses were 600 killed and 2300 wounded—total 2900. The rebels admit the loss of 1300 killed and 2000 wounded—total, 3300. The rebel force under Bragg and his fellow generals was not less than 45,000, whereas the Union army did not number more than 18,000. The rebels captured and afterwards abandoned nine guns, and took 441 prisoners, whom they paroled. We captured seventeen guns, independently of the nine retaken, 106,000 rounds of ammunition and 500 prisoners.
COMPLIMENTARY. A public reception has been given in New York to Robert Smalls, the pilot who took the steamer Planter from Charleston. A gold medal was presented to him in behalf of the colored people, bearing on one side a representation of the steamer Planter leaving Charleston harbor, when near Sumter. The federal fleet is seen in the distance. On the reverse it bears this inscription:—
“Presented to Robert Smalls by the colored citizens of New York, October 2d, 1862, as a token of their regard for his heroism, his love of liberty, and his patriotism.”
Mr. Smalls will return to Port Royal, and become the regular pilot of the Planter, receiving the government pay and allowances. He owns, according to the ' decision of the government, a one-quarter interest in the vessel, equal to 97,000, which will be paid him. It is stated that the authorities of Charleston have offered a reward of $4,000 for Smalls. He does not, however, propose to return to the rebels until his services can be made available in conducting a Union fleet into the harbor of the cradle of the rebellion.
FEARS OF A SLAVE INSURRECTION IN VIRGINIA—The Washington Republican says a refugee who came into Gen. Sigel’s headquarter, from Amesville Calpepper county, Va., reports that there is the greatest consternation imaginable among the white, in that section in consequence of an apprehened negro revolt. Seventeen negroes most of them free, had been hung. Copies of late Northern newspapers having been found upon them, containing the President’s proclamation to liberate the slaves. The terror of the white reported to be beyond description. It is said that the negroes of the different counties around Culpepper are all engaged in a conspiracy for a general insurrection.
The sudden and rapid raid of Stuart’s Rebel Cavalry into Pennsylvania was a pretty successful affair. They crossed the Potomac on Friday-captured Mercersburg and Chambersburg on Saturday—destroyed a large amount of government stores several railroad depots and appropriated to their own use from 500 to 1000 horses, besides what clothing they could carry off—and by dint of several changes of horses traveled nearly a hundred miles in 24 hours. They made a complete circuit of the rear of our army.
Gen. McClellan telegraphed that not one of the Stuart cavalry should ever recross the Potomac to return to Virginia, but before the wires ceased to vibrate with that message, they were nearly all safely back with their booty of a thousand horses, stolen from the farmers of Pennsylvania. Oh! for a great General—a great mind and a great leader! Must the country be lost by continued imbecility and incompetency?—Chester county (P. a) Times.
<c05>
IMPERSONAL EDITORSHIP. The commonwealth of Boston has the following card in its last issue:—
A CARD. In the second number of The Commonwealth, my name appears as the editor of this paper. But it subsequently appearing that the forces and persons which would naturally communicate with the public through this medium were in number and importance such as to make it improper to identity the paper with any single individual, my name was withdrawn at my request. I take this method of emphasizing this impersonality. Whilst there is a general sympathy and common aim amongst those who edit The Commonwealth, it is but just to all to say that the paper is not the representative of any one person’s views. MONCURED. D. CONWAY.
PERSONAL. Lieut. Thomas Earle, of Worcester, MASS., who has been spending a brief season in this city and neighborhood, leaves for his home this morning. Lieut. Earle, during his brief sojourn here, has made many warm friendships, which are severed with regret. As the friend of freedom everywhere and to all men, he has taken more than usual interest in the contest that has raged in this Congressional district during the past few weeks; and not a little of the success which has crowned the anti-slavery effort is due to his timely, intelligent, and unceasing labors. The friends of the anti-slavery cause in this district thank him for the assistance he has so generously extended them, and wish him a hearty God-speed in his future labors and career.—Toledo (Ohio) Commercial.
BOOKS THAT ASK NOT BOOKS. “ He (Sumner) is a student, and nothing but a student. He is fit only for professorship in college, and that will yet be the termination of his career. He reads books, but he never reads men. He will read Murillo, and Titian, and Southey and Wordsworth, and believes hence he is fit to lead the councils of the nation.”—BOSTON Post, Oct. 7th.
“We understand that there was a great rash at the Athenaeum Library, yesterday, for the writings of Murillo and Titian. The librarian was compelled to refer the eager students to the gallery above, where some copies of their works may be found.”—Boston Transcript.
FUN LEFT YET. Train is still in the field. We were fearful he had been ruled off by his backers, but his irrepressibility is proof against all checking. Can’t we have him in Roxbury? The Count Johannes, too, announces “Three orations—theme—’ The Abolition Triumvirate—viz.: Wendell Phillips—Senator Sumner—and Governor Andrew.’ An oration will be, pronounced each successive week at either Faneuil Hall, Tremont Temple, or Music Hall—intended to be antagonistic to the ‘ Abolition Fraternity Lectures,’ and in aidance of the nominations of the People’s Convention.” It would be too much to hope for both of these “brilliants;” but we trust their friends will give us one or the other before election.—Roxbury Journal.
The Protestant Episcopal Triennial Convention, in New York, hesitated to adapt resolutions in condemnation of the rebellion. The Rev. Dr. Hawks remarked that “we must not lag in all the little dirty questions of the day, which will be buried with their agitation.” The feeling of those who sympathized with Dr. Hawks was, in the language of Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, to “spare if possible the rending of the civil and religious ties which bind us “ to the churches at the South. The joke of this is, that the Episcopal bodies in all the seceded States dissolved their connection with this General Convention, and declared their “independence” a year ago. The resolutions finally passed.
THE ELECTIONS. In Ohio the Democratic gain will be between seventeen and twenty thousand votes. Last year the Union majority in the State was 55,203. It is generally conceded that the Congressmen will stand as follows, viz.: 14 Democrats and 5 Republicans.
In Indiana there has been little change. Hon. William Dunn, Union, has been defeated in the Madison District, which was an unexpected result.
In Iowa the Republican majority in the State will be from 8,000 to 10,000, exclusive of the soldiers’ vote, which is largely Republican so far as heard from. The entire Republican delegation to Congress—six in all—is elected. This is a Republican gain of four—the new apportionment having given Iowa six instead of two members, the number the State has in the present Congress.
REBEL DEPREDATIONS AT SEA. Perhaps the “ most exciting news of the day is that which comes to us by the Asia, via Cape RACE, telling of the destruction of a whole fleet of American vessels off the Western Isles, by the notorious rebel man-of-war 290, alias Alabama. By a previous arrival, we have been informed of the destruction of four or five vessels,—but the list, at last dates, had been increased to ten (nine ships and a schooner). Unless the privateer has been overhauled by the U. S. frigate St. Louis, (sent in search of her some weeks since,) we fear her depredations by this time have been still on a more destructive scale. This rebel cruiser is a much more formidable enemy than the “Nashville” ever was, carrying as the does an armament (we think) of fourteen guns, with all the other appurtenances of a man of-war. Her commander is Captain Semmes, formerly of the “Sumter.” When she left England, it was predicted that she would do us much mischief, and the prediction certainly has not been falsified.
LANE’S NEGRO REGIMENT. We see by the Wyan-dot (Kansas) Gazette that the colored regiment left that place on Tuesday morning last for Fort Scott. It is now two months since the officers of this regiment commenced its organization, and it is said of it, that for the short time since its organization, it has made greater proficiency in military drill and tactics than any regiment of whites during the same time.
RETALIATORY. “ I learn from the people, that Jeff. Davis has issued a proclamation that all Union officers held and captured shall be put to hard labor, if Lin-coin’s proclamation is carried out”—Times’ specialDespatch.
ANOTHER CONVERT. Col. William Raymond Lee, long known in this vicinity as a stanch opponent of anti-slavery men and measures, has, we are informed, undergone an entire change of sentiment, as the result of his experience as an officer in our armies.
GOV. Tod, of Ohio, has added his name to the lengthening list of Democrats who are for the Emancipation policy. Now that the organization of the once proud Democratic party has got into the hands of Vallandigham. Wood, and their allies, the better portion of its public men are quitting it by scores.
Gen. Charles T. James, inventor of the James gun, was killed by the accidental explosion of a shell at Sag Harbor, N. Y., on Thursday, 16th inst.
The New York Herald states that Mr. Charles A. Dana, recently chief editor of the Tribune, is about to purchase Mr. Weed’s interest in the Albany Evening Journal.
Lieut. Worden has entirely recovered from the injuries received during the engagement between the Monitor and the Merrimac, and it is said that he will shortly be placed in command of one of the new Monitors.
Two letters from Gen. Beauregard, intercepted by Gen. Buell while on their way to the rebel Adjutant General, and exposing the Confederate plan for the Western campaign, have been given to the public.
The Governors who met at Altoona are charged with having coerced the President into the Emancipation policy. They assembled September twenty-fourth. The Proclamation was issued September twenty-second, two days previous. Comment is unnecessary.

FRATERITY LECTURES.
FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FIFTH COURSE or LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty- Eighth Congregational Society will be continued on TUESDAY EVENING, October 38, 1863,at TREMOCT TEMPLE, when an address on the State of the Nation will be made by 
THEODORE TILTON, ESQ., of New fork.
To be followed on lectures Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:—
November
4—MONCURE D. GONWAY

“
11—ANNA E DICKINSON

“
18—HENRYWARD BEECHER

“
25—OWEN LOVEJOY.
December
2—B. GRATE BROWN.

“
9—WENDELL PHILLIPS

“
16—RALPH WALDO ENERSON.

“
23—JACOB M. MANNING.

“
30—GEORGE WN. CURTIS.
 Lectures to commence at half-past 7 o’clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at $2 each, may be obtained at Williams & Everett’s 234 Washington St.; Oliver Ditson & Co’s. 277 Washington St.; of Solomon Parsons, Esq. Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets. Sept. 26tf 
<c06>
OBITUARY.
Killed by a fall from a cart, on the 2d inst. SIMMONS COATES, of London Grove Township, Chester County, Ps., aged nearly 42 years.
In the full vigor and prime of life, and in the midst of great usefulness, in a moment the mysterious thread of life was broken. “The places that have known him shall know him no more forever.” In him has been lost a devoted husband, a kind and indulgent father, a true friend, the cause of humanity a sincere advocate, and society an honest man. While we weep for our great loss, we know and believe that
“What is excellent,
As God lives, is permanent;
Hearts are dust, hearts’ loves remain;
Heart’s love will meet him again.”
—A. S. Standard.
Died, at his residence in Kennett Square,(Pa.) on the 7th inst., BENJAMIN S. JONES, aged 49 years.
The Abolitionists of Pennsylvania, who can look back to the commencement of the Anti-Slavery enterprise, will remember him as one of their most zealous and faithful coadjutors. From that day to the latest hour of his life, his heart responded promptly to the claims of the slave; and his voice and pen were loyal to the cause of human freedom, and to his highest idea of right. In the East and in the West he labored long and faithfully, both as a public speaker and an editor, in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause, and in him unpopular truth found an earnest champion, and popular wrong a faithful censor. His faith in the principles of peace, as taught in Christ’s Sermon on the Mount, was never shaken, and his practical testimony to this faith marked his whole life. In the prime of his years he has left his field of labors just as the harvest is about to be gathered. But his work was completed, not out off; and his name shall be embalmed.
‘In the blessing of the captive,
In the anthem of the free. ”—Ibid.
Died on the 14th of 9th month, (October,) at the U. S. General Hospital, near Sharpsburg, (Md.) ELBRIDGE G. POOL, of East Abington, aged 21 years.
He was one of the earliest volunteers, a member of company G., 12th Massachusetts Regiment; consequently, he was in the recent terrible battle at Antietam, during which he received four wounds—one in his leg so severe as to render amputation necessary. From his wounds, however, he seemed to be fast recovering, and would undoubtedly have got well but for a cough brought on by previous exposure and privations, which at last terminated in quick consumption, and ended his life.
He was gentle and amiable in character, and possessed unbending integrity and firmness of purpose. In a letter from one of his fellow-soldiers, he writes of him as follows: “Now one in the Company was more beloved than he. In character he was perfectly honorable. I had not a better friend among them all.” The man who had the care of him pays him the following tribute: “He was exceedingly amiable, and was endeared to all who know him. He was dutiful and brave, and all your memories of him must be of pleasantness.”
A few days before he died, while conversing with a friend, he said—“Had the President’s Proclamation been issued before the battle, I should not feel one regret for all I have suffered. I don’t now; for my idea, from the first, has been, Liberty for the slave! For that I have fought, and that has sustained me.” R. T. C.
ANDREW T. FOSS, in behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will lecture as follows:
Cornish, N.H., Friday, Oct. 24.
Croydon Flat, N.H., Sunday, Oct. 26.
Newport, N.H., Wednesday, Oct. 29.
Claremont, N.H., Friday, Oct. 31.
Springfield, Vt. Sunday, Nov. 2.
WM.WELIS BROWN will speak as follows on the President’s Proclamation, and its effect on the Blacks of the South, and the Laborers of the North:
At Haverhill, Mass., Sunday, Oct. 26.
West Newbury, Monday, Oct. 27.
Amesbury, Tuesday, Oct. 28.
Newburyport, Wednesday, Oct. 29.
DIED—In New York on Sunday, October 12, of disease of the heart, after a short and painful illness, ROBERT J. DENYER HOPPER, adopted son of John and Rosalie Hopper, in the 15th year of his age.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m
600,000 Male or Female Agents,
TO SELL
Lloyd’s New Steel Plate Country Colored Map of the United States, Canadas, and New Brunswick,
From recent surveys; completed August 10, 1862; cost $20,000 to engrave it, and one year’s time.
Superior to any $10 map ever made by Colton or Mitchell, and sells at the low price of fifty cents; 370000 names are engraved on this map.
It is not only a country map, but it is also a 
COUNTY AND RAILROAD MAP
of he United States and Canadas combined in one, giving
EVERY RAILROAD STATION,
and distances between.
Guarantee any woman or man $3 to $5 per day, and will take back all maps that cannot be sold, and refund the money.
Sent for $1 to try.
Printed instructions how to canvas well furnished all our agents.
Wanted—Wholesale Agents for our Maps in every State, California, Canada, England, France, and Cuba. A fortune may be made with a few hundred dollars capital. No competition.
J. T. LLOYD,
No. 164 Broadway, New York.
The War Department uses our Map of Virginia, Maryland and Pennsylvania, cost $100,000, on which are marked Antietam Creek, Sharpsburg, Maryland Hights, Williamsport Ferry, Rhorersville, Noland’s Ford, and all others on the Potomac, and every other place in Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania, or money refunded.
LLOYD’S TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP OF KENTUCKY, OHIO, INDIANA and ILLINOIS, is the only authority for Gen. Buell and the War Department. Money refunded to any one finding an error in it Price 50 cents.
From the Tribune, Aug. 2.
“LLOYD’S MAP OF VIRGINIA, MARYLAND and PENNSYLVANIA. This Map is very large; its cost is but 25 cents, and it is the best which can be purchased.”
LLOYD’S
GREAT MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER
From actual surveys by Capts. Bart and WM. Bowen, Mississippi River Pilots, of St, Louis, Mo., shown every man’s plantation and owner’s name, from St. Louis to the Gulf of Mexico—1350 miles—every sand-bar, island, town, landing, and all places twenty miles back from the river—colored in counties and States. Price, $1 in sheets, $2, pocket form, and $2,50 on linen, with rollers. Now ready.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, Washington, Sept. 17, 1862.
J. T. LLOYD: SIR—Send me your Map of the Mississippi River, with price per hundred copies, Rear Admiral Charles H. Davis, commanding the Mississippi squadron, is authorized to purchase as many as are required for use of that squadron. GIDEON WELIS,
Secretary of the Navy.
Oct. 3. 3w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE VOICE OF FANEUIL HALL.
SIXTH OF OCTOBER, 1862.
Ay, echo still the peerless strain,
Ye walls, that oft have rung
With words unworthy of our race,
Unworthy of our tongue.
Where Boston’s earliest heroes stood,
At menaced Freedom’s call,
Her noblest, bravest, stands to-day,
Freedom to urge for all!
Ay, echo still the glorious strain,
Liberty’s Cradle-hymn!
Her altar-fires are not yet quenched,
Though oft obscured and dim;
Relighted, how they glow to-day!
While, at her High-Priest’s call,
Thousands of swelling, burning hearts
“Freedom,” respond, “for all!”
Look, Massachusetts, proudly up!
The flag of star and flame
With a new splendor floats to-day,
Reflected from one name;
Thy brave young sons fight to defend,
And, bravely fighting, fall-
HE plants it, fat from Treason’s reach,
Where Freedom shelters all!
What is thy gift to his who bears
The Banner of the Free
Where it shall bless the lifted eyes
Of wide Humanity?
Honor thyself by honoring him,
Is the firm patriot call
From Past, from Future, and To-day-
The voice of Faneuil Hall! A. S

THE CARTE DE VISITE
“Twas a terrible fight,” the soldier said,
“Our Colonel was one of the first to fall,
Shot dead on the field by a rifle-ball-
A braver heart than his never bled.”
A group for the painter’s art were they;
The soldier with scarred and sunburnt face;
A fair-haired girl, full of youth and grace;
And her aged mother, wrinkled and gray.
These three in a porch where the sunlight came
Through the tangled leaves of the jasmin vine,
Spilling itself like golden wine,
And flecking the door-way with wings of flame.
The soldier had stopped to rest by the way,
For the air was sultry with summer heat;
The road was like ashes under the feet;
And a weary distance before him lay.
“Yes, a terrible fight-our ensign was shot
As the order to charge was given the men,
When one from the ranks seized our colors, and then
He, too, fell dead on the self-same spot.
“A handsome boy was this last. His hair
Clustered in curls round his noble brow:
I can almost fancy I see him now,
With the scarlet stain on his face so fair.”
“What was his name?-have you never heard?
Where was he born, this youth who fell?
And your regiment, stranger, which was it, tell?”
“Our regiment? It was the Twenty-third.”
The color fled from the young girl’s cheek,
Leaving it white as the face of the dead;
The mother lifted her eyes, and said:
“Pity my daughter-in mercy speak!”
“I never knew aught of this gallant youth,”
The soldier answered, “not even his name,
Or from what part of our State he came:
As God is above, I speak the truth!
“But when we buried our dead that night,
I took from his breast this picture-see!
It is as like him as like can be;
Hold it this way toward the light.”
One glance, and a look, half sad, half wild,
Passed over her face, which grew more pale;
Then a passionate, hopeless, heart-broken wail,
And the mother bent low o’er her prostrate child.

From the Salem Gazette.
EMANCIPATION.
The day has come: the blessed day
Long prayed for by the slaves,
When the heavy stones are rolled away
From their hearts’ secret graves.
Their buried hopes shall now arise;
Their faith shall upward soar;
And joy beam from a thousand eyes,
Where never known before,
For God, who led his children through
The Red Sea’s parted waves,
Now makes his words of promise true,
Even to these wretched slaves.
Often the stern command we’ve heard,
To let His people go:-
Always, in deed if not by word,
We’ve coldly answered, “No!”
Until, at last, as through the flood
He made, of old, a way,
He brings through seas of crimson blood
The bondmen our to-day.
The Lord hath heard His people’s voice,
Hath listened to their cry’
He bids their fainting hearts rejoice-
Deliverance is nigh.
Bowdoin College, 1862. I. B. C.

From the Independent Democrat.
LINES FOR THE CRISIS.
Beleaguered Richmond proudly flaunts
Her Stars and Bars upon the breeze,
And haughtily the Southron taunts
The Northern Saxon, to appease
His wounded pride, his vengeful hate;
Yet written is their doom by fate.
Five hundred thousand warriors bold
Encircle them on every hand,
A million more already hold
Themselves when calls their native land;
And like the surges of the deep,
In serried masses they shall sweep.
On rebel city, isle and plain,
Shouting the war-cry of the free,
And blood shall flow-a crimson rain
Until the Slave a Freeman be!
The banner of Secession Bars
Shall fall before the Stripes and Stars.
As the dark cloud above us spread
Before the morning sun shall flee,
So shall Secession’s Gorgon head
Flee at thy glance, sweet Liberty!
Before us Glory’s iris sits,
Brighter than “Sun of Austerlitz.” E. SAMSON.

SONNET.
The following graceful sonnet is in the dedication of Charles T. Congdon’s poem, “The Warning of the War,” delivered at Dartmouth College:-
TO SIDNEY HOWARD GAY, ESQ., OF NEW YORK.
Receive, dear Gay, these rude but honest rhymes-
Or all is good in them, a debt, receive,
As what your pen has taught me to believe,
Or friendly converse in these hostile times!
Our sky is dark and blood-red; and the hour
Full of God’s wrath; yet if some small delight
Remain of happier days, ‘tis yours of right,
Who have not learned in all your life to cower.
Yours is the sorrow; yours is not the shame,
Whose aye assiduous finger has not failed
So many years to point to our ill fame,
And coming retribution; now assail’d.
Our peace, no heart than yours will warmer yearn,
If but our wrong’s removed, to mark our peace return!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR
OBITURY.
Manchester, (N. H.) Oct 11, 1862.
On the 6th of October, the morning papers of this city contained the following notice:-
EUGENE KINCADE FOSS died yesterday forenoon, at the residence of his father, Rev. A. T. Foss, of this city, quite unexpectedly. He went oat with the Fourth Regiment, a year ago, as member of the Cornet Band, with which he returned a week ago last Thursday. The hand serenaded several of our citizens the Saturday evening following, and young Foss was with them at first, but, after playing a few pieces, complained of sickness, and went home and did not go out afterwards. He had not been well that day. He died of bilious fever, the seeds of which be probably brought with him from Port Royal. His sickness was not considered dangerous. Yesterday morning he sat up in a chair, and thought he was better, but soon grew worse, went into a spasm, and soon breathed his last.
He was an only son, and one of whom his parents might well feel proud.
We knew him intimately. He was a long time in our employ as a printer. He was a young man of unexceptionable good character, trustworthy and honorable, and dearly beloved by all his associates. His sudden death brings deep sorrow to many in this community. He possessed much ability as a musician, and was a very good writer, and if he had lived, would have made his mark in the world. He went to Europe as one of the performers with Father Kemp. He was 26 years of age.-Daily Mirror.
Mr. Foss was well known to our readers as an accomplished musician, having been for several years a member of the Manchester Cornet Band and other musical associations of our city. He was a printer by trade, and was an excellent workman. As a musician he possessed rare talents, and had the most brilliant prospects before him. He travelled for some time with Father Kemp’s Concert through the United States, and accompanied them to Europe. He was a very intelligent young man, and by his genial manners he endeared himself to a very large circle of friends. His death will carry sorrow to all who ever enjoyed his acquaintance.-Daily American.
The funeral services of the late Eugene Kincade Foss, whose death on Sunday has already been noticed, took place yesterday afternoon, at the Lowell Street Universalist Church. The house was filled with the many friends of the deceased, including the Band and the Printers of the city.
The exercises at the church commenced with an appropriate voluntary, Mr. David Cutter presiding at the organ, which was followed by the sad strains of the “Miserere,” from II Trovatore, by the Fourth Regiment Band, who were present to pay their last tribute to one who for the past year shared their hardships and pleasures. After the reading of a portion of the Scriptures, a select choir sang the 591st hymn, commencing,
“Brother, rest from sin and sorrow,
Death is o’er, and life is won.”
-Daily Mirror.
The Rev. B. F. Bowles spoke in a pathetic and touching strain on the solemn occasion, in substance as follows: 
On some occasions similar to the present, simple sincerity and fidelity to truth forbid me specially to speak of the personal character or past life of the deceased. Sometimes ignorance and sometimes knowledge compel me, so far, to silence. Not so now; for I knew him well whom we have met to commemorate, and of whom we fain would speak the words of affection we so generally feel. Favored with his acquaintance shortly after taking up my residence in this city, I soon and early learned to love him. I found him possessed of more than average intelligence, a warm heart, and quick and true conscience. The possession of these was practically proved in his daily life. Of his opinions, in detail, it is not important for me to speak. Enough now, that his life bore the good fruits, to secure which, though by varied means, is the common aim of all good men. At suitable times, concerning the modes of their culture, contending we can now, together, find comfort in their possession by our friend.
Many or you knew film longer and better than I. You, by more protracted experience, will approve the best words I can speak of him. You, in so large assemblage, say, “ It is fitting to our affections and just to the claims of his life, that we come together, and, with one voice, speak his praise, and endeavor to appropriate those principles of truth and impressions of God’s spirit that shall both comfort and profit us. Could I now gather up all the pleasant things which, in tones of sadness, have been spoken to me of him on the street since his departure, and repeat them here, it would be sufficient eulogy to satisfy his dearest friend, or the sweetest and most sacred affection. I have been told, “ he had not an enemy in the world”; and from all that has been said, I infer that his friends equalled the number of those who knew him. He was dutiful as a son, affectionate as a brother, faithful as a friend. In many forms of speech, his praise has been spoken; but they all confirm the single conviction of my own, that in him those characteristics harmoniously blended which captivate the common heart.
Having great fondness for music, he made good progress in the art with several instruments, and with one surpassed, having few superiors; and, being a member of the Band with us to-day, a little more than a year ago, he went forth in the service of his, country, by martial strains to inspire her soldiers for her defence. Then it became a question of some interest, but little doubt, to his friends, how he would bear himself there, how he would touch new hearts, what they would learn and say of him. Answers concerning this have come back to us, and we learn that his duty was faithfully discharged, and that strangers, and even opponents to him in convictions and positions, were converted to personal friends. More than one family of the South confessed the good impression be had made upon them, and the personal approval he had secured. And that all his associates in camp and service loved him, we have had ample witness.
And now, in these reflections upon his virtues, and the great truth of immortality, let us find comfort. Those characteristics which constituted his spiritual being, his real self, were superior to the shock of death, before which this form, made so dear by their presence in it and expression through it, has fallen. He was superior to this body. It only became sacred, or more than other material substance, by association with him; and now, because he has left it, when it could no longer serve him, dying, and dissolving away by disease, we must not say or feel that he is lost, or changed from what we loved. Standing in the house where his lifeless form lay, I looked upon the instrument he had so often inspired with strains of sweetest music, now silent and powerless, and, in my thought, I said, So of those cold, dead lips; they are still and speechless, because he has left them. They never moved or spoke by any power of their own. It was he who moved them and uttered himself through them. He was greater than they, even as he was greater than this material instrument of other shape and substance. And as I should not have thought him lost, though be had forever laid this one aside to take up another, so I cannot think him lost, though be has left those lips, and even all that form, lifeless. It, with all its members, was bat an instrument of many keys, while he was the player; and He who gave him this, so adapted to the present life, can as easily provide him with another, adapted to another life. And, as he could lay aside one instrument of this world and take up another, imparting his own life in harmonious strains, with do loss of being or identity, so may he lay aside all things earthly and take up the heavenly, with no loss to himself of life, love, or any good but gain; and, by my faith in immortality, it must be so.
So now we may think of him as having joined the heavenly band; that band, some of whom came forth to heaven’s shining portals, singing of the coming Christ, and whom John in the vision of prophetic hope heard celebrating his triumph. And yet, he is
The address was delivered without notes, and without say written preparation, and therefore have been reported only from memory.
<c03>
not in spirit separated from us. He has the same mind, the same heart, the same moral sense, the same self, only with higher expression. He is, as before, one with us in sympathy, in harmony of heart, so far as we are true, even as many instruments, making as many different sounds, all play the same tone, in the same time. This Band, of which he was one, are all personally and instrumentally separate, and some of them, in many respects, far apart; and yet, as they have played, we hare all felt that their souls blended in one harmonious strain. So, though our departed friend has taken up instruments we cannot yet play, suited to the substances, atmosphere and forms of the new external life, his spirit may still blend with all that is holy and true in ours.
He has graduated from the lower to the higher school of God for the culture of his children, but all are subject to one system, inspired by one spirit. He has gone up that ladder of light and lore whose summit touches the centre of God’s heart, and catches the first flashes of truth from His spirit. It may have many steps, of which I cannot confidently speak, but the principle of progress is the same; it starts from the lowest earth, it leads to the highest heaven. In our low and his high place, whatever its degree, by this law we are one.
Then, in our affections and sweet memories we will keep him. Our friends, in their inmost and richest selves, are given, not loaned to us. Their bodies are but a loan, but by their immortal love and ours, we keep them. By the image of the mother in the child, and of God in the mother, which is spiritual, the child is always the mother’s, as she is always God’s; and so of all our friends. We must relinquish our claims to their bodies, because they are not spiritual, not in God’s image. They must moulder back to their elements, sustenance for new forms, and feed the grass and flowers. Let us freely give them up. Sanctifying the soil beneath which they rest with sacred tears, which, for the heart’s sake, must flow, and rearing the marble, long to proclaim our remembrance of the life that was, let us not forget the life that is, and for ever is to be.
God forbid, then, that our friend be spoken of as being lost, or buried in the grave. Such speech is too common. It expresses more than we can mean; but in its use, we feel far too much that is false and comfortless. Let us rather, then, think of him as in “the house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens,’ in the higher school of God, where angels are the teachers.
If it be possible, I pray you, my friends, to accept and comfort your hearts with these truths. Accept of their utterance as fraternal and filial, rather than as professional; and added to them, or though you many be unable to receive them, at least accept the assurance of the most profound sympathy of him who from a full heart, offers them, and of this large assembly, who fain would assuage your sorrow. Am though all words fail, God, with the infinite greatness of his love and the omnipotence of his spirit, will stand, and, through currents of life concealed from us can comfort you and profit us all. To Him let u pray.
The friends having viewed the corpse, the body followed by the relatives, the printers of the city, and the band, which discoursed a solemn dirge, was conveyed to its resting place at the Cemetery.
I desire to add to this eulogy one excellence in the character of our son, which does not appear in the eulogy, or in the notices of the press. He was an Abolitionist. His great, clear sense of justice-the crowning glory of our manhood-made him an intense hater of American slavery.
He was never affected with the vulgar feeling of prejudice against a fellow-being because of the color of his skin. From a child, I never detected in him the slightest repugnance to the colored race; such a repugnance is, in my belief, entirely the result of a low, mean, wicked education.
If it had been possible to have kept the body a day longer, I should have tried hard to obtain the testimony of some one of my fellow-laborers in the great cause of the slave’s redemption, on the occasion; a fitting one to bring home to the understandings and hearts of all, the direct relation between crime and its consequences-between slavery and this bloody rebellion, which is leaving its crimson stain upon all our hearthstones. But as this was impossible, I did the best I could, by publishing the following card in the daily papers of this city, on the morning of the funeral. A. T. FOSS.
A CARD.
I desire for myself, and on behalf of my family, to express to the friends who have shown us so much sympathy and kind attention, in the hour of our deep sorrow, in the death of our dear and only son, our deep and heartfelt gratitude. And as similar cases are constantly occurring, and are sure to occur in tens of thousands of instances, in the fearful work of subduing this accursed rebellion, my deepest aspiration is that all who suffer may receive that sympathy which the heart so much craves in its hour of sorrow, and which more than all else, outside of itself, gives it relief and support. And I desire here to say that I regard the present rebellion-the greatest and surely the wickedest the world ever saw-the foul murderer of our son; and as slavery is the cause of the rebellion, I indict it, and all its perpetrators, defenders and apologists as guilty of all the blood shed in this terrible war. And here, before Heaven, and in the presence of my murdered boy, I swear renewed, intensified and eternal hostility to slavery. If heretofore I have chastised it, and all who have defended it or apologized for it, with whips; now will I scourge it with scorpions, to its mean grave of deepest infamy.
A. T. FOSS.

AN APPEAL TO WORKING MEN.
HOPEDALE, Oct. 11, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
I cannot keep silence while I see the efforts of a certain class of men, called conservatives, to defeat that champion of Liberty and Union, the Hon. Charles Sumner; and as the election comes off in a few weeks, I would urge the hard-working mechanics, farmers and laborers to be on hand to cast their votes for the man who takes the part of the oppressed against the oppressor; that practical man, who has too much backbone to allow himself to be murdered by Southern slave-owners or Northern traitors. For my part, I do not see much difference between the lords of the hub South, and the conservative, aristocratic traitors of the North; for, while the former have the law of the Slave States to back them in their wickedness o buying and selling the image of God, the latter claim the privilege to oblige its subjects to work to enrich them. I have been a hard-working mechanic all my days, and have suffered just enough at the hands of some of those conservative aristocrats, as to have slavery and oppression in all their forms, and know of no better way to save myself from their grasp than to vote such men into office as the Hon. Charles sumner, for I know be will rule in the fear of God. Southern slavery, and Northern conservatism and traitorism, as backed up by some of our lawyers, doctors and minis ten, are enough to make angels weep, devils dance for joy, and savages and cannibals to blush and hang their heads in shame to think they are blood-kin to a nation that suffers such barbarism as American slavery to exist one moment under the broad light of Christianity.
Again I say to my brother hard-working laborers of Massachusetts, be sure you give your vote, at the coming election, for the men who will sustain the Hon. Charles Sumner.
Faithfully yours, in behalf of the freedom of our bleeding country, A. H. HARLOW.
THE REBEL GUIDES IN PENNSYLVANIA. A letter from Harrisburg to the Philadelphia Press says the men who piloted the rebels to safely through Pennsylvania during the recent raid were Pennsylvanian Breckinridge Democrats, and notorious rascals. Their names are Logan, Wilson, Simes and Brian. It is also stated that Gen. Stuart and several of his officers are familiar with that section of country from having been stationed at Carlisle barracks previous to the rebellion.
<c04>
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
The Proclamation the Great Test-Stuart’s Raid into Pennsylvania instigated by Northern Democrats to carry the Elections of Pennsylvania and New York against the Proclamation-Ideas and Bullets.
CORTLAND, (N. Y.) Oct 14, 1862.
W. L. GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND-I am lecturing in this and the neighboring towns. The rebellion-the civil war- slavery their came, abolition their cure-equal and inalienable rights-the glory and true heroism of suffering and dying to save others from suffering and death-the Proclamation as a test hi Church and State-life, liberty and happiness-these are my subjects. Great is the desire to hear about them.
In religious life, the question is-What do you think of the Proclamation? In political gatherings, whether Democratic or Republican, it is asked-What do you think, what dare you say, of the Proclamation? Loyalty to the government, to God and man, is tested by loyalty to that Proclamation. The advocates of slavery and rebellion, North and South, universally oppose the Proclamation. All who love slavery hate the Proclamation. All who are pro-slavery abhor the Proclamation. In all the primary meetings, with a view to the November election, between Wadsworth and Seymour, the sole issue is-Shall the Proclamation be sustained, or resisted I Shall slavery be abolished, January 1st, 1863, or shall it be continued and established over all the States? Shall the laborers of the South be made free, or the laborers of the North be made slaves? Shall slave labor or free labor rule the nation and continent? This one issue is supposed to be presented by the Proclamation. So long as the slaveholders and their abettors North thus read the Proclamation, no matter what Lincoln meant by it. That the slaves and enslavers thus understand it is certain. So let it be. In this State, both parties are bringing each other to this test of the Proclamation.
By the way, are you aware that the raid of Stuart into Pennsylvania was instigated by the State Democratic Committee of Pennsylvania, through Hughes its Chairman, urged on by Seymour and Fernando Wood of New York; and all solely to operate on the State election held to-day in Pennsylvania, and in New York in November? There is now no doubt that Stuart, in his incursion to Chambersburg, acted by the advice of the pro-slavery Democrats, whose object is to carry these two great States against the Proclamation, against the Administration, and against the war to put down the slaveholders’ rebellion. Seymour, Wood, Hughes, & Co. do openly avow that it is better to enslave the white laborers of the North than free the negro laborers of the South! I rejoice with joy and thanksgiving that they and all the pro-slavery party, North and South, are making this the one square issue.
Bullets will kill slaveholders, but slavery must be killed by an idea. Justice must kill Injustice. Right must kill Wrong-Liberty, Slavery. The bullet which carries not liberty to the hearts of the living, will be of but little use to freedom and free institutions, though it carry death to the hearts of ten thousand tyrants. State Policy is the only idea of the Proclamation, but the discussion of Abolition as a State Policy must result in Abolition as a moral duty-an act of justice-as the right of the slave, and the duty of the master.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. I am in the family of Ebenezer and Hannah Mudge. You and Theodore Parker hang by the wall, in perfect likeness. You have been in this family. Pleasant and only pleasant memories are associated with you and your visit. Be assured, it is very gratifying to me to hear you spoken of as you are in this family, and by many others here. Painful as it is to hear the Christ of Abolition preached as a mere war measure, a State policy, yet I rejoice to see and hear that living Christ preached as a living Savior to save the nation. Abolish slavery as a State policy, and the way will be open to recognize the Negro as an equal brother before God, and slavery as the sum of all villany, and slaveholders and their Northern sympathizers as the incarnation of the sum of all villany.
What can Abolitionists do to let the slaves know of the existence and import of the Proclamation? Can we do any thing? We can. Let missionaries go forth those heathen lands of the South, to declare the glad tidings of great joy to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, to proclaim to them the year of jubilee-to be to them John the Baptist of the Christ of Abolition that is to come January 1st, 1863. Let the knowledge of that Proclamation cover the South as waters fill the sea. Let the slaves be taught that on that day they are free, and that no federal authority will interpose to prevent them from gaining and maintaining their liberty by running away or by arms. H. C. W.

A TOUCHING STORY.
AN ESCAPED SLAVE REDEEMS HIS RELATIVES FROM BONDAGE.
A series of letters which appear in the London Star and Daily News (the Times does not publish such documents) tell a touching story of the rescue of a mulatto woman and her two quadroon children from slavery in Georgia. Nine months ago, J. Sella Martin, a slave who had escaped from his master and had become a minister in Massachusetts five years before, found his way to England, where he told the history of his sufferings, and enlisted sympathy of the most substantial character in an effort to free his sister and her children by purchase. The subscriptions generously tendered by English people who were unlike the men of the Times, and neither worshipped the South nor upheld slavery, amounted to upwards of two thousand dollars. With this sum turned into gold, Mr. Martin returned to this country, and at once communicated with the rebel who owned his sister and her children. This man’s name is John Dorson. He is a clergyman in Columbus, Georgia, and his unmarried son had seized upon Caroline (Mr. Martin’s sister) as his mistress. She bore him two children, a boy and girl-both of whom are handsome quadroons. The girl is now sixteen years old, and the boy nine.
The Reverend Dorson agreed to accept two thousand dollars “in gold“ for “ the lot,” and Martin joyfully closed with this offer. The difficulty was, however, to get possession of the valuable bits of property, in order to close the transaction; but this was finally got over by the ingenious and impecunious Dorson, who seems to be a person as fertile in expedients as he is tenacious of the price of flesh. He found two Kentucky slave dealers in Columbus, where he lived, with whom be made a bargain, for a certain percentage, to act as his agents in the transfer of Caroline and her children to their new owner. These fellows, whose names are Gault and Ketchum, sent to Mr. Martin the following
BUSINESS NOTE.
“While in Columbus, Georgia, the Rev. John Dorson informed us that you bad made him an offer for certain slaves in his possession-namely, Caroline and her children, a girl and a boy. He further stated that you had the gold to pay his price of redemption. Upon the strength of his recommendation, we bought the slaves. We could easily realize for the girl, who is about sixteen, almost as much as we shall ask you for all; but, as we promised Mr. Dorson to let you know that we have them, we write to you to redeem our promise.”
The rest of the story is told by Mr. Martin himself, in a letter addressed to Mr. John Curwen, of Plaistow, (Secretary of the English Caroline Martin Fund,”) who communicates it for publication to the London papers. Mr. Martin says:-
“Boston, United States, September 6.
“My very dear Friend: I got back last Friday from Cincinnati, after a most successful trip of about eight days. I had written to T. J. Martin, Esq., who was one of my earliest and most faithful friends, asking him to act as ray agent in buying my sister and her children, as he had promised to take them into his employ; and be very kindly consented to do so. I wrote to him, also, should he get to Cincin-
<c05>
nati before me, to go over to Covington, a place opposite Cincinnati, on the Kentucky side of the river to where the traders brought my relatives, and get their ambrotypes, so that I should not be cheated in baying others than my sister and her children. He did so, and when I got them, finding by the likeness that those were the ones I wanted, there was nothing left me to do but to count him out two thousand dollars in gold, and he went over to Covington and made the purchase. The day before when he was over, he had tried to get them for less, but he found that it was impossible to do so, and so he was compelled to pay about £413 for them. He was gone about four hours-the time seemed an age to me. A thousand suspicions crept into my mind, and I was depressed by a thousand fears. But had I calculated the time it would take them to make out the papers and get ready to send my sister to the boat, I need not have lived an age of anxiety in four hours.”
A RECOGNITION.
“When the boat was about three rods from the ferry landing on this side, Caroline recognized me in the crowd, and came forward on the boat and waved her handkerchief. I soon recognized her, and I suppose behaved myself rather childishly, judging from the description which my friends give me of my action and utterances. In a few moments more, my sister was in my arms. Oh! it was a glorious meeting. My first feelings of joy on gaining my own freedom were not half so ecstatic These feelings must be made known to you by degrees. I should seem foolish under the weight of bliss, and you would get tired of the infliction did I recall I those feelings all at once to describe them to you. When we had time to converse, I was glad to learn I from her that her lot as a slave had not been a very hard one; though she had spent most of it in anxiety and fear about the freedom of herself and children. Still, God had sustained her with hope when she bad ceased to hear from me. She was looking but little older than when I saw her, though somewhat careworn. I send you her photograph, with those of her children, which I had copied here in Boston from the ambrotypes which were taken out there. I spent about six hours with her and the children, who had not yet realized what they had gained.
“They are now in Dowagiac, Michigan, with Mr. Martin, who will give my sister two dollars, or about 8s. 4d. per week. He will clothe Ada and Charlie for what Ada can do about the house between school hours, both of the children having the advantage of the free school in the place. He was very much pleased with their personal appearance, and from what he said to me know he feels very much interested in them, not only on my account, but on their own. He is the treasurer of the State Convention of the Baptists of Michigan, and a man of great social and political influence.”
Mr. Martin goes on to say that he intends to bring them to Boston, as soon as he can make proper arrangements for their support, and adds this unconscious piece of
PATHOS.
“My sister brought me some of the soil from my mother’s grave, and a piece of the rude board that marks her resting place. The board is very much decayed, but I shall cherish it with a sacred affection until I shall be permitted to stand near it, and hear the song of the slaves’ emancipation sung as the jubilee of the race.”
Copies of the portraits referred to in Mr. Martin’s letter were forwarded to his friends in England, accompanied by the bill of sale, which transfers “ one mulatto woman slave, named Caroline, with dark straight hair, dark eyes, five feet five ‘ inches high, weighs one hundred and thirty-four pounds, and is thirty-four years old; also, one slave girl named Ada, quadroon, dark curly hair, hazel eyes, four feet eight inches high, weighs one hundred and nine pounds, and is sixteen years ok also, one slave boy, named Charles, quadroon, four j feet two inches high, weighs eighty-two pounds, is nine years old, dark straight hair and dark eyes,” to J. Sella Martin, “ for his only proper use, benefit, and behoof forever.”
The most sickening part of this business is yet to come. It is contained in the following canting epistle from the Reverend Dorson, addressed to Mr. Martin, and dated “ Columbus, Georgia, June 5:”
A REVEREND REBEL ON SLAVES AND ABOLITIONISTS.
“I received your letter bearing date, Boston, April 9, but did not reply, because I saw no way of responding to your proposal without bringing them to St. Louis, or intrusting the business to an agent. I could not do the first, because such madmen and creators of sedition as you and Wendell Phillips had plunged the country into civil war, and 1 had no disposition to do the last. I do not know whether you will receive this letter or not, but should you, you will permit me to remind you that there is another debt that you owe in this direction, which I think would be more in accordance with justice for you to pay than the one you are to pay to get Caroline, and that is what you owe your master from whom you ran away. I learn from the papers that you are a preacher. I hope you will take as the very first rule of your conduct the apostle’s injunction, ‘Owe no man anything.’
“From the beginning, I have felt much reluctance in parting with Caroline, not only because she has been a faithful servant, but because I feared to place her, or allow her to be placed, where her soul would be in danger. The city (Boston) from which you write, and I suppose where you live, has always been known as the den of social monsters and Abolition Infidels; and as I know Caroline to be a Christian, I have feared that God would hold me responsible for assisting to plunge her into moral and social ruin. May God save her! He alone can make her freedom a blessing to her.”
It is such a system and such men that the submissionists would have us bow down before!
The London News, publishing this correspondence, has a scathing editorial article based upon the facts it sets forth. We give two extracts:
“That reverend gentleman, we are told, is greatly respected in his neighborhood; that is, by his fellow slave owners: and we can well believe it. If his sermons are like his letters, his function must be to wrest and pervert the principles of our holy religion, and make it the prop and stay of the greatest of social villanies. Such a man must be invaluable in slave society. But there was no reason why he should export his sophistications to Boston.”
“Knowing Caroline to be a Christian, he wants to keep her in the slavery which has defiled her, and fears that if be were to sell her into freedom, be should be responsible for her moral and social ruin. We wonder what constitutes a woman’s ruin down South. However, the reverend gentleman’s scruples were not insurmountable, for at the sight of the gold he was ready to entrust not only Caroline, but with her the slave girl Ada, a quadroon with hazel eyes, aged 16, to the tender mercies of two travelling speculating slave dealers, who could have sold them the next day to the highest bidder.
“We have not brought forward the case of this hardened and conscience-seared old clergyman for its singularity; for all who know southern literature or southern society, know that his thoughts and words are such as, under similar circumstances, would be heard wherever slaves have long been held. But I we see from this ease how helpless the South it to reform itself. If the salt has lost its savor, wherewith shall the mass be seasoned? Popular religion must either reform the devotee, or become itself corrupt and corrupting. We see what has happened here.”-N. Y. Evening Post.

From the Herald of Progress.
THE “GOLDEN GATE.”
A SPIRITUAL WARNING.
EDITOR OR HERALD OR PROGRESS:
DEAR SIR-The following fact in my experience will interest some of your readers :-
Being in Santa Cruz, Cal., in the early part of June last, and intending to come East during the summer, I one morning stated to my friend Mrs K., in whose house I was visiting, that I had concluded to sail on the 21st of July. While we were talking on the subject, Mrs. Glover, a medium, resident in the town, came in, and was presently influenced by a spirit whom I had known when a child of about ten years, who said:
“We do not wish yon to go on the vessel you talk of.”
I did not know what steamer would sail from San Francisco on the 21st of July, and had not even thought about it at all; but I asked-
“Why not? Isn’t she safe?”
<c06>
“They have been overhauling her, but she is wrong about her fire-works.”
“Won’t she get to Panama?”
“No, she will never get to Panama again.”
“Will she be lost at sea?”
“No, she will get to the land somewhere down there, but half her people will be lost.”
“If you are sure of this, you ought to warn the public; other people’s lives are as dear to them as mine to me.”
“They wouldn’t believe us if we did.”
This was said in a tone of indifference, as if the spirit repaid their skepticism with a feeling of equal unconcern for them.
“That is true,” I replied; “but it seems dreadful for people to go on board a vessel to be lost, when they might be saved.”
“Oh, you needn’t trouble yourself about them; they may as well come here that way as another.”
Some other questions were asked and answered, which I do not distinctly recollect now, and then the charge not to go at that time was very earnestly repeated, and I was assured that “they had been, and seen the condition of the vessel.” I need not add that this was the ill-fated Golden Gate.
Before leaving San Francisco, I learned that a merchant of that city, who lost his life in the endear or to reach the shore, had two written warnings, through a medium there, not to go on her; that is he did, he would never reach New York.
The last remark of my spirit friend may seen heartless. I do not hold myself responsible for it. He was a man of strange ways and speech on the earth, which he has evidently not yet outgrown. I remember him well, though at a distance of thirty-six years, and he proved himself to me, through Mrs. Glover, by certain peculiarities of manner, which were all his own. Any one who has read a book entitled “My Early Days” will find the man in the owner of a pair of hornless oxen, and, looking at his portrait there, will at once understand how little ill-nature there really was in his apparently ungracious reply to my concern for the unbelieving public.
I will take occasion to add, that among the mediums East or West, I have found none more uniformly reliable than the lady who was thus employed to save me the horrors of that fearful tragedy on the Mexican coast. I saw and proved her <illegible> in many ways, and am indebted to it for much clear and noble proof of the power of spirits to communicate with us, as well as for some of the sweetest consolations that have ever reached me from the Summer Land.
Yours, truly, E.W. FARNHAM.
New York, Sept. 25, 1862.
A CASE OF CONSCIENCE.
HOPEDALE, Sept. 22, 1862.
HONORABLE SIR,-I herewith tender my resignation as Postmaster of this village, for reasons satisfactory to my own views of duty, to take effect as soon as a suitable person can be found who will meet your approbation, and will suit the good people of Hopedale. In doing this, I beg leave very respectfully to state, that I have noticed, with deep regret, since I received a commission from you for Postmaster of Hopedale. Mass., your opposition to all movements of the Government to abolish slavery under the war power, that man-hating, God defying system of barbarism, which will spill blood enough to float the entire United States navy, to say nothing of the millions on millions which will be spent of the money which will have to be earned by the hard-working mechanics, farmers and laborers of our country, and thereby saddling upon the country to be handed down to our children and children’s children, to the third and fourth generation; that system which spilt the blood of the faithful Hon. Charles Sumner, while at his post in the U. S. Senate Chamber, and afterwards sought to murder the honest President Lincoln while on his way to take his sear at the capital in Washington; that system which caused Jefferson to say he trembled for his country when he considered that God was just, and had no attributes which took sides with slavery.
Very respectfully, your humble servant in behold of the Liberty and Union of our country,
ANSEL H. HARLOW,
Postmaster at Hopedale, Worcester Co., Mon
Hon. MONTGOMERY BLAIR, Postmaster General of the United States of America, Washington, D. C.

“SHODDY.”
BY J. IVES PEASE.
Old Shoddy sits in his easy chair,
And cracks his jokes and drinks his ale,
Dumb to the shivering soldier’s prayer,
Deaf to the widows’ and orphans wail.
His coat is warm as the fleece unshorn;
Of a “golden fleece” he is dreaming still;
And the music that lulls him, night and morn,
Is the hum-hum-hum of the shoddy-mill
Clashing cylinders, whizzing wheels,
Rend and ravel and tear and pick;
What can resist these hooks of steel,
Sharp as the claws of the ancient Nick?
Cast off mantle of millionaire,
Pestilent vagrant’s vesture chill,
Rags of miser or beggar bare,
All are “grist” for the shoddy mill.
Worthless waste and worn-out wool,
Flung together-a specious sham!
With just enough of poor “Uncle Sam.:
Cunningly twisted through web and woof,
Not “shirt of Nessus” such power to kill:
Look! how the prints of his hideous hoof
Track the fiend of the shoddy mill!
A soldier lies on the frozen ground,
While crack his joints with aches and ails;
A “shoddy” blanket wraps him round,
His “shoddy” garments the wind assails.
His coat is “shoddy,” well “stuffed “with “flocks;”
He dreams of the flocks on his native hill;
His feverish sense the demon mocks-
The demon that drives the shoddy-mill.
Ay! Pierce his tissues with shooting pains,
Tear the muscles and rend the bone,
Fire with frenzy the heart and brain;
Old Rough-Shoddy! your work is done!
Never again shall the bugle-blast
Waken the sleeper that lies so still;
His dream of home and glory‘s past:
Fatal’s the “work” of the shoddy-mill. 
Struck by “shoddy,” and not by “shells,”
And not by shot, our brave ones fall;
Greed of gold the story tells,
Drop the mantle and spread the pall.
Out! On the vampires! out! On those
Who of our life-blood take their fill!
No meaner “traitor” the nation knows,
Than the greedy ghoul of the shoddy-mill!
-Continental Monthly.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

ICH DIEN.
GLOBE HOTEL,
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR,
2 DOVER STREET, (near Franklin Square,)
NEW YORK.
A.J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8.tf.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW 
No. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
