THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1672.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
From the London Morning Star.
MR. J. BERESFORD HOPE ON THE AMERICAN QUESTION.
On Tuesday night, Mr. J. Beresford Hope addressed a numerous meeting in the Corn Exchange, Maidstone, on "The social and political aspects of the Americal disruption." The Mayor of Maidstone occupied the chair.
Mr. HOPE, in commencing his observations, referred to an address which he had delivered on the same subject at the beginning of 1862, when, he said, the American war was going through a phase of great depression for the Confederate cause. The disasters of Fort Donelson and Roanoke Island had given an unfavorable aspect to the Southern cause; but even then, in spite of the gloom that seemed gathering on the horizon, he had dared to predicate success for the South. He had then dealt with the question of Northern conquest-not of usurpation, not of the old union, because that he knew to be impossible-and he had then clearly expressed his belief that a conquest by the North could never be the case. But up to that time, through all their disasters, the South had maintained and still possessed "her equal tenor of heroic hearts, made weak by time and fate; but strong in will to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." At that time he felt that he was really a prophet. He was then with few people in England, for he was a sympathizer with the South before Bull Run. Many came in as sympathized with the South after Bull Run; many more came in and sympathized with the South after the Trent affair; and many others only expressed their sympathy with the Southern cause after the series of victories which drove McClellan from four miles before Richmond-for it was not generally known that McClellan was once within four mills of Richmond, that the booming of his guns was beard by the firesides of that city, and that the glitter of the steeples of Richmond was seen from McClellan's camps. He repeated that he (Mr. Hope) was a Southern before all this, and he gloried in saying that he was a Southern now, when the common sense, the sympathy and instincts of his countrymen had come round to the same side. (Cheers and hisses.) He echoed the words in which the Times of the preceding day had said-"And therefore it is that, hating slavery, but being all unmoved by the stage tricks of Mr. Lincoln and his friends in this matter, we look upon the American contest as a purely political quarrel, and tacitly hold our opinion that, as the cause of Italy against Austria is the cause of freedom, so also the cause of the South gallantly defending itself against the cruel and desolating invasion of the North, is the cause of freedom." He had only one complaint to make against this passage. When he was in doubt, he held his tongue; but when he had no doubt, he spoke out, and therefore he asked his audience to back him when he changed the "tacit opinion" to the open proclamation that the cause of the Confederate States was the cause of freedom, the cause of English feeling, the cause of constitutional government over the world. (Cheers and dissent.) He hated slavery; but, as in the Italian struggle, where the end was sometimes made to sanctify the means, and in which our feeling in favor of a united Italy had induced us to pass over a good deal, so he thought that, as we had made allowance for Italy, we should also make some allowance for our own flesh and blood, who were trying to make a new England on the coasts of the Atlantic and the Mexican Gulf. (Cheers.) We were all of us hero worshippers; the names of those who had carried out any great cause wound round our hearts; and he asserted that, when the present age came to take up the bead-roll of its greatest men, those whose burning patriotism, combined with calm statesmanship, made them the fathers of a country struggling into new life, by the side of Cavour would blaze in history with an equal glory the name of Jefferson Davis-(cheers and hisses)-that man, of a British descent, of a British name, who spoke and wrote so nobly the British language -heroes would go with heroes-Davis with Cavour, and Stonewall Jackson with Garibaldi. (Cheers and hisses.)
Referring to his former lecture, Mr. Hope remarked that he was, on that occasion, the first to use the word pro-consul, as applied to the Governors whom President Lincoln sent to tyrannize over the temporarily won Southern provinces. President Lincoln would not probably ever have beard the word in his life: it had, however, frequently been used since in the public press. He (Mr. Hope) had applied it to "such men as General Butler," and be thought there was something prophetic in his having singled him out as a type of the individuals to whom he had referred. He had had his eye on the fellow, who, he saw, was unscrupulous and foul-mouthed beyond his colleagues: and he had an instinctive feeling that General Butler would be the man whom President Lincoln would send to govern the first city he might take. Nor was he wrong; and now it appeared that Butler had left New Orleans, branded as a felon in one of the most tremendous proclamations that any ruler of a great nation had ever issued -the proclamation of Jefferson Davis, ordering any officer who might capture him to hang him forthwith. (A Voice: "And serve him right.") If he should terminate his life at a rope's end, civilized Europe would applaud the deed. (Cheers.)
Mr. Hope said that the reservation, in the proclamation, of General Butler’s officers for execution, did not imply that they would be executed; and he observed that the thought it would have been better to have omitted this portion of the proclamation. He next referred to the manner in which he had been criticised for having, in his former lecture, applied to President Lincoln the terms "rail-splitter, bargee, and attorney. "He considered that President Lincoln's antecedents, and his subsequent proceedings, had justified this plain language. The selection of such a man as the ruler of 30,000,000 of people was as hideous a spectacle as history presented. As a former member of Congress, he had acquired a distinguished character as a standing buffoon, and a reciter of innocent stories to the House when he could get a few members together to listen to him. He had just a sufficient glimmering of public matters to make his acceptance of the Presidency an offence of the blackest dye-an offence which Heaven might pardon, but which was unforgivable on earth. He must have seen, if he had any perception, that he was rushing into an office which he could only fill to the mischief of his country. Among the names of rulers whom history has branded with infamy were those of sovereigns, who, in great crises, were their country's foes-Sardanapalus, Belshazzar, Rehoboam, the descendants of Charlemagne. And yet these men were put into the positions they held without their own personal fault-they merely found themselves where their fathers were before them. But what could be said of one who had not this excuse, but who, like President Lincoln, allowed himself to be made the tool of the ruin of his country?
<c02>
crime that could be brought home to him, had done. He was a man who, without any positive personal as much mischief, had violated as much law, had tampered with as much justice, had trampled upon as much of everything that was sacred and dear to humanity, as any man in history. (Cheers and dissent.) Talleyrand had said that a blunder was worse than a crime. Abraham Lincoln was a man with whom blunders were crimes, and crimes were blunders.
Mr. Hope went on to state, that while canvassing in Illinois for the Presidency, Abraham Lincoln had obtained a reputation for his clever speeches; but it appeared by a statement made by Mr. Douglas (President Lincoln's opponent) to a friend of his (Mr. Hope's.) that those speeches were in reality manufactured by a staff of reporters and authors sent out for that purpose. With regard to President Lincoln's proclamation of emancipation, Mr. Hope remarked that it was a noble document which emancipated the slaves in those States where the Federal Government had no authority, while in all the border States, and in others where the Federal army predominated, it kept the slaves in a state of bondage! (Hear, hear.) He (Mr. Hope) was as desirous as any man for the abolition of slavery; but, besides being free, he wished to see the slaves prosperous, well fed and educated, morally and religiously. That President Lincoln's desire for the emancipation of the slaves proceeded from no abstract love for the blacks was apparent from one of his speeches, in which he had said-"Make them politically and socially our equals! My own feeling will not admit of this, and if mine would, we know that those of the great mass of the white people would not. "Supposing President Lincoln's proclamation capable of freeing the slaves, it would merely be to free them against their employers and against the means of gaining their livelihood, for it provided no emigration for them, no future home, but turned them out to starve in the ditches, or to live on the plunder and rapine of their employers. (Hear, hear.) For the proclamation, while ineffectual in the heart of the Southern States, would only tell in such places as New Orleans, where slavery assumed its worst form, and there it would be mischievous and fiendish enough to stamp it as the most unparalleled last card ever played by a reckless gambler.
Mr. Hope next referred at some length to the recently published letter, written by Mrs. Beecher Stowe, in reply to the address issued eight years ago by Englishwomen to the women of the United States on the subject of slavery. He regarded the Englishwomen's address as injudicious, because it might have tended to produce a misunderstanding between the two countries, and he commented on a passage in Mrs. Stowe's letter, in which the writer said, "After relieving the old planter of twenty thousand dollars' worth of humanity-that is to say, fifty-two slaves-and the leather of his tannery, we re-embarked," which he condemned as a somewhat flippant mode of referring to an event which had the effect, whatever its converse might be, of leaving an old man and his family beggars. In another passage, Mrs. Stowe declared the meaning of President Lincoln's proclamation to be, "Come in, and emancipate peaceably, with compensation; stay out, and I emancipate, nor will I protect you from the consequences,"-the consequences being rapine, murder, arson, and destruction.
Mr. Hope went on to argue that the notions entertained by many people, relative to the working of the slave system, had been greatly exaggerated; and he quoted a pastoral issued last November by the bishops of the Protestant Episcopalian Church in the Confederate States, setting forth the necessity of measures to prevent the separation of husband and wife, parents and children. He stated that, as a general rule, the slaves, in addition to being well fed and housed, had the advantages of religious instruction and the protection of the laws. The murder of a slave by a white was punishable with death. When a negro was put on his trial in some States, the court awarded him counsel, while in others his master was bound to provide counsel for him; blacks were admitted as witnesses for or against each other; the savings of the negro were his own; any slave unlawfully held to bondage could institute a suit for his freedom; and the slave-owners were compelled to provide for both the young and old on their plantations. The great thing wanted was an enactment to ratify the marriage tie; but the separation of man and wife, was unfrequent, as it was found to deteriorate the value of the slaves. One of the effects of Lincoln's proclamation would be to release the slave-owners from their obligations with regard to the old people they were now compelled to keep, and to throw a large body of blacks into districts where, the competition of black and white labor would tend to make the negro an object of greater detestation than he was already held in by the men of the North. Mr. Hope argued that the abolition of slavery should be gradual and safe; but when they were freed, another and a serious question would arise-namely, should they, in acquiring the privileges of freedom, be admitted to the suffrage, so that South Carolina, where the blacks largely outnumbered the whites, might be eventually governed by a black Ministry, imposing laws on the white population. He, for one, should tremble at such a result, recognizing, as he did, the intellectual inferiority of the negro race. In conclusion, referring to the probable issue of the American struggle. Mr. Hope said it must sooner or later resolve itself into a contest between the State's right and the Federal or whole States' principle. Under the Constitution of the United States, each State had its own sovereign rights, except in military affairs, foreign relations and lighthouses. His own opinion was, that the States would eventually be formed into six or seven divisions, such as would be found manageable; but while the present contest lasted, he thought the sympathies of the English should be with the people of the South, who were more nearly allied to us by descent than the people of the North, and who evinced a better disposition towards England than had been displayed by their antagonists.
Votes of thanks to Mr. Hope and the Mayor terminated the proceedings.

OHIO TORYISM.
There is a Democratic sheet published at Hamilton, Butler county. Ohio, called the True Telegraph, which is the organ of a nest of traitors as malignant as ever scourged negro women in South Carolina. A recent, issue of the True Telegraph contains the following:
"Henceforth we wish it understood that we have no part or lot in the prosecution of this war.* * * * It is no longer a war to suppress rebellion; it is a crusade against the DEAREST RIGHTS of men. * * * This is no longer a war for putting down rebellious States; it. has lost dignity and decency, and can have the sanction of good men no more. * * * We are making theirs (the rebel's) a holy cause."
What more treasonable in spirit than this?
<c03>
Selections.
MR. J. BERESFORD HOPE.
Honor to the prophets who prophesy before the event! There are not too many of them. The majority of political seers foretell things that are not to come. They make oracular announcements and ambiguous predictions. They watch the signs of the times, and undertake to tell us to-morrow what they thought yesterday. Such men abound in revolutionary crises, and have to be assorted by the historian into men of the eve, men of the meridian, and so forth. Mr. Beresford Hope is not one of them. He reminds his little local public, with laudable pride, that his sympathy with the Southern Confederacy did not begin with the victory at Bull Run, and fluctuate with the ebb and flow of success. From the first, he says-and we give him honest credit for it-he prophesied the triumph of the cause represented by Jefferson Davis. When the Federals were in the flush of victory, he still prophesied that they would fail to restore the Union. Now that the war is entering upon another phase, he prophesies once more that its issue will be the independence of the South. In that high mood of prophetic inspiration, which speaks of things foreseen as if they already were, he lectures at Maidstone upon "the social and political aspects of the American disruption." He deals with Secession as what is called an accomplished fact. A separate self-governing South is to him as real as a united Italy,-and a good deal more agreeable to contemplate. "Stonewall" Jackson is the Garibaldi of America-Jefferson Davis its Cavour. The North, like Austria, may dream of recon quest, but it is only a dream, except in the horrible realities of the wrongs it inflicts upon the heroic South. Sooner or later, the independence already achieved will he formally recognized; and then Mr. J. Beresford Hope will be proudly pointed out as the first to foretell the great event-the English prophet and apostle of the new faith embodied in a new organization.
For really it is new-to this generation of Englishmen, at any rate. There is not a man of or under five-and-thirty years of age who can remember to have heard a public defence of slavery. We may remember to have heard or read that there was much controversy and agitation about the abolition of slavery in our own colonies, but we can hardly realize the fact that Mr. Peter Borthwick went about the country lecturing in the West India interest against emancipation, and had to be followed everywhere by young Mr. George Thompson for the exposure of his misstatements and fallacies. Now the loathsome thing has positively turned up again-has risen from its dishonored grave, and goes gibbering about in the twilight of select audiences, and very genteel but contracted circles. Mr. J. Beresford Hope is as bold in his advocacy of Southern slavery as in his invectives against the Northern Government. He is not content to draw contrasted pictures of the two Presidents,-nor to affirm the old-descended and radical doctrine of States' rights,-nor to claim for the Southerners a nearer heirship to England thin the North can boast,-nor to play other fantastic tricks with the general facts of history and politics. He does not shrink from exhibiting the "social aspects" of the institution that is peculiar to the South alone among all civilized races. Spain does not permit of slavery, except in a couple of colonies. In Brazil it is limited to a district. We must search among the savage tribes of Africa for a parallel to its incorporation with the whole system of social life. We do not know that even in Dahomey, it is held to be fundamental and sacred. Only in the thirteen States that have formed themselves into a Confederacy is slavery the condition of half the population, and a condition made perpetual by law. Mr. Beresford Hope is too courageous to offer an apology for slavery "in the abstract,"-to quote the Bible in support of some extinct or impossible slave system,-and to pretend that his Southern friends will abolish slavery as soon as they are themselves free from the yoke of the negro-hating North. His faith and zeal are too evident to permit of a frigid defence. As an Englishman, he of course avows his aversion for slavery; but as a friend of the South, he believes in the incurable inferiority of the negro race, and shudders at the prospect of black men in South Carolina enjoying the same freedom and equality as in the New England States. He takes slavery as it is, under the rule of his Mississippi Cavour, and is content with the ameliorations provided or suggested. The laws of the Southern States have covered the slave with such a net-work of protection that only one thing more is to be desired, and that is on its way. The bishops of the Episcopal Church in the South have adopted resolutions against the separation of husband and wife, parents and children. Does not that show the very mild character of Southern slavery? Does it not indicate the immense advances made by religion and civilization since those dark ages of Europe, in which the priests dared refuse absolution to a dying sinner until he released his serfs? These nineteenth century bishops understand much better their sacred function. They know that to set slaves at freedom is to instigate, as wicked Mr. Lincoln has done, to "murder, arson, and rapine," but to separate families by the auctioneer's hammer they think reprehensible. These good bishops, however, are righteous over-much. There is really no need for their interference. The separation of man and wife, Mr. Beresford Hope assures us, is very infrequent. There is an economical reason for its infrequency. We would rather not mention it,-but the gentleman who is so nice as to hate Mr. Lincoln for his nasty stories about skunks and weasels, sets the example. It deteriorates the value of the slave to separate husband and wife. There is the loss of contingent offspring, and the change of the severed pair becoming sulky or resentful. To overcome these defects in the negro character, a law is needed to ratify the marriage tie. If the masters can be induced to consent to that infringement upon their rights of property, the patriarchal system will be complete. Mr. Jefferson Davis-in default of a legitimate sovereign imported from Europe-will reign over a contented, happy nation of two races; the lower of which will never strive to intrude into the latter, but toil on forever in blissful enjoyment of wedded love, and a brood of slave children not to be sold away while young.
This is the system, political and social, which Christian Englishmen are asked by Mr. Beresford Hope to sustain by their sympathy! We share his scorn for the men who withhold their response to the demand till they see more clearly how the fight will go,-or who hate the North without loving the South. ‘Tis a war in which there can be no neutrality. ‘Tis a struggle for all that is and should be sacred to the imagination, the memory, the conscience, and the heart of mankind. ‘Tis no mere rivalry of neighbor Powers, but a deadly conflict of ideas that have smothered their antagonism till it burst into devouring flame. 'Tis not even a struggle between two forms of government, but between two forms of society. Words are wasted in bestow-
<c04>
ing them upon this man or upon that, in fervid laudation or in fierce invective. Let the world forget, if it can, Abraham Lincoln and Jefferson Davis. It cannot forget that, on the American continent, there are freedom and slavery-cannot love the one without hating the other-cannot pray that oppression may cease, and not pray also that the liberator may be the victor in this mortal strife.

THE TWO PROCLAMATIONS.
This is the heading of a spirited article, by Rev. Francis Bishop, in the London Inquirer of January 17th. It means the President's Emancipation Proclamation, and Jefferson Davis's retaliatory, bloody threat:-
To the Editor of the Inquirer:
SIR,-The important news received to-day from America must carry joy and gladness to the heart of every consistent abolitionist. President Lincoln is firm. He refuses to be turned aside from his emancipation policy. He stands by his Proclamation, and solemnly commits once more, and finally, the Federal Government to the great cause of human freedom. All excuse for misapprehension of the nature of the terrible conflict is thus removed. The mist has cleared away. No one who opens his eyes can now fail to see that the United States Government is fighting for the destruction of slavery; and that the portions of States in rebellion against it are fighting for the preservation and extension of slavery. If it be still said that the object of the Government is the restoration of the Union, it is the Union freed from what has hitherto been its weakness, its shame, and disgrace. The day for compromise has passed. The inevitable struggle between a semi-barbarous feudalism and an advanced Christian civilization; between an odious oligarchy and a true democracy; between slavery and freedom, has come. The conflict is "irrepressible," and who that has any faith in the over-ruling Providence of God and the progressive destiny of man can doubt the final result?
Whatever mistakes may have been made in this country, Jefferson Davis and his associates understand full well what is the great question at stake. Whatever may have been the thoughtless merriment indulged in by some who looked upon Lincoln's Proclamation as an empty threat, the leaders of the rebellion knew better; they saw that for them and their cherished purpose of strengthening and perpetuating slavery, the President's decree was a great and terrible fact that would, if persevered in, necessarily array the United States Government against the caste-civilization of the Southern oligarchy, and on the side of liberty for man as such, whether black or white. This is the secret of that other Proclamation which has just reached our shores. The latter atrocious and sanguinary document betrays the desperation and rage called forth among the Southern leaders, by the steady, persistent, and advancing movements of the North against slavery. Jefferson Davis flaunts the black flag in the face of the Federal Government. He threatens wholesale banging and burning in cold blood against thousands and tens of thousands of his opponents should they fall into his hands. Gen. Butler and his officers, all officers found in arms with slaves, and all slaves serving as soldiers, though regularly enlisted and controlled by the Government of the country, are to be thus summarily dealt with. This savage proclamation, however it may befit the chosen head and chief of a slaveholders' rebellion, ought to bring down upon its author the execration of the civilized world. It will, I believe, array against him a fearful amount of moral indignation. Even the Times, which can unblushingly claim for slavery the sanction of Christianity, is not prepared to sustain this ferocious and blood-thirsty edict. It says, in speaking of it, and many nearer home might with advantage to the clearness and consistency of their views adopt its advice:-"The South should remember that they were the first to draw the sword in this quarrel, that they rose against an established Government in the exercise of its legal functions, that they obtained by the agency of traitors in that Government a considerable supply of arms and money, and that the Union which they seek to dissolve is, as events have proved, the dearest wish of every American heart."
They who have attentively watched the doings of the Slave Power know that this Proclamation of Jefferson Davis is in complete accord with the spirit it has ever shown. The slave code of the Southern States is written in blood. And yet with all its savagism, it frequently has not been rigorous enough. When slaves or their friends have committed, or been suspected of committing offences that affected the, safety of slave property, it has been common, without waiting for process of law, to indict summary tortures of the most shocking kind to strike terror into the hearts of those around. In decreeing, therefore, that these desperate and unscrupulous practices shall be introduced into the conduct of the war, Jefferson Davis comes out in his true colors as the slaveholders' spokesman and leader.
In these two Proclamations we have correctly symbolized the character of the two principles and powers now grappling with each other in deadly conflict on the American continent. The one, as the friend of civilization, freedom, humanity, education, and religion, proclaims liberty to the captive; the other, as the ally of barbarism, human degradation, systematic depravity and enforced ignorance, breathes forth the spirit of ferocious cruelty, and wild, vindictive, passionate hatred.
Yours, faithfully,
FRANCIS BISHOP.
Chesterfield, Jan. 14, 1863.

MRS. BEECHER STOWE'S REPLY.
To the Editor of the Glasgow Herald:
SIR-I have waited with some impatience to get a reading of Mrs. Stowe's Reply to the "Affectionate and Christian Address of many thousands of the Women of Great Britain and Ireland, to their Sisters, the Women of the United States," and have at length succeeded, by sending to London for a copy.
The Glasgow Herald, and other local journals, have published severe strictures upon this address, but, so far as I am aware, no paper in the West of Scotland has reproduced it in its columns; so that the public have no means of judging of its merits, except from an ex parte statement. Considering the avidity with which everything from the pen of that gifted lady was seized upon by the press, and devoured by her numerous admirers, a few years ago, this strikes me as somewhat surprising. But these were the days when slavery was at a discount and human freedom the popular theme. I well remember those days, when an American could hardly be in any society half-an-hour without having the subject thrust in his face-often in an offensive manner-and the guilt of his country formed a staple subject of rebuke and condemnation.
 It must have escaped Mr. Stoddard's notice, that we published extracted from Mrs. Stowe's Reply in the Herald of Saturday, 10th current.-Ed. G. H.
<c05>
But times are changed now, for, alas! anti-slavery is no longer the popular subject in the drawing-room, or in general conversation. We hear no more of the evils of that system, but only censures of a government who are doing all in their power to give liberty to more than four millions of our fellow-men. Nor is this all. Slavery is no longer rebuked, but patted on the back, by the very men who were, a few years ago, loudest in their condemnation of it. If Mrs. Stowe were coming amongst us to-morrow, how many triumphal arches would be erected to her honor? How many processions of young maidens would strew flowers in her pathway? and how many of the great and noble of the land would vie with one another to do her homage? I recollect, not many years ago, that the Pharisaical members of the Evangelical Alliance, would not admit their American Christian brethren to their meetings in Exeter Hall, because they refused to subscribe a document stating that they were "Abolitionists"; but only the other day that pious body refused to join their brethren in France in an address of thanks to Mr. Lincoln for his efforts to abolish slavery in America! Oh, no! their sympathies are now enlisted on the side of the new Confederacy, which is fighting for liberty. Liberty for what? The liberty to buy and sell human beings like cattle, and to build up and perpetuate a government with slavery for its "corner-stone"! Recently, an American minister, the Rev. Stephen B. Tyng, was prohibited, or rather stopped, while speaking on behalf of the slave in the Young Men's Christian Association in London-the chairman giving him to understand that, in the present state of feeling, it was a tabooed subject. However, I am glad to see that, after two years of quiescence, anti-slavery men are beginning to wake up a little, and show that their professions in favor of the bondman are not all a sham; and I fully believe the time is fast coming when there will be a great change in the public mind with respect to the men of the Northern States, who are making unheard-of sacrifices for the furtherance of great principles, and for the downfall of American slavery.
We may not do them justice in our day, but the impartial record of history will pronounce in their favor, and recognize this as one of the grandest struggles which the world has ever witnessed.
I send you Mrs. Stowe's address, not doubting that you will, as a lover of fair play, give it an insertion in your columns.
Yours, very respectfully,
A. F. STOODARD.
Thornhill House, Jan. 20, 1863.

CONFEDERATE BARBARITY.
No one who has fully comprehended the peculiar legal relation between the white man and the negro in the Southern States need be surprised at one of the items of intelligence from Murfreesboro. During the five days' battle at that place, some Confederate cavalry penetrated to the rear of one of the Federal divisions, and there finding the array wagons in charge of negro teamsters, they deliberately, and in cold blood, shot twenty of these poor fellows -all, in fact, who did not manage to make their escape. It was what we must call, what the heart of universal humanity must feel to be, a cowardly and cruel butchery. It would have been all that, if even the negroes were taken prisoners in active fight against their former masters; but these men were unarmed, and took no part in the engagement at all. Unresisting and incapable of defence, they were shot down for the high crime and misdemeanor, according to Slave State laws, of having taken advantage of the opportunity of securing their liberty. It is as if women, children, and old men were massacred in cold blood by an enemy. Even the English advocates of the South profess to abhor negro slavery; and the most advanced among them, although pretending that a slave has Scriptural authority for not taking advantage of an opportunity to escape, has not gone so far as to contend that to escape is a crime deserving of death. Judged by any system of ethics and law, civil or military, recognized among civilized Christian nations, this shooting of the unarmed negro teamsters at Murfreesboro by the Confederates must be adjudged murder-our hearts and feelings instinctively and imperatively call upon us to characterize it as murder of the utmost enormity, as an act of cruelty in accordance with a theory of right and wrong which can only have emanated from the devil.
We have said it is not surprising that the Confederates should perpetrate such horrible crimes upon the negro. The Murfreesboro massacre is in entire harmony and consistency with the principle of government on which the Confederacy is founded. It is of the essence of that principle, that the negroes have no rights whatever; that they are slaves, whose legal relation is that of absolute dependence on the will of their owners; that disobedience may be punished by stripes and torture, or even by death; that attempts to escape may invariably be punished by death; and that the crime of insubordination or resistance is to be met by a cruel death. To shoot a vicious horse or fell an infuriated ox is permitted amongst us to its owner: in precisely the same way, to flog a recalcitrant negro slave to death, or to shoot him if he run away, is the law and the custom in the States which have broken off from the Union. And this subjection of the negro to slavery and all these its incidents, is the "corner-stone" of that Government. What wonder, then, that the men who fight under its flag should carry out on the field of battle, or wherever else they can find escaped negroes, the action of their civil laws, and make a holocaust of unarmed contrabands to the genius of the Confederate constitution? It is part of their system. Besides, it is only in accordance with the retaliatory proclamation of President Jefferson Davis. Retaliatory, indeed! We had always supposed retaliation meant the infliction of one injury in revenge for another. But what injury can these poor negro teamsters have done to the Confederates? President Lincoln proclaimed them to be free, and they became free by escaping from bondage. Lincoln's proclamation was an act of beneficence, and forthwith a diabolical threat to shoot, hang, and torture all negroes who take advantage of that act is issued, and called retaliation. It is a retaliation of evil for good. But these negroes were not taken in insurrection nor in arms. No man could tell whether they were escaped slaves or free-born negroes-but no matter, death was their doom at the hand of Davis's soldiers. The spirit of the act was the spirit of the slave-driving, slave-torturing South; but although the murderers may have followed the ruling motives of the Slave Government in this massacre, they have clearly violated the laws of civilized warfare, and, as has been said, openly hoisted the black flag.
The occurrence may open the eyes of some in this country, who have hitherto sympathized with the South, to the real character of the system which the Secessionists have broken up the Union in defence of. One would almost suppose that, despairing of being able much longer to maintain in bondage the black population whom President Lincoln has de-
<c06>
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
HOLE NO. 1672.
<illegible> free, and who await the progress of the Federal arms to become free in fact as they are already in law, the slave-owners had resolved to inaugurate a war of extermination against the blacks. Whether they have been apprehensive of a servile rising or not may be left doubtful. We have not been able to perceive from any quarter of the South a single symptom of danger of such a rising, although it is obvious the slaves are on the alert wherever they have heard the tidings of their freedom, and are prepared to take advantage of opportunities to escape peaceably from their illegal thralldom. This it is which must have stung the Secessionist chiefs, into the course which the Murfreesboro massacre seems to point to. They are, however, playing a dangerous game. Nothing is so likely to provoke a servile insurrection as such cold-blooded murders, and nothing can be conceived to be a better justification of such a rising. Besides, the Federal Government must have something to say to it. Are retaliation and mutual extermination to be the rule on the future battle-fields of the war? If it is the system of the South to shoot unarmed non-combatant prisoners, it is not that of the North, and the color of a man's skin makes no difference. The Federal Government may, according to all rules of warfare, employ any of its citizens in the field; it may raise regiments of blacks, or use them in any mode of legitimate warfare; and we doubt not that, if it should do so, it will know how to claim for these men the rights of civilized warfare; and if those rights be refused, it will be able to punish the piratical foe. President Davis is incurring a fearful responsibility, besides bringing home in a forcible manner to the minds of his ill-informed admirers in Europe the peculiarly diabolical spirit of the Slave Confederacy of which he is the head. It is of little use to express hopes that such atrocities will not be repeated: the whole character of this war and the utter incompatibility of the two systems which are in conflict-freedom and life on one side, and slavery and death on the other-naturally involves the worst atrocities. But we may hope that the true character of the South thus openly revealed may alarm and disgust by its hideousness many who have sympathized with it in ignorance.-London Morning Star.

THE CONFEDERATE BLACK FLAG.
The wanton murder near Murfreesboro of twenty negro teamsters who were in the service of the Federals appears to be taken as a matter of course by the advocates of the South in this country. We must presume that they know their friends, and see no reason to be surprised. And vet there are circumstances in this case which should make them anxious for a reputation in which they have so far involved their own. These negroes were not killed in the pursuit of any military purpose. They were not in the battle-field; they were not making armed resistance. They were on the turnpike road driving their wagons when the Confederate party came up. The train which they were conducting was captured, and it was after that object had been gained that the negroes were taken out and shot in cold blood.
It is important to notice that this butchery was not perpetrated in some corner of Secessia, by agents out of the reach of authority or public opinion. It was the work of officers of the great confederate army of the West, under the orders of General Bragg. There was nothing in the attitude of the negroes to make a sudden resolution necessary; we must, therefore, assume that their murder was the effect of a previous determination.
We forbear to anticipate the apologies that may be offered for the atrocious slaughter of men who had committed no crime to deserve death. Travellers who have visited the slave States say, that if ever England should recognize the South, and come into close intimacy with its people, we shall all be astounded at the character of those whom we have chosen to patronize. It seems that we have not to wait for that contingency. The inevitable hour when the true issues of this war were to be disclosed has come, and the South unfurls the black flag-its own flag-accordingly.-London Daily News.

REBELS SHOOTING NEGROES.
We have noticed the fact of the shooting of the negroes found on the Union transports lately burned by the rebels at Harpeth Shoals, on the Cumberland. The New Albany (Ind.) Ledger of the 20th gives the following account of the affair:
"The most atrocious and cold-blooded affair of the present war is the shooting of some eighteen of the negro cabin boys and cooks on the steamers lately captured at Harpeth Shoals. These men and boys were tied and taken to an open field near the Shoals, and deliberately shot down in cold blood. Two of the negro servants on the Slidell got in between the wheel and stern of the boat, and let themselves down into the water, holding on to the rudder. They were discovered by the rebels, and several soldiers were ordered into a skiff, and rowing close up to the unfortunate negroes, discharged the contents of their muskets at them, literally blowing their heads into atoms.
The damnable villainy of such cold-blooded murder cannot but fill every heart with the fiercest indignation, and will beget measures of the bloodiest retaliation.
The life of the chambermaid of the Trio was saved by Mr. Hurley, the clerk, claiming her as his slave whom he was removing to Kentucky. And even with this pretext, he had the greatest difficulty in saving her from death at the hands of the bloody-minded commander of the rebels, Colonel Wade. We hope this scoundrel may be captured, and if he is, quartering would be a slight penalty for his villainous murder of these unoffending negroes. His acts of barbarity have scarcely an equal even in the history of this most savage warfare."
The Sepoys of India find their rivals in the Missouri guerrillas. They recently murdered ten Union soldiers in Jackson county, in that State, stamped the faces of their victims to pieces, cut off their ears, and exploded powder in the ear of one of them. The mutilated corpses were found lying on the ground, and as all of them had been shot, it is to be hoped that the outrages above described were perpetrated after, and not before death.
The Virginia rebels have invented a diabolical instrument to cripple the horses of our cavalry. It is constructed of four pieces of rod iron sharpened, less than a quarter of an inch in thickness, and about two inches long. Four of the ends are made to centre together, and they project from the middle in the form of arms. To the extreme end of each is welded out a very sharp spherical point. These are intended to be sprinkled through the woods and over the roads, to prevent the advance of cavalry. No matter how thrown, one of the points will stand perpendicularly, and when the horse treads upon it, it will enter his foot, and disable him on the spot.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that stale of things so far from its being true that the States when slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in, martial array the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Immediate Emancipation in Missouri.
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER,
In the U. S. Senate, Feb. 12.
Mr. SUMNER Mr. President: If I speak tardily in this debate, I hope for the indulgence of the Senate. Had I been able to speak earlier, I should have spoken; but, though present in the chamber, and voting when this subject was under consideration formerly, I was at the time too much of an invalid to take an active part in the proceedings. In justice to myself and to the great question under consideration, I cannot be silent.
I have already voted to give $20,000,000 to Missouri, in order to secure freedom at once to her slaves, and to make her at once a free State. I am ready to vote more, if more be needed for this purpose; but I will not vote money to be sunk and lost in an uncertain scheme of prospective emancipation, where freedom is a jack-o'-lantern, and the only certainty is to be found in the congressional appropriation. For money paid down, freedom, too, must be paid down at once.
Notwithstanding all differences of opinion on this important question, there is much occasion for congratulation in the progress that has been made.
There is one point on which the Senate is substantially united. A large majority will vote for emancipation. This is much, both as a sign of the present, and a prophecy of the future. A large majority, in the name of Congress, will offer pecuniary aid to this object. This is a further sign and prophecy. Such a vote and such an appropriation will constitute an epoch. Only a few short years ago, the very mention of slavery in Congress was forbidden, and all discussion of it was stifled. Now, emancipation is an accepted watchword, while slavery is openly denounced as a guilty thing worthy of death.
It is admitted that now, under the exigency of war, the United States ought to co-operate with any State in the abolition of slavery, giving to it pecuniary aid; and it is proposed to apply this principle practically in Missouri. It was fit that emancipation, destined to end the rebellion, should first begin in South Carolina, where the rebellion first began. It is also fit that the action of Congress in behalf of emancipation should first begin in Missouri, which, through the faint-hearted remissness of Congress, as late as 1820, was opened to slavery. Had Congress at that time firmly insisted that Missouri, on entering the Union, should be a free State, the vast appropriation now proposed would have been saved; and, better still, this vaster civil war would have been prevented. The whole country is now paying with treasure and blood for that fatal surrender. Alas! that men should forget that God is bound by no compromise, and that, sooner or later. He will insist that justice shall be done. There, is not a dollar spent, and not a life sacrificed in this calamitous war, which does not plead against any repetition of that wicked folly. Blasted be the tongue which speaks of compromise with slavery!
But, though happily compromise is no longer openly proposed, yet it insinuates itself in this debate. In former times it took the form of bare-faced concession to slavery, as in the admission of Missouri as a slave State; the annexation of Texas as a slave State; the waiver of the prohibition of slavery in the territories; the atrocious bill for the re-enslavement of fugitives; and the opening of Kansas to Slavery, first by the Kansas bill, and then by the Lecompton constitution. In each of these cases there was a concession to slavery which history now records with shame; but it, was by this that your wicked slaveholding conspiracy waxed confident and strong, till at last it was ripe for war.
And now it is proposed, as an agency in the suppression of the rebellion, to put an end to slavery. By proclamation of the President, all the slaves in certain States, and designated parts of States, are declared to be free. Of course this proclamation is a war measure, rendered just and necessary by the exigencies of war. As such it is summary and instant in its operation; not prospective or procrastinating. A proclamation of prospective emancipation would have been an absurdity; like a proclamation of prospective battle, where not a blow was to be struck or a cannon pointed before 1876, unless, meanwhile, the enemy desired it. What is done in war must be done promptly, except, perhaps, under the policy of defence. Gradualism is delay, and delay is the betrayal of victory. If you would be triumphant, strike quickly. Let your blows be felt at once, without notice or premonition; and especially without time for resistance or debate. Time always deserts those who do not appreciate its value. Strike promptly, and time become our invaluable ally. Strike slowly, gradually, prospective, and time goes over to the enemy.
But every argument for the instant operation of the proclamation, every consideration in' favor of dispatch in war, is especially applicable to all that is done by Congress as a war measure. In a period of peace, Congress might fitly consider whether emancipation should be immediate or prospective, and we might listen with patience to the instances adduced by the Senator from Wisconsin [Mr. Doolittle] in favor of delay; to the case of Pennsylvania, and to the case of New York, where slaves were tardily admitted to their birthright. Such arguments, though to my judgment of little value at any time, would then be legitimate. But now, when we are considering how to put down the rebellion, they are not even legitimate. There is but one way to put down the rebellion, and that is by instant action; and all that is done, whether in the field, in the Cabinet, or in Congress, must partake of this character. Whatever is postponed for twenty years or ten years may seem to be abstractly politic or wise: but it is in no sense a war measure, nor can it contribute essentially to the suppression of the rebellion.
Now, I think that I may assume, without contradiction, that the proposed tender of money to Missouri for the sake of emancipation is a war measure, to be vindicated as such under the Constitution of the United States. It is also an act of justice to an oppressed race; but it is not in this unquestionable character that it is now commended to Congress. If it were urged on no other ground, even if every consideration of philanthropy and of religion pleaded for it with rarest eloquence, I fear that it would stand but little chance in either House of Congress. Let us not disguise the truth. Except as a war measure, in order to aid in putting down the rebellion, this proposition would find little, hospitality here. Senators are ready to vote money-as the British Parliament voted subsidies-in order to supply the place of soldiers, or to remove a stronghold of the rebellion; all of which is done by emancipation. I do not overstate the case. Slavery is a stronghold of the rebellion, which, through emancipation, will be removed, while every slave and every slave-master will become an ally of the Government. Therefore, emancipation is a war measure, as constitutional as the raising of armies or the occupation of a hostile territory.
But in vindicating as a war measure, we must see that it is made under such conditions as to exercise a present, instant influence against the rebellion. It must be immediate, not prospective. In proposing prospective emancipation, you. propose a measure which can have little or no influence on the war. Senators abstractly may prefer that emancipation should be prospective rather than immediate; but this is not the time for the exercise of any such abstract preference. Whatever is done as a war measure must be immediate, or it will cease to have this character. If made prospective, it will not be a war measure, whatever you may call it.
If I am correct in this statement-and I do not see how it can be questioned-then is the appropriation for immediate emancipation just and proper under the Constitution, while that for prospective emancipation is without any sanction, except what it may find in the sentiments of justice and humanity.
It is proposed to vote $10,000,000 of money to promote emancipation ten years from now. Perhaps I am sanguine, but I cannot doubt that before the-expiration of that period, slaver will die in Missouri under the awakened judgment of the people, even without the action of Congress. If our resources were infinite, we might tender this large sum by way of experiment; "but with a treasury drained to the bottom, and with a debt accumulating in fabulous proportions, I do not understand how we can vote millions, which, in the first place, will be of little or no service in the suppression of the rebellion, and, in the second place, which will be simply a largess in no way essential to the subversion of slavery.
Whatever is given for immediate emancipation is given for the-national defence, and for the safety and glory of the Republic. It will be a blow at the rebellion. Whatever is given for prospective emancipation will be a gratuity to slaveholders and a tribute to slavery. Pardon cuie if I repeat what I have 
<c02>
already said in this debate, " millions for defence, but not a cent for tribute;" millions for defence against peril from whatever quarter it may come; but not a cent for tribute in any quarter, especially not a cent for tribute to the loathsome tyranny of slavery.
I know it is sometimes said that even prospective emancipation will help to weaken the rebellion. That it will impair the confidence in slavery and also its value, I cannot doubt; but its is equally clear that it will leave slavery still alive and on its legs, and just so long as this is the case, there must be controversy and debate with attending weakness; while reaction will perpetually lift its crest. Instead of tranquility, which we all seek for Missouri, we shall have contention. Instead of peace, we shall have prolonged war. Every year's delay, aye, sir, every week's delay in dealing death to slavery leaves just so much of opportunity to the rebellion; for so long as slavery is allowed to exist in Missouri, the rebellion will still struggle, not without hope for its ancient mastery. But let slavery cease at once, and all this will be changed. There will be no room for controversy or debate with its attending weakness, nor can reaction lift its crest. There will be no opportunity to the rebellion, which must cease all efforts there, when Missouri can no longer be a slave Slate. Freedom will become our watchful, generous and invincible ally, while the well-being, the happiness, the repose, and the renown of Missouri will be established forever.
Thus far, sir, I have presented the argument on grounds peculiar to this case; and here I might stop. Having shown that, as a military necessity, and for the sake of that economy which it is our duty to cultivate, emancipation must be immediate, I need not go further; but I do not content myself here. The whole question is open between immediate emancipation and prospective emancipation; or, in other words, between doing right at once, and doing it at some future day. Procrastination is the thief not only of time, but of virtue itself. But such the nature of man that he is disposed always to delay, so that he does nothing to-day which he can put off till to-morrow. Perhaps in no single matter has this disposition been more apparent than with regard to slavery. Every consideration of humanity, justice, religion, reason, common sense, and history, all demanded the instant cessation of an intolerable wrong, without procrastination or delay. But human nature would not yield; and we have been driven to argue the question whether an outrage, asserting property in man, denying the conjugal relation, annulling the parental relation, shutting out human improvement, and robbing its victim of all the fruits of his industry-the whole, in order to compel work without wages-should be stopped instantly or gradually. It is only when we regard slavery in its essential elements, and look at its unutterable and unquestionable atrocity, that we can fully comprehend the mingled folly and wickedness of this question. If it were merely a question of economy, or a question of policy, then the Senate might properly debate whether the change should be instant or gradual: but considerations of economy and policy are all absorbed in the higher claims of justice and humanity. There is no question whether justice and humanity shall be immediate or gradual. Men are to cease at once from wrong doing; they are to obey the Ten Commandments instantly, and not gradually.
Senators who argue for prospective emancipation show themselves insensible to the true character of slavery, or insensible to the requirements of reason. One or the other of these alternatives must be accepted.
Shall property in man be disowned immediately or only prospectively? Reason answers, immediately. Shall the parental relation be recognized immediately or only prospective? Reason is indignant at the question.
Shall the conjugal relation be maintained immediately or only prospectively? Reason recoils from the wicked absurdity of the inquiry.
Shall the opportunities of knowledge, including the right to read the Book of Life, be opened immediately or prospectively? Reason brands the idea of delay as impious.
Shall the fruits of his own industry be given to a man immediately or prospectively? Reason insists that every man shall have his own without postponement.
And history, thank God! speaking by examples, testifies in conformity with reason. The conclusion is irresistible. If you would contribute to the strength and glory of the United States; if you would bless Missouri; if you would benefit the slave master; if you would elevate the slave; and still further, if you would afford an example which shall fortify and sanctify the Republic, making it at once citadel and temple, do not put off the day of freedom. In this case, more than in any other, he gives twice who quickly gives.
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20,1863,
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers-i. e., such as are owing from January 1, 1862, to January 1, 1863- that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual,) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULE. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness, and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.
THE SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
This Anniversary was held with considerable misgiving as to its pecuniary result, on the part of many friends, in view of the heavy taxation of the war upon labor and capital universally, and the constant if not exhaustive appeals for charitable assistance in behalf of the sick and wounded soldiers, &c., &c. But the official report of it, which occupies so considerable a portion of our inside form, shows the cheering aggregate of donations made to be upwards of THREE THOUSAND, AND SIX HUNDRED DOLLARS. It was as spontaneous an offering upon the altar of liberty and humanity as was ever given; and among the donors are to be found persons unsurpassed for moral worth, high intelligence, and the truest patriotism. The record will give pleasure in the examination. It indicates a fixed purpose, on the part of the Anti-Slavery host, not to allow moral agitation to be set aside by the clash of arms as no longer necessary, nor to consider themselves released from co-operative effort while any part of the rebellion-breeding slave system remains unabolished. This is that greater which includes the less. It is true philosophy and comprehensive statesmanship. Honor and thanks to the noble women upon whom devolved the management of this Anniversary, and who are worthy of the highest respect and consideration. Thanks to the contributors for showing no weariness in well-doing; and whether giving of their abundance or their poverty, animated by the same disinterested spirit of benevolence, they shall verily have their reward in the approval of a good conscience, in the gratification of a humane heart, and in the furtherance of the good cause which they have so long and efficiently served. What has been so generously bestowed will be applied with scrupulous fidelity to the specific work for which it was given. May this year witness the final termination of all Anti-Slavery labors in the utter extinction of slavery wherever it now curses the soil!
SENATOR SUMNER'S SPEECH. "We give, in another column, Mr. Sumner's brief but cogent and impressive speech, delivered a few days since in the U. S. Senate, on the appropriation bill for the gradual abolition of slavery in Missouri. The ground assumed by him on which to base the right of Congress to meddle with slavery in that or any other State, we hold to be impregnable. Neither in war nor in peace has that body a constitutional right to stipulate, by purchase, for a gradual and remote emancipation. The act must be IMMEDIATE, tinder the war power, and to aid in the speedy and effectual suppression of the rebellion, -justice and liberty being thereby amicably secured.
<C03>
THE NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY.
TWENTY-NINTH.
The TWENTY-NINTH ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY has come and gone. The ladies met with some disappointment in their intended arrangements. The Hutchinson's were expected to sing, but at a late day announced that it was out of their power. Wendell Phillips, who was engaged to speak, was unexpectedly detained at Washington; and Mr. Conway arrived at the last moment, exhausted by the fatigue of travelling night and day.
The weather, as last year, proved very unpropitious, a storm prevailing. Still, the meeting was numerously attended, and was marked by the same straightforwardness and steadfastness of purpose which have distinguished the Abolitionists from the beginning. The sight of Theodore D. Weld's gray head powerfully reminded us how long our little moral army have been in the service. The last time we saw him was twenty-nine years ago. He was then a young man, fresh from Lane Seminary, which he had quitted because the free discussion of slavery was not allowed. Other young men, considered the flower of the institution, went with him. Dr. Beecher, who was then President of the college, said to them, "Your principles are right, and I shall be with you at the end." But those earnest-hearted students, among whom were some sons of slaveholders, thought there never could be an end unless there was a beginning; so they threw themselves manfully into the contest, and left their President to follow at his leisure. From that time to this, there has been an incessant struggle between Despotism and Freedom. The contest has, from time to time assumed new and altogether unforeseen phases, but it has known no intermission. Many have died, some have deserted, and some stopped fatigued by the way-side; but the vacant places were speedily filled with new recruits, and still the work went on. The enemies of our righteous cause have always represented us as few in numbers, inferior in intellectual ability, and destitute of social influence; and yet, with singular self-contradiction, they accuse us of having caused the present convulsion. In saying this, they unconsciously admit the moral might of our principles. They have had the political power, the national treasury, the army and the navy, the pulpit and the press, in their service. We have fought our good fight by the exertion of our own minds, and the consecration of our own hearts, at the expense of our own pockets. Yet here we are, still pronounced insignificant in numbers, and contemptible in ability, with the fortress of Slavery stormed and half taken! If we did it, as they say we did, does it not prove a Power behind us, stronger than we? This powerful Devil which is going out of our possessed nation, with such an awful tearing and rending, is he not compelled by a divine voice, that cannot be resisted? If we despised ones have done what our enemies ascribe to us, it is not by our own strength, but by the moral majesty of truth, which is "mighty to the casting down of strongholds." Let us still blow the trumpets of the Lord around the walls of this fortress, till the echoes shake it to the ground!
The subscriptions this year exceeded our expectations. Our conviction was renewed, that never was there a class of people more earnest, devoted, and self-sacrificing, than the Abolitionists. Their generosity at this time seemed to us truly wonderful, in view of the heavy pressure upon all classes, and the unprecedented demands upon benevolence. All of us give and do, more or less, in other directions. Some give to hospitals and freed slaves all they have to bestow, believing that politicians and the army will finish the work of emancipation, whether they mean it or not. But a majority of Abolitionists, while they share this belief, also feel that purely moral influence ought still to be supported. For ourselves, we think there never has been a time when that class of influences was more needed. Certainly, the progress made toward universal freedom, during the past year, has been most cheering. But we ought to remember that the country has been pushed on, as it were, step by step, by the stern and uncontrollable pressure of events. Public opinion has moved in the right direction by sheer compulsion. The recognition of our colored brothers as men has been mainly a necessity of war, and therefore does not fairly represent the general sentiments of the nation. The pro-slavery element is very strong, and it is exceedingly insidious and unscrupulous in the means it employs. It has at this moment cunningly-woven webs spread in every nook and corner of the land, and multitudes of flies are getting their feet entangled in them.
The haughty aristocracy among us do, in their hearts, side with Slavery, by natural affinity; and so do the brutal rabble, which form the unprincipled portion of the Democratic party; for the two arms of this despotic institution are pride and violence. One scarcely needs to be very observing, to see in every direction, obvious indications that powerful and extensive efforts are being made to combine these two bad forces against the steady advance of Freedom. There is no use in trying to conceal from ourselves that we have a party in our midst, who are not only determined that Slavery shall be maintained, at all hazards, but who are also more than willing to see our form of government changed. Declarations to this effect are frequently heard: "I am disgusted with republics. I want to see a stronger form of government." In every instance, this remark is preceded by much abuse of the United States Government, and warm eulogiums upon General McClellan. Of course, the Rebels are watching for such signs of the times, and are emboldened by every indication of fresh recruits for their Golden Circle of conquest. What their hopes and plans are is betrayed by the insolent tone of their papers. The Richmond organ of the Confederates threatens in this style: "The Yankees are by nature menials, and fitted only for menial duties. They are now in open and flagrant insurrection against their lords and masters. When they are again reduced to subjection, and taught to know their place, we must take care to put such trammels about them, that they will never have an opportunity to play these tricks again." Capt. Drew publishes that, while he was prisoner in Virginia, the Rev. Edmund Ruffin, a venerable clergyman of that State, said to him and Col. Corcoran: "We have many among you who are our friends. Some favor us from interested motives, some from natural affinities. We expect them to harass your government, to sow dissension among the people to deaden enthusiasm, to weaken faith in the government, to bring about a desire for peace, to prevent you from drafting, and finally do more to defeat you than Southern bravery and skill in arms. We know these fellows. We know they are miserable curs. We despise them; but they aid us greatly."
Look around you! Do yon not already see how the holy and blessed name of peace is being used for the basest purposes? The working men of the. North must keep a vigilant look out, or they will wake up some morning, and find that the free institutions of their fathers have vanished, and that they are brought into subjection to "lords and masters." Thus hare we endangered our own freedom by consenting to aid in depriving others of theirs. The present seems to us the darkest crisis through which we have yet passed. But we are not disheartened, because we still have faith in the virtue and intelligence of the people. Every friend of Freedom who snatches a little repose now should sleep upon his arms, and with a certainty that wide-awake sentinels are kept constantly on the watch. We trust our Free Institutions are sacred enough to be defended by an ever-ready Life Guard therefore, though we cannot feel specially jubilant, we are hopeful. The hand of Divine Providence has been so signally manifested in compelling us forward thus far in the direction of Light and Freedom, that we cannot believe the Powers of Darkness will be permitted to drag us backward into Despotism.
" Lord, we have wandered forth through doubt and sorrow;
And Thou hast made each step an encored one;
<c04>
And we will ever trust each unknown morrow; -
Thou wilt sustain us till our work is done.
Now,. Father, now, in thy dear presence kneeling,
Our spirits yearn to feel thy kindling love:
Oh, make us strong! We need Thy deep revealing
Of trust, and strength, and calmness from above.”
We see abundance of good omens. They are apparently more numerous than the evil ones. Among them is the rapid increase of conversions to our cause. The following letter from the Rev. Dr. Thomas Worcester, pastor of the New Jerusalem Church in Boston, is a case in point. He has been generally understood to be much prejudiced against the Anti-Slavery movement. He now avows that his opinion of slavery has changed, but still he does not quite like the Abolitionists. Probably he never will. The sledge-hammer does not belong to his set of tools, and the sound of blows is not agreeable to a man of his organization. Nevertheless, where heavy hammering must be done, it is to be recognized as a valuable instrument, even though we cannot wield it ourselves.
Very likely, also, that Dr. Worcester, like many others, misapprehends the character and motives of most of the Abolitionists. We are all familiar with the story of a slaveholder on board a Philadelphia boat. who, after a long talk with Mr. Garrison on slavery, parted from him with these words: "I like to talk upon this subject with a man of your sense and candor; but as for that violent Garrison, he ought to be hung." His companion bowed and replied, "I am William Lloyd Garrison."
Others of us have also been misjudged. But these misapprehensions do not matter much. Conscious that it is not our own work we are striving to do, we are ready to echo Lamartine's noble sentiment: "Let our names perish, so that our principles remain." Dr. Worcester shows himself ready to exert his influence in behalf of the slave, whatever he may think of those who are laboring in different ways for the same object. His letter is written in a spirit of kindness, simplicity and frankness, and we thank him for it, in the name of the oppressed:-
"DEAR MRS. CHILD-I thank you for the kind request, signed by yourself and other ladies, in behalf of the Anti-Slavery Families, that I should attend their meeting at the Music Hall. The state of my health will not allow me to accept the invitation. But I have a word to say; for I have been delivered from the bondage of believing slavery to be a good thing; and I wish to express my gratitude to the person to whom it is due. Until two years and a half ago, I believed that it was good for the negroes to be kept in slavery, and that it was therefore permitted by Divine Providence. During that time, I, of course, had my opinion about you Anti-Slavery people. I supposed some of you to be very kind and benevolent, but not very wise; and others to be very harsh and censorious, and so rather wanting in kindness.
At the time before-mentioned, a good friend, by gentle force and kind pertinacity, compelled me to read a little pamphlet called  ‘THE RIGHT WAY THE SAFE WAY.' I was immediately struck dumb on the whole subject. I did not believe, but I could not deny; so I waited for more knowledge. I read everything I could obtain on the subject; and in about six months I became convinced that the negroes in the West Indies were in a much better condition after emancipation than before. Having arrived at this conclusion, it did not take me long to reach another, viz: that there is not a shadow of foundation in right, in justice, or even in expediency, for slavery to stand upon, and that, by one means or another, it ought to be brought to an end, and will be brought to an end.
Since I have changed my opinion of slavery, I have regarded it as a duty at least to revise my opinion of those who have long been distinguished by their opposition to it. In this work I have not made so much progress. I can, however, sincerely unite with you in wishing to see slavery abolished throughout the land. Very truly yours,
THOMAS WORCESTER."
From another minister of the gospel, a "brother beloved" by every anti-slavery heart,-himself not less qualified, by gentleness and kindness of spirit, than our just-cited correspondent, to judge of the manner of spirit we should be of, in maintaining with proper zeal and fidelity the great cause of God's oppressed poor against their hard-hearted oppressors,-we give the following letter:-
SYRACUSE, Jan. 19,1863.
MY DEAR PRIEND,-Repeatedly, within the last six months, I have tried to arrange my affairs, and gather up the means, so as to make my Massachusetts friends a visit; but I have been obliged to forego the intention. And now, though the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and the National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, both present the strongest attractions to me, I must, I find, again deny myself. I cannot afford the expense of the journey, and then give any money to "the cause" So I have determined to stay at home, and send twenty dollars to the excellent women who are again endeavoring to sustain the operations of the Anti-Slavery Society. These operations ought not to be discontinued; for even if slavery is to be, as I trust in God it is to be, abolished by this war, much will need be done to help the newly freedmen to use aright and improve the privileges of liberty, and to lead their late oppressors to adjust themselves to the great change.
We are indeed living at the crisis of our nation's fate-yes, in the grandest epoch of the world's history. Here and now we are having the real conflict for the rights of man, and the sovereignty of God on earth. There can be no doubt of the issue-but it may be much further off than we have hoped; and the triumph of Liberty is not going to be so easily won.
The Democratic party at the North is gathering up its forces for a political enterprise that shall give to it again supremacy in the Federal Government. This can only be attained by conceding the chief places to the Lords of the South; and for this the Northern Democrats are ready, as they have been trained to believe that "there must be in every country a governing class, and that in our country, the best of that class are reared at the South, where the prominent men have been educated from childhood in the spirit and habits of command." I have marked the above as a quotation, because I have heard the sentiment from the lips of more than one Democrat. There can be no doubt that these Democrats are willing and ready to restore the old order of things-Slavery the most sacred institution in our country-the Presidency in the hands of Southern men, or of Northern men with slaveholding principles. Unless our Union armies gain a decisive victory in Virginia and another at Vicksburg, before the month of May, if not before the 4th of March, the Democratic party will avow this to be their determination; and then nothing can save us from utter subjugation to the Southern aristocracy but the madness of the leading rebels, which may drive them to demand more than even the Democrats can concede; and then they will shift their policy and go for war, and take to themselves the glory of the final victory, which by their secret even more than open opposition they will have prevented the present Administration from achieving. If the result of the present war should be as disgraceful and disastrous as the Democrats would have it, it could not stay so. The three million of newly freedmen will not quietly consent to be slaves again, and too many of the people of the Free States have been brought to see that slavery is the source of all our national woe, to settle down again quietly with that "peculiar institution" overshadowing and frowning upon them. There can be no lasting peace in the land until this root of bitterness is thoroughly extirpated from it. This must be done. The people of our country-Christians though they have called themselves-have refused to do this "work of the Lord" by moral, ecclesiastical, religious instrumentalities, and so they are left to do it by the coarse, cruel, savage implements of horrid war. They have refused to do it as Jefferson and other "sages aim seers of the Revolution entreated! them to do it " by the generous energies of their own minds," and so they an left to do it "by the awful processes of civil, and it may be servile war." For it 
<c05>
must be done. You and I, and our fellow-laborers in the Anti-Slavery cause, can wash our hands of all responsibility for this civil war, and the servile, if it should deluge the South in blood. For have we not, for more than thirty years, been laboring with all our might to remove the source of this terrible calamity, by peaceful, Christian means?
Our works and our words are before God and the world; and the future historian will judge between us and our accusers. We have no fear of the decision. For myself, I desire no higher commendation, now or hereafter, than that among the earliest adherents of William Lloyd Garrison was 
Yours, as ever, lovingly,
SAMUEL J. MAY.
Here is a brief letter from yet another clergyman:-
SDDBURY, Jan. 22,1863.
VERY DEAR MADAM -I have just received an invitation to be present at the twenty-ninth Subscription-Anniversary of the friends of freedom. In returning my sincere thanks, permit me to express my hearty regrets that previous engagements will render an acceptance on my part impossible. Few incidents in life could arise making necessary self-denial more really "cross-bearing."
I beg to assure you of my most hearty desire for your success on your pleasant anniversary gathering.
All efforts to effect the freedom and elevation of the human race have the prayers and warmest sympathy of Your friend and fellow-laborer,
J. SCOTT.
P. S. Enclosed, I send you a contribution as a token, not as the measure of my good wishes. Mrs. L. M. CHILD.
The next is from a humble source, as the world judges these matters, but, in the eye of the great and impartial tribunal, whose gift shall be accounted worthier or greater than that of this poor widow?-
TARRYTOWN, (N. Y.) Jan. 27, 1863.
Enclosed, you will find one dollar, saved from the earnings of a widow more than sixty years of age, who is dependent upon her daily labor for support. She has been an appreciative reader of the Standard for many years, and desires to add her mite to its circulation. If its friends could but insure its perusal without prejudice, it would not fail to produce the most beneficial results. This community is so ultra democratic that it will not look at an Anti-Slavery paper.
Wishing you every success in the great cause of human liberty, I subscribe myself a friend to the cause till death, R. W. L.
The following letter from Mrs. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON is equally characteristic and suggestive, on the part of one who has so long and ably advocated the cause of humanity in its widest scope:-
BROOKLYN, (N. Y.,) Jan. 26, 1863.
DEAR FRIEND,-Enclosed, find $5, and my steadfast faith in the anti-slavery Christians of Boston. Verily, the only church on earth is found in the sanctuary of a few true souls. In our national struggles, the divine patience of the negro has been rivaled only by the unwavering zeal of New England Abolitionists. And now the Lilliputs of our day would blot out all there is left of the sublime in this nation! They would expatriate the negroes, and "leave New England out in the cold "! But it would be a cold without a chill, to which the lovers of a high civilization from all parts; would hasten-an isolation of peace, and joy, and comfort, where the fires of liberty, ever burning bright, would not only warm those who gather round your altars, but cheer with'.heir holy light the rising masses, from pole to pole.
We constantly hear people saying, "We are disappointed in the abolitionists and the negroes. One would think, in a time like this, they, of all classes, would be most active." They seem to lose sight of the fact, that the abolitionists have been fighting this battle for thirty years, buoyed up by no love of fame I or glory, with no martial music, or poets, or orators, to sound their praise. They enlisted when the war was so unpopular that every volunteer was obliged to feed and clothe himself, and quarter on his friends; when, for strong, stout blows and victories, he won shame, and ridicule, and martyrdom, and death; when, instead of gay cockades and epaulettes, distinction brought him tar and feathers, and rotten eggs. Denounced alike by Church and State, he calmly stood alone, and fought for freedom-invulnerable to ridicule, ambition, bribery and hate, with the charmed life God gives to those who to themselves are true. It is no great merit, now, to fight. The finger of scorn points at those, rather, who go not forth to battle. But the abolitionists have not ceased to fight. Thousands are bearing aloft the stars and stripes in the land of bondage; and the old armor-bearers at home are all at work, though with weapons mightier than the sword. Who does not feel that our seers and prophets have been baptized anew with a higher love of justice and country? that their tongues have been touched again with live coals from the altars of heaven I Again let no one say, the negro is not worth saving because he has as yet made no bold strike to achieve his liberty. Wiley does he not avail himself of this auspicious moment, and do something? If he saw things from the same point of view'we do, he would press forward. But, remember, he is still in his babyhood, and sees those objects only close to him, and knows but little of the machinery of life, and government, and war. An oppressed class are always ignorant of their rights; they distrust every body about them, as well as their own powers of self-adjustment. They have glimmerings of justice and equality, and often put the question to themselves, " Why should we be denied all we see others so much enjoy?" But they hope for a change only by some miracle, to be wrought in the lapse of time; never dreaming that the miracle is ever the powerful will of some being who sees a little farther than the rest. It is the hard-eat lesson for an oppressed, class to learn, that, to rise, they must themselves climb the ladder, round by round; they must, with their own hands, lay hold of the promises to secure them for themselves.
Let no woman, at least, taunt the negro as unworthy of freedom, because he does not take it, as long as, by the laws of the land, the code for women and slaves is much the same in most of the States; and the free black man holds a place the noblest woman has not yet attained.
Frederick Douglass, but yesterday a slave, now has the elective franchise; and in the new republic may be Secretary of War or State, or President'; but when will woman reach a point like this? Are those of us who see the boon within our reach, unworthy to possess all God-given rights, because a majority of our sex are too ignorant to seize on what is ours by right Who that understands the philosophy of mind, and the effect of ignorance, superstition and fear, can expect four millions of slaves to leap at once into a full grown manhood, and simultaneously strike a blow in the right direction? If they have done nothing they have, at least, so far acted with the public sentient of the day. If they have said nothing, and been diligent m the use of the spade, they have, at least, followed a great example. When everybody is drifting, and seemingly in the right direction, why should poor cuffee alone be required to stem the current? I think the negro has shown great wisdom in this crisis of his destiny. As ever, your friend,
E. CADY STANTON.
From Columbia county, N. Y., we have the following terse and admonitory word, of one of the most friends:-
GHENT, (N.Y) Jan, 27, 1863
Enclosed, I send contributions for the committee of the Subscription Anniversary.
I hope that by the date of the Subscription, Anniversary of next year, the edict of universal emancipation will have been officially pronounced. It is a great event tat the work "JUSTICE" has been spoken by a President, applied to the oppressed, and that three millions have been declared forever free; but it is cru-
<c06>
el and altogether inexcusably that three-quarters of a million should be left, at this crisis, the forlorn victims of the exasperated slaveholding barbarism. Abolitionists still have great responsibilities, which we have been fully met only as a righteous public opinion shall have achieved, through the President as is weapon, the complete overthrow of the accursed system of chattel slavery. The same high price, as if old,-" eternal vigilance,"-must be paid for liberty. Nothing less will secure and maintain it. We shall all be with you in spirit, as we would most gladly be bodily present at the Subscription Anniversary.
A. M. P.
From Hon. EDGAR KETCHUM, of New York, cars the following, very cheering to our spirits, and helpful in every way:-
HARLEM, (N. Y.) Jan. 10, <illegible>.
MRS. L. MARIA CHILD:
MADAM-While rebels, secessionists, false Democracy and some who once called themselves Republicans, and alike at New England, the Abolitionists, and the Proclamation, it is refreshing to hear the voice of <illegible> Society ring out, with clearness and courage, in the Appeal for the National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary. I have been favored with a copy if to my address, and feel obliged by the remembers. You have a right to rejoice and give thanks, not a labor in hope, and to ask of others aid for the <illegible> you carry on. I esteem it a privilege to contribution through you, to the cause of freedom, and cheerfully enclose my check for twenty dollars.
Your friend and servant.
EDGAR KETCHUM.
Again were we honored, encouraged and most generously assisted by a letter from our venerable faces in Montreal, Judge SAMUEL GALE. Could he have heard the heartfelt burst of applause which followed the reading of his letter in the Music Hall, <illegible> are sure it would have gratified him deeply. And could the earnest wishes and prayers of our heard find answer, his ripening years should be the happiest of his life, and he should see the desire of his a soul fulfilled in the speedy and perfect triumph of those eternal principles of Justice and Freedom, whose loyal servant he has rejoiced to be. We would preserve his letter, and the memory of its cheering words:-
MONTREAL, Jan. 22, <illegible>.
MY DEAR MADAM-We shall soon commence the third year of that most atrocious civil war in the United States which has astonished the world. <illegible> in selfishness and treason by those who, at the time, had chiefly the management of affairs, and assisted probably in their plans by the person then the head of the Union, they were enabled to began in after having reduced the Government to a state of comparative weakness. Then expecting by a <illegible> main to induce a recognition of the rebellious movement by foreign powers, and their object seemed in stained. But to obtain recognition of the new <illegible> deeper reflection among statesmen seems to <illegible> been necessary. In the words of Professor <illegible> in his masterly reply to Mr. Gladstone-

"When a power, comparable only to Thugs, <illegible>, and Cannibals, tries to thrust its hideous have among nations, and claims the protection and <illegible> of international law,-a power which rose against the freest rule on earth, for the avowed motive of propagating the worst form of slavery ever known-having no legitimate complaint, or if it had, <illegible> trying no constitutional means of redress, but <illegible> at once into arms, and that, when the arsenals had been emptied and the fortresses seized by the treasure of office holders;-I hold it to be an offence against law order, and public morality, for a statesman, where words carry weight, to speak at all of such a power without declaring abhorrence of it."
I think it would be too much for me to attempt to carry my fourscore years several hundred miles, as this cold season, to the meeting of the National Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary; but as I abhor <illegible>, love liberty, and desire peace, I send my contribution, by draft of the Bank of Montreal on the Merchants' Bank of Boston, for four hundred dollars, which I have indorsed in your favor.
I am sorry to give you so much trouble in this business, but was happy to see your name at the head of the ladies' list, and you have kindly assisted <illegible> former occasions, for which I am, in great truth,
Your sincere and faithful friend,
SAMUL GALK.
Mrs. L. Maria Child.
But we must refrain from further extracts our correspondence, or else we shall extend our reports is too great a length. The earlier part of the evening was well occupied by the remarks of MONCERE CONWAY and WILLIAM WELLS BROWN, and with the impressive readings of Mrs. DE MORTIE, the gloving tinge of whose complexion certainly did not impair the effect of her well-selected and well-pronounced pieces. In the intervals, music from the <illegible> came in to refresh and inspire; and the remainder of the evening was devoted to promenading, <illegible> and music. We acknowledge with our best thanks the aid rendered to us by EDMUND QUINCY, Esq., who so cheerfully consented to preside on the occasion, and who discharged the duties of the office with his usual ability and success.
The arrangements of the stage attracted attentions, and though no attempt at display was made, proved of much interest to the assembly. Upon a long which screen were placed portraits and busts of <illegible> friends, living and departed, of the Anti-Slavery cause; in the centre being an admirable life-size and most life-like portrait of JOHN BROWN, Hero and Martyr of Liberty. Besides the busts and portraits were other memorials of the long anti-slavery contest, and around the hall were arranged the banners, with their appropriate devices and mottoes, which for thirty years have illustrated our principles and our gatherings. In the rear of the stage was raise the large banner containing the State coat-of-arms of Virginia, that State lately so proud, claiming to be mistress of the land, and bitterly wreaking her vengeance upon JOHN BROWN and his handful of friends; but now, sunk so low, devastated by the war she herself courted and helped to inaugurate, and stripped of the unjust power she wielded so long.
It was thought desirable to obtain, if possible, a photographic picture of the stage and southern end of the Music Hall,-as a memorial of the occasion,-and a very successful representation has been obtained by a well known and skilful artist.
In conclusion, we are happy to be able to say that the total amount of the subscription, received to this time, is over THREE THOUSAND, SIX HUNDRED DOLLARS. The amount received from home contributions is larger than upon any previous occasion, a circumstance extremely cheering to us, and hopeful for the future. The European subscriptions are much less than heretofore, for many reasons; and first, because no direct appeal or request was made by us to friends abroad for aid, and because the general notice was issued here at so late a day, (not until December,) that but little time for response to it was left on the part of friends in Europe. But, still more, the misapprehensions concerning our war and the relation of Abolitionists to it, which have extensively <illegible> abroad, (which now, we rejoice to see, are giving way before clearer light and the higher position of our own government,) and the wide-spread distress in the manufacturing districts of Great Britain and Ireland, forbade us to ask or to anticipate the usual donations.
With sincere thanks to ALL, whose united interest and effort made our twenty-ninth anniversary so pleasant, so full of promise, and so helpful to the cause, we close our Report.
L. MARIA CHILD.
In behalf of the Committee of Anti-Slavery Women. 
NOTE. It is very possible that, in recording the names of contributors, at the Subscription Anniversary, with the sums annexed to them, some errors may have occurred, in spite of the utmost care taken to be accurate. If so, a correction will be promptly made whenever pointed out. If any omissions are discovered, let them be supplied, so as to perfect the list.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SUBSCRIPTION LIST
Of the Twenty Ninth National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary.
Mrs. Mary May 100.00
Miss Anne Warren Weston 20.00
Mrs. Louisa Loring, 25.00
Miss Henrietta Sergeant, 10.00
Mrs. Helen Eliza Garrison, 10.00
Mrs. Anna Shaw Greene. 200.00 
Mrs. Lydia D. Parker, 20.00
Mrs. Evelina A. Smith, 2.00
Mrs. Anna R. Bramhall, 12.00
Mrs. Sarah C. Atkinson, 10.00
Miss. Mary Willey, 1.00 
Mrs. Sarah J. Nowell, 10.00
Mrs. Mary Jackson, 5.00
Miss. Sarah Cowing, 2.00
Miss. Mary Jane Parkman, 10.00
Miss. M. A. G. Otis, 5.00
Mrs. Caroline E. Putnam, 20.00
Miss. Caroline C. Thayer, 2.00
Mrs. Katherine E. Earnum, 3.00
David Lee Child, and L. Maria Child, 20.00
Samuel May, Jr., and Sarah R. May, 30.00 
Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Von Arnim, 10.00
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel E. Sewall, 20.00
Mrs. Lucinda Smith Otis, 20.00
Mrs. Ann T. G. Phillips, 100.00
Wendell Phillips, 100.00
Hon. Samuel Gale, Montreal, Canada, 400.00
Hon. Gerrit Smith, 10.00
Dr. Convers Francis, Cambridge, 8.00
Mrs. L. Emerson, Concord, 5.00
Mrs. James M. Robbins, 10.00
Hon. James G. Palfrey, 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. William I. Bewitch, 50.00
Samuel May, Esq., 100.00
Nathaniel Barney, Nantucket, 20.00
Alvah A. Burrage, Esq., Boston, 20.00
J.Z. Goodrich, Esq., 2.00
Tyler Bigelow, Esq., Watertown, 5.00
John S. Dwight, Esq., Boston, 3.00 
George Atkinson, Esq., Boston, 5.00
F. A. Green, Boston, 5.00
John Cartis Boston 5.00
Hannah Castell, Boston, 5.00
S. Urbino, Boston, 3.00
John L. Whiting, Boston, 3.00
Mrs. Mary M. Brooks Concord, 10.00 
Mrs. Lucretia A. Reed, Roxbury, 10.00
Wm. L. Foster, Esq., Milton, 10.00 
Alvan and Nancy L. Howes, Barnstable, 10.00 
Misses Bradford, Duxbury, 10.00
Rich and Mary Plumer, Newburyp't 5.00
Edward Earle, Worcester, 5.00
Mrs. J. C. Nichols, 5.00
Miss. H. A. Wilson, 2.00 
Isacc Osgood, Esq., 2.00
Mary Osgood, 1.00
Mehitable Haskell, Gloucester, 2.00
Mrs. Lydia S. Walker, Leominster, 4.00
Joel Smith, Leominster, 2.00
Mrs. Sarah Wilder, Leominster, 0.50
Elizabeth Wilder, Leominster, 0.50
James H Carter, Leominster, 0.50
G.W.Walbridge, E. Douglasss, 5.00
Briggs Arnold, E. Abington, 2.00
Zebina H. Small Harwich 5.00
Mrs. Charlotte Childs, Barnstable. 3.00 
Mr. and Mrs. Sylvanus Smith, Boston, 2.00 
Mr. and Mrs. L.MeLauthlin, Pembroke, 2.00 
Mr.,and Mrs. Chas C.McLauthlin, 2.00 
Edward B.Perkins, Salem, 5.00
Laban Pratt, Dorchester, 5.00 
Robert Johnson 5.00
Charles K. and E.C. Whipple, Boston 10.00
Cornclius Wellington, Esq., 10.00
Miss.Hannah Robie 20.00
Thomas Sewall, Esq, 10.00
Miss Mary Sewall, 10.00 
Mrs.Eliza A. Morrill, Concord, N. H. 6.00 
Mrs. Lydia J. Jarvis Boston, 5.00 
Mrs. Pitman, Boston 10.00
Reuben H. Ober Boston 10.00
Miss. Bradford Boston 1.00
Mrs. Susan E.B Channing Boston 3.00
Miss E.H Day, Lewiston, Me, 5.00
A.H.Howard 5.00 
Frederick-H. Henshaw, Esq., Boston, 10.00 
A Friend, Boston, 10.00 
Simeon P. Adams, Boston, 10.00
Mr. Willard, Boston, 3.00
Charles W. Slack, Esq., Boston, 5.00
T. W. Ripley, Boston, 2.00
R. R. Crosby Boston, 2.00
George M. Rogers, Boston, 5.00
James Jackson, Boston, 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. William Tuttle, 2.00
T, S. Conant, 1.00
Mrs. E. Putnam, 1.00
Joshua H. Putnam, 5.00
A. C. Davidson, 1.00
Miss Leslia Knox, 1.00
M.Carr, 1.00
Joseph Scarlet, 1.00
Mrs. C. D. Jackson, 1.00
Mrs. Martha Freeman, 1.00
N. L. Perkins, 1.00
N. L. Towne, 2.00
Lydia Brown, 2.00
Mr. Baldwin, 1.00
Miss E. T. Doyle, 1.00
Charles B. Taylor, 1.15
Mrs. George S.Winslow, Boston, 30.00
John R. Manley, Boston, 5.00
Rev. R. C. Waterston, Boston, 5.00,
Mrs. Waterston, Boston, 5.00
Rev. J, Scott, Sudbury, 1.00
Rev. Samuel Johnson, Jr., Lynn, 5.00
Rev. Nathaniel Hall, Dorchester, 5.00
Hon. Francis W. Bird, 5.00
Charles E. Jenkins, Dorchester, 10.00
Miss Mary S. McFarland, 20.00
Miss Sophia S. McFarland, 20.00
John J. May, Dorchester, 20.00.
Charles E. Hodges, Dorchester, 5.00
B. F. Schieffelin, Esq., New York, 100.00
Mr. and Mrs. Marcus Spring, New York, 50.00
William Gibbons Hopper, New York, 50.00
Hon. Edgar Ketchum. New York, 20.00
Wm. Henry Burr, Esq., New York, 10.00
C. B. LeBaron, Esq., New York, 5.00
Mrs. E. Cady Stanton, Brooklyn, N. Y., 5.00
Rev. Samuel J. May, Syracuse, N. Y., 20.00
Charles T. Beach, East Otto, N. Y., 10.00
Mr. & Mrs. Benj. Fish, Rochester, N. Y., 3.00
Mary B. F. Curtis, Rochester, N. Y., 5.00
Catherine A. F. Stebbins, Rochester, N. Y., 2.00
Sarah L. Willis, Rochester, N. Y., 5.00
Amy Post, Rochester, N. Y., 1.00
Mary H. Hallowell, Rochester, N. Y., 2.00
Mary S. Anthony, Rochester, N. Y., 2.00
Sophia Hoskins, Union Springs, N. Y., 1.00
Pliay Sexton, Palmyra, N. Y., 1.00
Matthias Hutchinson, King's Ferry, N. Y., 2.00
J-A. Burr, Ludlowville, N. Y., 10.00
Mrs. M. K. Hubbard, Ludlowville, N. Y., 1.00
H. B. Lord, Ludlowville, N. Y., 1.00
B. Joy. Ludlowville, N. Y., 50
George Drake, Ludlowville, N. Y., 50
Rev. J. W. Pratt, Ludlowville, N. Y., 50
S. S. Todd, Ludlowville, N. Y., 50
Nelson Parsons, Ludlowville, N. Y., 25
Sallie Holley, Farmersville, N. Y., 1.50
Caroline F. Putnam, Farmersville, N. Y., 1.00
Mrs. Hannah Howland, Sherwoods, N. Y., 50
Stocum Howland, Sherwoods, N. Y.,1.00
Miss Emily Howland, 1.00
Mrs. Oliver Dennett, Portland, Maine, 5.00
Benjamin Chase, Auburn, N. H., 1.00
Joseph Jones, 1.00
W. G. Blanchard, 1.00
Mrs. M. E. P. Hunt, 1.00
R. W. L., Tarrytown, N. Y., 1.00
Lewis Spalding, Borodino, N. Y., 1.00
Isaac H. Marshall, Hampstead, N. H., 2.50
J. E. Brown, N. H., 2.00
Mrs, Clarissa G. Olds, Hampton, N. H., 2.00
Lizzie M. Powell, Ghent, N. Y., 4.00
Anna Rice Powell, Ghent, N. Y., 1.00
Aaron M. Powell, Ghent, N. Y., 1.00
T. W. Suliot, Franklin Mills, Ohio, 5.00
Mrs. M. H. Watson, St. Paul, Minnesota, 5.00
Elizabeth Nickerson, Wilmington, Ohio, 2.00
Abraham Brooke, Marlboro', Ohio, 3.00
Lewis Morgan, Marlboro', Ohio, 1.00
Reuben Erwin, Marlboro', Ohio, 1.00
Griffith M. Cooper, Williamson, N. Y., 1.00
Friends in Cayuga, N. Y., 1.00
Thomas Chandler, Adrian, Michigan, 1.00
Smuel Hayball, Adrian, Michigan, 1.00
Joseph Merrit, Battle Creek, Michigan, 1.00
Phebe and R. B. Merritt, Creek, Michigan, 1.00
Phebe Willis, Creek, Michigan, 1.00
Lizzie Merritt, Creek, Michigan, 1.00
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Thaxter, Hingham, 5.00
Miss Percy Scarborough, Hingham, 2.00
Elizabeth Cushing, Hingham, 3.00
Ada Whiton, Hingham, 3.00
J.O. Lovett, Hingham, 2.00
A Friend, Hingham, 1.00
George W. Greene, Milton, 2.00
Miss. Charlotte G. Coffin, Roxbury, 1.00
Mrs. Julia Meloon, Boston, 5.00
Wru. Lloyd Garrison, Boston, 10.00
George T. Garrison, Boston, 5.00
Wendell,P.Garrison, Boston, 5.00
Mrs. H. B. Emerson, Boston, 3.00
Wm. L. Garrison, Jr., Dorchester, 5.00
Rev. P. Fisk, 10.00
Mrs. Lucinda L. Jameson, Boston, 1.00
David Mack, Esq., 3.00
George H. Rogers, Esq., 5.00
C. Seaver, Jr., 2.00
Gilbert C. Brown, 5.00
Bessie S. Lockwood, M.D., 3.00
Edward Humphrey, 1.00
<c02>
Ellen M. Squire, 1.00
Esther A. Squire, 1.00
Mr. and Mrs. Josiah Hayward, Salem, 4.00
Josiah Hayward, Jr., Boston, 1.00
Miss Rebekah M. Northey, Salem, 3.00
Mrs. Wm. B. Ives, Salem, 3.00
Mr. & Mrs. Stephen Clapp, Dorchester, 5.00
Mrs. Mary Clap, Dorchester,10.00
Frederic Weis, Esq., Dorchester, 3.00
J. C. Lindsley, Esq., Dorchester, 10.00
Maria Sylvester, Dorchester, 1.00
C. H. Codman, Esq., Neponset, 5.00
Mrs. James Freeman Clarke, 10.00
Martha S. S. Wellington, Roxbury, 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel B. Stedman, 10.00
Matilda Goddard, Boston, 2.00
Rebecca A. Goddard, Boston, 2.00
Eliza M. Thayer, Boston, 2.00
Estus Lamb, Blackstone, 5.00
Mrs. Saunders, 55
I. Sumner Lincoln, Warwick, 1.00
Edmund Quincy, Esq., Dedham, 25.00
Henry G. Denny, Esq., Dorchester, 10.00
A. T. Stearns, 3.00
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 10.00
Mrs. H. N. Gray, Reading, 1.00
Ira Gray, Reading 2.00
Mr. & Mrs. Edwin Dresser, Cambridgep't,3.00
Mrs. Wm. Wells Brown, 1.00
Louisa Dresser, 1.00
Kelly Dresser, 1.00
Miss Thaxter, Hingham, 2.00
Louisa R. Beal, Hingham, 2.00
Mrs. Joshua B. Smith, 20.00
A. W. M., 5.00
Adeline May, 2.00
Dr. Marie E. Zakrzewska, Boston, 2.00
Dr. Mary E. Breed, Boston, 2.00
Mrs. E. D. Cheney, Boston, 3.00
Edward Winslow, Esq., Boston, 3.00
Abram Folsom. Esq., Boston, 5.00
R. W. Henshaw, Esq., Boston, 10.00
Peter B. Brigham, Esq., Boston, 1.00
Charles Carroll, Esq., Boston, 1.00
Margaret Granger, 2.00
F. Burnham, Esq., 2.00
R. P. and A. D. Hallowell, Medford, 25.00
Miss Lucy Osgood, Medford, 10.00
Miss E. J. Leonard, Medford, 1.00
Mrs. Eliza Garret, Medford, 1.00
Theodore D. Weld, 5.00
Mr. & Mrs. D. Joy, Glen Haven, N. Y., 25.00
John H. Stephenson, Esq., Boston, 10.00
G. W. Stevens, Boston, 3.00
Uriah Ritchie, Boston, 5.00
John Ritchie, Boston, 5.00
A. W. Goddard, Esq., Brookline, 5.00
Mrs. Charles Goddard, Winchester, 5.00
Daniel Low, Lunenburg, 4.00
N. M. R., 2.00
Mrs. H. C. Hardon, South Boston, 1.00
Thomas B. Rice, Boston, 2.00
A. Wilson, Boston, 3.00
Adams Twitchell, Boston, 2.00
Cash, Boston, 10.00
Mr. Bonwell', Boston, 2.00
Friend, 5.00
Jane E. Beale, 1.00
B. C. Perry, 1.00
Albert Jackson, 1.00
Wm. A. Taylor, 1.00
Lucy W. Abell, M. D., 50
Martha A. Lockley, 1.00
Maria Palmer, 1.00
D. B. and A. B. Morey, Maiden, 15.00
James N. Buffum, Lynn, 20.00
Misses Ireson, Lynn, 8.00
William Bassett, Lynn, 5.00
John B. Pierce, Lynn, 5.00
Wm. G. S. Keene, Lynn, 3.00
Philip A. Chase, Lynn, 5.00
Jas. Edward Oliver, Lynn, 5.00
William Bassett, Jr., Lynn, 5.00
William Ashby, Newburyport, 5.00
Misses Andrews, Newburyport, 3.00
Mary C. Shannon, Newton Corner, 2.00
Robert Adams, Fall River, 5.00
Ezekicl and Alice Thacher, Barnstable, 10.00
Nathan Crocker, Barnstable, 1.00
E. D. and Anna T. Draper, Hopedale, 100.00
W. W. Dutcher, Hopedale, 25.00
Mrs. M. A. Dutcher, Hopedale, 25.00
Mrs. L. H. Bowker, Hopkintou, 5.00
Bourne Spooner, Plymouth, 20.00
T. B. Drew, Plymouth, 3.00
Ambrose Keith, Bridgewater, 1.00
H. H. Brigham, South Abington, 5.00
J. G. Dodge, West Cambridge, 3.00
Mr. & Mrs. Joseph Merrill, Danversport, 2.00
Mary P. Clark, Danvers, 1.00
Maria Page, Danvers, 1.00
Joseph Southwick, Grantville, 5.00
Thankful Southwick, Grantville, 5.00
Mrs. R. H. Morrill, Grantville, 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Thompson, 2.00
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis Putnam, 3.00
Mrs. Harriet Simmons, Boston, 1.00
Edmund Jackson, Esq., Boston, 5.00
David A. Sahlein, Boston, 5.00
J. M. W. Yerrinton, Chelsea, 5.00
Alden Sampson, Charlestown, 5.00
Andrew L. Haskell, 3.00
C. Lovell, East Boston, 2.00
Nathaniel Waterman, Esq., Boston, 3.00
Mrs. Dr. Jackson, Boston, 2.00
Mrs. David Hunt, 5.00
Simpson H. Lewis, 2.00
George W. Stacy, Milford, 2.00
Nathan Richardson, Esq., Warren, 5.00
Stephen Barker, Esq., Methuen, 3.00
Lydia M. Plumer, Newbury, 5.00
A. A. Bent, South Gardner, 3.00
Eliza P. Hammond, Florence, 2.00
Dr. and Mrs. H. O. Stone, Framingham, 2.00
Eliab Wight, Esq., Bellingham, 5.00
Abner Belcher, Wrentham, 1.00
Benjamin Downes, Bradford, 1.00
Deborah Kimball, Hanover, 1.00
J. McDonald, Chelsea, 3.00
William Proctor, Boston, 3.00
John Wilson, Boston, 3.00
Mrs. John Jones, Roxbury, 1.00
E. S., 3.00
Branch Blackmer, 1.00
Samuel L. Young, 1.00
Sarah Maynard, 1.00
Leonora Tooker, 1.00
John Putnam, 1.00
Mrs. Julia M. Friend, Gloucester, 1.00
Henry C. Wright, 1.00
Miss E. D. Knight, 1.50
C. Henry Adams, 1.00
John T. Hilton, 50
D. Dyer, 2.00
J. H. Rogers, 1.00
Abby Hutchinson, Braintree, Vermont, 2.00
Jesse Steadman, Springfield, Vermont, 2.00
Charlotte L. Hill, Ellsworth, Maine, 1.00
Anna Alley, Freeport, Maine, 5.00
Charlotte J. Thomas, Portland, Maine, 2.00
Mrs. J. M. Hall, West Killingly, Conn., 5.00
James A. Austin, New Haven, Conn., 10.00
Martha Smith, Plainfield, Conn., 10.00
Lauren Wetmore, Wolcottville, Conn., 5.00
Dr. and Mrs. Whitcomb, Brooklyn, Conn., 5.00
Olive Gilbert, Brooklyn, Conn., 2.00
J. B. Stetson, Brooklyn, Conn., 2.40
Mrs. Kate Conant, Brooklyn, Conn., 2.70
Philip Scarborough, Brooklyn, Conn., 3.00
Perrin Scarborough, Brooklyn, Conn., 3.00
Edwin Scarborough, Brooklyn, Conn., 3.00
Mr. and Mrs. N. White, Concord, N. H., 25.00
Perlev King, South Danvers, 25.00
Mr. & Mrs. J. Henshaw, W. Brookfield, 10.00
Mr. & Mrs. Elias Richards, Weymouth, 10.00
Elisha Clapp, Gill, 5.00
G. Miles, Westminster, 3.00
Mrs. E. S. Preston, New Ipswich, N. H., 5.00
Luther Melendy, Amherst, N. H.,5.00
Mary P. Payson, Peterboro', N. H., 10.00
Climena Philbrick, Seabrook, N. H., 2.00
B. F. Hutchinson, Milford, N. H., 3.00
Mr. and Mrs. P. Pillsbury, Concord, N. H., 10.00
Mrs. M. P. Osborn and daughters, Dover,12.00
J. Sawyer, 5.00
Amon Parmenter, Esq., Newport, R. I., 5.00
Elizabeth B. Chase, Valley Falls, R. I., 5.00
Albert Peck, Providence, R. I., 1.00
Rev. John L. Russell, Salem, 2.00
Friends in Salem, by Mrs. C. E. P., 20.00
I. D. S., 1.00
Mrs. Logan, 50
Virginia, 50
Mrs. Earle, 1.00
Mrs. Beal, East Boston, 1.00
Charles M. Walton, Philadelphia, 5.00
M. C. Hallowell, 1.00
Emmett Densmore, Plumer, Pa., 10.00
George S. Stearns, Cincinnati, 1.00
Cash collection, 17.00
" Friends," in various sums, 20.10
Miss Nichols, 25cts.; E. M. Lawton, 25cts.; Julia Landrick, 25; A.B., 25; Mary Walker, 25; Frederic Gilmore, 50; W. G. Brown, 50; Mary A. Hall, 25; A. B. Smith, 50; Mrs. Hill, 20; Mrs. H. N.Tyler,50; J. M. Eveleth, 50.

EUROPEAN SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Friends in EDINBURGH, Scotland, by Mrs. Jane Wigham, £21 0 0
ULVERSTON, by Ann Fletcher Jackson, 5 0 0
Mrs. Maria W. Palmer, Waterford, Ireland, 10 0 0 
Richard D. Webb, Dublin, Ireland, 5 0 0
WARRINGTON (England) Anti-Slavery Society, by Wm. Robson Esq., 12 10 0
Miss Walton, Manchester, 1 0 0
BRISTOL, by Mrs. Stephens, 2 3 6
Mrs. Anne Allen, Dublin, 5 0 0
<c03>
TREMENDOUS POPULAR DEMONSTRATION IN EXETER HALL, LONDON.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN AND THE PROCLAMATION.
According to the London Morning Star of the 30th ultimo, one of the greatest, if not the greatest demonstration of opinion on any public question Exeter Hall has over beheld, took place the evening previous. The meeting was convened by the Emancipation Society to express sympathy with the emancipation policy of President Lincoln, and to pass congratulatory resolutions to be forwarded to the United States Government. The meeting was advertised to commence at seven o'clock, but long before the hour, the large hall was filled to suffocation. From the platforms on cither side of the great organ to the back of the western gallery was one dense mass of human beings sitting and standing in every variety of attitude, as they strove to adapt themselves to the exigencies arising out of the terrible crush to which all were alike subjected. As the large hall was thus filled, and thousands still crowded the corridors, the word was passed to open the lower hall. In a few moments, the indefatigable doorkeeper and his assistants had the room in readiness, a few gentlemen tendered their services as speakers, and a second meeting was assembled. Meanwhile, the pressure from without continued. Exeter street was filled, and the traffic in the Strand seriously impeded by thousands of persons who pressed against the closed doors. At this time, Mr. Nicholay, of Oxford street, arrived, and assumed the chairmanship of an out-of-door meeting in Exeter street.
Meanwhile, the meeting up stairs, under the presidency of Mr. William Evans, the chairman of the Emancipation Society, had commenced. On the platform were, amongst many others, the following gentlemen, viz:-Mr. P. A. Taylor, M. P.; Mr. Thomas Hughes, (author of "Tom Brown,) Mr. J. M. Ludlow, Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel, Rev. Newman Hall, Mr. Edmond Beales, Mr. Samuel Lucas, Mr. R. Hill, Bedford; M. Victor Schcelcher, Mr. H. J. Slack, the Rev. Dawson Burns, Mr. Morse, the American Consul-General; Mr. L. A. Chamerovzow, Mr. J. A. Nicholay, the Rev. H. Solly, the Rev. J. H. Rylance, Mr. F. W. Chesson, Captain Wallhouse, Rev. William Landells, Rev. J. C. Galloway, A. M., Mr. George Edwin Outraw, Rev. H. D. Northrop, B. A., Mr. J. Foster Holmes, Mr. C. H. Elt, Mr. Alderman Towle, Oxford; Mr. Alderman Grubb, Oxford; Mr. William Tweedle, Mr. George Newman, Mr. John Gorrie, Rev. Dawson Burns, Mr. A. W. Bostwick, Mr. Ebenezer Burr, Mr. W. Whittaker, Mr. Ford, Rev. P. W. Williamson, Mr. W. J. Barlow, Mr. John Stewart, Mr. James Taylor, jr., of Birmingham; Mr. W. B. Hodge, (from Honduras,) Rev. A. C. Thomas, Rev. James Bolton, Mr. James Chalmers, (from Canada,) Mr. G. J. Holyoake, Mr. G. II. Thompson, Mr. J. Mathieson, Mr. W. T. Malleson, &c. &c. &c.
The proceedings were throughout marked by the most extreme enthusiasm, which some slight opposition only served more strongly to develop. The cheers from the meetings in the lower hall and from the street were frequently heard by the audience above, and added to the exciting interest of the scene. During the evening, telegrams reporting a similar demonstration at Bedford, where 4000 persons were assembled in St. George's Hall, under the presidency of Mr. W. E. Forster, the member for that borough, and from Stroud, where Mr. Handel Cossham, of Bristol, and Mr. George Thompson were present, were received, and, on being read by the chairman, elicited tremendous cheers, which again and again greeted the various speakers. Altogether, the meeting was a triumphant indication of the thorough anti-slavery feeling of the country, and an answer to all imputations of the detestation of the rebellion of the Southern slaveholders being limited to any one class or section of the community.
Speeches of great eloquence and spirit were made by the Chairman, Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel, Mr. Thomas Hughes, B. A., Rev. Newman Hall, Mr. Taylor, M. P. for Leicester, Mr. J. M. Ludlow, and others. The proceedings occupy nearly ten closely printed columns in the Star. From these we shall quote hereafter, as far as the continually crowded state of our columns will permit.
We put Mr. J. Beresford Hope, (see his knavish and ridiculous speech in the "Refuge of Oppression,") in one scale, and this tremendous public demonstration in the other! It is needless to say which kicks the beam.
Not aware that the writer of the following letter was in England, we are all the more gratified in receiving it:-
LONDON, (England,) Jan. 30, 1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,-I send you by the same, mail which takes this note, a copy of the Morning Star, which contains a full account of the monster demonstration, last evening, at Exeter Hall, in favor of Emancipation. It was truly and emphatically a MONSTER MEETING-a grand, spontaneous uprising of the middle and working classes of this busy, bustling, pulsating metropolis. Old England is, at last, awake, and is speaking out in thunder tones on the great question at issue between the Northern and Southern States of the American Republic. Exeter Hall was packed to its utmost capacity, and the thousands who could not gain access to the large hall were obliged to improvise meetings in the smaller hall; and that being packed, in the street leading to the hall, which was also filled with a dense mass of human beings, assembled to express, in unmistakable terms as they did, their warm and heartfelt sympathy for the North, in her struggle for human freedom. The few oligarchs in England, who may still sympathise with slavery and the Southern Rebels, will be rendered absolutely powerless by these grand and powerful uprisings of THE PEOPLE. And why have these expressions of the masses of England been so long delayed? Simply, as I am told, for the reason that, up to the time of the issuing of the Emancipation Proclamation, the North was not fighting for a principle, but for an abstract idea-the Constitution. They could see but little difference between the contestants. But when the decree came, proclaiming freedom to three and a half millions of toiling bondmen, then the liberty-loving and slavery-hating men of England saw clearly the issue, and, henceforth, the PEOPLE of England will be with us, heart and soul.
Good speeches were made, at the great hall, the best speaker of the evening being the Rev. Newman Hall, who occupies Rowland Hill's pulpit at Surrey Chapel. He is a fine speaker, and a noble man. A few Southern slaveholders and their pimps were scattered over the hall, for the purpose of creating a disturbance, but they were foiled by the overwhelming odds against them. They made several ineffectual attempts to speak, hut were stormed down, the audience being determined not to listen to any defence of slavery or the Southern cause. It would have done your heart good to have been present. I thought of you frequently, and of our "golden-tongued" Phillips, as I looked upon the array upon the platform, and wished that you both were present, and that some of your glowing utterances might be heard.
I called at our old friend, George Thompson's residence, last week, but found that he was absent on a lecturing tour in the west of England.
I have been in this country long enough to have ascertained that the more vigorously the war is prosecuted by President Lincoln, and the more thoroughly and completely his Emancipation policy is carried out, the more outspoken and determined will be the support of the English people; and, 1 may add, the whole of Europe. These opinions are not confined to the middling and working classes, but many Liverpool merchants with whom I conversed uttered the same sentiments, saying that if President Lincoln should recede from his position, or for a moment listen to a compromise by which the South might come back into the Union with slavery intact, that moment the doom of the American Republic would be sealed. Yours for freedom,
JOHN P. JEWETT,
No. 25 Princes Street, Cavendish Square.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE STANDARD PHONOGRAPHIC DICTIONARY, by ANDREW J. GRAHAM, conductor of the Phonetic Academy, New York, and author of "The Handbook of Standard Phonography;" The Synopsis of Standard Phonography;" the first and second Standard Phonographic Reader; "Brief Longhand;" "A System for the Rapid Expression of Numbers," &c. New York: Published by Andrew J. Graham, 274 Canal street. 1863.
Mr. Graham's previous works had prepared us to expect that this Dictionary, upon which he has been actively engaged for three years, would show proofs of great care and thought, and the handsome volume before us, of 1053 octavo pages, does not disappoint our expectations-indeed, far exceeds them, both in the number of words embraced, and the completeness with which the plan of the work has been carried out. The author has devised a system of nomenclature, which enables him to furnish the requisite information in much less space than is demanded by the method of the English Phonographic Dictionary, in which the phonographic outlines are engraved at length. This work gives the pronunciation of the words, and the phonographic characters representing them, in the corresponding and reporting styles, as thus-"LIBERATOR, liberator, Lay-Ber-Ter; rs [reporting style] do., or, if fr., [frequent] Lay-Bret (or-Berter.)" This is unintelligible, no doubt, to the ordinary reader, but to any one who has even the most superficial knowledge of phonography, it will be perfectly intelligible. In addition to this, numerous contractions are given, and a multitude of word and phrase signs, which are of the utmost service to the reporter; many of them, indeed, indispensable. To those who have made themselves familiar with the system of nomenclature adopted by Mr. Graham, whether students or reporters, this Dictionary will be invaluable; and those who have not, can hardly do better than make haste to supply the deficiency. There may be some question, among reporters, as to whether the outlines given are in all cases the most advantageous, and it may be that some will think the author's principles of contraction are carried to an extreme which will interfere with the legibility of the writing; but such criticisms are merely incidental, and do not touch the substantial merits of the work, which are very great. We are confident that every phonographer will be ready to bestow upon Mr. Graham the most unstinted praise for the indefatigable zeal and industry which he has displayed in the performance of his laborious undertaking, and to join with him in giving "fervent thanks for life spared and the blessed opportunity of achievement for a beautiful and useful art." The work is printed and bound in a style which reflects great credit upon all concerned in the mechanical details. Price, in cloth, $4.00; post-paid, $4.60.-Y.
NEW Music. The following sheet music for the piano has been lately issued by Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street, Boston:-
La Baladine. Caprice, by C. B. Lysberg. (From the Piano Forte Album.)
Je t' ai ecoute-(I have heard thee)-Morceau de Salon, par T. Badarzewska.
Warblings at Dawn. Romance for the piano, by Brinley Richards.
Valse le Favorite, pour piano par A. E. Warren.
Dream on! Serenade. Words and music by Jas. M. Stewart.
Come, come away with me! Song. Words and music by H. M. D.
God bless thee, brave Soldier! Reply to the "Soldier's Farewell." By T. H. Howe.
Friendship. Ballad. Written and composed by Henry J. Haycraft.

FIRST CATEOLIC CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH OF BOSTON.
1. This church is designed to be a school of Biblical and Moral Science, and to adopt systematic and thorough courses of instruction in the same, extending through periods of not less than four years.
2. It will be an institution of universal freedom, and prescribe no rules of faith to bewilder, and impose no tests but righteous deeds in the pursuit of the greatest good.
3. It will meet statedly at 10 1-2 o'clock, A. M., on the Sabbath, and be instructed by the reading of the Scriptures and their interpretation from the original Greek and Hebrew, and by sermons or lectures, accompanied with prayers and sacred music.
4. The church will consist of all who attend its meetings, give their assent to its principles and methods, and contribute statedly to its support; and their names will be duly enrolled as members on application for the purpose. Members will be allowed to withdraw at pleasure, and be subject to dismission for disorderly conduct.
The public generally, of all ages, conditions and characters, young and old, rich and poor, refined and unrefined, good and bad, are respectfully invited to attend. The invitation is universal; all who please come. It is proposed to open new avenues to the blessed fountains of knowledge, piety, virtue and happiness, and to give a new impetus to the Christian cause.
Rev. LEICESTER A. SAWYER, having secured the pleasant and commodious hall, No. 4 Mercantile Building, 16 Summer street, will commence the stated public services of this church, next Sabbath, Feb. 22d, the first Sunday in Lent, and Washington's birth-day. The sermon will consider the Christian church and its objects.

A PATRIOTIC SUGGESTION.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-Would it not be a good idea to publish the names of those who did not close their places of business in respect (?) to George B. McClellan? If so, you can put me down as one who kept his place open in respect to himself, and loyalty to the Government.
Truly yours,
C. HENRY ADAMS.
Boston, Feb. 3, 1863.
BEECHER'S LAST. The Springfield Republican says-"Henry Ward Beecher was in the train with McClellan, Saturday-in a front car, the hero behind. 'Where is the General?' inquired a companion. 'In the rear, as usual,' replied Henry Ward."
A NEW MILITARY SENSATION FOR THE BOSTON "ARISTOCRACY." General Tom Thumb.
A GOOD JOKE. The New York Times says that General McClellan has applied for active service. Is it activity in digging ditches, in beating retreats, or in pursuing that "masterly strategy" whereby, with the amplest means for success, nothing is achieved?
The Traveller wittily says-"When Gen. McClellan visited Sharp's factory in Hartford, they gave him a handsome rifle. It is safe to say that the weapon will never hurt anybody." It farther adds-"A Failure-General McClellan's recent raid into New England. He always fails." Again it says-"Some of our black volunteers, belonging to the South Carolina regiment, have audaciously whipped a body of rebel cavalry. This is a turning of the tables completely over. Black men whipping white men! Where's the Constitution, and what's the use of a free country in which such things are tolerated, and even approved? The democrats can't bear such doings much longer. We must have 'the Union as it was,' in which the whipping was all done by the chivalry, on black backs."
In the New York Assembly, last week, resolutions were passed, inviting Gen. McClellan to visit the Capital as the guest of the State. The vote stood 95 to 4. The Senate refused to concur.
A Portland man who was in the Massachusetts 43d during the expedition to Goldsboro, in the interior of North Carolina; says that, "of all the contrabands who came into our camp during the ten nights we were in the interior, there was not one but could go through the manual of arms."
<c05>
THE NEGRO REGIMENT-MEETING OF THE COLORED CITIZENS.
The colored citizens of Boston held a war meeting at the Joy street church, last evening, for the purpose of awakening an interest in the new enterprise of forming one or more negro regiments in this Commonwealth. The church was crowded, and the object being somewhat novel to this class of our inhabitants, and of peculiar interest and moment to them at this time, considerable enthusiasm was got up, and the exercises were continued till a late hour.
The meeting was organized by the choice of Robert Johnson, Jr., as President, J. R. Sterling, Vice President, and Francis Fletcher, Secretary. The President on taking the chair thanked the audience for the honor of presiding over the meeting, and stated its object to be the procurement of troops for the army of the United States. He thought that a year hence would be shown the necessity of having the black man in arms, and was proud that the time had come when he could feel that he was an American citizen. He besought his hearers, by the love they bore their country, not, by word or act, to deter any, so disposed, from enlisting in the ranks of the 54th regiment. He then introduced Judge Russell as the first speaker.
Judge Russell said he saw no one before him at that time who was not truly an American citizen, for the necessities of the country had reversed the Dred Scott decision. It seemed to him that now was a time when they could do a great deal of good to their country and to themselves. We are all glad indeed to hear and read the last emancipation proclamation, for it was a great and long-desired step in the right direction; and he felt that, in the words of John Hampden-"in the progress of reform there are no steps backward." In the formation of colored regiments there seemed to be a great feeling on one point. You desire to be line officers yourselves.
The speaker thought they had a right to be, and said-"If you want commissions, go earn and get them." (Cheers.) Never let it be said that, when the country called, this reason kept back a single man from the army; but go cheerfully into the ranks, and the day that dawns upon a great battle-field in which your blood is mingled with that of other regiments, fighting side by side with you, that same day will see every prejudice against your race washed out and obliterated.
Edward L. Pierce, Esq., was next introduced. He commenced by reminding his hearers of the many equalities that were now recognized as existing between them and the whites. They had the same freedom of worship and the same means of education; and he thought that, considering all this, they at least owed us a little. I believe that, when a call is made upon you, there is the same duty to country resting upon you, that there is upon white men, and I call upon you all as citizens to sustain the honor of the State. I call upon you to stand by those who have stood by you for nearly a generation, and by those men who have maintained that you would prove yourselves brave, and noble, and patriotic when you had an opportunity. Men of your color can do more for the cause than white men can do; and those whose deepest sympathies are with you are watching now to see what deeds you will perform. (Cheers.)
Wendell Phillips was next introduced, and he was greeted with great applause. The last time he had; met his audience in that place was when he was driven from Tremont Temple by an excited mob. Since then, the feeling towards them had much changed. Some of the men who had pursued and hunted him and them even to that very spot had given up their lives on the battle-fields of Virginia, while others had been converted at New Orleans. [A voice-"Amen!" and laughter.] Then men were for foreign colonization-now they offer you a musket, and say, "Come and help us." In this battle between freedom and! slavery-for it is virtually such-one thing I know-God has given the black race its first great historic chance for writing its name high in the history of ages, and in the struggle I know the blacks will bear a great part; that they will fight, and fight well. The question is-will you of Massachusetts take hold? I hear there is some reluctance because you are not to have officers of your own color. This may be wrong, for I think you have as much right to the first commission in a brigade as a white man. No regiment should be raised without a mixture of the races. It is as proper as that Rosecrans, a Catholic, should lead an army not of his creed. But if you cannot have a whole loaf, will you not take a slice? That is the great question for you to decide.
The Government will not let me help it as I would, but it cannot prevent me from aiding it as I can. Act then, so, that if by any chance the banner of liberty for you goes down, you will not have to regret that you were not present to lend to it a helping hand. Men may be unwilling to enlist because they cannot get commissions, but if they do aught to deter others from enlisting, then they are false to their race.
This contest does not, indeed, hang upon the action of three or four thousand of your countrymen in this State, but upon four millions in the country, who have two centuries of wrong for their motive, and the liberty of their wives and children for their aim. It is your honor that hangs in the scale. (Applause.)
The speaker here showed several reasons why white officers will be better for them at present, and among others, the fact that they would be more likely to have justice done them, than if commanded by men of their own race, and the prejudice against them would be more surely overcome.
Your success hangs on the general success. If the Union lives, it will live with equal races. If divided, and you have clone your duty, then you will stand upon the same platform with the white race. (Cheers.) Then make use of the offer Government has made you, for if you are not willing to fight your way up to office, you are not worthy of it. Put yourselves under the Stars and Stripes, and fight yourself to the marquee of a general, and you shall come out with a sword. (Cheers.)
Addresses were also made by Lieut. Col. Hallowell, who is to be second in command of the negro regiment, Robert C. Morris, Esq., and others, and the remarks of all were patriotic and generously applauded.-Boston Herald of Tuesday.
A MASSACHUSETTS BLACK REGIMENT. The proposed colored Massachusetts regiment will be numbered the 54th, and will go into camp at Worcester. Captain N. P. Hallowell of the Mass. 20th, and Captain Robert G. Shaw, of the Mass. 2d, are to be field officers in it. Dr. DeGrasse, a colored physician in Boston, it is reported, is to be Assistant Surgeon.
The Washington correspondent of the N. Y. Independent says-"The colored people of this District are moving in reference to the decision of the Government to employ colored troops in the prosecution of the war. It is believed that a colored regiment will easily be raised in this city, and already white officers to command it are not lacking."
TACTICS FOR NEGRO SOLDIERS. Gen. Casey, it is stated, has been requested by the War Department to prepare a system of tactics for use in the negro regiments to be enlisted in the national service.
FEARFUL STRUGGLE FOR FREEDOM BY A SLAVE MOTHER. The Frankfort (Ky.) correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette (Jan. 19) gives the following thrilling account of a slave mother's struggle for freedom:
"Some slave traders from Henderson, Ky., arrived at the Capital Hotel on Saturday, from Lexington, where they had purchased several negroes, among whom were a woman named Harriet and her infant child. The slaves were placed in abasement room for safety, as it was known that Harriet had a strong repugnance to going away, having been separated from her husband and other children.
She is a large, powerful woman, apparently about thirty years old, and possesses strong domestic instincts. About 11 o'clock, when most of the guests had retired, Harriet, with her child clasped to her bosom, dashed frantically from the basement to the hall, and finding the door locked, raised her clenched hand, and with powerful blows smashed the lights surrounding it, shivered two sections of two inch sash, forced herself through the aperture, and, with lacerated arm and hand, streaming with blood, fled as for life.
Subsequently she was found exhausted from loss of blood, and almost frozen, crouched in the corner of a stable, whither she had been traced by her blood upon the snow. The door-sill and wall at the Capital Hotel are saturated with, this slave mother's blood, mute but eloquent appeal, and there it will remain, 'for not all Neptune's ocean can wash this blood clean,' and senators and law-makers shall see it as they go and come from the legislative halls, another evidence of the instinctive and ineradicable love and aspiration for freedom."
DAHOMEY. In the London Anti-Slavery Reporter of the 1st ult. we find the following information respecting William Craft's mission:-
"The friends of Africa who so kindly came forward to support the mission to the king of Dahomey, undertaken for the purpose of inducing that native chief to abandon the sanguinary, custom of his pagan country, by which thousands of human beings were sacrificed in honor to, and for the supposed benefit of, a deceased king, and of placing before that powerful chief the superior advantages of peaceful and legitimate commerce over the atrocious slave-trade with its concomitant barbarities, will doubtless be pleased to learn that William Craft left England by the West-African mail packet of last month, in company with the late President of Liberia, J. J. Roberts, intending to become a little acclimated in Liberia before entering on the labors of his mission, and hoping also to obtain some support for his object in that African republic. Recent intelligence from Dahomey has reached this country, which greatly encourages the hopes entertained of W. Craft's success, and renders it highly probable that he will find the king's mind already favorably disposed to receive advances from England, and listen to proposals coming from hence.
<c06>
NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Seventh Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for the State of New York will be held at ALBANY, in ASSOCIATION HALL, on WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, Feb. 25th and 26th, commencing at half past 2 o'clock, P. M., on Wednesday.
Slavery still continues in several States, and parts of States, by the license of the federal Government. In fact if not in law, it remains in existence mainly as hitherto in all the rebellious slave States: therefore is then need of continued, earnest, conscientious anti-slavery effort.
We rejoice in the overthrow of slavery in the District of Columbia, in the official proclamation of freedom to the three million of the enslaved, in the elevation of hitherto chattels to the position of soldiers, as in South Carolina, and elsewhere, and in such evidences as exist of an increased anti-slavery sentiment and purpose among the people. But the counsels of "conservatism" against liberty are still triumphantly prevalent. The champions of this pro-slavery "conservatism," in this State, were never more active, bitter and unscrupulous than now in their exertions to fortify and strengthen slavery and rebellion. The masses need still to be admonished that only the right is expedient, that in liberty alone is there safety and prosperity for the nation.
Let there be a large attendance of the friends of freedom from all parts of tho State at this Annual Meeting. We need a public opinion which shall reach, the President and his subordinates, and secure the triumph of immediate, universal emancipation, as a beneficent, life-saving, life-giving measure.
PARKER PILLSBURY, THEODORE TILTON, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, AARON M. POWELL, and others, will address the Convention.
In behalf of the Committee of Arrangements,
A. M. POWELL.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will deliver a lecture upon the War, in its relation to Slavery, on Sunday evening next, Feb. 22d, in the CITY HALL at CAMBRIDGEPORT. Services to commence at 7 o'clock. The public are invited to attend.
CONVERSATIONS ON MEN AND THE TIMES.-Mr. A. BRONSON ALCOTT will give his next Conversation at the TEMPERANCE HALL in Bromfield street, on Monday evening, Feb. 23d, at half past 7 o'clock.
AARON M. POWELL will speak in POUGHKEEPSIE, N. Y., on Sunday, Feb. 22d.
Copies of the photographic picture, by ALLEN, of the Music Hall stage, in Boston, as arranged for the 29th Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, may be obtained by application to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, one dollar.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References-LutherClark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

OBITUARY.
SALEM, (Ohio,) Feb. 11, 1863.
DEAR BRO. GARRISON,-For the information of friends, will you please state in the Liberator, that our daughter, GERTRUDE, left us, called to the duties of another life, on the 6th inst., aged 21 years? The event was unexpected, as she was not considered seriously ill, until a few hours before her death. Her disease was inflammation of the lungs.
She has gone, just when her maturing faculties of mind and heart promised much of happiness to her family, and usefulness to others. But they live longest who live best. How conscientiously, self-sacrificingly and lovingly she lived, none know so well as the two desolate hearts who now, childless on earth, by our lonely hearth mourn her loss.
Your brother,
M. R. ROBINSON.
In this fresh and unexpected bereavement, we very deeply sympathize with the stricken parents, whose heavy loss is so touchingly alluded to in tho above letter.-[ED. LIB.
Passed into the Spirit Land, Feb. 11th, THANKFUL SMITH, aged 77 years, wife of Capt. Samuel Smith, of West Harwich, Mass. From her childhood she was a friend of the slave, and in her latter life was in full sympathy with all the reforms, and a firm believer in the Spirit life beyond the grave. "Peace and good will" was her motto through her earthly life. Over her body, before being consigned to the grave, most impressive and hopeful discourses were delivered by Mrs. H. Clark and Mrs. L. Nickerbocker, both speaking mediums.-[Com.

DEATH OF REV. CLAUDIUS BRADFORD.
Died, in Yellow Springs, Ohio, Feb. 3d, Rev. CLAUDIUS BRADFORD, aged 62 years.
Mr. Bradford has been for some time past a teacher in Antioch College, at Yellow Springs, Ohio. He was formerly a settled minister in Massachusetts, where he had a large circle of relations and friends. He was a man whom many loved. His characteristics were simplicity, earnestness, and thorough religious devotion. He had a heart peculiarly alive to all forms of beauty, and to all calls of Humanity. At a time when there were but few open advocates of universal freedom, he was pleading the cause of the slave. His mind was original and richly stored. As a preacher and pastor, he was unwearied in labors, truthful, and faithful. As a teacher, he was thorough, patient, and successful. As a friend, he was tender, constant, self-sacrificing. As a man, he was just, kind, progressive, alive. He lived a life unusually full of thought and feeling. He did a good work in the world, and died in faith.-New York Christian Inquirer.
Mr. Bradford was on our list of highly esteemed friends, and we hear of his loss with regret. He early gave to the Anti-Slavery cause his sympathy and countenance, and took a heartfelt interest in its success.-[ED. LIB.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m

WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Fur preserved during the summer. nov7-3m

A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8. tf.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the liberator.
IN MEMORIAM.
TO H. D. T.
O! Henry, in thy new-born sphere of life,
Thy present borne, though hidden from our view,
Does not thy spirit linger still around
Thy much loved Concord? visit'st not thou still
Thy favorite haunts, by river, hill, and dale,
Through lonely woods or over barren plains,
Where once the ploughshare passed long years ago,
And where with thee I once so gladly trod,
Through winter's snow, or summer's fervent heat,
To "Baker farm," or to the beetling "cliff"
That overlooks the gentle river's course,
Or to thy Walden, "blue-eyed Walden," called,
By that much gifted man. thy chosen friend,
Companion of thy walks, old Concord's bard?
With thee I've sat beside the glowing hearth
Of one, so grand in thought, so pure of aim!
New England's keenest, wisest scrutineer,
And listened to the converse, thou and he,
So like, and yet so unlike, often held.
Intelligent, and wise, and deeply learned,
I found ye both; both scholars, rich and rare;
Bat in the book of Nature no peer hadst thou-
Whether in word expressed of glowing thought,
From deep philosophy revealed of old,
Or in the fields, or woods, or by the shore
Of the great ocean thou didst love so well,
And where with pilgrim steps then often went'st.
No plant escaped thy ever searching eye;
No bird, or beast, however rarely found,
But thou didst find. Unknown Indian wares,
By thy divining wand though centuries bid,
Came forth to view, and thou their history told'st.
And' neath another roof all browned with age,
And overhung by one great sheltering elm,
Where dwells a seer decreed to solemn thought,
Amid old books, and treasures rare to see,
And learned in wisdom, and devout of heart,
A bishop worthy the apostolic age,
We sometimes met to pass a thoughtful hour,
In sweet discourse on themes of lofty tone.
I see ye two in memory's faithful glass,
As last I saw ye, brave and worthy pair!
The white hair'd rape, with deep and solemn words,
Sonorously expressed; thy quick reply,
Thy eyes all glowing with supreme good sense;
A genial pair, though of unequal age.
Thou worthy man! so noble, and so brave!
How much I miss thee, friend and teacher too!
Thou gentle man! thou purest of the pure,
And wisest of the wise, best of the good!
How saint-like and sublime thy walk on earth!
Truly, I never shall behold thy like again.
But when so ever old Concord's pleasant realms
Rise to my mind, thou as her chiefest son
Wilt haunt her as the spirit of her groves,
Her moorland fields, and river famed in song,
And marked in history's page by scenes of blood:
For here, as often told, their yeoman sires
Met the proud Briton, and defied his steps;
Some falling bravely for their country's right.
on in coming time linked with this tale,
So often told e'en yet to household groups
Of listening youngsters with wide staring eyes,
Thy honored name shall be remembered too,
Remembered by the good and wise long lustrems hence,
As one who in an age of much dismay,
Lived a serene, a pure, and holy life.
Brooklawn. near New Bedford, D. R.
11th Jan., 1863. 

From the Taunton Gazette.
"OUT IN THE COLD."
What is the threat? "Leave her out in the cold!"
Loyal New England, too loyally bold:
Hater of treason-ah! that is her crime!
Lover of freedom, too true for her time!
Out in the cold? Oh, she chooses the place,
Bather than share in a sheltered disgrace;
Rather than tit at a cannibal feast;
Rather than mate with the blood-recking beast!
Leave out New England? And what will she do,
Stormy-browed sisters, forsaken by you?
Sit on her Rock, her desertion to weep?
Or, like a Sappho, plunge thence in the deep?
No: our New England can put on no airs-
Nothing will change the calm look that she wears:
Life's a rough lesson, she learned from the first,
Up into wisdom through poverty nursed.
Not more distinct on his tables of stone
Was the grand writing to Moses made known,
Than is engraven, in letters of light,
On her foundations, the One Law of Right.
She is a Christian: she smothers her ire, Trims up the candle, and stirs the home fire;
Thinking, and working, and waiting the day
When her wild sisters shall leave their mad play.
Out in the cold, where the free winds are blowing;
Out in the cold, where the strong oaks are growing;
Guards she all growths that are living and great-
Growths to rebuild every tottering State.
"Notions" worth heeding to shape she has wrought,
Lifted and fixed on the granite of thought:
What she has done may the wide world behold!
What she is doing, too, out in the cold!
Out in the cold! she is glad to be there,
Breathing the north wind, the clear healthful air;
Saved from the hurricane passions that rend
Hearts that once named her a sister and friend.
There she will stay, while they bluster and foam,
Planning their comfort when they shall come home;
Building the Union an adamant wall,
Freedom-cemented, that never can fall.
Freedom,-dear-bought with the blood of her song,-
See the red current! right nobly it runs!
Life of her life is not too much to give
For the dear Nation she taught how to live.
Vainly they shout to yon, sturdy Northwest!
'Tis her own heart that beats warm in your breast;
Sisters in nature as well as in name;
Sisters in loyalty, true to that claim.
Freedom your breath is, oh broad-shouldered North!
Turn from the subtle miasma gone forth 
Out of the Sooth-land, from Slavery's fen,
Battening demons, but poisoning men!
Still on your Rock, my New England, sit sure,
Keeping the air for the great country pare!
There yon the "wayward" ones yet shall enfold;
There they will come to you, out in the cold!

From the American Baptist.
THE TRAITORS' THREAT.
Leave out New England! Cast away our anchor and our helm,
When the tempest rages fiercest, and the wild wares over whelm!
Tear from our hearts the memory of Freedom's early day,
And bid the tools and minions of traitors have their way!
Forget the many well fought fields from which Oppression fied!
The bloody battle-fields where sleep New England's martyred dead,
Slain for the right! To what good cause has not her life been given
Since first, through her, King George's yoke from off cur neck was riven?
A heavier and a sterner yoke we should deserve to wear,
Could our hearts forget New England, or oar hands to wrong her dare-
Wrong her, as wronged the Athenian mob Aristides the just,
When, weary of his virtues, from their midst the sage they thrust!
Aye, cast away New England! Lift a fratricidal hand
Against oar elder sister, truest, purest of the band;
Send Sumner from your councils; send Butter from the field;
Forbid one son of hen for you his battle-blade to wield.
<c02>
What then? will Truth be vanquished, will Liberty be dead,
Because you put them from you, and choose Slavery instead?
Can you ray, "Thus far, no further," to the surging soul of man,
Or with your puny barriers stay God's eternal plan?
Believe it not, my brethren! New England's sons demand
But the rights which God hath proaised each creature of his hand;
Ye may think to end the conflict by bidding her depart,
But there still will be New England in every freeman's heart.
By the blood that flowed at Lexington, and hallowed Bunker Hill;
By that which viler foes have dared, in these evil days, to spill
At Baltimore, at Fair Oaks, on many a battle-plain
From which New England's slaughtered sons can never come again-
We bid you pause and ponder; we bid you reckon well
All that New England is to us. Let history's record tell
How bravely she has breasted the wrath of Freedom's foes,
Since the Mayflower's freight was lauded amid the Plymouth snows.
See how she moves, unclenching, even now amid their jeers,
Calmly intent on duty, unmindful of their sneers!
What should we be without her-our glory and our pride?
Cast off New England! Never! while her rock-bound hills abide.
Mount Holly, N. J., Jan. 23. R. A. R.

The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER II.
AT THE COTTAGE.
"O, Cousin Clara, wasn't it splendid? And how much like you he talked! O, dear! wasn't it splendid? I never felt so much like sinking before-I couldn't help it. What did Mr. Horton say his name is?" Thus alternately exclaimed and interrogated the effervescing listener in the choir, looking eagerly up into the face of her companion as they walked homeward through the June sunshine and blossom showers.
"We will talk of that fine sermon in the cool porch this evening, Effie, dear; now Cousin Clara is too tired. Let's hasten home out of the warm sun."
"Now I know you enjoyed it, Clara, because you al ways want to be still when you speak of what you most like"-said Effie, archly, raising her bright eyes again to her companion's face. Its extreme paleness, and the languor of the large blue eyes, startled and subdued her. Involuntarily she quickened her pace. Clara saw the change in the sensitive young creature, and understood it. Rallying, with a great effort, she pointed out a striking beauty in the landscape, which a turning in the road brought to view, and with a charm of manner and expression peculiarly her own entertained the reassured and delighted Effie until they reached the cottage-door.
"O, Aunt Mary, what a sermon! What a day! What a world! How glad I am you brought me here!" The motherly, lady-like looking woman, thus addressed, stooped and kissed the round cheek bright with the blossoms of seventeen summers, without suspending the operation of folding neatly in its creaks a chaste, new summer shawl; then, as she laid it care fully by, she glanced, apparently by accident, at Clara, who had dropped languidly on to a chair.
"Another of your headaches coming on, my dear. Go at once to your room, and lie down. I will bring you a cup of tea, and if you don't find your color, I sha'n't let you go out this afternoon. I thought when I heard your voice in the choir you were making too much exertion."
"Ah, it was Effie's voice you heard, Auntie, I think," replied the young lady, with an effort at animation. "The little darling has been inspired like all beautiful things to day, and sung as the birds did this morning." The speaker ended with a caress, twining her arms around the child-figure at her side. The sunny cheek of seventeen rested against the pale one of twenty-two, the black, glossy curls of the former mingling with the wavy, auburn tresses of the latter-another exquisite contrast in the tableaux vivants of this affluent day.
"You will get rested, and go to meeting this afternoon, wont you?" whispered Effie, as Clara rose to leave the room.
"Yes, dear, I will not fail of it."
As soon as Clara had shut the door of her small, neat chamber, she threw herself on her knees at the bedside, and, burying her face in the white coverlet, gave vent to her pent up emotions in passionate tears. In this position Aunt Mary found her, when she softly entered with the promised cup of tea, and a tray of delicacies most temptingly arranged. Placing these on the table she gently locked the door, then approaching the graceful, kneeling figure, raised her tenderly in her arms, put back the disordered hair from the fair, noble brow, and pressed her lips reverently there. A half hour of low, earnest question and answer ended with-
"And now, best of friends, go to Aunt Hattie and Effie; I shall sleep, perhaps. O, thanks, thanks for all your goodness to me!"
"You think, darling, you had better go out this afternoon?"
"I do think so-I must-you do not disapprove?"
"Not if you feel wholly equal to it."
"O, it will do me good, now." The pure lips were parted with a smile such as God's patient, obedient angels, who minister to the world's we, might wear; their holy strength and calm deepened in the azure eyes, and the white arms were clasped fervently, for a moment, around the neck of the friend; who, rising from the embrace, paused to remove the traces of tears from her face, then rejoined the family below. Dinner waited, the simple New England, Sunday dinner of such families, placed upon the table, as on Saturday it had been made ready by the active, skilful hands of Aunt Hattie-of whom we shall know more by and by.
Whitsunday was closing, on the part of Nature, as appropriately as it began. The great sun slowly descended to the grave of his new-birth, not reluctantly, for his work had been faithfully, triumphantly done-but with that long, retrospective glance of fervid, grateful satisfaction, with which the benefactors of mankind review a mission accomplished, as they step, full-orbed, into the kindling splendors of another day to us unseen. River, hill and tree-top held still by the trailing mantle of his glory, as if unwilling to let the blessing go, until the spirits of the upper-air gathered it in gorgeous folds about their changeful forms, and with slow, voluptuous movements swept through the western portals-a fitting pageant in honor of the departed hero. Then without sound of footfall or pinion came the soft shadows from their caves below-stepped the still stars from their cloistral depths above-the blessed Comforters, to secure whose coming "it must needs be that" the "Light of the World" go away. Then from the chastened, inmost heart of all things gushed the incense-odors of devotion, and the moistened air sighed gently beneath its fragrant, grateful burden. Even the low, heart note of the hushed bird to his sleepy mate ceased, finally, and the stream restrained its gargle to a ripple which seemed but the musical clepsydra of Time among the listening Infinities.
Permeated, soothed, elevated by the influence of the hour, following the experiences of the day, and the memories they recalled, Clara sat, still, in the cottage porch, while Aunt Mary as tranquilly occupied a chair at the open window of the little parlor. Effie had been made happy by the promised conversation, and with Aunt Hattie had gone to their room to fill up the time of preparation for sleep, perhaps a considerable portion of that intended for sleep, with admiration of the beautiful, gifted, yet mysterious, Clara-mysteri out, thought Effie, even to us who love her so much;
<c03>
but oven if her fine nature could have stooped to vulgar curiosity about the unknown in "dear Cousin Clarn's" history, it would-have received no encouragement from the equally taciturn as talkative Aunt Hattie. Gradually, the fertile fancy and fine feeling and busy brain of that intense but undeveloped being came under the sway of that democratic leveller, steep; the last distinct impression on the fancy was the figure of Mr. Horton, approaching, as she stood in the door of the porch beside Clara, and saying with his rich voice and fascinating smile-"Why, Effie, you sang like a bird."
Strange, subtle powers of these souls of ours! At that moment, the tranquil figure of Clara started from its seat in the darkened porch; the pale cheek flushed quick and hot even to the brow; every fiber in her frame thrilled tremulously, and she sunk back half-fainting to her seat. Aunt Mary was at her side instantly. Clara, too, had seen a figure and heard a voice, but not in fancy merely. Edgar Horton and the minister were walking slowly, very slowly by, engaged in earnest conversation. Over the distance between the gate and the door came, however, only the tones of their voices-not the words they were uttering.
Reader, have you ever known a great sorrow, pressing its chill, damp weight against your heart, as the cold, wet snow presses against the palpitating bosom of the benighted lamb, strayed from the fold? Have you ever known a mighty uncertainty, rending you with its conflicts, as the wild March wind wrenches the writhing branches of an unsheltered tree? Have you ever known an overmastering doubt, shutting its suffocating valve upon your gasping spirit, as the iron dungeon-door first closes upon its full-lived despairing victim? Then, feeling the impotency of everything human, you have bared your soul to God, and lain prostrate and pleading at His feet, until His light and warmth and calm entered into and lifted up and strengthened that soul? Then do you know the value of prayer.
Thus prayed the pale maiden in the midnight stillness of her cottage-chamber-and the great peace came. Thug prayed the minister, not far distant, in the sleepless silence of his apartment, and hope was renewed and faith was strengthened for all things in his chosen mission. Thus might have prayed the tempest-tossed Edgar Horton, had his sincere soul yet found its way through the husks of habit and chaff of cant, in which early association had encased the vital reality of prayer. He paced his chamber; he gazed out into the great, brooding night; he questioned the glancing stars; then tossed on his pillow until sleep came with his vision-the last act of which was his youngest and pet sister, now absent at school, twining wreaths of flowers with Effie above a new-made grave. He shuddered and woke, for his foot had touched the grave, and it was HERS.

LETTER FROM THOMAS WHITTET, ESQ.
PERTH, NORTH BRITAIN, Jan. 20, 1863.
WILLIAM L. GARRISON, Esq., Boston:
DEAR SIR,-Your Government presents to the eye of Europe the most pitiful exhibition of schism, mismanagement, vacillation and imbecility ever witnessed in any age. Your unhappy country has been brought to its present painful position by the utter incompatibility of the Lincoln Cabinet, than which a more imbecile never existed. Their policy has been suicidal, and only suicidal. They seem to have eyes, and cannot see; ears, and cannot hear: seeing not the source from whence their troubles spring; hearing not the wail of the oppressed within their gates.
It certainly required no prophet to predict your present terrible confusion. That result was inevitable to every one who was watching the tide of passing events in the great American Republic. The great truth still stands as everlasting as ever, that no government can flourish whose object is to serve both God and Mammon, let it strive ever so assiduously to effectuate its double purpose. Now, that is precisely what the Lincoln Administration have foolishly attempted. That Cabinet has vainly struggled to reconcile all political factions, but has in fact satisfied no one section of them; and has plunged itself into such a deep of perplexity, that it will require the most dexterous diplomatic stratagems to be able to command again the reins of State. Had your Cabinet fought to uphold the inalienable right of every man overall this God created universe-Liberty-it would, as a war measure, as an only end to the war, have confiscated the property of all those in rebellion, not excepting their human chattels. Then the South, having within its body politic a dangerous cancer-a gunpowder mine, (in the shape of four million enslaved sable sons of Africa panting for freedom,) requiring only the hand of some brave spirit to apply the unquenchable torch of liberty to throw the blackguardly constituted Confederation, whose "chief corner-stone is slavery," into complete annihilation! Had this vulnerable part of the enemy been assaulted, success must have gone with the armies of the North, and the rebellion never could have attained its now gigantic proportions; but would inevitably have been brought to a speedy and enduring termination.
Why, Sir, you cannot fondle and nurse a scorpion in your bosom without entailing its natural consequence-its fatal sting. Now, Sir, the preserving of slavery in your midst is just analogous to that. Therefore, unless your people are resolutely determined to part forever with that hell-begotten institution, "the sum of all villainies," your soldiers may as well return their swords into their scabbards, and go home to the plough and the workshop; for such a task as retaining slavery and saving the Union is quite unaccomplishable. Slavery is the deadly up as tree, spreading its blighting shade over your land, gradually but surely sapping its very life-blond. Lopping off a branch here and there will not eradicate the evil. To insure its permanent death, you must pluck it up from the root, leaving not the veriest tendril in case it again generate into life;-a life, too, ten thousand times worse than death.
There is an adage which says, "Man's necessity is God's opportunity." Be ye then the willing instruments of his hands! O, lose not this day of salvation, which may never occur again, of putting slavery entirely away! Refuse! Your country is doomed to misery, to endless degradation. Long and loud complaints have, from time to time, been uttered by countrymen and countrywomen of yours against Great Britain for her want of sympathy with the North in its present conflict. But I put it to you emphatically, Can yon really expect the sympathy of this free and enlightened nation, in view of the policy which your Lincoln and your Seward have been pursuing? A people who purchased at an immense sacrifice the freedom of their own slaves, cannot possibly look with complacency upon a country whose code of laws does not accord to the black man the same inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, as it does to the white man-thus trampling the sacred rights of humanity under foot. We cannot sympathize with you until you fight for a nobler object than yon have yet done. Fight for liberty! Engrave upon your banners Emancipation! Then, if Britain does not send to your aid her invulnerable iron-clads and her invincible battalions, depend upon it you will have her moral support and command her admiration.
Trusting that universal good will be the result of your present confusion, and that the sun of peace will soon arise with healing on its wings, so that your ensign, with its stars and stripes, may float from all your citadels over an undivided, happy nation, pressing on in the progress of civilization and universal freedom, accept my best wishes for the cause which you have so heartily espoused.
Yours, for Liberty,
THOMAS WHITTET.
[Mr. Whittet is a much respected citizen of Perth, and has long taken a heartfelt interest in the Anti-Slavery struggle in this country. If rather too unqualified in his criticism of our Government, nevertheless, "faithful are the wounds of a friend."]-Ed.
<c04>
LETTERS OF ENCOURAGEMENT.
[To show our appreciation of the friendly sentiments expressed towards the Liberator in the following letters, we can do no less than to give them publicity, with an expression of our heartfelt thanks.]-Ed.
VALLEY FALLS, (R. I.) 1863.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-If there is still a possibility of deficiency in the subscriptions of the Liberator to pay its increased expenses, I certainly think that thou shouldst waive all feelings of delicacy in regard to publishing the letters and contributions of its old friends, in approval of its course, and in aid of its continuance. The readers of the Liberator are widely scattered. In a crisis like this, when its Editor writes, "If it has accomplished its mission, let its publication cease," they each wish to hear from others, whether all feel like themselves; and they have no way of hearing but through the Liberator. While thou hast always published the severest criticisms and the most abusive tirades against thy course, I think there will be none among thy friends, or enemies even, who will accuse thee of vanity or selfishness, for laying before them the expressions of sympathy and encouragement received from those who have watched the course of the Liberator for many years.
Why, it seems to me that the Liberator has, long ago, ceased to be thy private personal property, it is the star-spangled banner of our cause; and if it is in danger of drooping for want of help to sustain it, in the name of Humanity, let us all come forward, and write our names on it anew; giving such aid as we can, that others,-if they, too, do not want to see it go down while chains are unbroken,-may come up also with their mites and their names to keep it aloft.
Thine, with much regard, E. B. CHASE.
MR. GARRISON,-Enclosed, we send you three dollars, hoping that your subscribers in the general will do as we have done-i. e., continue to support the Liberator.
We desire to live to see the day when slavery shall rank among the things that were. We also want you to live, as CLARKSON did, to see your labors crowned with success.
I am one of those who would rather trust to the combined efforts of spirits in the body, than to those out of the body. I cannot, by any process of reasoning, arrive at the same conclusion that some others have-that spirits out of the body exert a very powerful influence on those in the body. It Jesus Christ, his apostles, and all the good and true since their day, could not prevent the establishment of slavery in America, with all its attendant horrors, I feel quite sure they exert but little influence in this sublunary sphere.
Neither am I one of those who believe that God has just waked up to a sense of the wickedness of slavery, and has taken the work into his own hands, (as some say,) to carry it on. I believe that the same moral means which have been used must be perseveringly continued, until the whole system is abolished. All those who have been contending against the Slave Power ought now to be doing their utmost to defeat it. I hope we shall eventually triumph; but, just now, there is a cloud resting upon me-I cannot see how the dreadful conflict of war will end. There are some had omens ahead of us. Our government is continually blundering; those in power seem determined to prolong the war. If a General who has been sent South proves to be of the right stamp to put down the cause of the rebellion, he must be removed, and a less efficient one put in his place. Fremont, Phelps and Butler ought all to be in active ser vice.
Many here want to know your opinion on various points of great interest. We give them all the oral information we can, and also give the Liberator to any one who we think will be benefited by perusing it.
We have been highly pleased with the various sentiments expressed by your subscribers in relation to the support of your excellent paper. We have taken it eighteen years, and are resolved to continue in well-doing.
LEA W. GAUSE.
Enclosed, I send five dollars and fifty cents. When I first saw the notice of the rise on the Liberator, I thought I should be under the necessity of stopping it; but, on reflection, I came to the conclusion I could not forego the pleasure of reading it; nor could it be right to let it go down now, when most needed.
Friends of humanity, what say you? Shall the old Liberator, after having led the hosts of freedom almost as long as Moses led the Israelites in the wilderness, (if the account is to be credited,) be left to die in the sight of the promised land, and no man know of its sepulcher? Nay, verily! Let it continue to live; and when the great ship of Universal Emancipation shall heave in sight, freighted with the hopes and destinies of four millions, let "the dauntless Liberator" be on hand, with all sails spread, and its white banner unfurled to the breeze-Garrison at the helm-labelled on one side, "I have not retreated a single inch, and I have been heard"; and on the other, "Behold me, and the children thou hast given me!"-to take her in tow, and conduct her safely through the rocks and shoals of colonization into the port of equal rights, amid the shouts and huzzas of a gazing and admiring world!
Yours, for the freedom of man, physically and mentally, S. M. SEAVER.
Williamstown, (Vt.) Jan. 22, 1863.
PORTLAND, (Me.) Jan. 26, 1863.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-I know of no better way to aid the cause of Anti-Slavery than by sending for the Liberator. Please consider me a permanent subscriber. I have always regarded the Abolitionists as the pioneers who have cleared the path through popular passions and prejudices, in which more timid men might follow in the advance of Christian civilization. And in this hour of partial triumph-foreshadowing that greater victory which is yet to bless our cause-I approve of sustaining those men who have dared at all times to advocate the right, rather than giving all the praise to those who could perceive no evil in slavery until it conflicted with their personal interests, or until it was popular to advocate its overthrow.
Yours, truly, FRED. N. DOW.
BIRMINGHAM, (Ct.) Feb. 3, 1863.
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR-It gives me pleasure to see that the Liberator will be sustained. If there is one paper more consistent with itself than all others, it is the Liberator. Think what an honest paper should be, and it is that. You have been the pioneer in a war against "the sum of all villanies," which has counted human beings but as appendages to capital. May you have the rare gratification of living to witness the accomplishment of the good purpose to which you have devoted your long and useful life! In anticipation, I have heard you address your readers-
Now, wave your caps in the air!
See, the banner's unfurled!
Behold the inscription it bears on its breast-
'Tis "Liberty over the world!"
That's freedom to slaves in the cast;
That's freedom to slaves in the west;
That's freedom to slaves in the north and the south-
They are equal! there's none of them best.
I enclose subscriptions for three copies of the Liberator-one of them a convert to abolition by the attack upon Fort Sumter. THOS. WALLACE.
No. 6 WALL STREET, NEW YORK,
January 27, 1863.}
WM. LLOYD GAERISON:
DEAR SIR,-I have been a reader of the Liberator for many years, "with interest-deriving nourishment and strength there from." I enclose $5, for my subscription for the present year. I have been cheered by the many cordial letters you have published from your subscribers, and fully endorse their sentiments.
With respect and regard, yours, truly,
C. B. LEBARON.
<c05>
NEGRO TROOPS AGAINST THE BEBELS.
The following full and explicit official report of Col. T. W. Higgins on recoils the gallant conduct of the negroes under fire, and their successful operations in Georgia and Florida:-
ON BOARD STEAMER BEN DEFORD, SUNDAY, Feb. 1, 1863. Brig. Gen. SAXTON, Military Governor, &c:
Genera!,-I have the honor to report the safe return of the expedition under my command, consisting of 462 officers and men of the First Raiment of South Carolina Volunteers, who left Beaufort on January 23d, on board the steamers John Adams, Planter and Ben Deford. The expedition has carried the regimental flag and the President's Prolongation far into the interior of Georgia and Florida. The men have been repeatedly under fire; have had infantry, cavalry, and even artillery arrayed against them, and have, in every instance, come off not only with unblemished honor, but with and undisputed triumph. At Township, Florida, a detachment of the expedition fought a cavalry company which met us unexpectedly on a midnight march through pine woods, and which completely surrounded us. They were beaten off with a loss on our part of one man killed and seven wounded, while the opposing party admits twelve men killed, (including Lieut. Jones, in command of the company, besides many wounded. So complete was our victory that the enemy scattered, hid in the woods all night, not returning to his camp, which was five miles distant, until noon next day; a fact which was unfortunately unknown until too late to follow up our advantage. Had I listened to the urgent appeals of my men, and pressed the flying enemy, we could have destroyed his camp; but in view of the darkness, his uncertain numbers and swifter motions, with your injunctions of caution, I judged it better to rest satisfied with the victory already gained. On another occasion, a detachment of about 250 men, on board the John Adams, fought its way forty miles up and down a river, the most dangerous in the department-the St. Mary's-a river left untraversed by our gunboats for many months, as it required a boat built like the John Adams to ascend it successfully. The stream is narrow, swift, winding, and bordered at many places with high bluffs, which blazed with rifle shots. With our glasses, as we approached these points, we could see mounted men by the hundreds galloping through the woods from point to point to await us, and though fearful of our shot and shell, they were so daring against musketry that cne rebel actually sprang from the shore upon the large boat which was towed at our stern, where he was shot down by one of my sergeants. We could see our shell scatter the rebels as they fell among them, and some terrible execution must have been; done; but not a man of this regiment was killed or wounded, though the steamer is covered with bullet-marks, one of which shows where our brave Captain Clifton, commander of the vessel, fell dead beside his own pilot-house, shot through the brain by a Minnie ball. Major Strong, who stood beside him, escaped as if by magic, both of them being unnecessarily exposed without my knowledge. The secret of our safety was in keep in; the regiment below, except the gunners; but this required the utmost energy of the officers, as the men were wild to come on deck, and even implored to be landed on shore and charge on the enemy. Nobody knows anything about these men who has not seen them in battle. I find that I myself knew nothing. There is a fiery energy about them beyond anything of which I have ever read, unless it be the French Zouaves. It requires the strictest discipline to hold them in hand. During our first attack on the river, before I got them all penned below, they crowded at the open ends of the steamer, loading and firing with inconceivable rapidity, and shouting to each other, "Never give it up!" When collected into the hold, they actually fought each other for places at the few port-holes from which they could fire on the enemy. Meanwhile, the black gunners, admirably trained by Lieuts. Stockdale and O'Neil. (both being accomplished artillerists,) and Mr. Heron, of the gunboat, did their duty without the slightest protection, and with great coolness, amid a storm of shot. This river expedition was not undertaken in mere bravado. Capt. Sears, U. S. A., the contractor of Fort Clinch, had urged upon the War Department to endeavor to obtain a large supply of valuable brick, said to remain at the brick-yards', thirty miles in the St. Mary's, from which Fort Clinch was originally supplied. The War Department bad referred the matter to Col. Hawley, who approved my offer to undertake the enterprise. Apart from this, it was the desire of Lieut. Hughes, U. S. N., commanding United States steamer Mohawk, now lying at Fernandina, to obtain information regarding a rebel steamer, the Berosa, said to be lying further up the river, awaiting opportunity to run the blockade. Both objects were accomplished. I brought away all the bricks, and ascertained the Berosa to be worthless. I have the honor to state that I have on board the Ben Deford 250 bars of the best new railroad iron, valued at $5000, and much needed in this Department. This was obtained in St. Simon's and Josher Islands, Georgia, from abandoned rebel forts, a portion of it having been previously blown up and collected by Captain Steed man, of the Paul Jones. I have also five large sticks of valuable yellow pine timber, said to be worth $700, which came from St. Mary's, Georgia. There is also a quantity of rice, resin, cordage, oars and other small matters, suitable for army purposes. On board the John Adams there is a flock of 25 sheep, from Woodstock, Florida. I have turned over to Captain Sears about 40,000 large sized bricks, valued at about $10,000, in view of the present high freights, I have also turned over to Judge Salta, Civil Provost Marshal of Fernandina, four horses, four steers, and a quantity of agricultural implements suitable for Mr. Helper's operations in that locality. I have seen with my own eyes, and left behind for want of means of transportation, (and because brick was considered even more valuable.) enough of the choicest Southern lumber to load five steamers like the Ben Deford-an amount estimated at more than a million feet, and probably worth, at Hilton Head, §50,000. I also left behind, from choice, valuable furniture by the household-pianos, china, &e., all packed up for transportation, as it was sent inland for safe keeping. Not only were my officers and men forbidden to take any of these things for private use, but nothing was taken for public use save articles strictly contraband of war. No wanton destruction was permitted, nor were any buildings burned, unless in retaliation for being fired upon, according to the usages of war. Of course, no personal outrage was permitted or desired. At Woodstock I took six male prisoners whom I brought down the river as hostages, intending to land part of them before reaching Fernandina, and release them on parole. But in view of the ferocious attacks made upon us from the banks, this would have seemed an absurd stretch of magnanimity, and by the advice of Col. Hawley I have brought them for your disposal. At the same place we obtained a cannon and a flag, which I respectfully ask permission for the regiment to retain. We obtained also some trophies of a different description from a slave jail, which I shall offer for your personal acceptance.--three sets of stocks, of different structure-the chains and staples used for confining prisoners to the floor, and the key of the building They furnish good illustrations of the infernal barbarism against which we contend. We return at the appointed time, though there are many other object which I wish to effect, and our rations are not nearly exhausted. But the Ben Deford is crowded with freight, and the ammunition of the John Adams is running low. Captain Hallett has been devoted to our interest, as was also, until his lamented, death, the brave Captain Clifton. Of the Planter I have hitherto said nothing, as her worn out machinery would leave her perfectly valueless but for the laborious efforts of Captain Eldridge, and her Engineer, Mr. Baker, aided by the unconquerable energy of Captain Trow bridge, of Company A, who had the command on board. Thanks to this they were enabled during our absence up the St. Mary's river, to pay attention to the salt works along the coast. Finding that the works at King's Bay, formerly destroyed by this regiment, had never been rebuilt, they proceeded five miles up Crooked River, where salt works were seen. Capt Trowbridge, with Capt. Rogers, of Company F, and 80 men, then marched two miles across a marsh, drawing a boat with them, and then sailed up a creek and destroyed the works. There were 22 large boilers, two storehouses, a large quantity of salt, two canoes, with barrels and all things appertaining I desire to make honorable mention, not only of the above officers, but of Major Strong, Lapte. James. Co. B, Randolph, Co. C. Metealf, Co. G. and Dolly, Co. H. Indeed, every officer did himself credit, so far as he had opportunity, while the cheerfulness and enthusiasm of the men made it
<c06>
a pleasure to command them. We found no large number of slaves anywhere, yet we brought away several whole families, and obtained by their means the most reliable information. I was interested to observe that the news of the President's Proclamation produced a marker! effect upon them, and in one case it was of the greatest service to us in securing the hearty aid of a guide, who was timid and distrustful till he heart! that he was legally free, alter which he aided us gladly, and came away with us. My thanks are due, for advice and information, to Captain Steedman, U. S. N., of the steamer Paul Jones; to Acting Master Moses. U. S. N., of the bark Fenandina; to Acting Lieut. Budd. U. S. N., of the steamer Potomska, for information and counsel, and especially to Lieut. Commanding Hughes, U. S. N., of the steamer Mohawk, for twenty tons of coal, without which we could not have gone up the river. I may state, in conclusion, that I obtained much valuable information, not necessary to make public, in regard to the location of supplies of number, iron, rice, resin, turpentine and cotton; and it would afford the officers and men of this regiment great pleasure to be constantly employed in obtaining these supplies for the Government from rebel sources. But they would like still better to be permit to occupy some advance! point in the interior, with a steamer or two like the John Adams, and an adequate supply of ammunition. We could obtain, to a great extent, our own provisions, and rapidly enlarge our numbers, and could have information in advance of every movement against us. A chain of such posts would completely alter the whole aspect of the war in the sealwanl Slave States, and would accomplish what no accumulation of Northern Regiments can so easily effect. No officer in this regiment now doubts that the key to the successful prosecution of this war lies in the unlimited employment of black troops. Their superiority for simply in the fact that they know the country, which white troops do not; and, moreover, that they have peculiarities of temperament, position and motive which belong to them alone. Instead of leaving their homes and families to fight, they are fighting for their homes and families, and they show the resolution and sagacity which a personal purpose gives It would have been madness to attempt with the bravest white troops, what I have successfully accomplished with black ones. Everything, even to the piloting of the vessel, and the selection of the proper points for cannonading, was done by my own soldiers; indeed, the real conductor of the whole expedition at the St. Mary's was Corporal Robert Sutton, of Co. G.. formerly a slave upon St. Marry river-a man of extraordinary qualities, who need nothing but a knowledge of the alphabet to entitle him to the most signal promotion. In every instance where I followed his advice, the predicted result followed, and I never departed from it, however slightly, without having reason for subsequent regret.
I have the honor to be, &c,
T. W. HIFFINSON,
Col. Com. 1st Reg. South Carolina Vols,
GENERAL SAXTON'S SUCCESS IS RAISING COLORED TROOPS.
General Saxton has addressed the following short account of his efforts to raise colored volunteer troops, to the Secretary of War.
BEAUFORT, S. C., Jan.25, 1863
To the Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War. 
DEAR SIR,-I have the honor to report that the organization of the 1st regiment of South Carolins volunteers is now completed. The regiment is light infantry, composed of ten companies, of about eighty-six men each, armed with muskets, and officered by white men. In organization, drill, discipline, and morale, for the length of time it has been in service this regiment is not surpassed by any white regiment in this department. Should it ever be its good fortune to get into action, I have no fears but it villain its own way to the confidence of those who are willing to recognize courage and manhood, and vindicate the wise policy of the administration in pasting these men into the field, and giving, them a chance to strike a blow for the country and their own liberty.
In no regiment have I ever seen duty performed with so much cheerfulness and alacrity. As sentinels they are peculiarly vigilant. I have never see in any body of men such enthusiasm and deep-seated devotion to their officers as exists in this. They will surely go wherever they are led. Every man is a volunteer, and seems fully persuaded of the importance of his service to his race.
In the organization of this regiment, I have labored under difficulties which might have discouraged one who had less faith in the wisdom of the measure. but I am glad to report that the experiment is a complete success. My belief is, that when we get a footing on the main land, regiments may be raised which will do more than any now in service to past an end to this rebellion.
I have sent the regiment on an expedition to the coast of Georgia, the result of which I shall report for your information as soon as it returns.
I have the honor also to report that I have commenced the organization of the 2d Regiment, which is to be commanded by Colonel Montgomery.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant, R. SAXTON, Brigadier General.
THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN.
THE ILLUSTRATED SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN. the best mechanical paper in the world, commences a new volume on the first of January. It is published weekly and every number contains sixteen pages of useful information, and from five to ten original engravings of new inventions and discoveries, all of which are prepared expressly for its columns.
No person engaged in any of the mechanical or manufacturing pursuits should think of "doing without" the Scientific American. It costs but six cents per week; every number contains from six to ten engravings of new machines and inventions, which cannot be found in any other publication.
The Scientific American is indispensable to every inventor, as it nut only contains illustrated descriptions of nearly all the best inventions as they dime out, but each number contains an Official List of the Claims of all the Patents issued from the United States Patent Office during the week previous; thus giving a correct history of the progress of inventions in this country; and also a summary of all that is transpiring in mechanical science and art in the old countries.
To Chemists, Architects, Millwrights and Farmers, the Scientific American will be found a most useful journal. All the new discoveries in the science of chemistry are given in its columns, and the interests of the architect and carpenter are not overlooked; all the new inventions and discoveries appertaining to these pursuits being published from week to week. Useful and practical information they pertaining to the interests of millwrights and mill-owners and be found in the Scientific American, which information they cannot possibly obtain from any other source, Subjects is which farmers are interested will be found discussed in the Scientific American; most of the improvements in agricultural implements being illustrated in its columns.
TERMS-To mail subscribers: Three Dollars a year, or One Dollar for four months. The volumes commence on the first of January and July. Specimen copies will be sent gratis to any part of the country.
MUNN & CO., PUBLISHERS,
jan2tf 37 Park Row, New York.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington street, to
No. 31 WINTER STEEET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure them are none to excel her in producing a are growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in the country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair benefit using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turing grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its moral color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak and her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are <Illegible> in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last <Illegible> or three years, as they often say they an get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON

