THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLILSHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING.
—AT THE—
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLEARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, VIZ:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 2.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1859.
WHOLE NUMBER, 1575.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the N. Y. Observer.
NO FALLING OFF: GREAT GAIN.
American Tract Society.
The receipts of this Society for the month of December were $93,121 85. In nine months ending December 31, they have been, for publications sold, $164,127 31, and in dominations and legacies, $70,-899 34, making a total of $235,028 85—being $7,317 40 more than in the corresponding month of last year.
Besides liberal aid in sustaining colportage, and pressing its publications out to the destitute in nearly every State in the Union, and for gratuitous distribution at home, it needs $20,000 before April 1st, for the foreign field.
And it must have it. But before making an appeal for more. Let us unite in hearty and devout thanksgiving to Almighty God for his wonderful goodness to this institution during the year. In spite of the opposition of radical religious and secular newspapers, in spite of the withdrawal of the ‘hundreds of churches’ threatened and perpetrated, in spite of appeals for other Societies that do not sympathize with this, behold what a glorious result is here!
Instead pf falling off, here is a great and blessed gain!
Let our Societies and behold, admire and imitate. In the path of duty there in safety, strength, prosperity and victory. Timid friends may falter, secret foes may become open enemies; but God is always with the right. Let the Church hear and know that the receipts of the American Tract Society were greater by SEVEN THOUSAND DOLLARS in 1858 than in the corresponding months of 1857!
And now send on the $20,000 more that the Society must have. He who has given fifty dollars should sit down and write four score. And let him who has not given any thing, give quickly and freely, for this is a great work, and it must be done.

A SOUTHERN ‘SAVAGE.’
Extract of a letter from Col. John H. Savage, of Tennessee, to Hon. James P. Hambleton:—
It was certainly a great error on the part of the United States to do more than prohibit the slave trade, in accordance with the power granted in the Constitution to Congress to do this after the year 1808. To call it the odious crime of piracy was departing from the truth, and pronouncing an un-just and infamous judgment against the whole nation, but more especially against the ancestors of the abolitionists of New England, who were, to a far greater extent than the citizens of any other nation, engaged in this commerce.
I have no confidence in any man as the defender of Southern rights who believes or admits African servitude to be a social, moral, or political evil. As well might a tory be called the friend of our Revolution who believed Republicanism wrong, and English monarchy a divine right. Such men ought to go out from among us; their open enmity is far less dangerous than their pretended support. No man should be trusted upon the battle-field or else-where, who admits himself guilty of a daily wrong against morals, his country, and his God, and still that wrong pursues, instead of blushing and apologizing. Every citizen of the Southern States has a right to point with triumph to his past history, for since our Revolution, no people have enjoyed domes-the peace, private property, liberty, and personal security, to so great an extent as the people of the South. The dark deeds that have lately disgraced a few Southern cities are in no manner traceable to African bondage; and of the negro himself it may be truly said, that he is never so free as when he is the servant of the white man. In society, no man is absolutely free, but all are called free who enjoy that amount of liberty most conducive to the general welfare. Except as the servant of the white man, the negro has never effected any thing useful or honorable for himself or the world; he has not been able to establish and maintain a respectable government of any kind upon any part of the globe; he has neither science, religion, agricultural or mechanical arts; he is capable of great manual labor in hot climates, but he has neither the will nor the talent to direct it in the proper channel. The con-troll of the white man is therefore his greatest blessing.
It is the policy of England that gives vitality to the slavery excitement throughout the world. Lord Brougham said, in a late speech in Parliament, ’that the United States had no interest in the slave trade, and had not imported dither negroes or coolies since 1808. We declared it piracy, while England imposed an insignificant fine of one hundred pounds; yet she pharisaically preaches lessons to the world, proclaiming her superior righteousness upon this subject, and pretending that our flag is made a cover for the whole traffic. There is neither truth nor sincerity in this complaint of English statesmen. They aim to promote domestic discord; to prejudice us in the opinion of other nations, and to prevent the further extension of our dominions south of us. I hope the day is not far distant when the American people will decide in their wisdom to inflict upon English arrogance the punishment it so well desires. England sends her voice of among the nations to arouse them against us because of negro slavery, while her ships are engaged, in accordance with her authority in transporting the Chinese, and other Asiatics, in a mode the most cruel and detestable, for slaves in her own and in the colonies of other nations. It is true they are called apprentices, but the device is too shallow; her statesmen are compelled to admit that it is ‘unmitigated slavery and a moment’s reflection will teach us that it is far more cruel than any thing known in the United States. These men are of a race superior to the negro, and consequently more capable of freedom, and less fit for slaves; yet philanthropic Eng-land places them in possession of men who have neither the interest nor sympathy of the American master for the life and welfare of the servant.

From the New York Journal of Commerce.
MR. BUCHANAN—THE ANTI-SLAVERY AGITATION.
A less patriotic, less enlightened, less resolute President than Mr. Buchanan might have hesitated in view of the clamorous demonstrations of intemperate free-soilers, infatuated abolitionists. and rickety democrats, with respect to the most expedient policy t be adopted when the Constitution of Kansas was presented him. But with instinctive clearness he comprehended the duty of the Executive, ad wavered not a line in the performance of it. As with the most extraordinary man of his generation, in the instance of the United States Bank, so with himself, former endeared friends—whose words upon many occasions had been persuasive to his ears—were utterly unavailing to divert him from his purpose. With an unerring aim, he determined to stifle the fiend-like spirit of disorganization which had assumed so terrific an aspect. In-
<C02>
stead of exorcising ghosts in his interests, he had the courage to war against insurgents, covert and overt. He struck the Topekaites a death blow, and inflicted a wound upon their affectionate sympathizers from which they are not likely soon to recover. And the glorious result is, that the measure which was so vehemently assailed as the ‘Kansas’ Fraud,’ proves to be eminently salutary to the welfare of the Union. In that measure, inspired by patriotism and executed in wisdom, a joyous Democracy perceives the fruition of its hopes in the experienced civilian which it placed at the head of the Republic.
Anti-slavery agitation has not, in a single instance, achieved a benign result. It never can in this country, for the simple reason, that it is in direct hostile array to the principles upon which our form of government was established. If it has accomplished any good, that good its to be found in the favorable test which it has afforded to the truthfulness of the Jeffersonian axiom—’Error of opinion may be tolerated, while reason is left free to combat it.’ It certainly seems so. Sober-minded persons north of Mason and Dixon’s line, who may have entertained doubts on the subject heretofore, are, as abundant indications show, constantly and rapidly coming to the sound conclusion, that the slaveholder is just as much cared for by the Constitution as the non-slaveholder. The property of the one in a Territory is beginning to be considered by persons so located in virtue of its provisions, as secure as that of the other; and, moreover, that territorial legislation must be friendly to both, or friendly to neither SPIRIT OF’ 87. 

SELECTIONS.
[From ‘Street thoughts,’ by Rev. Henry M. Dexter of Boston.]
THE COLOR OF GENTLEMEN.
‘I’ve a great mind not to speak to you.’
‘Why not?’
‘Because I saw you in such company yesterday.’
‘You saw me in no company, yesterday, that was; not good and reputable.’
‘I saw you walking, yesterday, in close and apparently interested and congenial intercourse, with a “nigger” as black as the darkest night, when the moon doesn’t shine because it can’t push any shine through the clouds, and the street-lamps don’t shine, out of politeness to the moon.’
‘Granted. Yet your implied assertion, that you saw mo in bad company, remains unproven.
“Black” is hardly synonymous with “bad.”’
‘I wouldn’t have been seen in the streets in that condition.’
‘I have seen you in worse.’
‘Take car, Edward. What do you mean?’
‘I mean, William, that I have many times met you on Washington Street, walking arm in arm, well pleased, with both gentlemen and ladies, as they are popularly called, of vastly less intelligence and moral worth than the individual whom you are pleased to style “a nigger,” and with whom you saw me conversing.’
‘I don’t care if he were an angel. I wouldn’t be seen publicly disgracing myself by contact with him. If I must swallow such a black dose, I would keep it, as the doctors sometimes direct their medicines containing iodine to be kept, in some congenially dark corner.’
‘Pray, William, where is the disgrace of bring seen to treat a gentlemanly person who has a black skin as a gentleman?’
‘Gentleman! A “nigger” a gentleman! should think you had better emigrate to Liberia at once. I knew you were a rabid Republican, but I didn’t know you had gone clean over to the Amalgamationists.’
‘I beg pardon, William; but you haven’t answered my question.’
‘What question?’
‘Why a gentlemanly negro is not as really a gentleman as a gentlemanly white person?’
‘I tell you the idea is absurd.’
‘Still you don’t answer. Do you, from your ancient reminiscences as a schoolmaster, happen to remember Webster’s definition of a gentleman?’
‘I can’t say that I do.’
‘Let me refresh your memory: “a man of education and good breeding, of any occupation,’—or something like that; in short, a man who is reputable in character, and courteous in manners, as distinguished from the reverse. Now, where does such a definition necessarily exclude the negro? Is he not a man? And, being a man. may he not so culture himself as to come up most fully to the requirement of such a definition?’
‘He isn’t a man.’
‘I know that remarkable person who once unrolled a mummy before a Boston audience, with some of his “scientific” friends, and, latterly, the Supreme Court, would like to make people believe that; yet you don’t believe it, though you say it.’
‘You can’t prove that he is a man.’
‘You used to teach Physiology, I presume. Let me remind you that the only essential physical difference between yourself, and the person with whom yon saw me walking yesterday, is, that there is a little more coloring-matter in the cells on the under side of his cuticle, than there is in the corresponding cells on the under side of your own. You are dark brown in complexion; the granules of your under-skin are something more than amber-colored; those of his are a dark copper-color:—that is all the difference between you. You are a “white man,” and he is a “negro,” in consequence of it. But are you ready to assert that the mere physical difference of a degree or two in the depth of coloring-matter in these epidermal cells—all other component parts of the animal and mental and moral organism remaining identical between the two—constitutes a difference as between manhood and beasthood?’
‘Well, if a negro is a man, he isn’t a gentleman.’
‘Not unless he behaves like one. If he does, why is he not?’
‘Society doesn’t recognize him as such.’
‘Society doesn’t do a great many things it ought.’
‘Society is my rule.’
‘It is not mine, nor God’s. Its rule is iron, and not golden.’
‘Such as it is. we are bound to keep it.’
‘By what authority?’
‘That of necessity.’
‘So that, in a society of pirates, you would be a pirate?’
‘No; but in little matters like this, we must do as others do.’
‘Suppose yourself in the negro’s place,—would it be a “little” matter?’ 
‘You pester me with questions.’
‘You annoy me with answers. The fact w, William, you have been untrue to yourself and your better nature in all that you have said. You know that a negro is a man. and may be a gentleman, and that when he in is so he ought to be treated as such, just as well as I do. You know that society is mean, as well as wrong, in thus consenting to be unjust to the weak, out of courtesy to the strong. Of course, none of us advocate the superior desirableness of intimate association between black and white, as a general thing; but we do urge, that when a black 
<C03>
man has brain, and uses it, and cultures himself to a position equal, or superior, to our own, he ought to have the credit of it, and the courtesy that belongs to it,—and tae man who is afraid to accord it to him, through fear of what society will say, is a pellucid poltroon. So say I; so says your inner soul! And so said we,—as we alighted from the omnibus in which we had been an interested listener to the dialogue thus far. 

PLAYING ON THE BONES.
Playing on the bones is ordinarily deemed an accomplishment, a delicate piece of lyrical virtuoism of old Virginian origin—unless a passage in Shakespeare would indicate that it was known in the Elizabethan age; “Lot us have the tongs and the bones,” says the bard in The Midsummer-Night’s Dierm . But, whether the wonderful digital dexterity of more recent times was exhibited on the osseons instrument in the Shakesperean era or not, does not lessen the intense glory of the modern music. Success, however, produces imitation; and one mode of playing on the bones having begotten such glory for the Venerable Dominion, another was instituted by John A. Washington, Esq. This gentleman has been playing silver tunes on the bones of his ancestor, George Washington, lie has offered the estate for sale, the bones of the hero include, of course, we suppose, though some people would say not of course; and on that theme the bones of the Pater Patrice have been made to echo music, oratorical, dramatic, saltatory and symphonic. They have been struck together to our ears in the eloquence which is graded down to the level of Mason and Dixon’s line—below the water-mark of man’s inherent dignity and liberty. They have been wrapped in unison with Comedy and Farce, Tragedy and Barlesque; with songs of soul-sinking love, where cuore rhymes to amore, or rampant ecstacy, where it jingles with furore; with fours-phenomenon-Arthur Napoleonesque flights on the grand piano; with M. Musard in every variety of snapping, bounding, or limpid strains; with a twenty-five cent Concert, where walking and talking are allowed as accompaniment to the orchestras. All these performances on the bones of the; mighty dead have bum virtually instituted by Mr. Washington when be offered to sell Mount Vernon for $200,000, or whatever the sum is. Nay more, it is recommended that every lady of the myriad boquets of loveliness in this city should change the affluent elegance of her first of January receptions into another performance of this kind; that she should put up a box in her drawing-room, where every gentleman may (must) put in a contribution; and the gentlemen who pay 250 visits of course would g off cheap at $250 each for their respective day’s visiting. 
This lugubrious Mount Vernon bone-playing now resounds through the land. It is a question whether 25,000,000 people, colored parsons included, can raise $200,000 for the purchase. Calculate the sum per head, with the servile population left out, and raise it, and let the newspapers be relieved of the dolorous spiritual rapping. Raise it for patriotic, poetic, pious and political reasons. Save the memory of The Great from such cent-per-cent profanations.
Save it for another reason. The living Washington it seems, needs the money. He must need it, otherwise the following advertisement from The Alexandria Gazette has no meaning:— 
NEGROES FOR HIRE—FIVE AVOMEN AND GIRLS AND TWO BOYS. Among the women are Cooks and House Servants. Apply, personally, to the undersigned, on Monday find Tuesday, the 27th and 28th of December, at Mount Vernon, where the negroes can be seen and examined. 
JOHN A. WASHINGTON.
Mount Vernon, Dec. 21—dlw.
Here we have Mount Vernon transmogrified into a regular slave shamble, where human beings are sold out to the highest bidder—the proprietor living on their wages—until they are returned on his hands. Five women and girls are so dealt in by the illustrious descendant of the Father of his Country! Women that cook, and bake, and brew, and do the work of the housewife, and are entitled before God and man to the earnings of their heads and hands, these Mr. Washington sells out, and pockets the proceeds. So, too, “boys” (men) who have an equal right to the product of their brawn and their brains. To such a cadence has Mount Vernon reached Oh, save it, Americana, from further profanation! Stop rattling these bones in public, figuratively speaking, lest they turn over in their very coffin through immortal indignation. Let us pay off the $200,000, relieve the necessities of Mr. Washington, and protect the memory of his revolutionary ancestor.—Tribune. To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:
SIR: In your paper of the 27th inst., you took suitable notice of Mr. John A. Washington, the inheritor of the estate once owned and occupied by the ‘great Washington. It seems that this individual has undertaken to advertise. ‘NEGROES for HIRE. —FIVE WOMEN and GIRLS and Two Boys,’ and dates the advertisement at ‘Mount Vernon,’ Dec. 21, 1858. This advertisement is dated at the place where Washington wrote to Robert Morris as follows:—
‘There is not a man living who wishes more sincerely than I do to see a plan adopted for the abolition of Slavery’—and to John F. Mercer: ‘It is among my first wishes to see some plan adopted by which Slavery, in this country, may be abolished by law.’
But, Sir, Mr. John A. Washington is not the only man of the name who has acted contrary to the noble example of him who was ‘first in-war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen.’ Judge Bushrod Washington, the first heir who came into possession of Mount Vernon, in a published letter, in 1821, after stating that his slaves had got the idea that, as nephew to General Washington, or President of the Colonization Society, he could not hold them in bondage, he adds: ‘t called the negroes together in March last, and after stating to them what I had heard, I assured them that I had no intention to give freedom to any of them.’ ’The Judge,’ says William Jay, (Jay’s Works, p. 81,) ‘was as good as his word. He did indeed shortly after part with fifty-four of his slaves, but it was not to the agent of the ‘Colonization Society, to be transported to Liberia, but to a slave dealer, to be shipped to New Orleans.’ The bargain was consummated at Mount Vernon, and the poor creatures left the estate, hallowed as the residence of the Father of his Country, for the South.
And this is not all. I was told at Alexandria, in 1813, that the gearing apparel of Washington was sold by auction at Mount Vernon after his decease by one of the heirs. I suppose one of the emancipated slaves of Washington became a purchaser of one relic, for the gate of the avenue on the Mount Vernon estate was opened for the entrance of my carriage in 1813 by an aged negro man who wore a cocked hat ‘that belonged to the General.’ There would be many sad reminiscences recorded, if all the melancholy facts in relation to Slavery at Mount Vernon were included in the ‘Mount Vernon Papers. 
<C04>
THE SLAVE-TRADE TO BE OPENED.
The Washington correspondent of the Baltimore Sun has the following in regard to the slave trade:
‘The subject of the importation of African slaves into Southern States is likely to occupy the attention of Congress upon the resumption of the session. Several members, as I learn, are to bring it forward in the form of resolutions of inquiry. The facts of, the case, so far as officially known to the Executive, will thus be elicited. In one of Mr. C. L. Lamar’s letter to Secretary Cobb, lie stated that it was his ’intention to violate the law prohibiting the slave trade, relying upon the public sentiment of the South for his justification.
It has been stated in a Southern journal, upon authentic information, that the parties engaged in the recent importation of Africans, as slaves, would avow and justify the act. The examination of wit- nesses, pending in Savannah, may also elicit such facts as will render it necessary for the United States District Attorney to bring the subject before a grand jury. In the first place, it may be impossible to obtain an indictment from the grand jury, as was lately the case it Columbia, in the matter of the, Echo. But should a bill be found, and a trial take place, the jury, perhaps, may not convict the defendants. As to any opinion from a United States Court that the law prohibiting the slave trade is unconstitutional, no one can suppose that it will ever be rendered.
The amount of the matter is, that those of the Southern States that may choose to be supplied with slaves from Africa will be so supplied, any law of the United States to the contrary notwithstanding. The slavers only take the hazard of arrest on the high seas by United States cruisers, and of being carried into sons Northern port, where, possibly, the parties arrested might meet the penalty of the, law. The Federal government cannot control juries in the South anymore than they could in the North. it may be believed that the United States Fugitive Slave act cannot be executed in some parts of the North, and not long ago a case occurred in which the extradition of a foreign fugitive from justice was forcibly and successfully resisted.
That the African slave trade will be opened, is just as certain as that they will find a ready sale in the South. We have seen that Northern enterprise has been extensively engaged in the slave trade between Africa and Cuba, and there is no reason to doubt that it will brave all dangers, if a slave market be opened for it at the South. There is scarcely a doubt that this subject, in its various bearings, will occupy much attention in Congress, and furnish new issues for the coming political struggles. 
THE GAME TO BE PLAYED.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Independent says:— 
I have it from good authority that the slave trade, in a more extended line than the narrow decks of the noted Wanderer admit, is in full blast. And it will go on. Southern officers will command our naval vessels along the coast where the traffic is carried on and the cargoes landed, who will not sacrifice the precious (?) lives of the scoundrels who run in the cargoes. Grand juries will refuse to indict, and at the proper time the case will be carried to the Supreme Court, and there decided that Congress has no right to interdict the accursed trade. It belongs to the States. This will be the gist of it. Now mark the prediction.
Is not Congress to blame? Ought they not to possess a conscience as tender as the President’s, and vote him a million dollars as earnest money to Spain for the purchase of Cuba, so that this awful trade can be stopped? Not that a million would buy the coveted island, or fifty, or even a hundred times that amount; but if poor old bankrupt Spain should refuse to take the million, we could then declare war, and wrench the island from her possession. Four slave-representing senators would then. quietly slip into their places, while a couple of years’ protectorate over the two Mexican states would fit them for admission into the Union, and four more senators from the sunny, slave-breeding, slave-trafficking South. A delightful little game, based upon such broad philanthropy, and looking to the overthrow of the slave-trade! Should not the nation, as a body of Christians, sing paeans of praise for the gift of such a President?
There are moves upon the political board yet under consideration, which, if determined upon by the ‘powers that be,’ will rouse the anti-slavery men of this country as a trumpet-blast arouses a war-horse for the battle. We shall wait, and watch, and make note of their progress. Of one thing your readers may be assured. Everything that the slave interests of this country can get with safety to themselves out of this smitten Administration before it expires, will be obtained.’

SOME WHAT POINTED.
The following pungent remarks of the New York Courier and Enquirer’s Washington correspondent on the case of the Wanderer are well put:—
The present attitude of the government on this interesting question seems to be this: It deprecates the revival of the slave trade with Africa, but confesses itself impotent to execute the laws prohibiting it. But it is quite remarkable that this confession of, imbecility is not preceded by any actual efforts to vindicate the law. Does any man doubt that the 420 slaves of the Wanderer can be followed up to the plantations where they are now worked, and identified, if the government put forth but a tenth part of the energy it displayed to take one single fugitive slave from Boston? And so of the slavers in the Echo, taken in the act; could not the government find a Judge Loring to take cognizance of their case, if it desired to do it? Its paternal indulgence in the one case, and its savage vindictiveness in the other, suggest a painful doubt of its impartiality, and presents a contrast which will not be favorably regarded by the Christian and civilized world.’
From the experience we have had, since the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law in 1850, of catching runaway negroes in Massachusetts, when single and alone, we can imagine what a hubbub would have been made had some Yankee fitted out a clipper, landed in some Southern port, stolen some three hundred slaves, brought them to Massachusetts, and declared them free. The Union would have been menaced with speedy dissolution. The marines would have been ordered from the Navy Yard, cannon loaded with ball and cannister would have been placed at the corners of our streets, chains would have surrounded the Court-House, and our military would have been ordered on duty. Yet we have before us an example of a South Carolinian fitting out a slave vessel in a Southen port, which vessel sails to the coast of Africa, steak a cargo of native Africans, lands them in the South, hurries them to the interior of South Carolina, and sells them into bondage, they and their progeny forever. This is done in violation of our treaty stipulations, in violation of the laws of Christian nations, in violation of oar own laws, which declare the traffic piracy; and yet what is done? Do any of the Union-saving journals of the North speak in particular condemnation of the act? Not at all. Nor has the administration done aught to hurry the pirates to answer for 
<C05>
their Crimes, thus showing that to give a negro liberty is a crime, but to turn pirate and make negro. slaves is not worth giving bead to. How long shall our nation be thus disgraced?—Boston Atlas.

MANIFEST DESTINY.
Senator Douglas, in his speech from the balcon of the Everett House, undertook among other things. the championship of the doctrine of Manifest Destiny, that is to say, of the manifest destiny of the nation to annex and swallow up all its neighbors. To give a sort of religious sanction to this doctrin—a very favorite style of argumentation in the country, being employed also in defence of Slavery the slave trade, and the rum trade—Mr. Douglas quoted from Scripture the injunction to increase an multiply. We do not exactly see what increasing and multiplying has to do with the annexation Cuba, Mexico, Central America, &c., since, within our present limits, there is such ample room to carrying out this command. Surely Mr. Douglas does not intend to inculcate that every man with large family, or who hopes to have one, is justifies by this scriptural injunction in breaking into his neighbor’s house, seizing his goods, and thrusting him and his children into the street, or retaining them only in the condition of domestic servants. There is, indeed, another Scriptural injunction which seems to us much more appropriate to this point, and one of such urgency and solemnity as to find its place among the Ten Commandments. Mr. Douglas will find at the end of the Decalogue, ‘Thou shalt not covet anything that is thy neighbor’s.’
As to Mr. Douglas’s pretence that’ the weak and feeble powers adjoining us in America are our natural allies, and that we have a greater interest in them than any foreign power—an interest that they should have a firm and stable government’—such an assertion, if sincerely made, only proves Mr. Douglas to be sadly ignorant both of history and the philosophy of politics. Just so Persia claimed to be the natural ally and protector of the feeble Greek States on her border, perpetually disturbed as many of them were by intestine commotions. Just so England claimed to be the natural ally of Wales. Ireland and Scotland. Whereas every well-informed person knows, both from reason and experience, that great and powerful States bordering on weak ones are the natural enemies of the latter—always seeking to swallow them up—and, so far from having an interest in the stability of their government, always seeking to interfere to stimulate rebellions and internal dissensions. That is what all our Ministers have constantly done in the case of Mexico and Central America, and that is what our people have long done and are now doing in the case of Cuba. It would be just as reasonable to gay that the wolves prowling round a sheep-fold are, by reason of their contiguity, the natural protectors of the sheep. The natural allies of Mexico and Central America, and of Spain, so far as Cuba is concerned, are Great Britain and France, those being the only Powers able to keep American Statesmen like Douglas, Pierce and Buchanan, and American filibusters like Walker, from eating them up.—N. Y. Tribune.

PRESIDENTIAL FALSIFICATIONS.
One would think the President lived in total darkness, without the pale of newspapers and Congressional investigations. He alleges, first, that the bogus Legislature was a ‘rightful authority.’
2d. That the law calling the Lecompton Convention was not denied to be fair and just in its provisions.’
And 3d. That the Lecompton Constitution submitted ‘the slavery question to a vote of the people’ within the meaning of the ‘Kansas and Nebraska Act.’
Let us consider these propositions, for around them, in fact, clusters the Kansas embroglio.
1st. We believe the law and rules of evidence are not yet annulled, even in favor of Executive distortions. It is as notorious and unalterably true, that the Legislature whose ‘authority’ the Message terms ‘rightful,’ was the fruit, the wicked product, of the Missouri invasion—many of its members being known residents of Missouri—as that President Buchanan removed Secretary Stanton for refusing to submit to the Lecompton Swindle. In the Congressional archives there is a mass of testimony on that point—and within a stone’s throw of the President’s Cabinet councils—as conclusive and certain as any demonstrated proposition in geometry. In all Kansas it would be difficult for the President to find one man, be he Democrat or Free State, who would dare deny the fact that the first Legislature of Kansas was elected, and held its session, in direct and hostile opposition to the people of Kansas. It was not theirs. It belonged to a band of roving bullies and ruffians. Its authority was that of brute force. Its existence was the product of Federal bayonets and loaded cannon. Its pretended laws were treated by the people as empty chaff, rest of legality and wanting in even the force of law.
2d. The law calling a Constitutional Convention was ‘denied’ by the people of Kansas to be ‘fair and just.’ It was passed by a body of men who had no more rightful control over the affairs of Kansas than so many Hottentots. Any law they might pass could not but be unfair and unjust, because it emanated from an illegal, a fraudulent, a usurping, a bogus body. But the law itself was an abortion of justice, because it appointed bogus sheriffs and judges to register the names of those who were to be allowed to vote. And that registry was a vile fraud. Men prominent in Kansas from its first settlement were omitted from the registry, because they were Free State men; besides, no attempt ever was made to register nineteen counties. ‘Not denied to be fair’? Why, there isn’t a border-ruffian in Kansas from Gen. Eastin down, but that would laugh the President in the face, if he should repeat that to him! The Missourians openly exulted in the sure prospect they had of making Kansas a slave State in spite of the Free State men.
3d. The Kansas Act purported to leave the people free to form their domestic institutions in their own way.’ Its spirit, as expounded by its authors, was, that not only the question of slavery, bat all other local matters, should be left to the unbiassed decisions of the people. The President confesses that only one clause of Lecompton was submitted to the people. And that submission every one knows was a trick. Vote as they might, the people had to have slavery. Call you that a fair submission of the slavery question? Why, the vote of the French people, under the pointed bayonets of the usurper and tyrant, Louis Napoleon, whether they would be governed by an Emperor or no, was the freest of choices, compared with the vote on Lecompton. By no possibility could the people, under the Lecompton Constitution, free themselves from slavery, save by a revolution.
The President grossly, and in the free of the most conclusive testimony, misstates the whole history of our Kansas affairs. Happily, the intelligence of the American people cannot and will not be misled by it. His Message will find its place in the national archives, and in after times will be looked upon by those curious to find illustrations of the blinding effect of mere partizanship, as one of most sad yet striking examples.—Kansas Republican.
<C06>
A MAN SELLING HIS OWN DAUGHTER
The peculiar horrors of the system of American slavery but seldom come to the knowledge of the people of the North. We read in Southern papers of the sale of negroes, and the price at which they were knocked down, but none can know the misery and anguish that attend these every-day occurrences. A moving incident came to our knowledge last week, which we lay before our readers. We suppress names, for reasons obvious to every one.
Near Louisville, Ky., lives a planter or wealth and standing. He was the possessor of a hundred negroes, and he was noted for his thrifty, moneymaking disposition. He had never been married, and was an incorrigible bachelor of fifty. His house was managed by a young lady about twenty, his daughter by a quadroon, whose complexion was lighter by far than his own—and in whom the negro blood was scarcely visible. The mother died ten years ago, leaving her daughter with its. father’s solemn promise that she should be educated, and should live as a free woman, rather than as a slave, and that she should pass as his daughter, as she was. The planter gave this promise because he had been really attached to the dying woman, and was greatly attached to her and his beautiful child. And so she grew up, radiantly beautiful—receiving a reasonable education, all that her father could give her and in time took the management of his household. She never knew that there was any negro blood in her veins, and never dreamed that she was a slave.
Last fall, a series of misfortunes overtook the planter. His house burned down, and in it the notes, books and papers that composed a large portion of his fortune. His crops tailed to a great degree, and some heavy speculations in which he was engaged resulted disastrously. Added to all this. he had lost heavily at play, the besetting sin of Southern gentlemen, and had completely exhausted all his ready means, and found himself in the terrible situation of having more money to pay than he could possibly raise in a given time.
He applied to his attorney for counsel in his extremity. The attorney, after examining the situation of his affairs, advised him to sell off a portion of his negroes. The planter objected strenuously, first objecting to the sale of negroes, and secondly, that his force was barely sufficient to work his plantation. But, after full deliberation, he found this to be the only alternative, and sorrowfully consented. A list was made out, and every head that could possibly be spared was put down. After all was done, and the most favorable prices for them, the aggregate fell five thousand dollars short of the sum.
The attorney remarked quietly that he had not included all that could be spared.
‘I have put down all 1 can dispense with’ replied the planter.
‘I do not see Mary, your housekeeper’s name, in the list,’ replied the lawyer. ‘She, if offered to the right person, would make up the deficiency. I would give that for her myself.’ And the eyes of the lecherous brute sparkled with unholy passion.
At any other time, the planter would nave taken the suggestion as an insult, but necessity is a hard master, and he grasped at the idea, and before an hour the transaction was closed. It troubled him not a little to disclose the matter to her, but the fear of bankruptcy and ruin drove him to it. The poor girl’s horror and distress may be imagined. she bad known nothing but happiness, and now was to be plunged into the deepest and moat hopeless misery. She had been sold, and was then the properly, soul and body, of one who purchased her merely for the gratification of his beastly lusts. The idea was too horrible, and she swooned, remaining almost delirious for several days.
There was another upon whom the intelligence came with crushing weight. A junior partner in a produce house in Louisville had frequently visited the planter’s house on business, and struck with the beauty and intelligence of the supposed daughter, had become enamored—and after prosecuting his suit a proper time, had declared his passion, and unknown to the father, the two had betrothed themselves. As soon as possible after her father had told her fate, she dispatched a messenger to him, stating the facts, and imploring bun to save her from the doom that awaited her. Though thunderstruck at the intelligence that his affianced bride was a slave, and bad just been sold to a fate worse than death, like a true man, he determined to rescue her. That night he saw her, and a plan was formed for flight.
The day she was transferred to the possession of her purchaser, they fled, and in due time arrived at Cincinnati, where they were married. Our hero obtained an interview with one of the agents of the Underground Railroad, located in that city, who immediately telegraphed instructions to the different agents along the line to keep strict watch, and if woman-catchers were on the watch, at any point, to telegraph back, and give the fugitives timely notice, that they might leave the train. Accordingly they started, purchasing tickets for Crestline.
In the meantime the lawyer, as soon as he discovered his loss, bad commenced active measures to recover it. He had no difficulty in tracing them to Cincinnati, and none whatever in ascertaining that their destination was Crestline. But having arrived several hours after their departure, he was obliged to content himself with telegraphing to Crestline to the proper officers to arrest them at that place. But, unfortunately fur his prospects, the intended arrest got wind, and when the train reached Gallion, two citizens of that place stepped into the car, and a conversation of a few moments ensued, in the lowest kind of whispers, at the close of which, the four left the car. A carriage was in waiting, and in two hours the fair fugitive and her husband were domiciled in the house of one of our whole-souled farmers, near Bucyrus, who has long taken pleasure in helping fugitives on their way to the Canadian Canaan 
When the train, in which they embar’ted reached Crestline, the officials were unutterably chagrined at not finding the fugitive, and more so when they learned that she bad been within four miles of them.
After a lapse of two weeks, they ventured a move, and went to Detroit by the way of Sandusky city, and without accident reached the Canadian shore, where they can snap their fingers at that freedom which sells woman for a price. They are now residing in Toronto.
The father is irretrievably broken up, notwithstanding the sale of his own daughter, and as for the lawyer who purchased her, we have lively hopes of reading, ere long, an account of his hanging.—Bucyrus (Ohio) Journal.

FOR OPINION’S SAKE.
Rev. Mr. Basset is a Congregational clergyman in Washington, lately from Ottawa, Illinois. He is an earnest, pious and. able man. In his new home he is, we believe, much beloved by his congregation and greatly respected by all who have come within the sphere of his influence, for his manliness and Christian virtues. In making up a list of the resident ministers in that city. one of whom, by resolution of Congress, is to open the House with prayer at the commencement of every morning session, Basset’s name has been omitted. Mr. Basett has
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with
death, and an agreement with hell.’
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMINO THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free states are tending.’
—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
been tabooed. Why? He is not a pro-Slavery man. With the Bible before him, with a sense of. his accountability to a Higher Power than the American Congress or the Democratic party, he cannot, and would not if he could, defend, or keep silence in view of, the manifold enormities of that sum of all Atheisms, American Slavery! Offence enough in these days!
Let it be hereafter understood that no man who does not believe that black men are merchandise, that black parents have no right to their children, that black women are the mere conveniences of the white man's lust, that slavery is the highest development of Civilization and Christianity, and that anti-slavery views are but another form of infidelity, has, in the opinion of Congress or the dominant party therein, no right to pray at all, or, if praying, no right to be heard of men! The day-thanks to Christianity and true Democracy, which is but Christianity reduced to politics-in which men of Mr. Bassett's stamp may be heard in the National Legislator, is not far off; and woe be to the pro-slavery Democracy if their prayers are answered!-Chicago Tribune.

From the Milwaukee Democrat.
A BAD SHOW FOR SLAVERY AND SOUTH CABOLINA.
A report not long since, was made to the Legislature of South Carolina, showing the births and deaths and population of that State, for the year 1857, as follows
Total
Births. Deaths. Increase. Population.
Free 4,628 2,917 1,711 283,523
Slave 14,292 8,770 5, 6,522 384,984
Excess 9,564 5,858 3,811 101,461
This is a very startling exhibit, particularly when is added to it, as stated by the Missouri Democrat, the fact that for thirty years in South Carolina, the white population has not increased at all; it having been, in 1828, within a very few thousands of what it is in 1858. The slave population already exceeds the free by over one hundred thousand; the birth of slaves compared with whites is as 3.08 to 1, in favor of slaves, more than treble-the deaths of whites coming much nearer comparatively to the number of births than among the slaves, and the excess of whites probably migrating to other sections. What is to become of South Carolina in the future, if this state of things goes on without interruption? In thirty years longer, by the same process, South Carolina will have no more of a true population than she has now, and will have more than three quarters of a million of slaves, or three to one of the latter compared with the former. We donï¿½t ask if it is probable, but we ask if it is possible to keep an element of that strength in subjection under such circumstances. And when we consider that a condition of slavery is necessarily a condition of ignorance and brutality, a nursery of the very worst passions of human beings, the situation of these few whites amid, such an element can be imagined much better than described. That a servile insurrection, with all its horrible results, is certain to overtake South Carolina at no very remote period, in case her policy and that of the Government is not changed with reference to slavery, is just as certain as the rising of the sun and the going down thereof, for the latter is not more an inevitable result of fixed and immutable law than is the former.
And, although South Carolina may just now furnish the most startling and significant figures on this question, yet it only proves that she is a little nearer the realization of the condition which pertains to the law of slavery, but which can by no possibility escape any nation or people who practise and tolerate it. It is not the climate, nor the soil, nor anything peculiar about South Carolina, which produces the state of things disclosed by these figures. It is the condition of slavery within her borders, and wherever that condition exists, the results must be experienced. Nature corrects the unhealthful exhalations of the atmosphere by the violence of destructive storms; and for the concentration of the noxious gasses and confined fires of earth, she has provided earthquakes. Not more certainly for the vicious moral conditions instituted by men, and persevered in by them for the gratification of the baser passions of life, has she instituted those bloody revulsions with which the pages of history are filled. From bad to worse is the inevitable law of all bad relations or institutions which are tolerated. But the total destruction of the race is not in the economy of Providence. He has instituted means by which evil, that, unchecked, would bring segregation and annihilation to the race, shall be arrested. These means, when humanity fails, and refuses to accept those freely tendered of a peaceful and harmonizing character, are sure to force themselves on attention, in convulsion, bloodshed and destruction. The French revolutions were not more inevitable from the excesses and tyrannies of the French rulers and nobles, than is an apple to fall to the earth when rottenness detaches it from the parent bough.

From the Cleveland Leader.
THE NEXT CENSUS.
Some of the Southern Members of Congress urge that the next Census shall be confined simply to an enumeration of the people-that the important in-formation and statistics gathered by the census takers of 1850 shall be ignored by the census-takers of 1860. The Albany Journal in its terse way puts the real objections of the Southern Members into a paragraph, thus:-
The census is not a gratifying document to the Slaveholder. He reads there that Free States are thrifty and prosperous. He reads that his own acres are barren. His harbors deserted. His churches of stunted growth. His schools decaying. His Colleges feeble. His Factories scanty and poor. His Shipping nowhere. His paupers abundant. He reads how the finest tropical regions, coming under his sway, remain swamps and wilderness, while under the magic hand of free industry, rugged Northern ï¿½deserts blossom like the rose.ï¿½ He reads unpleasant contrasts under the head of ï¿½bushels to the acre;ï¿½ and ï¿½inhabitants to the square mile.ï¿½ He reads ugly facts under the head of ï¿½persons unable to read and write.ï¿½ He reads there, in short, how he is smiting his own land with a curse, while his neighbors are crowning theirs with a blessing. And what in worse, all the world reads it there, as well as he. He has good reasons for not wanting another census printed!
The contrast presented by the census of 1850 in the States of Michigan and Arkansas illustrate forcibly the Southerners objections to any thing, beyond a bare enumeration, or even that, if the Constitution did not require that the people should be numbered every ten years. Michigan and Arkansas were admitted into the Union in 1830. Then Arkansas was the most populous. But in 1840, Michigan had outstripped her Southern sister. The census showed a population of 212,267, all freemen, in Michigan; and 77,639 freemen, 19,935 slaves, in Arkansas. Arkansas continued to lose ground each day, and in 1850 Michigan numbered 509,374, all freemen; Arkansas 162,797 freemen, and 47,000 slaves. In 1820, Michigan then a Territory, was behind the Territory of Arkansas about 6,000; in 1850 she was ahead 267,497. The census of 1850 will show still greater disparity in numbers.
Other census statistics are equally humiliating to a people ï¿½ardent as a Southern sun can make them.ï¿½ The census of 1850 shows that while in Michigan 97 to every one hundred can read or write, one in every 11 of Arkansas adults cannot read or write. In 1856, Michigan had 20 patents issued on new inventions. Arkansas not one. In 1850 Michigan had fifty-eight newspapers and periodicals, with a circulation of more than three millions; Arkansas had but nine, with a circulation of about three hundred thousand. Michigan had 900 miles of Railroad in 1850; Arkansas none. Michigan's annual product amounted to $10,000,000; Arkansas to but $600,-000. Census statistics are great bores to Slave Representatives.

THE FREEWILL BAPTISTS.
ï¿½The simple fact is, that the Freewill Baptists have no churches in the slave States, and of course have no trouble about slavery.'-Zion's Herald.
The editor of the Herald must be very ignorant of the history of our denomination with respect to the Slavery question, or else he designedly misrepresented us. The truth is, we once had numerous churches and ministers in the Slave States; but virtually withdrew from them, and erased them from our Register nearly a quarter of a century ago, be-cause we believed it wrong to recognize persons as Christians who were guilty of practising what John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, pronounced the ï¿½sum of all villanies.ï¿½ In 1839, Dr. Housley, a slaveholding divine from Kentucky, appeared at our General Conference held in Ohio, entreating us with great earnestness to receive him and his slaveholding brethren in Kentucky into our connection, assur-
<c02>
ing us that there were probably twenty thousand or more in that and other Southern States, who would soon unite with us, if they were received. He was told, in effect, kindly, but plainly, to go home and emancipate his slaves, and then we would gladly receive him. But this he declined doing, and his petition was rejected, simply because we could not fellowship him as a Christian, while he claimed property in his brother man, whom God had created equal with himself.
Since that time, we and other members of our denomination have received letters from ministers in; the Southern States, agreeing with us in doctrine, in which they have urged us to abandon our opposition to slavery, stating that if we would do so, we might soon become popular and numerous at the South. This, then, is the reason why we have no churches in the slave States: we turned out what we had, and have refused to receive any more, because we cannot conscientiously fellowship slaveholders as Christians, nor withhold our opposition to slavery.
But the editor of the Herald says we ï¿½have no trouble about slavery.ï¿½ Here, again, he is in error, We think we hazard nothing in saying, that there is no denomination in our country;, in proportion to its numbers, which has suffered so much and been so greatly retarded in its progress, so far as increase is concerned, on account of its opposition to slavery, as the Freewill Baptist.
In addition to our loss of members at the South, by the rejection of slaveholders, we have met with great opposition at the North, and foes have sometimes been of our own household; especially was the case in the earlier years of the anti-slavery enterprise. At that time, the great majority of our male members were connected politically with what is termed the Democratic party, which was then, as it is now, in affinity with the slaveholding oligarchy of the South, and under its control and management, though this was not so manifest then as it has been since. Many of our members, therefore, and among them not a few of the most influential ministers and laity, did not at first approve of the anti-slavery course of the Star and the denomination, but came out decidedly against it. The consequence was that there were much contention and division among us. War was declared against the Star, and efforts were made to reduce its circulation, with too much success, for a time. For this purpose, and to endeavor to prevent the spread of anti-slavery sentiments among our churches, ministers traversed the States of New Hampshire and Maine, attending our Quarterly and Yearly Meetings, visiting churches and prominent ministers and brethren, everywhere denouncing and opposing the anti-slavery course of the denomination and the Star. Politicians of the dominant party joined in the cry against us, and used their utmost exertions to put us down. The Legislature of New Hampshire for many years refused to incorporate our Printing Establishment and Home Mission Society, while similar favors were freely ac-corded to other denominations. A paper was finally started, to assist in this work, particularly to cur-tail the circulation and counteract the influence of the Star, encouraged and sustained in part by the money and patronage of prominent politicians of the party alluded to. A number of churches and ministers finally withdrew from the denomination-other churches were greatly reduced in numbers by the withdrawal of members-ministers, in not a few in-stances, were persecuted, and had their limited salaries reduced-others were obliged to leave their churches, and seek new fields of labor-and for several consecutive years our numbers decreased.
Our churches and ministers are still suffering in many places on account of their opposition to slavery; and we are sorry to say, that we have the reason for believing that in some instances ministers of the denomination of which the Herald is the organ have encouraged divisions in and secessions from our churches of members who were disaffected from this cause, in order to increase and extend their own denomination. There are two or three cases of this kind not a thousand miles from Dover, the particulars of which, if divulged, would present some ministers of the Methodist denomination in no enviable light before the public; and would not aid the editor of the Herald much in his efforts to make up an anti-slavery reputation for his denomination.
We have stated above some of the troubles which our anti-slavery course has brought upon us. We might add to the list many more, but these are sufficient to prove that our anti-slavery has not been, and is not now, merely an empty profession, as the Herald intimates. And we rejoice to know, that our labors in this cause have not been in vain, but have produced much fruit. We have borne our full part, through our pulpits and press, in effecting the change in public Sentiment which has dethroned the slave power in many of the Free States, and kept slavery out of Kansas; especially is this the case as it respects the States of New Hampshire and Maine, as leading men in all parties have admitted. Dover (Freewill Baptist) Morning Star.

REV. THEODORE PARKER.
[Boston correspondence of the Dedham Gazette.]
I do not remember to have seen such a turn-out of the church-going people as on the first Sabbath of the new year. The day was cold, but bright and clear, and the sidewalks were so thronged as frequently to obstruct their passage. There have been no very noticeable sermons reported in the papers, if we except that of Rev. Theodore Parker, which attracted an immense audience at the Music Hall. This discourse was one of that class of efforts which have gained for Mr. Parker the most of his popularity with the mass of his hearers. He spoke boldly of the abuses of society, and did not scruple at personal allusion; uttered some words of hearty commendation of Hon. Horace Mann, whom he contrasted not very favorably with an eminent contributor to the New York Ledger, and affirmed that he would rather be for a short time like the Rev. Mr. Barnard, of Warren St. Chapel; than to possess all the wealth of Augustus-meaning thereby, as it is supposed, not Augustus Caesar, but a certain other Augustus, who has lately occupied no enviable position in the public mind.
Mr. Parker has a way of speaking what he considers the truth as regards public men, living and dead, which in this age of puffery and shams is peculiarly refreshing. He is now in the midst of those lectures upon the great men of the American Revolution, which he had engaged to deliver before the Fraternity Association of his own church. He analyzed the character of Washington last week, and this week's lecture was devoted to John Adams. The result is a finished picture of each of these venerated patriots, whose faults are not concealed or obscured, and excellences heightened, until the subjects assume the aspect of demigods, rather than men: but a faithful representation of them as they existed, with those errors and frailties which are inseparable from humanity, and which endear those who possess them all the more to the generation of to-day, as in them is recognized the mark of a common brotherhood. I do not mean to assert that Mr. Parker's estimate of character is invariably correct; he is as likely to be swayed by prejudice as another; and, indeed, there is an apparently unnecessary exhibition of Adams's weakness, in one or two instances; yet the principle he has adopted is a good one, and its faithful observance would be more likely to strengthen than otherwise our admiration of the really great men of history. Cromwell's famous saying, Paint me as I am, was as much the dictate of common sense and discretion as of heroism.

A PILL FOR DOUGLAS.
The editor of The Jackson Mississippian thus welcomes Senator Douglas to the South:
Covered with the odium of such detestable heresies-stained with the dishonor of a treachery without a parallel in the political history of the country-fresh from the warm embraces of Seward and Greeley and Giddings-this man has dared to present himself in the South, to look her honest sons and daughters in the face, and to ask their hospitality. We would not arouse the violent passions of men. We would stay the avenging rod of justice rather than the chivalry of the South should be tarnished by a single rash or unseemly act; but yet, if smarting under the keen sense of cruel wrong-if goaded by the conviction of outrageous injustice, she were to welcome her betrayer ï¿½with bloody hands to an hospitable grave ï¿½the gibbet or the faggot-there would be a strong array of irresistible facts in the case to extenuate the act.

CUBA. 
The Charlesten News regards Mr. Buchanan's Cuban policy as ï¿½the policy of the South,ï¿½ adding: 
The safety of our slave institutions, the strengthening of Southern military and naval defences, the interests of our commerce, and the increase of the South, in the Union or out of it, will be promoted by the acquisition of Cuba.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, JANUARY 14, 1859.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Our friends who have not yet paid for the Liberator for 1858 will bear in mind our rule, by which their papers must be cut off, if payment be not made before February 1st. These terms most indeed be accounted liberal, as they give not less than thirteen months credit. We hardly need add, that our subscription list needs greatly to be enlarged, and that any curtailment of it is most undesirable. F. W.

MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY
The twenty-seventh Annual Meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in Boston, at MERCANTILE HALL, Summer street, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, January 27th and 28th, commencing at half-past 10 oï¿½clock, A. M., on Thursday. The members and friends of the old Pioneer Society will not fail, we trust, to be present in strength of numbers and seal, and in the determination never to turn back from the cause of freedom, cost what it may, and come what may. The times both demand and encourage the boldest and meet explicit testimonies from every enemy of Slavery, and the most persevering efforts to effect its speedy and eternal overthrow.
FRANCIS JACKSON, President. ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.

SHALL MASSACHUSETTS BE SLAVE-HUNTING SOIL?
From being slave, or making slave, God save the Commonwealth!
In the Liberator of the 17th ult., we stated that a printed letter had been sent to every clergyman in this State, as far as known, by the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, asking his countenance and aid in obtaining signatures to the following petition:ï¿½
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:ï¿½
The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to enact that no person, who has been held as a slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes service or labor to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union.
To favor the object of this petition, the letter alluded to declares, is a duty which may most fitly be enforced from the pulpit, with all boldness and fidelity, in the name of the God of the oppressed, and which every true follower of Him who ï¿½was sent to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are boundï¿½ should perform with alacrity. No matter what may be the legal or constitutional relations of slavery to the people of Massachusetts, by compact or otherwise: these can never justify complicity with slave-hunters, nor override the dictates of humanity and the commands of God, whose will should be obeyed at all hazards.ï¿½ All this is self-evident morality-in accordance with the dictates of common humanity-the very spirit of genuine Christianity.
A few days since, FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq. (whose signature as President of the Massachusetts A. S. Society was appended to the letter.) received a copy of the petition, evidently separated from the letter, and therefore unquestionably transmitted by the clergyman to whom it had been addressed, with the following written beneath it:ï¿½
To FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq.:
The writer cannot put his own name to this petition, nor ask others to do so, because the sixth article of the Constitution of the United States requires the members of the several State Legislatures to take an oath to support said Constitution. As that instrument requires the surrender of fugitive slaves, to petition the Massachusetts Legislature to enact a law contravening such provision would be to petition them to commit perjury. The writer is not yet so far gone in depravity as to commit so great an immorality, whatever may be the case with Mr. Jackson and his associates. The writer is firmly convinced that one who is so lost to all principle as to solicit another to take a false oath, or to violate his oath, is prepared for any villany to which his passions may prompt him. The writer is also of opinion, that perjury is quite as bad as slaveholding, and he does not understand the morality or religion of undertaking to remove one crime by committing another equally bad. He would also say, that the Massachusetts Legislature has no power to interfere with the Federal Courts, and that while he feels a due degree of humanity for the slave, he feels equally bound to exercise humanity towards the hundreds and thousands of white men whose lives might be taken by a collision between the United States and State forces.
Yours, for integrity, the slave, and the white man.
ï¿½I will be a swift witness against the false swearer.ï¿½-Malachi.
Here is patent clerical piety! quite a match for that of those murderous Scribes and Pharisees who preferred Barabbas to Jesus, and who solemnly averred, in regard to the latter, ' We have a law, and by that law he ought to die! Rather than nullify the law, his blood be on us, and on our children! What is the Divine command, ï¿½Hide the outcast, betray not him that wandered, let mine outcasts dwell with thee, be thou a covert to them from the face of the spoiler,ï¿½ compared to ï¿½the sixth article of the Constitution of the United States,ï¿½ which (as the writer asserts) 'REQUIRES THE SURRANDER OF FUGITIVE SLAVES'?
This conscientious accomplice of slave-hunters says that, while he is ready to act the part of a two-legged bloodhound, he is not yet so far gone in depravity (!) as to ask that perjury may be committed; for he is firmly convinced that whoever will do this, must be a villain of the deepest dye! What if the enemies of Jesus had bound themselves by an oath to procure his crucifixion-would the oath have been binding, or better kept than broken? More than forty men conspired against the life of Paul, and bound themselves under a great curse that they would eat nothing until they had slain him'-himï¿½would it have been villanous to implore them not to execute that oath? According to this anonymous writer, every wicked and murderous oath should be kept-for he does not understand the morality or religion of undertaking to remove one crime by committing another equally bad!
It is not true that the petition asks any man to take a false oath, or to violate any oath or promise that is morally obligatory. It only asks that the fugitive slave may find succor and protection among us, and the will of God be done; and if this can be done only by breaking an impious oath, let that oath be broken! Every true moralist will agree with Shakespeare, that
ï¿½It is a sin to swear onto a sin,
But greater sin to keep the sinful oath.ï¿½
The petition has been numerously signed in various parts of the Commonwealth. Thank Heaven!
From clanging forge, from humming mill, from workshop and from loom.
From ploughing land and ploughing sea, from student's lonely room,
They're coming with the will in their eyes, the Puritan-hearted men,
At sound of their footsteps the blood shall rush to Freedom's check again!
They're Freedoms cheek again!
They are coming but to speak one word, they're coming but to say,
ï¿½Poor minions of the tyrant's cause, your groveling hearts obey!
But, hear it, North, and hear it, South, and hear it, East and West,
We will not help you bind your slaves! In God's name we protest!"
<c04>
REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS AND THEIR MESSAGES.
When the sky falls, we may catch larks. When Republicanism secures the reins of political supremacy, then see with what boldness it will act with reference to the Slave Power and its intolerable aggressions!ï¿½ Such has been the enticement held out to Abolitionists to join the Republican ranks, eschew their non-voting theory, and show themselves to be practical in their opposition to slavery! Well, New York, Ohio and Massachusetts are Republican in politics, and we have before us the recent messages of their. Republican Governors to the Legislatures of those States. What do they say by way of protest, what do they counsel as to action, in behalf of freedom and free institutions?
First, as to the message of Gov. Morgan, of New York. The concluding portion of it briefly alludes to the slavery question, after this fashion The State of New York,ï¿½ it says, has consistently maintained a conservative attitude with regard to those of her sister States which cherish systems of labor (!) differing from her own.ï¿½ That means, of course, that New York has had no sympathy with the anti-slavery movement as such, disclaiming (as she does) all right or wish to interfere with the domestic concerns of any community outside of her own limits.ï¿½ The foulest and most brutal oppression ever known is thus gingerly designated as a ï¿½system of labor,ï¿½ and a domestic concern! How very regardful of the feelings of those Southern broken in the trade of blood! All that Gov. Morgan says, however, is true in regard to the feelings and conservative attitude of the Empire State on this subject; but it is to her condemnation, not her credit, as he seems to regard it. Her relation to the South, through the Union, is that of an accomplice in crime. She allows the slave-catcher to make her soil slave-hunting ground; she agrees to a slave oligarchy in Congress, based on an ever-growing slave representation; she holds herself in readiness to obey the summons of the National Executive to march her citizen soldiers to the South, for, the suppression of any slave insurrection which may require such a measure. No wonder she has ï¿½no wish to interfere for the abolition of a system which she is so ready to sanction and perpetuate. What if it be true that ï¿½she insists in her right to maintain, wherever the issue shall be legitimately presented, the superiority of liberty over slavery? Does she not stand condemned out of her own mouth? Of what value is her testimony under such circumstances? What is that but an India-rubber conscience, which is 'bounded by thirty-six degrees thirty minutes, north latitude? How does it happen that liberty-loving New York has no issue to make with slavery-loving Carolina, or any other of the fifteen slave States? Is it not because she is in league with them all? She has already swallowed the camelï¿½why should she strain out a that? No sophistry has sufficed,ï¿½ says Gov. Morgan, ï¿½to blind her to the fact, that the establishment of slavery upon territory hitherto free, would be a calamity and a wrong, for which not only the handful of settlers who had already drifted upon the soil of such territory, but the whole American people who permitted such establishment, would be justly held responsible.ï¿½ And, pray, what sophistry has sufficed to prove the establishment of slavery, in one half of the Union, by the consent and co-operation of ï¿½the whole American people,ï¿½ perfectly justifiable? By what rule of morality, by what consideration of justice, or by what principle of humanity, is ï¿½a calamity and a wrong in a territory, neither calamitous nor wrong in a State? Well may the South sneer at the North, and charge her with gross hypocrisy, in making a distinction so absurd, based upon nothing better than imaginary and conventional border lines!
Gov. Morgan says Every American must, in his heart, desire either that slavery should or that it should not be extended into our federal territories.ï¿½ Unquestionably! But when he adds ï¿½Each has a right to proclaim and act upon his choice he violates the truth, and concedes what may not be granted to any man, or body of men; because no man can have a right to declare either for the extension or the existence of slavery in any part of the country or the world. What next? ï¿½If the deliberate sentiment of the people, constitutionally expressed, SHALL FAVOR SLAVERY EXTENSION, New York will submit, as she has always submitted, to decisions fairly made, which contravene her convictions or her interests, however disappointed by any lawful action of the constituted authorities of the United States! What is this but the avowal of the most profligate sentiments in behalf of the people of New York? What is it but to encourage and stimulate the men-stealing extensions of the South to plant slavery in all the territories-being assured that, if successful, their transcendent villany will cheerfully be submitted to by the Empire State ï¿½for ï¿½she has never faltered in the work of submission, ï¿½nor sought redress in acts of nullification, nor in threats of disunion!ï¿½she wages no war upon the institutions nor the interests of her sister States! What is it but to rule God out of the universe? If the deliberate sentiment of the people shall favor slavery extension favor the commission of the bloodiest crimes and the most heinous sins, ad infinitum-humane, moral, Christian New York will say Amen!ï¿½though the command of God is, ï¿½Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.ï¿½
So much for the Republican Governor, Edward D. Morgan, of New York-for whom nearly all the colored property voters in that State cast their votes, on the ground of doing something practical for the cause of freedom, and obtaining the repeal of the odious and unjust property qualification which is required of the colored citizens of the State! What do they find in the message, as pertaining to their own rights? Nothing! Will the present Republican Legislature now in session at Albany do any better? We shall see.
Here is the message of Gov. Salmon P. Chase, of Ohio, a distinguished leader of the Republican party. What does it say about the present attitude and avowed designs of the Slave Power? Nothing. What does it recommend by way of manly protest and unflinching resistance? Nothing. And why this ominous silence at a time when the loudest remonstranceï¿½s and the strongest appeals are needed? Is it because a Presidential election is pending, and Gov. Chase, aspiring to be the Republican candidate, deems it good policy to let his moderation be known to algal men on the all-absorbing question of the times, in the hope that he may thus secure a nomination?
Here, too, is the message of Gov. Banks, elaborate in its details, watchful of the material interests of Massachusetts, excellent in many of its suggestions and recommendations, but-without one syllable in it respecting THE GREAT ISSUE which cannot be innocently shirked, and which must be met as becomes freemen! Not a word! not a suggestion! not the remotest reference! No matter who has occupied the gubernatorial chair for the last twenty years, we believe no message has been sent to the Legislature, without containing some expression of sentiment on this subject, till now. However this may be-for we have not time to verify our impression by a careful examination-surely, at a crisis so awful as the present, it is not only inexcusable, but highly reprehensible, on the part of Gov. Banks, thus to ignore the whole matter of slavery. Is the solution of this criminal silence also to be found in the. approaching Presidential election? No wonder that, at the conclusion, of the delivery of the message, that oily-tongued, political Ignatius Loyola-that treacherous betrayer of the honor, interests, rights and liberties of the people of the Common wealthï¿½that unscrupulous panderer to the Southern lords of the lash, ï¿½Hon. Caleb Cushing,ï¿½ was so delighted to find it ï¿½silent as the grave on that subject, which, of all others, might wellï¿½ create a soul even under the ribs of death,ï¿½ and make the dumb to
<c05>
cry aloud, that he could, not refrain from ï¿½embracing the earliest possible opportunity to express the general impression of gratification made upon his mind by it.ï¿½ The Boston correspondent of the Worcester spy refers to this significant panegyric as though it were a sign of a change of heart on the part of Mr. Cushing! Referring to the message, he says:ï¿½
ï¿½It is worthy of remark, that, at the conclusion of its reading, Caleb Cushing at once made for the Speaker's chair, where he congratulated the Governor, in no common terms, of flattery. Hitherto, Gen. Cushing has maintained a degree of hot hostility towards to His Excellency. The ice is evidently, now broken. Let us hope that the General, who is a man of immense power, and might be of service, will now reform his politics. I have, indeed, heard it intimated that he is sick of the political company he has, unfortunately, kept, for several years past, and that it is not improbable he will put himself fairly on the Republican platform, in time to fight the Presidential battle. We shall see. This much is true; he has raised the peaceful flag of trace to the Governor, and their reunion was quite cordial.ï¿½
Mr. Cushing has adroitly succeeded in ï¿½pulling the wool over the eyes of this correspondent. It is not Mr. C. who has raised the peaceful flag of truce to the Governor,ï¿½ but the Governor who has propitiated Mr. Cushing by removing Mordecai from the king's gate.ï¿½ No wonder the message is equally acceptable to the Boston Post, which also expresses much gratification with it. Silence on the slavery question is all that the South desires. GOV. Banks, in being silent at this time, is virtually playing into her hands; therefore it is the Post and Mr. Cushing are so abundantly satisfied!
ILLNESS OF REV. THEODORE PARKER. A large congregation assembled, as usual, at Music Hall, on Sunday day morning last, to listen to a discourse from Mr. Parker, when the following note was read by the venerable Samuel May:-

To THE CONGREGATION AT THX MUSIC HALL:
WELL-BELOVED AND LONG-TRIED FRIFXDSï¿½I shall not speak to you to-day; for this morning, a little after 4 o'clock, I had a slight attack of bleeding from the lungs or throat. I intended to preach on the religion of Jesus and the Christian Church; or the Superiority of Good Will to Man over Belief in Theological . I hope you will not forget the contribution for the poor, whom we have with us always. I do not know when I shall again look upon your welcome faces fares, which have so long cheered my spirit when my flesh was week. May we do justly, and love mercy, and walk humbly with our God, and His blessing will be upon us here and hereafter, for His Infinite Love is with us forever and ever. 
Faithfully, your friend,
THEODORE. PARKER.
The Atlas and Bee says that the sensation of grief excited by the reading of this note was general and profound. Very many eyes were dimmed with tears, for although the withdrawal of Mr. Parker from his public ministrations had not been altogether unanticipated by those who had been acquainted with his feeble state of health for some time past, yet it had been hoped that no difficulty so serious as that announced in the note would arise.
After the reading of the note, a meeting of the parish was held, at which, after remarks by several gentlemen, it was voted to continue the salary of Mr. Parker for one year, at least, with the understanding that he would take a respite from all public duties for that period. The subject of continuing public worship by that Society at the Music Hall, or elsewhere, was referred to the Standing Committee, with full powers to take such action as, in their judgment, may seem wise and expedient. A vote expressive of the deep; and heartfelt sympathy of the Society with their pastor, was also unanimously passed.
We understand it is the intention of Mr. Parker to go to some one of the West India islands as speedily as possible. What thronging fears, anxieties, hopes, and benedictions will go with him! If life is in noble thoughts and beneficent deeds, what longevity has already been attained by this remarkable man!
MELANCHOLY SUICIDE. The numerous admirers of those sweet minstrels in' the cause of Freedom and Humanity, the Hutchinson Family, will deeply regret to learn that the leader of the band, Judson J. Hutchinson, was found, on Tuesday evening last, about half past six o'clock, suspended by the neck, in an unfinished house, owned by his brother, at High Rock, Lynn. When the body was discovered, life was extinct. The cause of this act of self-destruction was doubtless insanity, as he has for several years past been subject to occasional derangement of mind. He was one of the most gifted in song. Alas! for this sad termination of his earthly existence!
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, have just published the following pieces of music:ï¿½
Silver Bells. For piano, by Albert Jungmann.
New funny and free Translation of Verdi's La Triviata, as sung by Piccolomini, Giuglini, and all other Inis. Adapted by H. Walker.
Under the Linden. New Ballad. By George Linley.
The Green Trees whispered low and mild. From Longfellow's admired Poem, ï¿½Voices of the Night.ï¿½ Composed by John Blockley.
Eveleen Lamore. Ballad, written by Mrs. S. C. Hall. Music by Wm. R. Dempster.
Papageno. Polka, for piano, by Ludwig Stasny.
The Spell that hath bound me. Ballad, written by George P. Morris. Music composed and sung in his Popular Entertainment, called ï¿½Songs and chit chat of travel in many lands,ï¿½ by Stephen Massett.
Harp of the wild Wind. Words by Miss Mary Bradford. Music composed by Orramel Whittlesey.
THE ANGLO-AFRICAN MAGAZINE. We have received the first number (for January, 1859) of this new monthly octavo of 32 pages, which is to be devoted to the cause of the colored population of the United States, and, we understand, edited by Dr. J. McCune Smith. Its list of contributors will embrace the most prominent colored writers and speakers in the country. The present number is very creditable, and contains the following articles:ï¿½ 1. Apology-Introductory. 2. Alexander Dumas-with a fine lithographic portrait trait of this renowned colored author, by Sartain. 3. Civilization: its dependence on physical circumstances. 4. Attraction of the Planets. 5. Blake, or the Huts of America. 6. Mrs. Partington and Mrs. Freshing ton. 7. Colored American Patriots. 8. Selected Items. Terms, one dollar a year, in advance. All communications should be directed to Thomas Hamilton, 48 Beekman Street, (P. O. Box 1212,) New York.

TOBACCO!
DEAR SIR,-I have now and then given a. lecture to Lyceums on the HISTORY and POETRY OF TOBACCO. Partial judges have thought it both amusing and instructive, and have awarded to it the rare characteristic of making a greater dent on the habits of gentlemen than on their purses, or of making more converts than dollars.
Permit me to say to your readers, that when current lectures, like pleasing coruscations, shall leave our skies, I shall be glad to give this lecture wherever invited, with the hope that its more humble lightning may strike somewhere, and leave a dent that is visible.
Ladies, whose friends love 'the Weed' a little better than they love them, or gentlemen who have a taste for facts both grave and humorous-on a mighty theme, may pay for the lecture what they please-I ask no more. 
Fitchburg, Mass., 1859. GEO. TRASK.
SUFFLIED. We acknowledge our indebtedness to quite a number of our subscribers for promptly returning to us copies of the Liberator of Dec. 24th, to make up a serious and inexplicable deficiency of that particular issue. It is not the first time they have kindly responded to such as call. We are now supplied
<c06>
REPORT FROM THE LECTURING FIELD HUBBARDSTON, Jan. 5, 1859.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Perhaps you may be willing to vacate a corner of the Liberator by inserting a few jotting form itinerancies in the abolition field thus far.
The meeting in the Orthodox church of this town was very fully attended. Two of the clergymen, Rev. Mr. Allen, the pastor, and Rev. Mr. Martin of the Methodist church, were present, and took part is the discussion. 
The audience at West minister was quote large The Rev. Mr. Ames, Orthodox, who evinces a real interest in the Anti-Slavery movement. came in such opened the meeting. I am under obligations for the hospitality of Mr. George Miles and Mr. John Heywood, also to Mr. Josiah Puffer, for his generous exertions in behalf of the cause.
I spoke at Gardner, South and Centre, in the Rev., Messrs. Ashley's and Healy's churches, both of whom were present and participated in the exercises. This reluctant soil had just been so thoroughly broken up by Mr. Pillsbury's renovating plough. that the field mice, hardly state team which followed was well-nigh lost in the rows. furrows It is to be hoped that the field mice, hardly done squeaking, were not unduly consoled by said treatment as a novitiate could administer, Mr. A. A. Bent, a burning and shining light in this region, with out regard to time or trouble, made arrangements for these meetings. To him, and also to John Edged, Esq., I am indebted for a very pleasant entertainment while there. A passage home was freely furnished me by Mr. Rufus Warren, who, with his earnest and charming wife, is a new recruit to the abolition ranks. 
At Rutland, the people exhibited much interest in the meeting. Rev. Mr. Baylies, Methodist, gave me the ear of. his congregation, and pledged his desk on future occasions. The Abolitionists 'her forget not the assembling of themselves together An Anti-Slavery Society has been formed, and regular sessions and discussions are held. It is a city set on a hill.ï¿½ 1 have been repeatedly welcomed to the homes of Esq. Flint and J. E. Estabrook, in the later of whom the readers of the Liberator will recognize one who fires such admirable poetical from the heights of Worcester North. The meeting at Barre was held in the Town Hall, in foul weather, with fair success, notwithstanding a leading number of the Methodist church, who professes to be an ' old Abolitionist,ï¿½ gave out in advance that I should' should injure the cause of religion,ï¿½ and that ï¿½he would oppose me with all his might.ï¿½ Dr. A. A. Howland, orthodox and Rev. Mr. Kimball of the Free Church tendered their cooperation. Mr.-Rice kindly volunteered to take me to the next town.
The audience at Florence was quite as large as their small house could welcome. I am the 'debtor of Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Hammond, who give abounds proof of their willingness to do good 'unto ail unto all met. especially unto those who are of the household of faith,ï¿½ for my pleasant stay at their home. Also of Mr. S. L. Hill for a passage thence to Northampton.
In Princeton, my native town, Jesus in the slave could not be heard at his own altar. The Orthodox church, with which it has been my privilege and pleasure to be associated more or less in the School and missionary enterprises, the moment it was known I was an Abolitionist, slammed its door in my face, while it allows South-side Adams to preach in its pulpit, and break bread at its communion table Notwithstanding these facts, in pastor, who menu the Anti-Slavery cause as the fly upon the coach wheel, the bark of the little dog in the street,' street he has a. right to say he is anti-slaver-, and nobody has any right to deny it.ï¿½ Still, the attendance <illegible> the hall was good, the contribution the larger I have received in any one town yet, and some, I hope of such as shall be saved, were awakened to though and action in, this holy enterprise. Verily, the world moves,ï¿½ even in Princeton. That bark, like the whisper of the Swiss walking up and down his valley, will bring down the avalanche ere long. Mr. L C. Davis, a young man who stands firmly in his out shoes, and thinks for himself, rendered much assistance in getting up the meeting.
My appointments at Leominster, Centre and North were made by Mrs. F. H. Drake, of whose earnest devotion to the slave, and abundant and abundant and contained sacrifices in his behalf, the readers of the Liberator need not be informed. Rev. Mr. Barker, of the Unitarian church, and his accomplished lady, gave me their hearty support and God-speed. The Methodist and Orthodox ministers refused even to read the notices, the former giving as his reason that I was taking Gods timeï¿½to remember these those in bonds as bound with them.
The meeting at Sterling, though not very fully attended, comprised some earnest souls. Mr. Charles Brick, one of the Old Guard in this vicinity, furnished valuable aid without solicitation, Rev. Mr. Robbins, Baptist, opened the exercises, and showed by his remarks, both, in public and private, that he felt keenly the wrongs of the slave, and the humiliating and guilty position of the Church as his oppressor. Charles T. Mirick, Esq., a promising young man, in full sympathy with the Abolition movement, took a lively interest in the occasion, and tendered me the hospitalities of his home then and thereafter Mr. Thomas, of Oakdale, furnished his ball without charge, saying he had christened it Freedom Hail for such purposes. The Orthodox minister of Boylston gave up his usual Sunday evening service in be half of the slave. The attendance at these paces was very fair. The meetings were called and provided for, at the expense of much time and travel, by Mr. Thomas Martin, of West Boylston, one of kiel's gap men,ï¿½ who, though an Englishman, and born into the Anti-Slavery Church, has'. Has grown in born into the Anti-slavery church, has grown in grace and in the knowledge of the truth, since be Since becoming one of the 'Lord's sacramental host,' who are yet to trample all oppression in the dust in America. The ardor with which he espouses the cause of humanity, and the prophetic attention with which he and his devoted wife anticipated the wants of their guests, will not soon be forgotten by those whose privilege it has been to share the comforts of their home.
My meeting at Holden was called by Mr. Moses Smith, an Abolitionist, the living epistle of whose life is so well known and read of all men in his town that a pro-slavery D.D. Persisted in giving the Mr. Smiths meeting. antiï¿½slavery, probably being a term not familiar to a congregation whose pastor endorsee the American Tract Society., Rev. J. H. Tilton, Baptist, gave me his presence, his participation, and a kindly entertainment at his own house.
The Rev. Charles Kendall. Orthodox of Peters ham, is thoroughly in earnest in his anti-slavery professions. Though it was a dismal stormy night, his church was well filled. The lecture it brought some Republicans to their fees, and resulted in quite a. lively discussion. I am indebted to Mr. O Brigham for making this appointment and all the necessary arrangements.
My audience at Baldwinville consisted of the sexton and a lantern. The evening being exceedingly unpropitious, and other meetings occurring at the same time, we concluded to leave off before we began. The attendance at Templeton the following night was .very good Rev, Mr. Adams, Unitarian, and Rev. Dr. Sabin, Orthodox, were both present. Mr. Leonard Smith generously provided for me in public and in private at this place.
Rev Samuel May. Jr., your indefatigable General Agent., whose heart and hand and house are ever open to the call of humanity, has rendered me much assistance in getting up these and other meetings, of which mention has already been made in the liberator.
So far as I can judge, the petition against the return
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
of fugitive slaves will be quite generally signed in many of the towns that I have visited. Some tremble at the word 'treason,' but many are longing for a chance to be traitors to a slaveholding government.
My own feelings, as well as the peerless examples of fidelity to principle with which I have m in my brief anti-slavery experience, compel me to say a word in respect of the social position of many Abolitionists relative to Church and State. I do it the <illegible> readily, since, not long ago, I myself was standing by and 'consenting' unto their persecution. To sever all one's political ties at a single stroke, to cut loose from the Church, with all its hallowed associations, to 'confer not with flesh and blood,' in order to be true to Jesus in the slave, is no trivial task. what Dante found written over the Inferno-
'All hope abandon, ye who enter here'-
has been terribly true of the Abolitionist in regard to social favor. Many, like Nicodemus, will go to Jesus by night, but few can profess him before the world. Most who cry 'hosanna' on the stress of Jerusalem will crucify their Lord upon Calvary. I rejoice that so may have had strength to go without the camp, bearing his reproach, to take the part of religion and justice against apostate religions and political institutions. Of that humble but courageous spirit, 'up-rig t before God and downright before men,' of that impartial philanthropy which embraces all mankind as the sky enfolds the earth, of that heroic and saintly adhesion to principle which will not be dissevered from its object but by calamity or death, I have never m such illustrations before. It is the old martyr spirit, the real Puritan fortitude, which, but for these, would have become extinct among us. Verily, they have their reward. Despised and rejected of their own, they have 'meat to eat the world knows not of.
'For whom the heart of man shuts out,
Straightway the heart of God takes in.'
It needs no uncommon foresight to discern that these bated and reviled Come outers are the 'ten men who shall save their city.'
Your, for the war, E. H. H.

WORCESTER SOUTH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIY.
The annual meeting of the Worcester County South Decision Anti-Slavery Sicily was held at Washburn Hall, Worcester, on Sunday, Jan. 9th. The meting was called to order, at 11 o'clock, A.M., by the President, Effingham L. Capron.
W. L. Garrison read portions of the fifth and fifteenth chapters of Exodus. These two portions of Scripture history, when thus read in connation, pre <illegible> a very striking contrast, and constituted a most appropriate and instructive 'lesson for the 'day' fire', showing the prostrate and suffering condition of the oppressed children of Israel, ground into the dust by the exactions of their task-masters, and ready to <illegible> and fall in their extremity of despair,ï¿½next, the rampant song of that same people, as they march ed, a great host, out of the land of oppression, and looked back upon their pursuers, overwhelmed in utter destruction.
Opportunity for prayer, vocal or silent, was afforded.
On motion of Samuel May, Jr., Voted, That Committees of Business and Finance, and a Sectary pro <illegible> be now chosen.
On motion of Abby K. Foster, Voted, that these officers be nominated by the Chair.
The President accordingly nominated the following, and the Sicily confirmed the same:ï¿½
On Business-W. L. Garrison, T. W. Higgins on, S. May. Jr. S. S. Foster. P. Pillsbury.
On Financeï¿½Daniel S. Whitney, Sarah E. "Wall, Moses Smith. Abby Kelley Foster.
Sectary pro tem.-Samuel May, Jr.
Mr. GARRISON presented for discussion the following resolutions:ï¿½
1. Resolved, that so long as the religious countenance and influence of THE NORTH is given to slavery, it is utterly in vain to expert its overthrow, or that a true work of Repentance can be done in the South.
2. Resolved that the so-called Churches of the North, with a few exceptions, still are. What for twenty years they have been, ' The Bulwarks of American, Slavery.'
3. Resolved, That, among those guilty churches, those of Worcester and vicinity, where Trinitarian or Unitarian. Evangelical or otherwise, which, for so many years, have been utterly deaf to the cry of the enslaved, and utterly dumb as respects God's laws against oppression and the oppressor, are pre-eminent, and are consequently, in the strictest sense, the enemies of God, and Christ, and Humanity.
4. Resolved, That we accept the taunting admonition of Southern slaveholders, Mind your own business!'ï¿½and it is our business and the business of the people of the North, to see that we neither oppress nor connive at oppression, that we reduce to practice the 'self-evident truths' of the Declaration of Independence, that we ' hide the outcast and bewray not him that <illegible>.' that we make our soil free to every fugitive slave who stands upon it, and that we cleanse ourselves from all blood-guiltiness.
5. Resolved, That it is the wildest incoherency, on the part of the South, in one breath to charge us of the North with meddling with that which does not concern us. and for which we are not responsible: and in the next, to remind us of the pro-slavery guarantees we have given her, and insist upon our fulfilling them to the later-requiring us to allow the slave-hunter to seize his victims in any part of our Northern domains,-to recognize slave property as valid as any other property in all the territories of the union.-to persuade a slave representation in Congress,-to guarantee the suppression of every slave insurrection, even by the strong arm of the national government, if need be,ï¿½to consent to the admission into the Union of as many slave States as can be created, and however created,ï¿½and to aid in the extension of slavery by the acquisition of new territory, obtained where by purchase, bribery,' perfidy, invasion, or conquest.
6. Resolved, That it is the rightful business and imperative duty of the people of the North, without delay, to withdraw themselves from their present alliance with the Southern traffickers in human flesh-to proclaim the Union between the free States and the slave States at an end. And to take such measures for the formation of a Northern Union as shall be in accordance with the principles of justice, humanity, and impartial liberty.
PARKER PILLSBURY addressed the meeting. He commented on the fact, that the Spiritualists of Worcester, who ordinarily held their meetings in the same hall where he was now speaking, and who profess to be anti-slavery, were, with very few exceptions, absent from this anti-slavery meting. He glanced at the condition and growth of the Spiritualists, and instituted a party searching inquiry as to the influence of this 'new sect' upon the Anti-Slavery movement. Where, he asked, are the Spiritualists of Worcester:
A VOICE Half of your audience are Spiritualists.
Mr. PILLSBURY. I doubt it not; perhaps three quarters are. And yet I may still ask, as was asked by one of old, 'Were there not ten cleansed? but where are the nine?'
Mr. GARRISON did not rise to call Mr. Pillsbury to order, but to suggest that we should apply to Spiritualism precisely the same rule that we apply to other religious bodies, and no other. If there is any proof of a pro-slavery attitude or action in Spiritualism, l it be known, and the rebuke duly administered. He had closely observed this question, and he found among intelligent and cool-judging persons a difference of opinion; some think that the influence of Spiritualism is favorable, others that it is unfavorable, to the <illegible> of anti-slavery. L us have all the evidence <illegible> is point.
<c02>
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER said that in Worcester many, who had been warmly interested in the Anti-Slavery cause, had, since their conversion to Spiritualism, entirely forsaken anti-slavery, and claimed that Spiritualism was all that was necessary, and, in itself, the end of the law for righteousness.
Mr. GARRISON proceeded. He referred to the Scripture history which he had read, and showed how strikingly pertinent it is to the present actual condition of our nation. The nature and spirit of the oppressor are always the same. The hope of the oppressed is also the same.
T. W. HIGGINSON commented briefly on the remarks which had been made on Spiritualism. The theory of the Spiritualists was, that every Spiritualist ought to be a good man, and a true reformer, in every direction. In the infirmity of human nature, this was not always the case. Mr. H. wished also to state a fact, which showed, he thought, as Mr. Pillsbury had said, that a real danger did threaten the Spiritual movement. The fact is this: among the. Spiritualist papers and publications is one,-he would not name it now,-which claims to be at the head of them all, and to have the largest circulation of any. He had recently been invited to contribute to that paper, but with the proviso that he should say nothing on the subject of slavery!
Mr. GARRISON said that there had been articles, in one of the leading Spiritual papers, which he had felt obliged to place, and had placed, in the Liberators Refuge of Oppression,' together with other pro-slavery matter. 
The following were chosen a Committee to nominate officers for the ensuing year:-Samuel May, Jr., Abby Kelley Foster, Adeline H. Howland, Benjamin P. Rice. Esek Pitts, Alfred Wyman, Sarah R. May, Rufus Rock wood, Sarah F. Earle.
Adjourned to 2 o'clock, P. M.
AFTERNOON. The Committee on Nomination of Officers reported as follows:-
President.
EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON.
Vice Presidents-JOSIAH HENSHAW, West Brook-field; MOSES SAWIN, Southbury'; ADELINE H. HOWLAND, Worcester; ADIN BALLOU, Milford; CLARK ALDRICH. Upton; MOSES BUFFUM, Oxford.
Treasurer-Sarah E. Wall, Worcester.
Auditor-Alfred Wyman. Worcester.
Secretary-William A. Wilson, Worcester.
Executive Committee-Abby Kelley Foster, John H. Crane, Sarah Folger Earle, Worcester; Abijah Allen. Esek Pitts, Millbury; E. D. Draper, Milford; Samuel May, Jr. Leicester; Maria P. Fairbanks, Millville; Nancy B. Hill, Blackstone; Sylvester C. Fay, Southboro'; William Donne, Charlton.
These were unanimously approved, and declared to be chosen.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., spoke in an earnest and forcible manner in support of the first three resolutions.
W. L. GARRISON spoke of the false religion of the land, and commented at length on the fact, as published triumphantly in the New York Observer, that the American Tract Sicily had received a larger contribution to its funds, during the past year, than ever before. He spoke; at length, of the ruinous influence slavery is exerting the entire world over, hardening the hearts of our own people, and of the foreigners who come among us: crushing out the hope of a free and republican government for the people of other lands. He made a stirring and effective appeal to all present to make no compromise, in the least particular, with the slavery, or the pro-slavery, of the country.
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER said her principle was to attack the enemy nearest to her. The churches, orthodox or hero ox, have no representatives here. The Tract Society, and Board of Missions, was not here. The Democrats-not here. She must speak to the Republicans present; to the members of that party who made one of the earliest Mexican filibusters (Col. Fremont) their leader; to those Republicans who are swearing to uphold the present Union with the slaveholders of the South.
Mrs. Foster was succeeded by Parker Pillsbury, who occupied the time till four o'clock, when the meting adjourned till seven in the evening.
EVENING. The President repeated the invitation to any who were not members of the Sicily to participate in the discussion of the resolution. No one volunteering, Parker Pillsbury again took the platform, making a strong and eloquent speech, and, according to his custom, visiting the Republican Party, its influential members, and the church, with the severest criticism.
When Mr. Pillsbury had concluded, Mr. Garrison took the platform, and spoke for nearly an hour in an eloquent and forcible manner, in criticism of the various political parties and their platforms. He said the next platform of the National Democratic party will advocate the application of the principles of the Dared Scott decision to the free States, by which slaveholding will be tolerated as constitutional all over the Union, same as the holding of any other claimed property; and will also advocate the repeal of the law prohibiting the African slave trade; and also favor the annexation of all the rest of Mexico and Central America to the Union, after converting it all into slave territory, by importing slaves there, &c. The Republican party Mr. Garrison thought (on account of its compromising spirit) was not a great way in advance of the Democratic.
He urged an immediate dissolution of the Union as the great remedy for existing pro-slavery evils. The iniquitous provisions of the Fugitive Slave Law were dwelt upon. He advocated the passage of a law here similar to that in Vermont, where the slave, the moment he reached her soil, where a fugitive or brought there by his master, was declared to be free as long as he remained there.
When Mr. Garrison had concluded, the resolutions were adopted, and the Sicily adjourned.
The collections by the Finance Committee amount-ed to $22.
EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON, President.
Wm. ALEX. WILSON, Sectary.

JUSTICE TO GERRIT SMITH.
Boston, Jan. 7, 1859. To A. Hog boom:
MY FRIEND.-In the Liberator of to-day is a line from you, deem' Injustice to Gerrit Smith.' What you deem ' injustice, and a slanderous denunciation of Gerri Smith,' is contained in the following extract from a later of mine in the Liberator of Nov. 12:-
But his (Smith's) error is in seeking to g possession of the sword and purse of the State that he may compel all the people into subjection to what he deems just and right. He would be invested with power to force upon all his convictions of truth and right, and compel all to see and worship God as he sees and worships Him. His conception of love, of truth, of humanity, of God, he would enforce upon the State, at the point of the baryon, and by cannon balls and bombshells.
You say,' if Mr. Wright has any grounds for the above assertion, it is but right that I too should know it,' Certainly you should; so should all who honestly and earnestly labor, as does Mr. Smith and his friends, to base governmental institutions on principles of equal and immutable justice and right.
The following is Mr. Smith's theory of government as I have received it from his lips and pen-at least, so far as your charge of injustice against me is concerned.
He asked the people of New York to make him Governor of the State. To induce them to vote for him, he told them, honestly, frankly, and in a manly way, what he would do, and by what principles he should be ruled, as Governor, should they think best to make him one. Among other things, he said, in substance-
<c03>
(1) I shall abide by and execute the Constitution and laws, at I understand them.
(2) I shall execute the Constitution and laws by the aid of an armed police I. e., by swords, guns, cannon balls and bombshells in the hands of what he would call 'an armed police.'
The State has organic and statute laws. The sole and single object of a Governor is to execute those laws, and by so doing to restrain wrong and execute right. But these laws must be interred. As Governor, Mr. Smith must have executed hit own interpretation, or that of another or others. By his constituents, he was called upon to say where he would execute the laws as he understood them, or as the majority of voters, or the court, or somebody else, understood them. His invariable, and, in my opinion, only just, noble and manly answer was, in substance, (viewed from my standpoint)-I will execute the laws as 1 understand them. I will recognize and execute no decree as law which sanctions slavery or slave-hunting, or any thing which I deem unjust and inhuman. As Governor of New York, I shall be guided only by justice, truth, right, equity, or, in other words, by God, as I receive and worship Him, as I do, as a private man, and not by God as he is understood and worshipped by slaveholders and their allies, or by any body else. Or, in other words, as Governor, I shall do what I deem right and just. My will, as guided by my opinions as to what is just and equitable, and as conformed to what I deem the will of God, and not the will of the Legislature, the Court or the people, must be my law of life as Governor, as it is my law of life as a man. As Governor, I shall execute what, in my judgment, is law, not what is deemed law by Congress, by the Legislature, by the Court, nor by the majority of the voters. What I deem to be law, I shall execute, if need be, at the point of the baryon, and with cannot balls and bombshells; and what others deem law, if it would consign the poorest black babe in the State to slaveï¿½ry, and authorize slave-hunting and kidnapping, or even permit these outrages, I would trample beneath my fee, and prevent such unjust laws from being exï¿½ecuted in the State, even, though I should cause the stress to run down with blood.
Is not this a fair and just statement of Mr. Smith's theory of a righteous civil government, so far as his rule of action as Governor is concerned and as to the means by which, in case of necessity, he would, enforce that rule? I have heard him speak repeatedï¿½ly on this subject during the past ten years, and read his liters and speeches, as corrected by himself, and I can come to no other conclusion than this, that if, as Governor of New York, he were invested with the power of the sword, he would use it only to execute what his own soul decided to be law, and to prevent the execution of any enactment of tie Legislature or decree of the Courts which he deemed a violation of law. Mr. Smith regards nothing as law, to be obï¿½served by him, where acting as a man or a Goverï¿½nor, which, in his judgment and conscience, is opposed to justice and equity, or to what he receives and worï¿½ships as God.
I think that Mr. Smith would admit that he does accept the substance, if not the wording of the two positions I have attributed to him. If he does, I think I have just grounds fur saying of him, is a Governor of New York, or as an aspirant for that office, every word I have said in this later, or in he one from which you quoted.
At a future time, I shall have a further word in regard to this matter. HENRY C. WRIGHT.

Correspondence of the St. Louis Democrat.
THE TROUBLES IN SOUTH-WEST MISSOUï¿½RI AND SOUTHERN KANSAS.
It appears that, for several weeks past, several neï¿½groes in Vernon county, Mo., living near the Kansas line, in the neighborhood of Little Osage, have been arranging to run away from their masters, and, with this view, one of their number, called Jim, belonging to the Lawrence estate, and in the service of Mr. Hicklan, had crossed over to Barnesville, Bourbon counï¿½ty, Kansas, under the pretext of selling brooms, but really to arrange for the flight of himself and companï¿½ions. On Monday night, the 25th inst. a compaï¿½ny of about twenty or twenty-five made their appearï¿½ance at the houses of Mr. Hicklan and Isaac Laren, from each of whom five Negroes were taken, five of whom, in the care of Mr. Hicklan, belonged to the Lawrence estate. They also took horses, mules and other property to an unknown amount. While this v as transpiring on the north side of the little Osage, on the south side another and more revolting scene was being enacted.
A party made their appearance at the house of a Mr. David Cruse, and stole a Negro, and while doing this, he very naturally endeavored o defend himself, but could not discharge his revolver, owing, to the fact that one of his little boys had tied a ribbon around the cylinder, so that it could not revolt. He was brutally shot down in the midst of his family, and left to welter in his blood, while the robbers aid murderï¿½ers made off with their booty and crime.
As a very natural consequence, this produced an intense state of excitement in Missouri. Runners were sent in all the adjacent counties for help, and the purpose was at once formed of invading Kansas.
Many of the citizens of Vernon county, of free soil proclivities, were ordered to leave; among the rest, a Mr. Bloomfield, a citizen of Missouri for the last eighteen years, and a wealthy farmer and trader. He had taken a very active port in the overthrow of the pro-slavery party at the last August election, and in denouncing the Chouteau murderers, and the murder of Mr. Pope, near Poplaville last June. This had rendered him very obnoxious to one Fails, a bloody ruffian, who received at his grocery a part of Hamilï¿½ton's band, on their run from their work of butchery, treated them, and applauded their act, and who now acts as a chief promoter in the deeds of crime which are now being perpetrated.
Mr. Bloomfield had been frequently ordered and advised to leave during the week, as the Missourians were collecting around Fails to the number of several hundred; but he persistently refused to leave till Friday morning last, when a pro-slavery friend came and urged him to depart instantly. While conversing with his pro-slavery friend, stating that he meant to remain as long as life lusted, his friend informed him that Hamilton had already killed a Mr. Bialy, and was on his way with a hundred and forty men to kill him. Mr. Bloomfield had been working, and had his coat off. Looking up, he saw a mounted party approaching around his barn, about two hundred yards distant, and had only time to slip on his son's shoes, while hoe daughter threw him his coat, as he leaped over the fence and made his way to the woods. After pursuing his way for a mile or so, Mr. Bloomï¿½field obtained a horse of a friend, and reached this place yesterday morning, and in the evening learned that every thing that Hamilton could lay his hands upon had been given to the names, probably to the amount of $ 15, 000. He has about tie hundred acres of land, and about $ 1800 in cash, buried, which he thinks the ruffians cannot reach.
What has become of his family he does not know? He has two sons, men grown, who, if they have not made good their escape, have shared the fate of Bialy.
On his way to the town, Mr. Bloomfield learned that Montgomery was arming to repel the invaders, and was confident of his ability to overthrow Hamilton.
I learn that Mr. Baily was a peaceable citizen, and was wholly guiltless of stealing the Negroes the Monï¿½day preceding, and had even gone so far as to go into Kantars, a short time previous, and help to capture a runaway negro.
Both parties are arming themselves, with the avowed purpose of fighting it out to the bitter end. It is said that there are already fifteen hundred Missouri-ands collected in the vicinity of Fails, with the avowed purpose of invading Kansas. I think it is not probaï¿½ble that half that number will collect.
How many men Montgomery will be able to collect, it is impossible to conjecture, but probably three or four hundred.
It is not probable that the killing of Cruse was premeditated; but finding himself attacked by robï¿½bers, he resisted, as was natural, and as he had a right to do, and that he was shot down remorselessly by the fiend who had attacked him.
I have y to see the first Free State man of posiï¿½tion in or around Rosa atomize, who does not condemn, in the strongest terms, any going into Missouri or committing depredations. Some are of opinion that it was done in radiation for the repeated outrages suffered by the people of Lynn and Bourbon counties at the hands of those across the line.
What will be the upshot of this affair it is impossiï¿½ble now to foresee, but if Hamilton should g the upper hand, the most fearful consequences will follow.
<c04>
TERRIBLE RAILROAD ACCIDENT IN GEORGIA.
The Columbus (Ga.) Times of Saturday contains the first particulars that have reached us of the caï¿½tastrophe to the passenger train from Columbus to Macon. The accident occurred about 5 o'clock in the morning. The Times says:-
'The two trains, the one from Columbus and the other to Macon, had passed at the station, and the former was passing over a bridge at Randall's creek, fifteen miles from this city, when the culvert gave way, precipitating the whole train into the swollen, angry stream below. It was quite dark, and the rain was falling in torrents. The engine immediately sank to the bottom, and one car was thrown upon it in the stream.
'The scene was truly appalling. The passengers, half awakened from sleep, found themselves enclosed within the narrow limits of a car, struggling for their lives. It is not known where there was a window up in the car or not, nor can the passengers who were saved or rescued give any account of their manner of escape. The stream was sufficiently deep to hide the car had it sunk, and the height of the bridge from the water (30 fee ordinarily) was so great as to cause the car to turn over in the swollen torrent. There were about twenty-three persons, including the engineer, firemen and brakemen upon the train. Of this numï¿½ber, fourteen are known to have found a watery grave.
'It is supposed that some of the bodies have not y been recovered.
'The passenger car floated down the stream, and, coming in collision with the wagon-road bridge, some fifty yards below, the latter was forced to give way. and both car and bridge floated about one mile below the scene of the disaster.
'Dr. Phillips, of Putnam county, saved his life by clinging to a tree, half a mile below the bridge. While thus hanging to the tree, he rescued a negro boy floating near him from an untimely death.
'A Negro man belonging to Mr. Sustain, of this city, also saved the life of Mr. Trammel, (supposed name,) the railroad agent at Howard's station. One of Mr. Grammell's ribs was broken.
'Mr. Snell, the Conductor, had his nose broken by the fall of the car, though saving his life.
'The bodies of the lost cannot be brought now to the city, as the creeks are so swollen and the bridges so impaired by the recent heavy rains as to tender the running of the trains a dangerous experiment. Of the number saved, all are more or less injured. The ladies were all lost.'
Reinhart Lynched.-le Seur, Dec. 28, 1858.-About 10 o'clock on yesterday morning, a mob of thirty or forty men, mostly hailing from Rice county, arrived at Lexington, and demanded the keys of the prison in which the murderer Reinhart was confined. The efforts of the Sheriff and his Deputy to preserve the dignity of the law were in vain, and the jail was soon opened. The poor arch, inspired with the strength of a desperate man, tore his right hand free, through a heavy grave of iron, and seizing the leg of a cast iron stove, stood at bay with his face towards the door. Being a tall, muscular man, the lynches, for a while, dared not enter. After a short consultation, they tore down the gable end of the log jail, and asï¿½sailed him in the rear. Finding all hopes of resistï¿½ance vain, Reinhart lost all heart, and fell upon the floor in a fit. Taking the senseless body in a sleigh, the whole party proceeded out of the village, a mile and a half, and attaching a rope to his neck, threw it over a tree, and hauled him up. The noose was not tight, and the lynches lowered the body to adjust it more securely. Reinhart now came to his senses, sprang to his fee, and earnestly asserted his perfect innocence of the murdered Odell. Seeing that their ears were closed against his entreaties, he changed his tone, and declared his readiness to die. At his reï¿½quest, a bystander was called on to pray, and after a short prayer, the murderer was again hauled up.-Minnesota Statesman.
STATISTICS OF THE YEAR. By railroad accidents in the United States in 1858, 103 persons were killed, and 229 were injured.
By steamboat accidents, on the lakes and rivers in 1858, there was occasioned a loss of 364 lives.
The losses by tire in the United States in 1858, exï¿½cluding all losses less than $10,000, make an aggreï¿½gate of $12,000,000.
The number of deaths in Philadelphia for the year 1858, was 10,902, showing a decrease or 48 from the mortality of the previous year.
The St. Louis Democrat contains a statement, carefully prepared by a gentleman conversant with the subï¿½ject, of the principal disasters that have occurred on the Western rivers during the year 1858. The following is a recapitulation of the details given:-
Steamboats sunk,-47
Steamboats burnt,-19
Steamboats exploded,-9
Estimated number of lives lost by those disasters, 259
Estimated value of property by the same, $1,924,000
An average to each boat of about $25,000
A SLAVE HUNT. Greene County, in Pennsylvania, is becoming famous as the scene of slave-hunting expeï¿½ditions from Virginia; and citizens join in the chase with great alacrity, as if they delighted in the sport. For instance, in the Greene County Republican we find this:-
A Chase.-A party of runaway slaves passed near town on yesterday morning, consisting of three men and two women. About 12 o'clock, the owner, and his hired company, consisting of twelve or fifteen horsemen, arrived in hot pursuit after them. They, in company with the Sheriff and several of our citizens, pursued on, but as we go to press before they have returned, we cannot tell where they have capï¿½tured the poor fugitives or not.'
Brutal Assault.-The Hon. L. D. Campbell was asï¿½saulted on the night of the 4th instant, and very seï¿½riously injured. He was on his way from his office to his room, in Hamilton, Ohio, been the hours of 12 and 1 o'clock, when he was approached from behind, by some unknown person, and struck down with a slung-shot, or some similar instrument. He did not recover consciousness until about 3 o'clock, lying in the strew some two hours. His injuries are very seï¿½rious, the skull being broken in. On the 6th instant, it is stated that he conversed rationally only at interï¿½vals, his mind wandering most of the time.
AUGUSTA, Ga., Jan. 11.-More Slavers Discharged.-A private dispatch from Charleston says that the cases of the crew of the Koch Brothers, charged with slave trading, were taken up in the U. S. District Court to-day, and the Grand Jury ignored the bills of indictment against them.
CHESTER, Orange Co., N. Y., Jan. 10.-Two men, one named Vincent Arnold, and the other supposed to be from Poughkeepsie, were instantly killed by the express train, while crossing the track this evening, at this place. Their bodies were horribly mangled.
A letter from Rome in the Independence of Brussels states that a translation of Uncle Tom's Cabin has just been published in that city, but that the Protestant sentiments expressed in the work have been changed into Rakish ones. Thus, the reason assigned for the cruel whipping of Tom by the ferocious Lï¿½ger is, that Tom believed in the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception!
Some of the Georgia and Alabama journals call M. Starkest a ' Kansas shrieked,' insinuate that he gave concerts in aid of the Free Spoilers in the Territory, and desire that a license be denied him to perform with his opera troupe.
More American Slavers Captured.-A later from Havana states that the schooner Kate Ellen, formerly of Portland, and brig Rufus Searle, formerly of New Orleans, have both been captured on the African coast by British cruisers.
Slave Insurrection.-The Memphis Appeal of the 17th cult. gives an account of a recent insurrection on the slave plantation of Col. Dandridge, of De Soto county, Miss. The negroes numbered nearly one hundred, and they were so violent that the owner and his overseer were obliged to take refuge in the house, and bar the doors.
A Double Tragedy.-In Barry county, Michigan, a few days since, a singing-master had a difficulty in his school with some rowdies, and dismissed his school. As the master was going out, one of the rowdies stabï¿½bed him dead on the spot. A young man caught up a stick, and, striking the assassin a blow, killed him instantly.
The funeral of a little girl in the care of the Sisters of Charity in Wheeling, VA , was delayed a day in consequence of the weather. In the meanï¿½time, while one of the Sisters was arranging soothing about the coffin, the little girl rose up and asked for a drink of water. It is supposed that she was in a trance, and nothing but rain averted from her the horrible fate of being buried alive.
Both branches of the Legislature on Saturday last made choice of Hon. John Morrissey, of Plymouth, for Sergeant-at-Arms, in place of Benjamin Stevens, the incumbent of the office for the past quarï¿½ter of a century.
The Florida Legislature has repealed the law providing for the incarceration of free Negro sailors while their vessels are in port.
<c05>
Funeral of Dr. Nichols.-The funeral of Rev. Inhabit Nichols. D.D. took place at Portland on Fri. Ur of last week, at the Church of the First Pariah. The discourse on the occasion wm delivered by her. Dr. Peabody. All the bells of the city were tolled while the procession was moving.
Murder and Lynch Law.-On the 24th nit. Mr. S. B. Thornhill, who resided near Troy, Mo., punished one of his Negroes for misconduct. The Negro then rushed on his master with a large knife, and stabbed him, which caved his death in two days. The Negro was taken to Troy, and confined in jail. The affair caused much excitement in the county, and on Saturday, a very large number of person collected At Troy, repaired to the jail, took the murderer out, and lynched him, BY BURNING.
O, Accursed Rum!-John H. Worland, well known in Claremont and all over our State, as one of the best political editors in the country, is now in the Insane Hospital at South Boston, the' victim of intemperance. What a sad commentary have we here upon the effects of rum-drinking! Ultimate wickedness: and ruin is as sure to follow it as darkness and gloom ere to follow the light of day. A lovelier companion and a more interesting family never gladdened the heart of man, than were once in the possession of oar old friend and associate.-Claremont (N. H.) Advocates.
Another sad accident resulting from the pracï¿½tice of leaving children alone in a house, has occurred at Fostoria, Penn. The mother went to the stable to milk her cows, and while she was gone, her three children, who had been locked in, s the house on fire, and were all, burnt to death.
Mortality of Boston for 1858 the exact number of deaths in Boston for the year 1858 was 3840, a decrease of 128 from the year 1859. A considerable number of aged people, principally female, have died during the year, and one person is Mated to have reached the advanced age of one hundred years.
M. Bulloch, a Hungarian, asserts that he has managed to square the circle, and he has just sent copies of his work on the subject, who contains nuï¿½merous diagrams, to the Academy of Science in Viï¿½enna and Paris, and to the heads of the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford.

THE FINANCIAL ANTI-SLAVEKY FESTIVAL.
To the Editor of the Liberator.
DEAR SIR: In answer to the many inquiries constantly made of. the friends of the cause, showing how much the public mind is interested respecting the Financial Anti-Slavery Festival, Soiree, Anniversary, Reception, Convention, Drawing-Room, Council, Conversazione, Commemoration, World's Convention-either of which it may be called, since it will, in its nature, be all these-will you kindly allow me, through your columns, to say that it will be held at the Hall, Boston, WEDNESDAY, January 26th, day and evening.
That all our friends everywhere are requested to give the pleasure of their company;
That no entrance fee will be permitted, the only offerings to the cause desirable on this occasion being those, where great or small, that free-will makes worthy of it;
That cards of invitation will be placed at the Anti-Slavery offices and at the Booksellers' shops for the convenience of the guests; and each card, previously inscribed with the name and address of the person presenting it, will insure a cordial reception;
That cloak-rooms will be arranged to save the guests the of remaining in their strew dress in a warmed and lighted apartment;
That the evening invitations will be issued for half-past 7 o'clock; but the guests will be welcome at any moment during the evening, and a short visit gladly received if a long one is impossible on account of other engagements; (respecting the day-arrangements, further notice hereafter;)
That all who are prevented from being present in person, especially friends from the South, are entreatï¿½ed to accompany their subscriptions by a short letter, that may give information and encouragement to their Northern coadjutors in this great work of national progress and improvement;
That, while renewing the invitation to all, this occasion, as an opportunity for subscription merely, is exclusively commended to those who have never haï¿½bitually subscribed elsewhere; to those who are just beginning to appreciate the importance of the cause that has done so much for their benefit, without their having, as y, made a pecuniary contribution to promote it; to those whose political path it has lighted, till they feel the obligation to feed the lamp; to those who have hitherto contributed by purchase, and who are now relied upon to continue their aid by donation, in the assurance that half the sum they may have annually spent will be a clearer gain than the whole through the former circuitous channel.
A Startling Truth!-Hundreds die annually from neglected coughs and colds, when, by the use of a single bottle of Wisterï¿½s Balsam of Wild Cherry, their lives might be preserved to a green old age.

TREASURER'S REPORT
Of Receipts, from December 1, 1858, to January 1, 18ft.
From Weymouth Female A. S. Sicily, to redeem pledge, $50 00
Also, donation, 57 00-107 00
Rec'd from C. C. Burleigh, for collections:-
At S tampon, 69c, Montgomery 1 20, I 79
Knight Ville 2 42, S. Worthington 1 98, 4 40
West Farms, Northampton, 60c, Meddled 29c, 0 89
Smith's Hollow 32c, West Cumming ton 1 14, Hawley 35, 1 81-8 89 
Rec'd from S. Mad, Jr., for collections:-
From E. D. and Anna T. Draper, Hopedale, balance of pledge, 50 00
Geo. and Hannah B. Draper, do. To redeem pledge, in part, 50 00
W. M. and M. A. Ditcher, do to redeem pledge, 50 00
Joshua Perry, Hanson, 5, at Harwich meting 8 82, 13 82-163 82
Rec'd from W. L. Garrison, for collecï¿½tions at Cumming ton, 50 40
SAMUEL PHILBRICK,
Treat. Mass. A. S. Sicily. Brookline, Jin. 1, 1859.
PARKER PILLSBURY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at NA-TICK, on Sunday next, 16th inst., afternoon and evening.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on American Slaï¿½very as follows:-
West Brookfield, Saturday eves, Jan. 15.
Warren, Sunday, day and eve'g, jan 16.
Ware, Monday eve'g, jan 17.
Brookfield, Thursday eve'g, jan 20.
North Brookfield. Sunday eveï¿½g, jan 23.
GT HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Middleboro', on Sunday, Jan. 16, all day and evening.
Subjects.-What shall we do to be saved? The existence, location and occupation of man in his disï¿½embodied state.
MILFORD.-PARKER PILLSBURY, an Agent of the American A. S. Society, will speak at Milford, at the Brick Church, on Sunday evening, Jan. 23.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
I Dr. SYMINGTON BROWNï¿½S new lecture, entitled Chemistry no Mystery,' is now ready for delivery be-! Fore Lyceums, &c.
REFERENCES.-Wendell Phillips, Alderman Wight-man, Rear. Thomas Starr King, Dr. J. V. C. Smith.
GIVE HIM A CHANCE.-A young colored carpenter wants immediate employment. Apply to
WM. C. NELL, 21 Cornhill. Dec, 31.
THE FRIENDS OF THE FUGITIVE.-A young able-bodied Fugitive, from the South, wants s place. He can take care of cattle, drive horses, wait and tend, chop wood, or work on a farm. Apply to B. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Corn hill, by later to FRANCIS JACKSON.
<c06>
JAMESTOWN INSTITUTE.
IN May last, we opened our School with only one pupil as boarder, and no prospect of a second; with no expression of confidence in our peculiar mood from any one, and without counsel or aid. We have now twenty-eight pupils in the family, four Attractant Teachers, a Matron, and a lady to superintend the wardrobe of the children. We daily receive liters of inquiry from all parts of the countryï¿½more than we can properly answer. Each Mouth our family has been larger than the preceding, and as happy a family as we ever saw tougher. Each week we have promise of more, and a GREATER WORK OPENS BEFORE US THAN WE CAV POSSIBLY PERFORM ALONE.
Our method is original and very peculiar. We never reward merit nor punish transgression, but have more confidence than ever that ï¿½the rank weeds that infest the moral character of children will wither and dieï¿½ in an atmosphere of lore and purity. We never assign lessons to be committed to memory, but our pupils give their own thoughts in their own words, and go to their books as they go to the table for the food they need and crave. To a great extent we have won them from mere PLAY to amusements that develop as well as entertain. The sexes associate with a freedom, purity and beauty we are proud to have observed and examined.
A few weeks ago, a stranger whom we had never before seen, called on us and carefully inquired into our mood, and we have just received his ï¿½Christmas giftï¿½ of $100, as an expression of his appreciation of our plan and mood. This led us to publish this circular, believing our movement to be demanded by human progress, and that others desire to aid such an Institution.
With the donation received we shall found a Juvenile Library, and we invite donations of juvenile and scientific books and periodicals, and especially of tools and specimens for a Geological Cabin. We shall welcome pecuniary aid in any form. If ten persons would take scholarships for one year, it might double the practical value of the labors of five teachers.
More than all, we need an energy and loving man to unite with us in this work-a manly man, who can relieve us of all duties except the school and general care. We need a Matron who knows she has love enough to soothe the troubled spirits of children, and strengthen their good resolutions.
S. Albro, Esq., of Buffalo, and A. E. Newton of Boston, have spent some time with us, and know soothing of our plans and purposes. Our patrons are:
George kellng, 8 University place, New York City. 
J. Seymour Brown, 112 Lex. Av New York City,
M. S. Roberts, Esq., Peking, Niagara Co., N. Y,
Dr. C. Parker, Fredonia, chaut. Co., N. Y
Dr. J. F. Carter, Leona, chaut. Co., N. Y
J. G. Rood, Esq., Brigham, chute. Co., N. Y
David McGhee, Hartsfield Spring, co., N. Y., 
Dr. S. R. Miler, IIurtford, Conn.
Asa H. Rogers, Esq., Waterbury,
Win. Ritchie, Esq., Springfield, mass.
Amand S. Brt, St. Louis, Mo.
William.Paul, Esq., Peru, Ill.
J. L. McCormic, Esq., Peru, Ill.
Dr. J. F. Weeks, Peru, Ill.
Mrs. H. Whitehead. Peru, Ill.
Jesse Blinn, Esq., Rockford.
Ill. J. M. Sterling, Esq., Cleveland, Ohio.
C. J. Fox, Esq. Foxburg, Forest Co., Pa.
Louis Bellerose. Philadelphia, Pa.
We refer inquirers to any of the above, but more especially to the school and family, where we shall welcome the most careful inquiry and the most faithful criticism.
O. H. WELLINGTON. Jamestown, N. Y. Jan. 1, 1859.

PHRENOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS,
142 Washington Strew, Boston.
ROOMS OPEN DAY AND EVENING.
Correct Examinations and advice as to 
1st. Choice of. Occupation.
2d. Health, Habits and Did.
3d. Matrimonial Adaptation.
4th. Children-their management.
5th. Choice of Help, Clerks, sec.
6th. Self-Improvement in general.
As a matter of convenience, daguerreotype may be sent us by mail, and a written description will be returned at our regular price.
CLASSES are in operation during the fall, winter, and Spring. Students can enter at any time, and be thoroughly qualified for PRACTICAL EXAMINERS.
LECTURES. Invitations to lecture in any of the cities, towns, or villages cuff New England, before Lyceums, or otherwise, will be considered, and when practicable accepted. 
BOOKS on "Phrenology. Physiology, Water Care. And the Natural Sciences generally, including all of fowler & Wells' publications, at wholesale and rail. 
IMPROVED PHRENOLOGICAL BUST
and Chart, including late discoveries and divisions of the Organs.
D. P. BUTLER,
(LATE FOWLER, WILLS & CO.)
DR. WISTAR'S BALSAM OP WILD CHERRY.
Ballouï¿½s Pictorial of 29th July says-'Realizing the true sense of responsibility attaching to the Editor and Publisher of a widely circulated journal, we should deem it little less than a crime to recommend any medical compound, the real value of which we could not conscientiously endorse. This balsamic compound has become a home fixture; and all persons who suffer, and have in vain attempted to cure their Coughs, Colds, Bronchial or Pulmonary Complaints, make use of this unequalled malady.'
The following Certificate from a distinguished gentleman is equally conclusive:-
From the Rev. Henry Wood, formerly Editor of the Congregational Journal, Concord, N. H., more recently American Consul at Beetroot, Syria, and now Chaplain in the Navy.
CONCORD, N. H., March 2.
MESSRS. SETH FOWLE & Co: Gentlemen-Two years ago, a sudden and violent attack upon my lungs confined me to my bed for several weeks, and, when I recovered, I was so much oppressed by difficulty in breathing, that I was often unable to sleep or rest upon a bed at night. The suffering was extreme, and, judging from the inefficiency of the remedies used, I supposed the disease incurable. Being persuaded to try a bottle of Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry, without confidence in its efficacy; I found the difficulty almost entirely removed before one bottle was used up. Sympathy with my fellow-sufferers induces me to make this public statement, and to recommend the article to others similarly afflicted. With respect, yours, truly,
HENRY WOOD.
None genuine, unless signed I. BUTTS on the cover.
Prepared by SH W. FOWLE & CO., BOSTON, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England.
Dec. 23-4tis
TWO
FREE LECTURES
EVERY WEEK, AT LINDEN HALL, 16 SUMMER ST., BOSTON,
BY MISS S. D. CARMAN,
Physiological, Mechanical & Pathological Physician.
On THURSDAY EVENINGS, at 7 o'clock, to Gentlemen and Ladies, and on FRIDAY AFTER. NOONS, at 3 o'clock, to Ladies only. The other four days devoted to country practice.
Physicians, Invalids, Parents, Teachers, Guarding and Philanthropists will and science, common sense and medical skill illustrated and applied to the wants of each and all.
The only scientific SKIRT SUPPORTER, with Braces of all kinds, and CHAIRS to correct and support the Spine, for sale and fitted at her office, Linden Hall,-open only on Friday and Saturday, for patients and visitors, from 9 A. M. to 7 P. M.
Beware of imposition practiced by renders, who recommend worthless and useless articles,
'O1 6m

John Quincy Adams.
JUST PUBLISHED, by BELA MARSH. 14 Broomfield Strew, Boston, in one largo handsome octavo volume of 459 page, 'Twelve Messages from the Spirit JQHX QUINCY ADAMS through Joseph D. Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy-written in the peculiar handwriting of Mr. Adams.
This unique work contains the autographs of Mr. Adams, Mrs. Abigail Adams, and George Washington-first, as recorded by themselves when in the body-and second, as written by them through medimisutic agency.
Price 1,60. Jan
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
TO EVERY SOUTHERN LADY.
Hearst thou no solemn murmur
In thy deepest, secret heart,
Whispering thee thy darker sister
In thy nature bean her part?
Serest thou not that what degrades her,
Puts all womanhood to shame?
If thy sister be a chattel,
Thine own nature is the same.
They are daughters of thy Father;
Sisters, they, of Christ the Lord:
Mightier who, than God, their Father?
Who makes void thy Master’s word?
Rouse thee, rouse, Southern Lady!
Listen to that whispering voice,
Pleading for thy outraged sisters—
Make the ‘better part’ thy choice.
Free them from their cruel bondage,
Thou thyself wilt be more free;
Raise the ‘chattel’ to a women,
Nearer angels thou wilt be.
Tenterden, (England.) JANE ASHBY.

From the Salem Observer.
THE ANGEL’S VISIT.
BY CHARLOTTE L. FORTEN.
‘Twas on a glorious summer eve,
A lovely eve in June,—
Serenely from her home above
Looked down the gentle moon,—
And lovingly she smiled on me,
And softly soothed the paid—
The aching, heavy pain that lay
Upon my heart and brain.
And gently’ mid the murmuring leaves—
Scarce by its light wings stirred,
Like spirit voices soft and clear,
The night-wind’s song was heard;
In strains of music sweet and low
It sang to me of Peace,—
It bade my weary, troubled soul
Her sad complainings cease.
For bitter thoughts had filled my breast,
And sad, and sick at heart,
I longed to lay me down and rest,—
From all the world apart.
‘Outcast, oppressed on earth,’ I cried,
‘Oh, Father! take me home!—
Oh, take me to that peaceful land
Beyond the moon-lit dome!
‘On such a night as this,’ met thought,
‘Angelic forms are near,
In beauty unrevealed to us,
They hover in the air.
Oh, mother, loved and lost!’ I cried,
Methinks thou’rt near me now,
Methinks I feel thy cooling touch
Upon my burning brow.
Oh, guide and soothe thy sorrowing child,-
And if ‘tic not His will
That thou should’st take me home with thee.
Protect and bless me still;—
For dark and drear had been my life,
“Without thy tender smile,
Without a mother’s loving care,
Each sorrow to beguile.’
I ceased:—then o’er my senses stole
A soothing, dreamy spell,
And gently to my ear were borne
The tones I loved so well,—
A sudden flood of rosy light
Filled all the dusky wood,
And, clad in shining robes of white,
My angel mother stood.
She gently drew me to her side,
She pressed her lips to mine,
Ant softly said, ‘Grieve not, my child,
A mother’s love is thine.
I know the cruel wrongs that crush
The young and ardent heart.
But falter not, keep bravely on,
And nobly bear thy part.
For thee a brighter day’s in store,
And every earnest soul
That presses on, with purpose high,
Shall gain the wished-for goal.
And thou, belov’d, faint not beneath
The weary weight of care;
Daily before our Father’s throne
I breathe for thee a prayer.
I pray that pure and holy thoughts
May bless and guard thy way,—
A noble and unselfish life
For thee, my child, I pray.’
She paused—and fondly bent on me
One lingering look of love,
Then softly said—and passed away—
‘Farewell! we’ll meet above.’
I woke, and still the silver moon
In quiet beauty shone;
And still I heard amid the leaves
The night wind’s murmuring tone;
But from my heart the weary pain
Forevermore had flown;—
I knew a mother’s prayer for me
Was breathed before the throne.

THE LIGHT AT HOME.
The light at home! how bright it beams,
When evening shades around us fall.
And from the lattice far it gleams,
To love, and rest, and comfort all;
When wearied with the toils of day.
And strife for glory, gold or fame,
How sweet to seek the quiet way
Where loving lips will lisp our name,
Around the light at home!
When, through the dark and stormy night.
The wayward wanderer homeward flies,
How cheering is the twinkling tight.
Which through the forest gloom he spies!
It is the light of home. He feels
That loving hearts will greet him there.
And safely through his bottom steals
The joy and love that banish care
Around the light at home.
The light at home! how still and sweet
It peeps from yonder cottage door,
The weary laborer to greet.
When the rough toils of day are o’er!
Sad is the soul that does not know
The blessings that the beams impart,
And lighten up the heaviest heart
Around the light at home.

SLEEP.
Come, sleep. O sleep, the certain knot of peace,
The baiting-place of wit, the balm of woe.
The poor man’s wealth, the prisoner’s release,
The indifferent judge between the high and low.
With shield of proof shield me from out the prease
From those fierce darts Despair at me doth throw;
O’ makes in me those civil wars to cease:
I will good tribute pay, if thou do so.
Take thou of me smooth pillows, sweetest bed;
A chamber, deaf to noise, and blind to light;
A rosy garland, and a weary head.
And if those things, as being thine by right,
Move not thy heavy grace, thou shalt in me
Livelier than elsewhere Stellar’s image see.
—Sir Philip Sidney.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
LETTER FROM A LAYMAN
Over Eighty Years of Age, to a Student in a N. E. Theological Seminary.
MR. EDITOR:
It does one good to come in contact with a very aged man, whose mind is comprehensive, yet acute; familiar with the profoundest questions of speculation; yet intensely practical; a friend of the slave, and an equal sympathizer with the human race: whose philanthropy is not a misguided enthusiasm, and whose principles of action and reform are based on the eternal truths of Revelation. Unsolicited by the writer of the letter from which the following are extracts, I send them to you for publication.
P-, Vt., Jan., I859.
‘THE BUYER AND SELLER.’
DEAR SIR:
‘He that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hands, he shall surely be put to death.’ God has made man, and made him for himself. To Adam, God gave dominion over the brute creation, and to him he gave to eat of the fruits of the field. But where is the right of domination of the self-important, strutting slaveholder over his fellow, his equal? Rights of the ‘buyer and seller’! Suppose you inherited a slave. Your father bought him of A., A. bought him of one who had captured him in the wilds of Africa. Now, you have the right of the robber, and that only. Will you try titles with God, the proprietor?
THE SLAVEHOLDER GOD’S RIVAL.
Here stands the slaveholder, full of great swelling words, assuming the prerogatives of Jehovah. The duties which the slave owes to God and to man he disregards. He snaps asunder the dearest and most sacred ties of social life. All must be sacrificed to the will and pleasure of apostate man. The slaveholder is God’s rival. There cannot be two supreme authorities in one kingdom. Are not the demands of slavery supreme? Does not the slaveholder withhold the Bible from the slave, to promote his selfish ends, by silencing the voice of conscience, and smothering that moral sentiment which God has implanted in the human soul?
GOD, THE SLAVE’S A VENGER.
Christ, God manifest in the flesh, He will sympathize with the weeping captive. He will pity the bereaved mother, as, with agonies and yearnings unheard and untold, she listens to the voice of the vender, saying—‘One thousand dollars bid—once, twice, last time—a faithful servant, a goad Christian’ (Christ’s image.) Will humanity do this? Will Christianity Will Christ approve of it? Though Revelation is replete with warning and instructions on this subject, we no more heed the lessons which God would teach us than did the children of Israel, who refused to hear him, and pulled away their shoulders, and stopped their ears, that they should not hear; yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone; therefore came a great wrath from the Lord of hosts.’
THE DUTIES OF MINISTERS.
Will the Lord’s ambassadors uphold slavery? They who are sent to preach the gospel, to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, will they forbid men to be instructed and read the Bible, lest they should learn their rights and duties, and run away? ‘The priest’s lips shall keep knowledge, and they (the people) seek the law at his mouth. But ye are departed out of the way, ye have caused many to stumble at the law, and been partial in the law’—(leaving out that which would displease when faithfully preached.) Again, the church of the living God is called the ‘pillar and ground of the truth.’ She holds this position only when engaged in maintaining the truths of Revelation. How important that doctrines be preached and understood, in order to apply and enforce the duties! How little is said of man’s total depravity, and how little and poor a distinction is made between natural and moral ability, and how much of works by way of justification! What the sinner does by cooperation with the Holy Spirit in regeneration, while he is declared to be dead to all moral action, acceptable to God. Such preaching robs Christ of his due, destroys the efficacy of his sufferings, his expiation is needless, and his death in vain. The song in heaven must be, instead of ‘Grace, grace unto it,’ Half to God and half to us. Yours, &c.,-
We publish the above by request, although its doctrinal points would seem to make it more appropriate for the columns of an avowedly orthodox religous journal than our own; but the theological student to whom it was addressed, acknowledges with feelings of mortification that he has not been able to procure its insertion in any such journal!—[Ed. Lib.

CRIMINAL PAPERS—No. II.
BY CHARLES SPEAR.
THE GALLOWS.
In my last, I alluded to the case of Jones, now under sentence of death in Springfield, and stated that the Governor and Council could not decide whether the culprit was sane enough to be hung. A similar ease once occurred in South Carolina, with regard to the sanity of a man, in order to render him a fit subject for the gallows. It was finally decided, on the morning appointed for the execution, that the man was too sick to be hung! In the tame communication from Charles Sumner for my Prisoner’s Friend, he recommended that chloroform be administered to the criminal; and, surely, if the simple object be to get the criminal out of the world, the easiest and gentlest method should be employed. There is, too, some very ancient authority for giving an anodyne to criminals. It was practised among the Jews, and had the sanction of the women of Jerusalem, as seen in the account of the crucifixion.
The great poet has hit off this whole matter most admirably in the play of ‘Measure for Measure’:—
Abhorson. Is the axe upon the block, sirrah?
Clown. Very ready, sir.
Barnardine. How now, Abhorson? What’s the news with you?
Abhor. Truly, air, I would desire you to clap into your prayers; for, look you, the warrant’s come.
Barnar. You rogue, I have been drinking all night; I am not fitted for it
Clo. O, the better, sir; for he that drinks all night, and is hanged betimes in the morning, may sleep the sounder all the next day.’
The clown talks with the condemned, and says—’Your friends, sir; the hangman: you must be so—good sir, to rise and be put to death. Pray, Master Bernardine, awake till you are executed, and sleep afterwards.’
Really, what a farce is this whole matter of hanging! What a disgrace to humanity! The Commonwealth had better extricate itself from the whole dilemma by an entire abolition of the law. Already, Louisiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Rhode Island, have wiped from their statutes this odious law. I trust that another session of our Legislature will not pan, without seeing this truly Christian work accomplished.
‘Take away the gibbet, towering overhead.
Terror is not wanting, give us love instead!
Scatter forth these thousands—what came they to see?
God of sacred mercy! can such honors be?
Making murder holy with the light of day,
Mocking earth’s Creator by the foul display.
Ye nave raised the gibbet—O, for him who bled.
Dash the fabric dawn, and raise the Croat instead!’
Within a few days, and since Mr. Spear’s article was written, the Governor and Council have commuted the sentence of Jones to imprisonment for life, in close confinement.—[Ed, Lib.
<c03>
THE MOUNT VERNON PURCHASE
[Boston correspondence of the Anti-Slavery Standard.]
A happy New Year to you and to all your readers! And, especially, to all your subscribers! For, as Lord Byron well distinguisheth, a purchaser is ‘still gentler ‘than a reader, however gentle. I hope you have a better day, at least better walking, than we have here, inasmuch as the pagan custom of honoring the New Year prevails so much more among you than us. If the walking be no better with you than it is with us, I pity the plight of the many-nymphed swains who have to pay their homage to their fair friends to-day, at the risk of forfeiting their acquaintance for the year. I trust that their toils and exposures will not be aggravated by the added honor of a Mount Vernon contribution-box presented at their breasts, and they bid to stand and deliver, as I see is recommended by some enemy of mankind in he Tribune. He must be one of those unaccountable monsters who have a general malice against the whole human family—women as well as men—to whom such a scheme could have occurred, one so ingeniously calculated to make the latter wretched, and the former frightful. Imagine a miserable youth, of large acquaintance and blender means, confronted by every one of his ‘dear five hundred friends’ with a demand for alms for Mr. John A. Washington! He would surely find them five hundred dear friends in a very painful sense of the word. I think it would be a case in which a forewarned sufferer would be perfectly justified in providing himself with a good supply of counterfeit money to meet such a humbugious demand. I never thought before of the legitimate uses of bogus bills—as every thing is said to have some proper use—but now I see that they are the preordained currency in which such demand’s as these in the behalf of the Mount Vernon slave-breeder should be satisfied. However, it cannot be that any of the fair Knickerbockers can be so beside themselves, so bereft of reason and self-respect, as to fall into the trap laid for them by the Misanthropist and Misogynist from whom this truly fiendish suggestion proceeded.
It is possible that Mr. Everett may succeed in helping the ladies who have undertaken to buy out Mr. John A. Washington at precisely forty times the value of the fifty acres he proposes to sell them, but I cannot think that his style of eulogy is the one that will put Washington any higher in the opinion of the world than he stood before. At least, it seems odd that he should think to elevate his hero by depreciating the other three great men of the eighteenth century. One would have thought that he would have made a greater hero of him by exalting the claims of his rivals for the admiration of mankind, and then showing he was head and shoulders above them. Not writing bad poetry like Frederick, not getting drunk like Peter, and not peculating like Marlborough, are excellent negative virtues, but what though? Even Mr. Everett, I think, is not guilty of the absurdity of comparing Washington with Frederick or Marlborough as to military genius, or with Peter for constructive and administrative genius, and those are the only points in which the world will compare them. He had military skill enough not to stand in the way of the blockheads, the North ministry sent over, defeating themselves; and after that was done, he had principle and common-sense enough to avoid breaking his head against a Yankee crown and scepter. His position in history is splendid enough, from its importance in connecting the two great periods of our National existence, without the ludicrous extravagance of excessive laudation. Indeed, the tendency of such drafts on posterity for glory in his behalf as Mr. Everett makes is to excite a keener scrutiny into the amount of funds actually on hand to satisfy them. And the result will necessarily be the striking of a balance which shall assign him his just due, and no more. Future ages and foreign nations will not forget, though Mr. Everett has remembered to do so, that the hero of the war for liberty was supported all the time he was fighting its battles by the I forced labor of slaves. Posterity will make all due allowances for him, as for the other great men Mr. Everett contrasts him with; but, I imagine, it will think Washington’s keeping kick the hire of the laborers that reaped down his fields not much more creditable than Marl borough’s keeping back their pay from his soldiers, and that this inconsistency of the American hero was at least as bad as the drunken bouts of Poter, and the bad verses and even the deism of Frederick. Probably, it will take an average between the sweeping eulogy of Mr. Everett— and that scarcely more discriminating one of Mr. Parker—and that of the last historian of Frederick, who is said to have astonished an American by a dictum to this effect, ‘Sir Georrge was a vera gude Surveyor of Roads, but a vera weak ‘Oliver!’ D.Y.

THE MOUNT VERNON ESTATE.
Mr. John A. Washington, the proprietor of Mount Vernon, who has just received the first installment for the purchase of that estate, of some $50,000, begged from the people of the United Sates, and who is in the expectation of receiving $I50,000, is still so poor that he advertises five negro women and girls and two boys for hire, application to be made at Mount Vernon, ‘where the negroes can be seen and examined.’
If it had been made a condition of the sale, that he should emancipate the negroes who have supported him in idleness all his life, and make a comfortable provision for the remainder of their existence out of the $200,000, we don’t know as we should have had so much objection to this Mount Vernon scheme. We think the collection of money for it is beginning to be pretty up-hill work, and we doubt whether if Mr. Everett lives to the age of that famous negro who was once a body slave of Washington, and who dies every year or two, he will see the successful consummation of his Quixotic enterprise. The people are getting tired of it. The papers are getting tired of it. Everybody is beginning to ask what good is to be accomplished by reviving the superstitions sentiment of reverence for particular locations which belongs to past ages—the same which leads the devout Catholic to visit the holy places at Jerusalem, or the devout Mohammedan to make a visit to Mecca, and kiss the holy stone. They are beginning to inquire whether Washington may not be better honored by learning and imitating his virtues, than by cutting canes from his estate, or by gaping at his tomb. We Americans and Protestants are no believers in the efficacy of relics and shrines. We are willing to mark the spots where famous events in our “history have occurred, by suitable monuments, but we have little sympathy with the sentiment that calls for the purchase of Mount Vernon.
We are inclined to think, therefore, that the Mount Vernon crusade has reached its climax, and that, with the $50,000 he has already received, eked out by the proceeds derived from the hire of his women, girls and boys, Mr. John A. Washington will continue to drag out the remainder of his shiftless, miserly existence on the estate of his ancestor, whose name he disgraces, and to leave the same encumbered, or unencumbered, as the case may be, to his heirs.—New Bedford Republican Standard.

EDWARD EVERETT.
Mr. Everett is a man of fine talent and extreme culture. But he is not a man of genius; he is not a statesman; nor even an orator, in the first sense of the word. He is not a man of the present, but a man of the past. He takes kindly to the company of Horace and Homer, but he is out of place among the great men and the great questions of to-day. His back is turned towards the future, his face towards the sunset of the old classic age. He lives in memory, not imagination or aspiration. He is a smooth writer, and a graceful gesticulator: therein consists his merit as an orator. Although by some he is accused of having no heart, others apply to him the words of the witty poet—
“He has a heart, and gets his speeches by it.”
It has been said that he rehearsed his oration on Washington before his mirror eighty-seven times, before ever delivering it in public. Every intonation, every gesture, every pause and period, are the result of careful study.
Mr. Everett does not strike us as a live man. He is more like a cold, pale, classic ghost, returning to dwell among us. If there h blood in him, it is certainly not very warm. You look in vain for any generous, impulsive heart, in his deeds or words. All is chisseled in marble. What is he doing for Washington, but turning him into a stony statue of a god? If we are to believe this timid conservative, we shall no longer look upon our great national hero as a robust man, of naturally violent passions, subdued by his masterly will, although sometimes bunting forth in volcanic fire; but as an impossible being, at once great and faultless, with the disposition of an angel, and the bloodless constitution of Mr. Everett himself.—Boston Olive Branch. 
<c04>
MR. GIBBONS ON BANKING.
The Christian Examiner, for January, makes the following notice of the capital work by J. S. GIBBONS, Esq., entitled ‘The Banks of New York their Dealers, the Clearing-house, and the Panic of I857,’ published by D. Appleton & Co., New York:—
He is a very bold man or a very foolish man who reads an uncertified book on banking, for it seems to be one of the mysteries of that mysterious servant, money, that nobody knows anything about it. Nobody can tell, for instance, or even make a respectable guess, as to the amount of gold and silver now in circulation in the world;—a fact which must certainly be very near the centre of all financial speculations. The books on banking, indeed, are almost all written by some person who is looking through a very small key hole, and, like all such observers, wants to persuade us that the world be looks upon is the whole world. This is the reason why cautious readers of good sense shun these books, as we have said. But whenever any man, on any subject, will tell the exact truth, as to what he has seen and done, and will be good enough to tell it without any of his own speculations, the world is a direct gainer by so much treasure fished out of the mud, and placed on the rocks so high that no one need dive fur it again. It is our pleasant duty to say that Mr. Gibbons has done this very thing. We have been bold enough to read his book, and we must report to more prudent or timid persons that it is a book of facts of the most curious character, such as nobody has written down before; and that it keeps very thoroughly clear from the slimy, watery, dogmatic guessing, which have given character to most of the books on banking. In a word, we certify this check. Here is told, in very dramatic style, the actual story of what these bank people do, every day of their lives. There are even excellent little sketches of the way they look when they are doing it. So completely is the detail wrought out, that young men entering on the business of banking will here get the best hints they can find in print as to some of the nicer details of the business they have to learn. And the whole community of readers, while they will run through the book with the same sort of interest with which they would look through the ledger of Sinbad the Sailor, or the day-book of the Slave of the Ring, will pick up a good many practical hints as to their own methods of transacting business, which will be valuable to them, and to the banks too.
The writer says, in his Preface, that he is anxious to show that the banker and his customer meet on equal terms, that the bank is not a superior power and that both dealers and officers need to be reminded of this. We conceive that the book will be of great value in teaching this lesson to both parties We doubt it master-bankers generally understand that that unpopularity, which they must know hangs over ‘their institutions, springs, in large measure, from the impertinence of the boy-clerks whom they have to employ in subordinate positions All large corporations suffer in the same way. The more insignificant the duty of some barrow-man a railroad freight-station, the more apt is he to assume what he thinks the airs of the proprietor of millions. Now, to the public, the railroad is represented by its humblest porter on as many occasion as it is by its accomplished president;—and the bank, by its humblest runner, as often as by its careful cashier. The impertinence or lordliness of the one rankles as long as that of the other; and when the moment for retaliation comes, is visited however unjustly, by a summary vengeance. Mr. Gibbons has done a great deal, in this very entertaining volume, to ameliorate such relations, often and foolishly hostile, between the bank officers and the community of their patrons.
There is included in the volume a very careful and clear account of that wonderful agency, the New York Clearing House, compared with whose transactions Sinbad’s and Aladdin’s are child’s play. It will be entire novelty to most readers. It is quite evident, that, in this agency, we have an entirely new feature in the finance of this country, whose power, perfectly legitimate and simple, we are but beginning to comprehend. The author, with great good sense, traces to some misconceptions of its regular and inevitable daily processes that vertigo, or paralysis, or stroke of sudden lunacy, which overwhelmed his colleagues, the New York bankers, a year ago last October, under which they overwhelmed for a year the regular and irregular commerce of this country. That delusion will never be explained, probably; but in such suggestions as are here, we have some hint of its origin, and some slight hope that it will not quite so easily return.
The fresh narrative style of the best part of this book is so taking, that we excuse the carelessness of language which makes some of the speculative passages a little unintelligible.

CHARACTERISTIC FUSTIAN.
Prof. Brittan, in giving an account, in The Spiritual Age, of his visit to Central New York, says:—
On the occasion of my recent visit to Le Roy, Genesee county, N. Y., and the neighboring village of Byron Centre, I met with several excellent friends, and became somewhat enlightened respecting the celebrities h that region. Among the latter, I must briefly notice one whose claims to public attention have never escaped his own remarkable powers of observation. Reference is had to Rev. Dr. Cox, who presides over the Female Institution, at present known and distinguished as the ‘Ingham University.’ The Doctor is a pompous and clumsy angler among the streams of popular favor, and he is apt to lose his balance and pitch into the tide whenever he feels a nibble. He takes special pains to inform the people, wherever he may be called to speak, that he has beer, to Europe—the second time—and that he was introduced to the Lord Chancellor. On one occasion, when about to commence a prayer meeting, it is said that he prefaced his opening petition by assuring the poor sinners who listened to him, that when he went to England, be had the distinguished honor of being presented at Court, and that it became necessary for him to procure a Court costume before he could be admitted to the Royal Presence. He then proceeded to his instructive application, by telling them that in like manner it would be necessary for every one of them to be provided with a suitable dress before they could hope to appear in the courtly throngs that surround the Divine Majesty.
The distinguishing characteristics of Dr. Cox appear in his peculiar style, which is illustrated in the following extract from one of his annual reports Speaking of the University at Le Roy, he says:
‘It was first begun in the vicinal, and beautiful, and nominally classic village of Attica, in the Spring of I835. In April, 1837, it was established in Le Roy, in its present tasteful and ornate location on the bank of the river; and on the orient aide, where residences, gardens, serenity, and the immediate beauty of Trigon Park in front imparts a staid and tranquil grandeur to the contour of its scenery; all the shops and business of the place being tiled in the western; section.’
Whether such a plenary creation ever existed before, in our Empire State or more imperial nation, for the nurture and accomplishment of our daughters, we stay not here to inquire.’
It is quite possible that some of the younger pupils in the Ingham University may mistake the above for a specimen of fine writing; but we never even imagined that the Reverend bead of a professedly literary institution, who, in the name of his country, had been permitted to appear among intellectual people at a foreign court, would ever indulge in such senseless grandiloquence, and amuse himself with such tawdry descriptions at home. The Lord Chancellor’s American guest moves in the literary arena with such a peculiar majesty of speech and manner as must inevitably impress the young people from the rural districts, while he flourishes his rhetorical feathers with as much grace as a native exhibits the turkey’s tail in his cap. It is well that the author of the extract did not stop to inquire whether ‘our imperial nation’ has another similar institution. There is scarcely room for two such to flourish on the same continent; and if there were, it would be difficult to find another man uniting such a ran and peculiar assemblage of powers as would be required in the supervision of’ such a plenary creation.’

DOCTOR OF DIVINITY.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR: I Observe by the papers that the time has come round when the colleges are inflicting the degree of Doctor of Divinity on the usual number of ministers whose heads stick up by ever so imperceptible a degree above the general brotherhood, it may be safely assumed that some forty colleges in all parts of the country will create three Doctors at Divinity apiece—one hundred and twenty Doctors
<c05>
of Divinity in batch If our Divinity is not at its last gasp, it is certainly no fault of the colleges.
I know something about the way these degrees are conferred, of which you may take the following as examples. A college is raising the wind by importunate mendicancy. The Rev A is pastor of a congregation with half a dozen rich men in it. The Rev A has printed a Thanksgiving Sermon, and knows as much Theology as he imbibed in listening six months to the perfections of Dr. Dozy So, in consideration of his eminent attainments in Divine science, the Rev. A. is made a Doctor of Divinity, and forthwith sets to work helping to said half dozen sponges for the college’s good
The Rev. B. pastor of the church in Leatherhead is somewhat shaky in his position. Sundry uneasy brethren desire a change. So very intelligent a congregation as Leatherhead’s requires a minister of higher distinction. Friends of the Rev. B. pull certain wires; the Trustees of Gingerpop University become impressed with his merits, and he is duly authenticated a Doctor of Divinity. The Leatherhead brethren either find his sermons greatly improved, or some other congregation covets the Rev. Doctor for pastor, and give him a loud call, which, after much deliberation and prayer, be accepts.
The Rev C. as a paisley, is chosen President of Log College, near the head waters of Missouri River. To match his honors with his fortunes, Clodhopper College makes him a Doctor.
The Rev. D. is local agent of the—Society. Said Society holds its annual meeting one year in the Rev. E’s parish, and makes the Rev. E. one of its corporate members. The Rev. E. is also one of the Trustees of Clodhopper University aforesaid. To return the compliment, the Rev. E. at the next anniversary of Clodhopper, procures the Rev. D. to be made Doctor of Divinity.
Here are four clerical noodles made Doctors of Divinity, each of whom fats on the honor, and takes care never to miss a chance of having his name in print, with D. D. after it. These are representative cases. Nine in ten of the paltry degrees conferred by our small colleges are for value received, or to be received, or by virtue of strenuous petitioning or sagacious log-rolling.

A CAGE OF UNCLEAN BIRDS.’
The New York Herald (which, in this case, has no motive for exaggeration) gives the following description of Congress. What has the nation, or the cause of bleeding liberty, to hope from such a cage of unclean birds’? And this is a Christian nation!
The spectacle that is presented in our Congressional sessions is one that stinks in the nostrils of the whole country. Time is frittered away with an incessant wrangling that is disgraceful to a deliberative assembly. Language that would be expected from only the lowest lips of society is continually heard upon its floor. Scoundrel and liar are among the frequent epithets applied by members to each other; and when their lungs tire with vituperative repetition, a fisticuff fight in the aisles and open space before the Speaker’s chair is brought in as a relief. Out of doors, the scene is no better. Canes are broken over each other’s heads, brickbats are thrown, and pistols are not unfrequently resorted to. These are the day-time occupations of the members. If we would follow them into their nightly haunts, scenes still more disgusting would meet our view. The riot and filth of the roaring debauch would be the most venial, and from that through every act of unbridled license, ending in the gambling house or brothel. Their course of life would disgrace the occupants of our penitentiary, while those of our New York penitentiary at least have the merit of earning their living by their labor, which is more than can be said of the members of Congress. In this disgraceful picture no distinction of parties can be made. All are alike in the blackguardism, corruption and rascality. It is not the discussion of the public business that gives rise to these scenes, but it is the constant quarrelling, intriguing, cheating and lying that ore carried on for private and political purposes. Every man has his blustering and shoulder-hitting partisans at home to reward, or defend his own views of personal advancement; his particular political clique to advance, and some ambitious aspirant for the Presidency to help force upon his party. With some, the motive is power; with others, money; with others, again, fear of exposure; while not a few are only obeying their own vile instincts. In this way the power of the country is weakened, the revenue squandered by millions, the government disgraced, and the people plundered. The President may do his duty, but unsustained as he is by Congress, he can do nothing He has not the power to act; and we have already seen, even in the last session, how impossible it is to get Congress to do anything effective. The request for power in the cases of our Central American and Paraguayan difficulties was first refused, and the last only granted at the last moment. In fact, every man, instead of being actuated by a sincere desire to advance the interests of the country seems to be under a constant fear that somebody may get a chance to do something that will make him prominent before the people.

OBLIGED TO BE RIGHT.
As good a colored story as we have had for many a month comes from an Augustan correspondent in Georgia:—
Simon had long aspired to the easy and dignified office of carter or ox driver. Often had he looked with envious eye upon the favored Jef, as seated upon the pole of his cart he drove whistling along, the impersonation, in Simon’s view, of the true otium cum dignitate. Never doubting his qualifications for the post, (what office-seeker does?) he longed, or as he expressed it, ‘fairly eched’ for an opportunity of showing his skill, confident that it would be such as could not fail to secure him a permanent seat upon the cart, vice Jef, removed. At length fortune seconded his wishes; Jef was luckily absent; the corn must be sent to mill; Simon must yoke ‘Buck and Darb,’ and carry it.
‘Now you wine to see driving,’ said be to the ‘boss,’ when having finished the preliminaries, he took his scat upon the cart, cracked his whip over the cattle, and added spirit to its effect by a we modulated ‘Gee up higher!’ Away rushed Buck and Garb in grand style for about ten steps; then suddenly stopped, with a jerk that well nigh precipitated our hero from his long-coveted seat. A second ‘Go long dark, Buck! You Drab, what you ‘bout now! ‘With numerous and scientific jerks at the line, and artistic flourishes of the whip, resulted no better. ‘Why,’ pun the face of the heath, what’s got into dose steers? Jess look at Drab. now, a pulling’ again Buck, and trying’ to twist’ his tail round tower way! Do believe in my soul deem steers knows I Aunt Jeff! And dander’s de boss, tool’s be hollering’ at me’ fore long!’
After seeing him worry with them a little longer, the boss, who bad seated himself on the fence a few yards off to enjoy the sport, did holler’ at him, to tell him he had yoked the oxen at the sides to which they were not accustomed, and that he must disengage gage them, and put Drab on the right side and Buck on the left.
‘Heh,’ said Simon, ‘wonders why I didn’t see data! I thought something I must be de matter; I’ll fix you now, me boys—you see of I don’t.’
Pretty soon be was off his seat, and had them disengaged from the cart, but without removing the yoke. ‘Gee up dark. Bock! I’ll drive you round to de odder side, and den we’ll see what you wine to do wad your tantrums when de boss’s looking at me from the fence yander!’
By this time he had got them round, and of coarse, after arranging them head foremost in propriety forma, they came out exactly in statue quo. ‘Lord a massy,’ said he in a self-deprecatory tone, ‘what was I thinking about, driven’ you round’ de wrong way ‘Pears like I aunt got good sense dies morning’ some how. You Drab, come out of dark! I boon’ I get you right dies time! Spec’ you’ll fool about wad your projectifications tell de boss’ II be down here directly. Whoa, gee GEE, I say!’
Owing to some inexplicable fatality, his success was no better this time than before. He drove round to the right, crossed over, and came out—second best. ‘Well, now,’ said be, ‘dies is a party spot o’ work, aunt it? Data Jeff’s done something’ to dose steers! Shoe’s your born, hose done something’ to dose steers!’
The oxen had by this time got toned with their beads toward the cart, and were standing at the end of the pole, waiting the molt of their driver’s meditations. Carefully reconnoitering their respective positions is seemed to be suddenly inspired with a project which must succeed in spite of fate. The reader shall have the benefit of the train of reasoning: ‘Deer dies Stan’s, Buck and Drab, boa of ‘me looking’ dies way; Buck on de right hand’, and Drab on de left; daft” jess’ de way dye ought to be.
<c06>
So, now, my Chilluns. I reckon I’m wine to fix you. I’ m wine to jess’ drive you up to de cart so, and den I'm twine to make you turn your heads tower way, and your tails dies way; and den you bleeped to be right, shedder you will or no!’
I have always regretted that this brilliant scheme was never fully tested. It was but half executed yoke, and change them what the result would have been had he been left to himself, admits of discussion. It is due to Simon, however, to say that many years of profound meditation have but served to confirm him in his original conclusion that they’d been’ bleeped to been right.—hopper’s Magazine.

Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from strum us complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our affected fellow-citizens How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROPFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD,SYPHILIS AND SYUPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOURUSI, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR Sr. ANTHONEY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD 
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves form the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid it of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparation of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or an thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the se of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this computed Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virus which are irresistible to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the stem, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.

PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $I per Bottle; six Bottles for $5.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Has won for itself such renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section , we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CUIRE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, <illegible> foul stomach, Erysipelas, Headache piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, live complaint, Dropsy, Tatter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner pill, and for purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperients in the world for all the purpose of family physic. Price, 25 cents per BOX; Five boxes for $I.00
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on Demand AYER’S, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
J, N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
And by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where 6m May7,

IMPROVEMNET IN CHAMPOOING AND HAIR-DYEING.
MADAM BANNISTER (Formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington sty., and West at .;where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, providence, Worcester, and elsewhere. Come and try for yourselves. October 8.

Something New!
THE Subscriber, having invented a new, and, it is believed much superior MOWING AND REAPING MACHINE, with a simple but some sure RAKER attachment, wishes to ring an honest man with the necessary means to patent and introduce the same to the public, for which a liberal share will be given. None other need apply.
Further information, ay be had by addressing a line to Winfield, Herkimer county, N, Y., or calling personally.
Dec. 24DANIEL HITCHINGS.

The free convention AT RULAND, VT.
SECOND EDITION.
JUST PUBLISHED, a Second Edition of the full report of the proceedings of the Rutland (FREE) CONVENTION, Containing the discussions on the Bible, Marriage, Slavery, Woman’s Right, Spiritualism, Free Trade, Shakers, Education, & c., by S.B. Brittan. Andrew Jackson Davis, H.C. Wright, Rev. A.D. Mayan, George snotty, Joel Tiffany, Parker Pillsbury, Stephen S. Foster, Miles Grant, Frederick W. Evans, Mrs. E.L. Rose, Mrs. Mary F. Davis, Mrs. Eliza Farmhand, and many others.
The book contains nearly 200 pages, large octavo Price, in paper, 50 cents; in cloth, 67 est. Postage, in paper, I0 cents; in cloth, I8 cents. The usual discount to the trade, for cash.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON,
Nov.I9 if2I Corn hill, Boston.
J.B. YERRINTION & SON,
PRINTERS;
21 CERN hill Bestow.
