THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance. 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be dressed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three <illegible> at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDWARD JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 32. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 7, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1696.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>

WHITE AND BLACK LABOR.
The editor of the Catholic Telegraph is now a conformed negrophilist. The negro-worshippers of the country may well clap hands on the acquisition of so able an assistant. With his talents and benedictions they will strengthen and sanctify their cause to a very great degree. They have always wanted the priests of the Catholic Church. Thank God that, he yet, they have had but wretched success in making those holy and venerable men the dupes and instruments of their fanaticism! May our beloved <illegible> never be so lost to reason, as to join ranks with Greeley, Phillips, Garrison, and the Beechers! Slavery is an evil; but the Greeleyizing of our <illegible> would be a greater evil.
We have just read an article from our Western contemporary on the white laborer. It is plethoric with the incorrigible temper of abolitionism; and it is singularly deficient in logical exactness. Its purpose is the destruction of slavery for the benefit of the white emigrant. This may be a very good purpose, but it is very poorly maintained. The rich comes of the South ought to be thrown open forever to free white labor, and the negro emancipated, says our friend. The objection to this, as given by himself, is: "If slavery be abolished, we will be over-run by colored people, who will compete with the white <illegible>, and finally supplant him;" and this objection be answers by stating that in Canada the presence of fugitive slaves "has only added to the character of the white man for energy and intellect;" that "the negro colonies that have been established in various parts of Ohio have not prospered;" that "if slavery be abolished, the negro will return to the South; and that the negro is attracted by the sun from the snows of Canada and the Northwest."
What is the signification of these propositions? The first of them is plain nonsense. It is absurd for any man to say that the presence of the negro adds to the energy and intellect of the white man. We suppose that our contemporary has been impregnated with this sentiment by the amalgamation doctrine of Wendell Phillips. And what do the remaining prepositions show? This, that negro colonies are a failure; and if the negro will live in the South if be can, in what condition is he fit to live in the South? The answer is plain and inevitable: in the servile condition. This is an inevitable inference from the propositions of our friend. But this is not all. If the negro will remain at the South, how can the "rich climes of the South be open to the white man?" The thing cannot be done. The coming of the "rich climes of the South to the white laborer" is impossible while they are occupied by the black. So that the editor of the Tele-graph, in place of proving that the "negro" ought to be free," and the “rich climes of the South” opened for the white laborer, has proved himself to be an amalgamationist; is that the negro is unfit for freedom, and that the rich climes of the South" must remain in negro hands; that is, under negro toil. We have never before seen logic so wide of its mark as this. How much has the amalgamation sentiment to do with it, that "their presence"—that of the blacks-"has only added to the character of the white man for energy and intellect?" Cincinnati abounds in negroes.
But further yet. Our contemporary adds:
"We do not wish to see the black man in competition with the white. We desire to see them far apart; there ought to be no partnership between the two races. We have no anxiety to see them intermingled, neither working together nor even cultivating adjacent fields. The natural superiority of the white race ought to be carefully preserved."
In reply to this, we ask how is competition to be avoided if the black will surely remain in the South—how is all partnership to be cut off, if the two races be found in the South—and what does the natural superiority of the white race mean, if the presence of the black improves it in energy and intellect?
And further yet. The Editor asks and answers—
"But what will become of the colored population? It will be time enough to grapple with that point when slavery is abolished."
That is to say, first upset the house, and then take care of the inmates. Was there ever anything so absurd? Four millions of unfortunate inmates too! Our contemporary should not advocate the over throw of a great domestic institution, without a settled plan. He should not leave things to chance. He reminds us of Sir Boyle Roach and the prison. Take it all down, said he, the prisoners can occupy a part, of it.
Emancipation is a very great subject. Are we justified in saying that the editor of the Telegraph does not at all comprehend it? He certainly does not. He confuses matters with singular felicity. The abolition of slavery may be a very good thing; but the logic of our contemporary on it would lead to public disaster. A physician should not proceed to amputate the legs and arms of a man, without knowing what to do with the remainder of the body, and his knives and saws should not be confusedly applied. Let our people keep away from negrophily. We do not want Beechers, nor Cheevers, nor pulpits such as these odious incendiaries are and have.
So much for the present.—Boston (Irish) Pilot.

CATHOLIC JOURNALS ON SLAVERY.
The Editors of the Cincinnati Catholic Telegraph and the New York Freeman's Journal are now amusing one half of the world, and scandalizing the other, by their incessant disputes upon the justice and wickedness of slavery. Holy Writ,—political economy,-metaphysics,—the logic of Aristotle,—the principles of Plato,—theological dogmatism,—early, mediaeval and modern sacred and profane annals,—negrophily almost as violent as that of Wendell Phillips, and pro-slavery tenets as uncompromising as Southern fire-eater ever entertained,—are the "sedes argumentorum" from which our learned contemporaries draw their illustrations and their malice. We submit, that neither of them is a good judge on the matter at issue. They are too erudite and too prejudiced to discuss it with clearness. Cincinnati is a rabid abolition city, and it is undoubted that the Editor of the Telegraph has become of late, quite impregnated with that ism. On the other hand, our friend of the Journal is as much in favor of slavery as a man of chivalrous spirit, imprisoned for the freedom of his sentiments by an abolition Administration, can be supposed to be How can such contestants reason with calmness? The thing is impossible. Where is the common sense of our contemporaries? Neither of them is a stripling; but both of them are advanced in years, and have uncommon parts and learning. It is lamentable to see two such eminent men splitting hairs and exhausting all science on an unfortunate subject, with all the bitterness of faction. Does our
<c02>
friend of the Telegraph desire to make Abolitionists of his readers? His writings attest that he does, He is now quoted approvingly by all the Abolition papers in the country. But his success will be small. He cannot taint his Irish readers. Does he not know that Abolitionism is far more than half the cause of the rebellion of the South? He knows it, with all the force of his fine and well cultivated intellect. And is not our New York contemporary aware that the second cause of the rebellion is that same pro-slaveryism which he himself advocates every week? We should hope that he is not so blinded by prejudice to the Lincoln Administration as not to be able to perceive the fact. Thus our two distinguished contemporaries represent and continue, in all the extent possible for them to command, the whole cause of the present unhappy condition of the Republic. For the sake of decency and patriotism, let them desist. They are giving scandal,—they are doing injury. With the Abolitiontsm of the one, the Church will have nothing to do; with the "fire-eating" of the other, it will have nothing to do; and at the extremes and subtleties of both, the world is laughing, and sneering, and jibing. -Boston Pilot.

COPPERHEAD SEDITION.
The Galesburg (Illinois) Democrat says that the following flagrantly disloyal resolutions were recently passed at a Copperhead meeting in the town of Rio, in that State:—
Whereas, Abraham Lincoln. President of the United States, has, by the issuing of a Proclamation, freeing the negro slaves of the Southern States, openly set at naught the Constitution of the country, and arrogated to himself the power to enact and nullify State laws at his pleasure, in defiance of State Constitutions; and
Whereas, He has also, in that Proclamation, ordered and decreed that the Executive Government, including the Military and Naval force, recognize and maintain the freedom of said negro slaves; and
Whereas, He further declares and makes known that such freed negroes are to be received into the service of the United States, thus evidently intending 
to incite the slaves to servile insurrection, that their masters may be murdered, their property destroyed, and, as an inevitable consequence, their wives and daughters violated; therefore,
Resolved, That while we, as loyal citizens of the State of Illinois, are ever ready to support this or any other administration in its lawful and constitutional acts, we are unwilling to tender further support or aid to an administration that openly violates the Constitution of the United States, and tramples under foot the Constitutions of the different States.
Resolved, That the President, who has sworn before his God to support and maintain the Constitution of his country, and then wantonly violates it, is not only a dangerous and unfit person to be at the head of the nation, but is foresworn and perjured, and should no longer be permitted to disgrace the chair once occupied by Washington, Jefferson and Jackson.
Resolved, That we contemplate with horror the result which must follow the enforcement of the President's Emancipation Proclamation to the people of the South; that we loathe and abhor the miscreant who would deliberately arm five hundred thousand demi-savages, under the specious pretext of a military necessity, and turn them loose upon our white brethren of the South. 
Resolved, That inasmuch as we are forced to the conclusion that the war now waged by the administration against the South is not, and has not been, for the restoration of the Union, but has had for its object the abolition of slavery, the wiping out of lines and the territorializing of the Southern States, or, failing in this, a dissolution of the Union; we here deliberately and firmly pledge ourselves, one to the other, that we will not render any support to the present administration in carrying on its wicked abolition crusade against the South; that we will resist to the death all attempts to draft any of our citizens into the army; and that we will permit no arbitrary arrests to be made amongst us by the minions of the administration.
Resolved, That while we regard the Emancipation Proclamation as the final blow that has destroyed all hope of the reconstruction of the Union as it was, we also view it as the entering wedge which will ultimately divide the middle and northwestern States from our mischief-making, puritanical, fanatical New England brethren, and, finally, culminate in the formation of a Democratic Republic out of the middle, northwestern and Southern States, and for this we are thankful.
Resolved, That we will resist the introduction of free negroes into the town of Rio, first by lawful means, and when that fails, we will drive them, together with such whites as may be engaged in bringing them in, out of the State, or afford them hospitable graves.
Resolved, That we recommend to our Democratic brethren throughout the State to hold meetings and express their views on the questions now agitating the country.
Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to send the proceedings of this meeting, together with the Resolutions adopted, to the Chicago Times and Quincy Herald.

C. L. VALLANDIGHAM'S ADDRESS TO THE DEMOCRACY OF OHIO.
NIAGARA FALLS, CANADA WEST, July 15, 1863. 
Arrested and confined for three weeks in the United States, a prisoner of State; banished thence to the Confederate States, and there held as an alien enemy and prisoner of war, though on parole, fairly and honorably dealt with and given leave to depart, an act possible only by running the blockade at the hazard of being fired upon by ships flying the flag of my own country, I found myself first a freeman when on British soil. And to-day under protection of the British flag, I am here to enjoy and in part to exercise the privileges and rights which usurpers so insolently deny me at home. The shallow contrivance of the weak despots at Washington, and their advisers, has been defeated. Nay, it has been turned against them; and I, who for two years was maligned as in secret league with the Confederates, having refused when in their midst, under circumstances the most favorable, either to identify myself with their cause or even so much as to remain, preferring rather exile in a foreign land, return now with allegiance to my own State and government, unbroken in word, thought or deed, and with every declaration and pledge to you while at home, and before I was stolen away, made good in spirit and to the very letter.
Six weeks ago, when just going into banishment because an audacious but most cowardly despotism caused it, I addressed you as a fellow-citizen. Today, and from the very place then selected by me,
<c03>
but after wearisome and most perilous journeyings for more than four thousand miles by land and upon sea; still in exile, though almost in sight of my native State, I greet you as your representative. Grateful certainly I am for the confidence in my integrity and patriotism, implied by the unanimous nomination as candidate for Governor of Ohio, which you gave me while I was in the Confederate States. It was not misplaced; it shall never be abused. But this is the last of all considerations in times like these. I ask no personal sympathy for the personal wrong. No: it is the cause of Constitutional liberty and private right cruelly outraged beyond example in a free country, by the President and his servants, which gives public significancy to the action of your convention. Yours was, indeed, an act of justice to a citizen who, for his devotion to the rights of the States and the liberties of the people, had been marked for destruction at the hand of arbitrary power. But it was much more. It was an example of courage worthy of the heroic ages of the world; and it was a spectacle and a rebuke to the usurping tyrants who, having broken up the Union, would now strike down the Constitution, subvert your present government, and establish a formal and proclaimed despotism in its stead. You are the RESTORERS AND DEFENDERS OF CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTY, and by that proud title history will salute you.
I congratulate you upon your nominations. They whom you have placed upon the ticket with me are gentlemen of character, ability, integrity and tried fidelity to the Constitution, the Union, and to Liberty. Their moral and political courage—a quality always rare, and now the most valuable of public virtues—is beyond question. Every way, all these were nominations fit to be made. And every jealousy, I am sure, will now be hushed, if I especially rejoice with you in the nomination of Mr. Pugh as your candidate for Lieutenant Governor and President of the Senate. A scholar and a gentleman, a soldier in a foreign war, and always a patriot; eminent as a lawyer, and distinguished as an orator and a statesman, I hail his acceptance as an omen of the return of the better and more virtuous days of the Republic.
I endorse your noble platform—elegant in style, admirable in sentiment. You present the true issue, and commit yourselves to the great mission just now of the Democratic party—to restore and make sure FIRST the rights and liberties declared yours by your constitutions. It is vain to invite the States and people of the South to return to a Union without a Constitution, and dishonored and polluted by repeated and most aggravated exactions of tyrannic, power. It is base in yourselves, and treasonable to your posterity, to surrender these liberties and rights to the creatures whom your own breath created and can destroy. Shall there be free speech, a free press, peaceable assemblages of the people, and a free ballot any longer in Ohio? 
Shall the people hereafter, as hitherto, have the right to discuss and condemn the principles and policy of the party—the ministry—the men who, for the time, conduct the government—to demand of their public servants a reckoning of their stewardship, and to place other men and another party in power at their supreme will and pleasure? Shall Order Thirty-eight or the Constitution be the supreme law of the land? And shall the citizen any more be arrested by an armed soldiery at midnight, dragged from wife and child and home, to a military prison; thence to mock military trial; thence condemned, and then banished as a felon for the exercise of his rights? This is the issue; and nobly you have met it. It is the very question of free popular government itself. It is the whole question; upon one side, liberty; upon the other, despotism. The President, as the recognized head of his party, accepts the issue. Whatever he wills, that is law. Constitutions, State and Federal, are nothing; acts of legislation, nothing; the Judiciary less than nothing. In time of war, there is but one will supreme—his will; but one law—military necessity, and he the sole judge. Military orders supersede the Constitution, and military commissions usurp the place of the ordinary courts of the land. Nor are these mere idle claims. For two years and more, by arms, they have been enforced. It was the mission of the weak but presumptuous Burnside—a name infamous forever in the ears of all lovers of constitutional liberty—to try the experiment in Ohio—aided by a Judge whom I name not, because he has brought foul dishonor upon the judiciary of my country. In your hands, now, men of Ohio, is the final issue of the experiment. The party of the Administration have accepted it.
By pledging support to the President, they have justified his outrages upon liberty and the Constitution; and whoever gives his vote to the candidates of that party, commits himself to every act of violence and wrong on the part of the Administration which he upholds; and thus, by the law of retaliation, which is the law of might, would forfeit his own right to liberty, personal and political, whensoever other men and another party shall hold the power. Much more do the candidates themselves. Suffer them not, I entreat you, to evade the issue; and by the judgment of the people we will abide. 
And now, finally: let me ask, what is the pretext for the monstrous acts and claims of arbitrary power which you have so nobly denounced? "Military necessity" But if, indeed, all these be demanded by military necessity, then, believe me, your liberties are gone, and tyranny is perpetual. For if this civil war is to terminate only by the subjugation or submission of the South to force and arms, the infant of to-day will not live to see the end of it. No, in another way only can it be brought to a close. Traveling a thousand miles and more, through nearly one half of the Confederate States, and sojourning for a time at widely different points, I met not one man, woman or child, who was not resolved to perish rather than yield to the pressure of arms even in the most desperate extremity. And whatever may or must be the varying fortune of the war, in all which I recognize the hand of Providence pointing visibly to the ultimate issue of this great trial of the States and people of America, they are better prepared now, every way, to make good their inexorable purpose, than at any period since the beginning of the struggle. These may indeed be unwelcome truths; but they are addressed to honest and candid men. Neither, however, did I meet any one, whatever his station, political or private, who did not declare his readiness, when the war shall have ceased and invading armies been withdrawn, to consider and discuss the question of reunion. And who shall doubt the issue of the argument? I return, therefore, with my opinions and convictions as to war or peace; and my faith as to final results, from sound policy and wise statesmanship, not only unchanged, but confirmed and strengthened. And may the God of Heaven and Earth so rule the hearts and minds of Americans everywhere, that with a Constitution maintained, a Union restored, and Liberty henceforth made secure, a grand and nobler destiny shall yet be ours than that even which blessed our fathers in the first two ages of the Republic. C. L. VALLANDIGHAM.
<c04>
Selections.
VALLANDIGHAM'S ADDRESS.
We have read Vallandigham's Address to the People of Ohio. It is dated the 15th of July. It contains no allusion to the recent glorious triumphs of the Federal armies, which have sent such a glow of joy to every patriotic heart.
It has not one word of sympathy with the Union cause. 
It has not one word of rebuke, or deprecation even, for the rebels who are trying to overthrow the best government on earth.
It has no word of sympathy for the sufferings of the thousands of Union men all over the South, who have lost everything for standing by the flag of their country. 
It is filled with his own woes and hardships. It still opposes the war.
In short, it is the letter of a man whose heart is with the enemies of his country. It is not possible that he should be elected Governor of Ohio.
Vallandigham's address, as a political document, is a very weak affair. It lacks point and pith. It is puerile and declamatory. As a specimen of the statesmanship its author would inaugurate, if he had the power, take his statement that he did not find at the South anybody but that was ready, when our armies were withdrawn, to discuss the question of reunion. He says:—
"Neither did I meet any one, whatever his opinions or his station, political or private, who did not declare his readiness, when the war shall have ceased, and invading armies been withdrawn, to consider and discuss the question of reunion. And who shall doubt the issue of the argument? I return, therefore, with, my opinions and convictions as to war or peace, and my faith as to final results from sound policy and wise statesmanship, not only unchanged, but confirmed and strengthened."
Now suppose, for a moment, this programme carried out. "When the war shall have ceased and invading armies been withdrawn," he says. Invading armies "withdrawn" from whence? The South claims as a part of the Confederacy every Slave State. Withdraw our "invading armies," therefore, from Missouri, from Kentucky, and from Tennessee. Give up Vicksburg once more, with its Gibraltar-like fortifications. Give up Port Hudson—give up New Orleans—give up Baltimore, Port Royal, Harper's Ferry, Norfolk, and every strong and strategic point in the whole South. Withdraw our "invading armies"—let the South repossess itself of all the territory, all the forts, all the rivers, cities and fortresses which those "invading armies," at the cost of hundreds of thousands of brave men's lives, have taken and possessed—and then, what return? Does the South propose to remain loyal and faithful to the Union? Will she then yield the contest, and cease to rebel against the just and benign government established by our fathers? Not a bit of it. She will then "consider and discuss the question of reunion." In other words, Mr. Vallandigham proposes to yield all the ground gained during a two years' struggle by our brave armies, at an untold cost of treasure and life, for the sake of opening a debating school between the North and the South, to see whether the South will consent to allow the American nation yet to exist undivided, and unshorn of more than half its territory! 
But suppose, after the debating school is over and closed, the South still decides for disunion, what then? It is true, Mr. Vallandigham does not doubt the issue of the argument. But his judgment on that matter is a thing of small account. The Southern representatives told Douglas before the war, that, if he were to give them a blank sheet of paper to write their own conditions upon, they would not consent to remain in the Union. Their papers and orators, without exception, declare that they will not consent to live under the same government with the North. Mr. Vallandigham, even, does not pretend to have found a single rebel who was ready for reunion. Suppose, then, after the discussion is over, the South still decides for disunion, what are we to do about it? Mr. Vallandigham don't tell us in this letter, but it is easy enough to see what would be the result. The division of the country would be an accomplished fact.
Mr. Vallandigham puts forward this monstrous proposition at a bad time. The nation is not prepared to give up Vicksburg, and Port Hudson, and New Orleans—no, not an inch of soil anywhere—for the poor privilege of "discussing" with traitors the question of its own existence. Vallandigham should go back to the South, where his arguments will be better appreciated—Kansas Journal of Commerce.

VALLANDIGHAM IN CANADA.
The copperhead candidate for Governor of Ohio, having escaped from the Botany Bay of America, to which he was banished for treason to his Government, has brought up at Niagara Falls, upon the Canada side, from whence he has issued an Address to his prospective constituents, the Ohio Butternuts, which we publish entire, in another column. It is a characteristic document, and sounds wonderfully like the "God and Liberty" proclamations of Jefferson Davis to his tatterdemalion constituents, consisting mainly of imprecations against the President for exercising the rights and the powers given to him by the Constitution for the preservation of the Union, and of anathemas against Gen. Burnside and other loyal officers and citizens for sustaining the administration in its efforts to overcome the rebellion, and preserve the national integrity.
Among all his whining about "insolent usurpers," "arbitrary power," "military despotism," and being "dragged by an armed soldiery from wife and child, to a military prison, and thence, after a mock military trial, banished as a felon for exercising his rights," we look in vain for one single word in condemnation of the acts of tyranny, arbitrary power, invasion of private rights, violence and wrong, which are being perpetrated by those who have, by force of arms, set at naught the very Constitution for which he professes so much reverence. On the contrary, he reiterates his well-known treasonable sentiments, that the rebellion cannot be subdued by the strong arm of military power, and advocates the withdrawal of our armies, "invading armies," as he terms them, from the field, and a resort to discussion and argumentation upon the question of re-union. 
Let this extraordinary document be perused by all, and especially by intelligent Democrats, who are asked to support its author to the highest office in their gift as citizens of the loyal State of Ohio. It is, most emphatically, a political eye-opener, and already several Democrats, hereabouts, who have hitherto been undecided as to the course they ought to pursue, have had their duty, in the premises, made plain by its perusal, and will no longer act with the disloyal faction.— Akron (Ohio) Beacon. 
<c05>
VALLANDIGHAM'S RECORD FOR ONE MONTH.
EXTRA SESSION OF 1861.
Compiled from the Congressional Globe.
On the 8th of July, introduced bill for the repeal of Morrill Tariff, striving thereby to cut off the means of procuring coin to pay interest on the public debt. 
July 10. Voted against bill for collection of revenue, and made his famous speech, or philippic, against the President.
Also voted against bill authorizing national loans of $ 250,000,000, for pay and subsistence of soldiers then in the field. Years 150, nays 5.
NAYS—Messrs. Burnett, Norton, Reid, Vallandigham and Wood,—5. 
Messrs. Burnett, Norton and Reid are now in the Rebel army.
July 13.—During discussion of the volunteer bill, (for raising 500,000 men and $500,000,000.) in the Committee of the Whole, and also after the bill was reported to the House, he refused to sanction it, or vote for it, unless the House would adopt his resolution requiring the President to appoint seven commissioners to accompany the army, to receive and consider any proposition of peace that should come from the rebels, (with arms in their hands.)
July 17. —Offered a series of resolutions, which, in substance, are as follows:
1st. That by accepting the services of volunteers, for the suppression of the rebellion, the President violated the Constitution.
2d. That in blockading the ports of rebel cities, he did the same.
3d. That by drawing unappropriated money to feed the soldiers, he usurped the powers of Congress and violated the Constitution.
4th. That in causing the seizure of certain traitorous telegraphic despatches, in May, 1861, he did the same. 
5th. That the suppression of traitorous papers was also a violation.
6th. And that the arrest of disloyal persons was and is the same thing.
He also refused to vote either for or against the bill for the punishment of persons found guilty of conspiring against the Government, or of aiding or abetting such conspiracy. And as the gentleman was always anxious to give reasons for his acts, and as he failed to do so in this instance, we have the right to believe that he did not wish to vote to punish himself for any disloyal act he might commit. And on the same day voted against the following: 
Resolved, That the House hereby pledges itself to vote for any amount of money, and any amount of men, which may be necessary to insure a speedy and effectual suppression of the rebellion, and the permanent restoration of the Federal authority everywhere within the limits and jurisdiction of the United States.
And yet his adherents say, "We have given all the men and money that were called for."
On the 16th of July, voted against giving the President authority to use these forces in the field for the subjection of the rebels, and offered the following in the army appropriation bill: 
Resolved, That no compensation be allowed to any officer appointed prior to the passage of this act.
July 22.—Refused to vote for the first division of Crittenden's resolutions, which says the present deplorable civil war has been thrust upon the country by the disunionists of the South, &c.
July 25th.—Voted against the amendment to National Loan bill, authorizing the issuing of Treasury notes.
July 27th.—Stated in the aisle of the House (where he was nine tenths of the time) that he objected to the punishment of conspirators against the Government.
July 29th.—Voted against amendments to Internal Revenue bill, to reduce direct taxation one half.
July 29th, P. M.—Voted against Internal Revenue bill, in toto. He found be could not have an opportunity of exciting the populace to violence on the subject of high taxation, he therefore concluded to vote against all taxation of any kind. 
August 3d.—Voted against bill for confiscating the property of armed rebels.
August 5th.—Introduced resolution for a convention of States to amend Constitution. A short time after, voted against resolution to appoint committee to consider such amendments to the Constitution as might be deemed necessary to restore mutual confidence, &c. Consistency, thou art indeed a jewel! 
Voted against bill requiring heads of departments to cause their assistants to take the oath of allegiance, thereby wishing to give the traitors an opportunity of ascertaining the intentions of the Administration.
During the remarks on the bill for the increase of pay for private soldiers, &c., Mr. V. said: "I should be glad to discuss and DENOUNCE, this MONSTROUS proposition as it deserves, but want of time will not permit." And as the yeas and nays were not called on the final passage of the bill, it is reasonable to presume that he voted against it. 

VALLANDIGHAM.
It is fortunate that this stirrer up of sedition arrived in Canada just in the height of the carnival of blood and rapine in New York city, which are the legitimate fruit of his teachings. The New York riots have unmasked him, and exhibited him to the people of Ohio in his true character. The New York rioters are not more guilty in morals than Vallandigham. They did merely what he taught. He incited them to resist a statute of the Government, and they obeyed him. The carnival of blood that reigned in New York for four days was nothing more than Vallandigham's speech embodied in action.
The people of Ohio now understand the man, and they will inflict upon him the infamy of defeat, from which he will never recover. His affectations of martyrdom will not save him. His address to the voters of the State betrays the weakness and the wickedness of his cause. It is the feeblest effort he ever made. We rejoice that the punishment that awaits him is to come from the people. It will not the less certainly consign his name to infamy, because it is inflicted at the ballot-box.—St. Louis Union.

VALLANDIGHAM IN CANADA.
A letter from Quebec to the Cincinnati Times says that when Vallandigham arrived there, he was heartily welcomed by the Southerners there, and by the English. The writer says:-
"So far as my acquaintance in Canada extended, I am forced to the conclusion—in which I an sustained by all of our party—that the English are almost wholly secessionists. This may not be the precise name by which to call them; but suffice it to say, they earnestly desire the South to succeed, knowing their success would ruin us, humble us, destroy us as nation, humble our pride, damn us for-
<c06>
ever! They care not how this is accomplished, s that it is done. The fact they desire to see accomplished. Your correspondent took pains to inquire into the matter, and to this end closely questioned every intelligent Canadian or Englishman on the subject of our national difficulties.
"One man, in answer to the question, What would you do if Jeff Davis should come to Quebec? replied: "We would glorify him!" And what would you do if Lincoln came here? to which he responded: "We would spit in his face!" To which we replied, that somebody would get badly thrashed if we were on hand when our President was insulted."

COPPERHEAD AXIOMS.
Nobody has a right to be President except a proslavery Democrat. We have no government when the people elect from any other party.
Whenever a State becomes dissatisfied with an act of the Federal Government, it can secede at will, and it is a violation of the Constitution to coerce it into submission.
Andrew Jackson violated the Constitution when he coerced Calhoun and his compeers into submission to Federal Laws in 1832. 
Wigfall and others had a perfect right to fire on Fort Sumter. The Federal Government is violating the Constitution in resenting the insult. 
The Constitution as we interpret it, and the Union as it was when Davis, Toombs, Thompson and Floyd controlled it. 
Lincoln is not President of the United States, and we owe no allegiance to his administration. 
It is unconstitutional to arrest anybody who is aiding and abetting the Southern Confederacy. 
Stephen A. Douglas was a fool for asserting "that every man must be for the United States or against it. There can be no neutrals in this war, only patriots and traitors."
Jeff. Davis is a high-toned, chivalrous gentleman, and Abe Lincoln a negro worshipper, and low, mean Yankee.
Old Ben Butler is a beast.
C. L. Vallandigham is a polished statesman and a pure patriot.
The Union can only be restored through the agency of the glorious old Democratic party. 
Abe Lincoln is an imbecile, and ought to be impeached.
Slavery must exist, if the Union is dissolved.
It is unconstitutional to vote any other than the Democratic ticket.
Everybody is an abolitionist who is in favor of suppressing the rebellion.—Ingham Co. (Mich.) News. 

JOHN BRIGHT'S REPLY TO ROEBUCK.
One of the London papers, which gives a weekly view of the "Inner Life of the House of Commons," sketches in a very graphic manner the proceedings of the first evening on the proposition of Roebuck for the recognition of the independence of the Southern Confederacy by the British Government. Here is what it says of John Bright:—
"'There's Bright up!' was the cry in the lobbies and the outer rooms; and straightway the wandering members scudded into the house, as you see the fowls in a farm-yard hurry to the barn door when the farmer appears, with sieve in hand, to throw to them their daily food. And every man inside settled himself down, anxious to listen to the great orator on this his pet subject. Mr. Bright began with Mr. Roebuck; and what a scathing he administered to the member for Sheffield, none can know but those who were present to hear and see. It was not invective, however, nor mere declamatory abuse. He did not use hard words, nor did he seem to be in the slightest degree vindictive. The weapons of the honorable member for Birmingham were facts well handled—handled as no one but he can handle facts. And as, one by one, these terrible facts fell upon poor Roebuck's head, you almost felt pity for the assailed, and an inclination to implore the assailant to have mercy. And how the House cheered and laughed! There are few members of any position in the House who have not felt the power of Roebuck's sharp attacks, and hence the general pleasure evinced at seeing him under retributory punishment. But, in justice to the honorable member for Sheffield, it is right to say that be took his punishment well and patiently. Once or twice he jumped up to correct Mr. Bright's quotations, but, on the whole, he was marvellously patient, and bore up bravely under the pitiless pelting of the storm. It is needless to say that this was a splendid speech. It had in it all the characteristics of true oratory—close reasoning, sarcasm, manly pathos, high-wrought declamation. Towards the close of the oration, when Mr. Bright was speaking in his loftiest manner, certain young Conservatives clustered at the bar, who had just retired from dinner, began to groan. The House at once, however, quashed by a burst of cheers this untimely and unseemly interruption; and the speaker closed his speech with a peroration which no one in the House but he could have conceived or delivered, and which few that heard it will soon forget. 'I don't agree with your friend in anything,' said an old Conservative to a Radical member; 'but he is unquestionably the grandest speaker in the House.' And this is our verdict."
This is the opinion of many. Mr. John Bright, emphatically one of the people, is the most effective of English Parliamentary speakers; but, because he has sprung from the industrial classes, he has not the most remote chance of being invited, even should his liberal principles triumph, to form part of any Administration in England. He is too honest a man for office there, and his want of "blue blood" and family connection with nobility is another disqualification! The peroration of Mr. Bright's speech, above referred to, is true as well as brilliant. He said: "We find the Government of the United States for two years past contending for its life, and in that contest contending necessarily for human freedom. It affords a remarkable example—the first in the history of the world—of a great Government coming forth as the organized defender of law, freedom, equality." He concluded thus:
"I have not said a word with respect to what may happen to England if you go to war with the United States. It will be a war upon the ocean. Everything that belongs to both nations, as far as possible, will be swept from the seas; but when the troubles in America are over, be they ended by the restoration of the Union or by separation, what will be the feeling towards England of that great free people, the most instructed in the world? (Cries of ‘Oh!') There is not an American to be found in the New England States who cannot read and write. [Hear, hear.] There are not three men in a hundred in the whole Northern States who cannot read and write, (hear, hear,) and those who cannot read and write have recently come from Europe. (Cheers and laughter.) I say the people of the United States are the most instructed and, if you take the distribution of riches through the whole country, the most wealthy people in the world. You will leave in their hearts a wound
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that sate of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of the war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGERSS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
which probably a century may not heal, and the posterity of some who now hear my voice will look back with amazement and lamentation at the course taken by the honorable and learned member for Sheffield, and such gentlemen as may choose to follow his leading. (Cries of 'Oh!') I suppose the honorable gentlemen 
who cry 'Oh!' are aware of the fact that we suffer from some errors of our ancestors, and that there are few people who have it not to say that if their fathers had been wiser, their children had been happier. ('Hear, hear,' and a laugh.) We know the cause of this revolt. We know its purposes and its end. Those who have made it have not left the world in darkness with respect to their intentions. But What the revolt is to accomplish is still hidden from our sight, and I will abstain now-as I have always abstained-from predicting what is to come. I know what I hope for, what I shall rejoice in, but I know nothing of future events that will enable me to express a confident opinion. (A laugh) Whether the revolt will give freedom to the race which the white man for centuries has trampled in the dust, or whether, to use the expression of my honorable friend, it will purify a nation steeped in crime in connection with its conduct to that race, is known only to the Supreme. In His hand are alike the breath of men and the life of States. I am willing to commit to Him the issue of this dread contest; but I implore Him, and I beseech this House, that my country may lift not hand nor voice in aid of the most stupendous act of guilt recorded in the annals of mankind. (Cries of' Oh!' and cheers.)"
Noble John Bright! '

THE LONDON TIMES AND PRES. LINCOLN.
WHAT THE "THUNDERER" THOUGHT THREE YEARS AGO.
A correspondent sends to the London Daily News the following extracts from the Times on the occasion of the election of Mr. Lincoln in 1860. They stand in marked contrast with the articles which now appear in that journal:-
Times, Nov. 20, 1860.-" Mr. Lincoln has been elected the President, and Mr. Hamlin, Vice President, of the great American Confederacy. The event has been long foreseen, and will surprise nobody who has paid the least attention to American politics. It is the natural reaction against the outrages and excesses of 1855 and 1856-the protest of the freest and best educated part of the American people against acts of high-handed violence and oppression, which preceded the advert of Buchanan to power. If the South has, at length, found that it is not omnipotent in the councils of the country, that unpleasant discovery is owing to the foolish and intemperate use which the South has made of its prosperity. Slavery has been defeated as the normal and perfect state of human society, and the North has been bitterly taunted with its honest industry, and the coarseness of manners which the fastidious Southern planter traces to that cause. While claiming for itself the monopoly of the Government of the United States, the South has constantly held the language of disaffection, and the United States have been ruled by a party which was perpetually talking of disuniting them."
Times, Nov. 21, 1860.-"We rejoice on higher and surer grounds that the election has ended in the return of Mr. Lincoln; we are glad to think that the march of slavery, and the domineering tone which its advocates were beginning to assume over freedom, have been at length arrested and silenced."
Times, November 26, 1860. "Should South Carolina, Georgia, and the adjacent States separate themselves permanently from the federation, constituting themselves a new nation, &c., with all the appendages of independence, then the whole series of American politicians will have been in the wrong -and this journal, which has always declared such an event to be impossible, will have been in the wrong with them."
Times, November 29, 1860.-"Can any sane man believe that England and France will consent, as is now suggested, to stultify the policy of half a century for the sake of an extended cotton trade, and to purchase the favor of Charleston and Milledgeville by recognizing what has been called 'the isothermal law which impels African labor towards the tropics,' on the other side of the Atlantic"? 
Times, December 5, 1860.-" In South Carolina, Alabama, and Georgia, an appeal is to be made, to the last powers vested in the State Constitution, with a view to disunion, on no ground whatever that can be, discovered, except that they do not like Mr. Lincoln. He hat has committed himself to declarations against slavery. To all our political notions, there is no more reason for the violence reported from the Southern States than there would be for the electors of Southwark, refusing to pay assessed taxes, because Lord Palmerston had declared against the ballot."
Times, December, 1860-" .-"Of one thing the Democrats may be well assured, that the character and prestige of the several United States in the eyes of Europe depend on their Federal Union. 
All that is noble and venerable in the United States is associated with its Federal Constitution. It is not the demonstrations of Southern ruffianism in Congress, or the filibustering aggrandizement of the South, from the Mexican annexations downward, or the fugitive slave law, or the Dred Scott decision, or the Kansas-Nebraska act-it is not these, or any triumph of Democratic insolence during their ascendency of half a century, that has commanded the sympathy and admiration of Europe."
Times, December 11, 1860.-"Without sharing the opinions, much less using the language of the Abolitionists, with respect to slavery, we look upon the conduct of South Carolina in this matter as disgraceful in the last degree."
Times, December 31,1860.-" The free commerce which might be opened at Charleston or New Orleans would fail to produce cordial relations with a confederacy which would be pledged to promote the indefinite extension of slavery, even if it were not tempted to revive the slave trade."

ANOTHER FEATURE OF THE NEW YORK RIOT.
That horrible riot in New York is being slowly crushed out. But, what fiendish work the demons have made! We blush for our common humanity, as we read of the poor, innocent, defenceless blacks. The records of the darkest ages and the most barbarous times will be searched in vain for a parallel to the savage ferocity displayed towards these poor creatures. Utterly inoffensive, completely defenceless, guilty of no crime, these poor wretches are inhumanly beaten, tortured, and burned to death. Is it possible that such horrible atrocities are being perpetrated in the nineteenth century, and in the greatest city in America?
But, while we stand appalled at the unparalleled barbarity and utter fiendishness of this mob, let us not fail to learn the lesson which its awful wickedness teaches. How comes it that such a deep-seated and ferocious antipathy exists against this poor race? How is it that this mob becomes more bloodthirsty than wild beasts? What has transformed these men into, not savages, but demons? Such a thing as this is not the growth of a moment, or a day. There can be but one answer. It is the fruit of that long, long era of injustice and violence, which has marked our dealings with the negro. It grows primarily out of the dehumanizing influence of slavery itself. But its more, proximate cause is, the vile appeals to prejudice, to caste, and to race, which, for the basest possible ends, have for years been made to the lower classes of the community. It is the same spirit which shows itself daily in a thousand Protean forms of injustice and outrage to the black man, simply because he is black. It is the same spirit which crops out in those disgraceful enactments of professedly Free States, called "Black Laws." This mob is only doing what a great many persons feel.
The appeals to this negro-hating spirit have been most bitter and virulent on the part of the disloyal presses and speakers of the North during the progress of the war. The prospect that out of this terrible and wasting strife the poor black man-victim of centuries of wrong-might emerge on a higher and nobler plane of humanity, a freeman, a person instead of a thing, has filled these bad men with rage and madness, They have not ceased to appeal to the brute instincts, of the rabble. Every humane movement of the Government, on behalf of the balcks, has called down their sneers and curses. They have never tired of the assertion that this was a "nigger war." In all possible ways, they have festered a spirit of violence and outrage toward the defenceless blacks. At last, a civil outbreak let this loose upon its victims, and we see the result.
Is there not a lesson for every thoughtful, patriotic and humane man in these facts?-Kansas City (Mo.)-Journal of Commerce.
<c02>
The Liberator.

No Union with Slaveholders!

BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 7, 1863.

WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION ANNIVERSARY.
The Twenty-Ninth Anniversary of Emancipation in the British West Indies was celebrated by the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and a large number of friends of freedom from various parts of New England, at the beautiful Island Grove in Abington, where for so many years this occasion has been wont to be commemorated, becoming a source of light, impulse and inspiration to many hearts.
The meeting was called to order at 11 o'clock by SAMUEL MAY, Jr., of Leicester, who, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, proposed the following organization:-
For President,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, of Boston.
Vice Presidents,
BOURNE SPOONER, Plymouth;
WILLIAM ASHBY, Newburyport;
SAMUEL DYER, Abington;
ELMER HEWITT, Weymouth;
JOSHUA PERRY, Hanson;
BENJ. F. HUTCHINSON, Milford, N. H.;
EDWARD M. DAVIS, Philadelphia.
Secretaries,
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, Boston;
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Leicester.
Finance Committee,
Lewis Ford, Mrs. Caroline R. Putnam,
H. W. Blanchard, Henry H. Brigham. 
The above were unanimously accepted as the officers of the meeting.
Mr. GARRISON, on taking the chair, spoke of the almost literal fulfilment of the prophecies made by Abolitionists of the good working of emancipation in the British West Indies; and of the storm of reproach through which the British Abolitionists passed during the debate which preceded that event. In our own country, slavery, like a rope of sand, is fast wearing away, and we hope soon to rejoice in its utter extinction. Mr. Garrison read, as eminently appropriate to the occasion, the 58th chapter of Isaiah, and pointed out how the predictions of the prophet have been fulfilled to the letter, wherever a loosening of the bonds of oppression has been practised.
Mr. Garrison informed the meeting that, among others present, was the Rev. Dr. MASSIE of London, who had come to this country as a representative of various English religious denominations, and as bearer of an Anti-Slavery Address, from British Christians; and he hoped we should hear his voice among us. He was also glad to see Hon. HENRY WILSON present, one who never lost an opportunity to attend an anti-slavery meeting, and from him also we should hope to hear. As Mr. Wilson came to the platform, he was warmly cheered.
Mr. Garrison then read a portion of a recent statement of Mr. Edward S. Philbrick-formerly of this State, and son of our late Treasurer, Samuel Philbrick,-now manager and proprietor of numerous estates on the Port Royal islands, showing by numerous facts and statistics how favorably freedom is working for the emancipated people there. Mr. P's letter was published in the Boston Daily Advertiser.
The Hutchinson family then sang, in their peculiar manner, a song, "Come on,"-to the manifest gratification of the audience.
Rev. Dr. Massie, of London, was then introduced; he was received with applause, and spoke somewhat as follows:
I have unspeakable pleasure in being present here to-day, and in meeting the men, and the women too, who have so long stood together in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause in America. I have a deep respect for these friends, and it was long my domestic pleasure to act, from year to year, in behalf of the Annual Bazaar held in Boston, to aid in the cause of the total Abolition of Slavery. I was then associated with one who was as truly a member of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society as if she had lived within the bounds of your State. [This allusion of Dr. M. to his wife (since deceased) whose warm heart and active mind had greatly endeared her to many in this country, was received with sincere emotion.] I was one of the workers in behalf of that Emancipation which we today are met to celebrate. I do not say I was a great part of that work, but rather that I was one of the least of those workers; but whatever aid I could give, travelling, speaking, using my political and personal influence in its behalf, that I did give. We then had amongst us a class, fully equal in temper and conduct to any "copperheads" or "rattlesnakes" which you know anything about in this country. I am sorry to feel obliged to tell you that the English nation never has been wholly Anti-Slavery. At the time spoken of, the lordlings and aristocracy of England put every possible obstacle in the way of the great measure of Emancipation, and Wilberforce (himself more than a whole bench of Lords and Bishops) was glad, in a Parliament of six hundred, to find forty-five men to stand by him. But the subject was agitated, and an Agency Society was instituted. Then it was that my friend George Thompson (applause) and many others went forth to labor, and soon the petitions to Parliament began to roll in. At this time there was not a Bishop of the church would vote for Emancipation! Hardly a dozen ministers throughout the kingdom were ready to be identified with the measure! But Mr. Stanley (now Lord Derby) and others saw that it had become an absolute necessity, as a measure of peace at home, to take up this question of Emancipation in earnest, and the great measure at length triumphed.
Recently a large body of Protestant ministers of France-seven hundred and fifty-addressed the clergy of England, desiring them to make a public expression of their interest in the contest now going on in America, as a contest against Slavery and in behalf of Liberty and Justice. To that address, four thousand and eight ministers of Great Britain signed a strong and sympathetic reply. On the 3d of June last, a meeting of clergy at Manchester joined in an address to the churches and people of America, and they have now sent it hither by the hands of deputies. That address I have with me to-day. I had the pleasure to read it to an audience of six thousand persons in the Free Trade Hall in Manchester. I have read it to large assemblies in Philadelphia, New Haven, and elsewhere in this country. I had also the honor to read it to President Lincoln at Washington, whom I am happy to believe firmly and heartily opposed to slavery. I hope also to present it soon in Boston; and should the reading be desired, I shall be happy to read it here.
A slight shower coming up, Dr. Massie's remarks were somewhat interrupted; but this was of brief duration, and he closed in an eloquent strain of hopefulness and faith in regard to the issues of our great struggle with the rebellion and slavery.
S. MAY, JR. referring to what Dr. Massie had said of "Copperheads" in Great Britain thirty years ago in the days of the great contest with the West India Slave interest, remarked upon the great number of the same class still to be found there, who, if they be not as violent as formerly, it is only because they dare not to be so. He spoke of the malignant and mendacious course of the Times, and other London journals, towards this country, of their palpable sympathy with the rebellion, and the countenance and aid they have given and continue to give to the slaveholders. These are the men, who, joining with rebels and "copperheads" here, are doing their utmost to prolong the war, to perpetuate slavery, and to break down every vestige of popular rights and republican government in this country. He was sorry to believe that the English government itself, taken as a whole, and especially those classes in whose hands the government more
<c03>
immediately is, were, with a few noble exceptions, unfriendly to this country, and more than willing that Slavery and the Rebellion should carry the day. But of the English people generally, of the vast masses of the working people, of the extensive and well-informed middling classes, as also of great numbers of the most intelligent, gifted, and best educated men and women in the kingdom, his belief was far otherwise. It is their influence, it is a salutary respect and fear of them, which holds back the English Government from an acknowledgment of the Confederacy, and from openly and directly giving them the aid which it now suffers to be given indirectly. In illustration of modern British "copperheadism," Mr. May read a paragraph, which had been cut from the London Dispatch of July 11th last, and sent to him by an English friend. It stated that a large committee of Earls, Lords, and other " Honorables" (the names were read) had been raised to procure a " marble statue, heroic size," to be executed of the late General Thomas J. Jackson (Stonewall Jackson) as a recognition of his worth as a hero and a Christian." " It is not intended," says the Dispatch, " that subscriptions to the statue should imply any opinion on the merits of the American struggle"! Oh, no, not in the least! (Laughter.) "The completed statue is to be offered to Virginia"!
REV. DR. MASSIE explained that all the names read by Mr. May belonged to the Tory party. Several of these persons might themselves have given the 1,500 pounds needed for the statue, without missing it. The Tory party is well known to be always in hostility to every liberal measure. He thought Mr. May had not done full justice to the spirit of many of the English aristocracy. Many of them are widely different from their class. Lord Carlisle, Lord Lyons, the Duke of Argyle and others are noble and excellent persons, whose influence is just what we could desire. The Government is not opposed to the abolition of slavery; and a vast preponderance of the people are strongly in favor of it. I wish not to sever the friendly ties between this country and England, but to bind them more closely. Let nothing be done, let nothing be even said, by any friend of freedom in America or England, to provoke hostility between the two countries.
Mr. MAY rejoined that in his previous remarks he had distinctly spoken of certain honorable exceptions among the British aristocracy. But when the Rev. Dr. Massie had named the Duke of Argyle and the Earl of Carlisle, had he not about exhausted the list of those of that class who had manifested any sympathy with the Government and People of the United States in the present war? Far be it from him to do aught to excite a hostile feeling between the two countries. We are not doing this, when we point out the violations of a just neutrality which England is continually committing toward this country. We are really the friends of peace and amity in so speaking, for we point out a palpable danger to that peace, we give a friendly warning, we implore that country to desist from the building, equipping, and arming of piratical cruisers against our commerce, in her own ports, before it becomes altogether too late to prevent the war which such a course on England's part must bring on. If we would have peace, we must observe the conditions of peace. And it is far more in England's power than in ours to decide the question of peace or war between the two countries. For these reasons, he desired to recognize our real friends in Great Britain, and to get a full grasp of their true and honest hands in this great crisis.
Mr. GARRISON most cordially responded to the sentiments expressed by Dr. Massie against hostility between this country and England. He hoped he should never live to see a war between these two countries. But the aim of the Copperhead press and population here is to excite enmity against England. He believed the great mass of the English people were in feeling with the North. He had seen the account of but one popular meeting (that at Sheffield) which took the other side. The Government suspends its decision. But it has not recognized the South as a nation, and we may yet hope that it will not do so.
 Great credit is due to the dissenting clergy of England, (in comparison with those of the Established Church,) for their efforts against slavery. Here, we have no established church, but our clergy have not, as a body, taken the right position on this subject. The special representatives of religion here have continued to favor slavery, and to this fact its long continuance is mainly owing.
Mr. Garrison spoke of the noble effort of the loyal anti-slavery women of the land, to raise a million of names of women, and as many of men, to petition Congress for the complete and entire abolition of slavery, and informed the audience that they would have an opportunity to sign this petition.
The Hutchinsons now led the assembly in singing the John Brown song, which was given with much enthusiasm. After it, the meeting adjourned for dinner. Adjourned to 2 o'clock.
AFTERNOON. Met according to adjournment.
The third hymn on the printed sheet-by GEORGE S. BURLEIGH-was then sung to the tune of "Old Hundred," as follows:-
I.
God reaps his judgment-field to-day,
And sifts the darnel from the wheat;
A whirlwind sweeps the chaff away,
And fire the refuge of deceit.
II.
In vain a nation's bloody sweat,
The sob of myriad hearts in vain,
If the scotched snake may live to set
Its venom in our flesh again.
III.
The lords of treason and the whip
Have called us to the dread appeal,
From the loud cannon's fevered lip,
And the wide flash of bristling steel.
IV.
If now the echo of that voice
Shake down their prison-house of wrong,
They have their own perfidious choice,
For God is good, and Truth is strong.
V
Their steel draws lightning, and the bolt
But fires their own volcanic mine;
God in their vineyard of Revolt
Treads out his sacramental wine!
VI.
Be this our conquest-as they gave
Their all to Treason and the Chain,
We snap the fetter from the slave,
And make our sole revenge their gain!
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN was then introduced to the audience, and said he had felt, especially for the last six or eight months, that the existing war was needed by our country. We have had slavery so long, and so many causes educating the country into the belief of a natural, essential inferiority in the black race, that it seemed as if this prejudice was not to be eradicated without such testimony as the colored people are now giving, before the whole nation, of their possessing the characteristics of men, physical, mental and moral. No men have been more ready than our blacks to do their duty, even if it led them to the cannon's mouth. They have acted nobly before Port Hudson, and at Fort Wagner, and in many other places.
The South has not chosen to arm her slaves, but she has sent Alex. H. Stephens to remonstrate against the arming of them by the North. The South declares on her good faith and honor, (as if she had ever shown either!) that she has put no arms into the hands of the blacks. We know that some of their blacks have borne arms; and we know that they dare not trust the slaves extensively with arms. But the mission of Mr. Stephens is to endeavor to frighten the North with the threat of arming the slaves in support of the rebellion, and by this means to prevent that Northern movement to arm the colored men, and give them the best  chance they ever had to develop and display their manhood. The South is alarmed
<c04>
to find that the Federal Government has at last got hold of the key to the overthrow of the rebellion and slavery at once. They threaten to arm their slaves! They dare not do it, and never will.
Mr. Brown referred, in closing, to the new edition of his book, "The Black Man."
[We were gratified to find that many copies of this excellent and very timely book were called for by persons present.]
MRS. J. R. VAN BENTHUYSEN, of Middleboro', desiring to say a few words, was introduced, and spoke in a rapid and fluent manner somewhat as follows:- I am a native of Middleboro' in this State. In 1846, I went South with Hon. John A. Shaw of Bridgewater as a teacher in New Orleans, Mr. S. having been appointed Superintendent of Schools there. In descending the Mississippi, I met a family named Van Benthuysen. They were very [attentive, the ladies communicative, the gentlemen polite, (I afterwards married one of them.) They made many inquiries of me, as an unsophisticated "down-east" girl, who might be supposed to know something of New England politics, and the feelings of New England people towards the South. I was a Democrat, daughter of a Democrat, and a full believer in Jeffersonian doctrines-not in favor of slavery, but believing it would be a work of time to remove it, and, meantime, the least agitation of the question the best Mr. Van B., the head of the family, was then full of the project to start a newspaper in Mississippi to advocate Southern rights generally, and slaveholders' rights very particularly; and was expecting his chief support to come from Joe. and Jeff. Davis (brothers,) to whom he was related, and upon whose plantation just below Vicksburg the Van B. family lived. They invited me to change my plans, and remain with them. But I pursued my way to New Orleans, and engaged in my teacher's duties there. At the end of the year, I was again invited by Mrs. Van B. to her house, and I went. Mr. Van B. had then been publishing his paper, the "Jeffersonian," about a year. It had advocated extreme Southern doctrine, and was feeling the way to Secession and Southern independence. The Davises (Joe and Jeff.) contributed four thousand dollars to its support. But in two years it failed for want of support, and stopped; and, soon after, its editor died. In 1848, I married his oldest son, and went to live on the Davis plantation at Hurricane Bend, so called from a terrible tornado which had swept over that region, changing the course of the river. At Hurricane Plantation the plots for the new confederacy were carried on vigorously, and I was sometimes present where I could not fail to overhear something of the conversation between the Davises and their frequent visitors. I shall never forget a definition which I once heard Jeff. Davis give of an Abolitionist. Said he-" Whoever does not believe in slavery as a just and beneficent institution, a necessary element in a well-regulated social system, an educating and civilizing power,-second only, in these respects, to the Christian religion itself,-is an Abolitionist." This startled me; I abhorred such doctrine as that. They got tired of continually toting their slave-messengers forward and back with their post-office matter. So, at the call of these plotters, a post-office was established at Hurricane Bend, called Hurricane Post-office,-all paid for by good easy Uncle Sam, as usual, -and this office was the medium through which these conspirators communicated with the rest of the country. Their plan was to develop everywhere, to the utmost extent, the resources of the South, to raise themselves everything needed in their own region, and thus make the South entirely independent of the North. In regard to food and clothing, they had no doubt of being able to effect this; but they were troubled greatly on the medicine question! What to do for medicine, they couldn't tell, until the hydropathic system came into vogue, and they went in to that enthusiastically, believing that the Yankees could'nt blockade the water out. So they went to taking and giving cold water and hot water, &c., and felt convinced they could do without medicine. They talked splendidly about centralization of power, and the necessity of a strong government. They got it, I think, not long after, under the administration of Gen. Butler. In 1850 (?) the separation of the slaveholding States was fully determined upon, and believed to be a sure thing, -only a question of time. Those who think that Abraham Lincoln's election caused Secession had better forever abandon that nonsense and delusion. About this time, the fortification of Ship Island, as a protection to New Orleans, was determined upon,-ostensibly against England, in that war with England which the slaveholders always had ready to trot out upon the course when needed,-but in reality against the Yankees; and Jefferson Davis, being at that time Secretary of War under that splendid man, Frank Pierce, obtained of Congress all needful appropriations for the purpose. In the spring of 1858,1 went to live in the mountains of Tennessee, not sorry to leave the society of the secessionists, and they not sorry to have me go, for I had no sympathy in their theories and plans. There I passed some years, in the greatest retirement, my husband being with me during the summers, but absent during the greater part of the remainder of the year. After the secession broke out, I found myself watched. I was occasionally visited and catechised. Generally I could talk a great while with them, and say nothing; but sometimes I couldn't wholly restrain myself, and one day was menacingly informed I "couldn't pass muster." Just what that meant I didn't know; but others informed me they regarded me as "no better than a Lincoln spy"-that was intelligible enough. The South was no place for me, and I left. Henceforth my work is here, at the North, and I mean to work for freedom. I have a little boy, five years old, to whom I must be father and mother both, whom I mean to bring up as a lover of liberty, an uncompromising hater of slavery. If any one here would like my help to talk to the "Copperheads" in their town, and will let me know, I shall be glad to respond to their summons.
The President announced that the Finance Committee would now proceed to their duties.
Edwin Thompson being called for, came forward. He said it was difficult to speak in favor of self-evident truths. And it was self-evident that emancipation of slaves would benefit the community in which it took place. Moreover, wherever the experiment has been tried, the facts have accorded with this self-evident truth.
After a brief but lively speech, full of amusement, he excused himself from saying more.
Hon. Henry Wilson was now loudly called for, and came forward amidst much applause. He made a very able speech, earnestly appealing to all anti-slavery people to continue firm, active, and courageous, saying that in his opinion they were about to pass through a season of severe trial, and urging them to stand firm to their principles. He said slavery was by no means killed, and in its continued life lay our greatest peril; if it was not wholly swept from our soil, the consequences would prove fatal to our future.
[For a full report of Senator Wilson's speech, see succeeding columns.]
The Hutchinsons then sung a song-" Then haste on the Battle."
Mr. Garrison requested that that early soldier of Freedom, Theodore D. Weld, would speak a word to the audience. On taking the platform, Mr. Weld was warmly applauded.
Mr. WELD said-I do not know any one thing which even we abolitionists lack so much as a true sympathy with the black man. The reason why it is necessary to hold anti-slavery meetings, is because we do not feel oar intimate relationship to all human beings. We should be in perfect sympathy with God and the creatures he has made. Just at this moment, I don't know anything more practical, more important, than the knowledge of what the black man is; to have a profounder sympathy with what man is, and to ally ourselves more perfectly with humanity. The best literature for us for the present is Phillips's, Lecture
<c05>
on Toussaint L'Ouverture, and this took by Wm. Wells. Brown, entitled the " Black Man."
We must grapple this rebellion, and thrust it down. This is the duty of the hour. We must destroy the rebellion. Thus only can we do our part to overthrow all oppression, all aristocracy, all caste. We are not fighting for ourselves or for the slave, merely or mainly. The battle of the human race, of liberty for all peoples, is now waging.
We must not mistake this matter. There are many tyrants to fall. We want tyranny to be destroyed.
Mrs. ANGELINA GRIMER WELD was then earnestly called for. She said-Only those who go down into the heart of slavery can know what its horrors are. When I began to oppose slavery, I thought its abolition would be a much longer process. But the South has helped us. She has gone forward to expedite the work. She has not been willing to await the slow working of principles, the method of abolition adopted by the North, but in her rebellion had laid the axe at the root of slavery's tree.
This, my friends, is a cause worth dying for. I have rejoiced in the length of this war. The defeats of the North have been the salvation of the nation. Not that I like war, but I know the land needs its scourgings, and in no other way can the demon of slavery, which has become to the South its God and its religion, be cast out.
THOMAS SIMS, the fugitive slave, last from Vicksburg, was then introduced to the audience. He said that he came not to speak, but to enjoy this festival. He had been drafted as a soldier, but was exempted from the first draft by his age. He thought he owed not much allegiance to the government which had sent him back to slavery, and which now refuses to protect colored soldiers. He thought the door of promotion should be open to colored soldiers. [Aug. 3d, we received the President's proclamation of protection to colored soldiers.]
The Hutchinsons next sung "The Battle-cry of Freedom."
WM. W. BROWN thought a day like this ought not to pass without honorable and grateful mention of Colonel Robert G. Shaw, who has fallen fighting bravely at the head of black soldiers, in the terrible advance upon Fort Wagner. Col. Shaw said to Mr. Brown, (in answer to questions respecting the treatment of colored soldiers,) that all who went with him would receive the treatment due to men and soldiers; and he would ask only that they would follow him into danger. The heroic death of Col. Shaw has made good his promises. He had entirely and most nobly identified himself with his command. Peace to his brave soul, and eternal honor to his memory!
The entire audience responded with deep sympathy to Mr. Brown's remarks.
A gentleman in the audience inquiring of Mr. Wilson the effect of the Petition now circulating for entire Abolition,
Mr. WILSON said he wished every man, woman and child would petition the Government against slavery, and for cleaning it thoroughly out of the country. But a more important thing is-every man in this country should ask for the THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT’S PROCLAMATION. If this were thoroughly enforced, slavery would soon fall in the Border States, and we should have Peace, Safety, and Union. The loyal leagues in Baltimore have already declared for emancipation in Maryland. The people of Missouri have strongly begun the work of emancipation, though not in what I think the best way. Delaware is on the verge of emancipation.
Mr. Wilson answered a question about the Supreme Court, by saying that four, and perhaps five, of the Judges were right as to the constitutionality of the Proclamation; but added, if the people are right and resolute, there will be nothing to fear from the Supreme Court.
Mr. GARRISON said-The way to sustain the Proclamation is to ask the President to abolish all slavery. The greater includes the less.
Mr. G. then read a sentiment sent to this meeting by a man of 86, a veteran friend in Vermont, Jesse Stedman.
The Hutchinsons then sang the Contraband song, "Freedom Coming."
The audience gave a unanimous and most hearty vote of thanks to our friends Asa B. Hutchinson and family, for the help and pleasure afforded to the meeting, and then 
Adjourned.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, Secretary.
SAMUEL MAY, JR Secretary.
*She was introduced as a native of South Carolina, daughter of the late Judge Grimke, of Charleston.
THE FIRST OF AUGUST AT ABINGTON. The commemoration of the anniversary of West India Emancipation never fails to bring together at the beautiful Island Grove in Abington, a large assemblage of the earliest, most reliable and intelligent friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, who, through the long and desperate struggle of years with popular prejudice and all-abounding pro-slavery hostility, have kept their course steadily onward and upward. Not less than two thousand people were present on Saturday. The proceedings were, as usual, of a very interesting character. The songs of our Hutchinson friends (Asa B. and family) added much to the inspiration of the occasion. The absence of Mr. Phillips (bodily debility, in this instance, being the cause) always leaves a large vacancy to be filled; but, happily, the presence and speeches of Rev. Dr. Massie, of England, and Hon. Henry Wilson, helped largely to mitigate the general disappointment. A good deal of zest was added to the proceedings by a very racy and telling speech made by Mrs. Van Benthuysen, a native of Middleboro' in this State, but a relative of Jefferson Davis by marriage. It was an instructive revelation of the plottings of that arch traitor and his accomplices to dismember the republic, for many years past. Especially gratifying was it to many present to see and hear those early and beloved coadjutors, Theodore D. and Angelina Grimke Weld.
Dr. Massie is one of the earliest and most untiring of English Abolitionists, and has long evinced a most friendly interest in the welfare and prosperity of this country. He is very highly esteemed for his moral worth, his amiable character, and his unbounded benevolence. Lately Secretary of the Board of British Missions, he has been wisely delegated to bring to this country, in behalf of four thousand of the evangelical ministers of England, a message of sympathy with the cause of the United States, and also to present the views of English Christians on the subject of the American war, as embodied in an address very happily conceived and expressed. This address, in connection with a similar one signed by seven hundred and fifty of the Protestant ministers of France, Dr. Massie laid before a public meeting at Park St. Church, in this city, on Sunday evening last-accompanying it with a very lucid and eloquent exposition of its origin and object. He assured the, audience, with emphasis, that THE PEOPLE of Great Britain are on the side of the American Government, and will continue to be so. He deplored a prospective war between the two countries as likely to bring disasters upon themselves, and an awful curse upon the world.
At the conclusion of Rev. Dr. Massie's remarks, there was a discussion as to the best method of presenting a suitable reply on behalf of the Christians of Boston, the speakers being Rev. Dr. Kirke, Rev. T. N. Haskell, Rev. Professor Seeley of Amherst College, and Henry Hoyt, Esq. It was voted to appoint a committee of nine to prepare such a reply. The remarks of several of the speakers during the evening, notwithstanding the sanctity of the place, drew out marked applause. Henry Hill, Esq., presided, and the introductory religious services were performed by Rev. John O. Means of Roxbury. The committee referred to was to be appointed by the Chairman, and was to represent the various religious denominations of the city.
<c06>
SPEECH OF HON. HENRY WILSON,
At the Celebration of West India Emancipation, <illegible> Abington, August 1st, 1863.
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, For come here, to-day, to commemorate one of the greatest  events in the annals, of liberty-the emancipating by England of eight hundred thousand bondmen is her colonial possessions in America. I came not here on this anniversary of the noblest achievement that sparkles on the brow of England to speak, but to listen rather, to voices whose clear accents are ringing <illegible> the ear of the nation the imperative words of inspiration-"Undo the heavy burdens, let the oppressed a free." (Applause.) I came here to-day, as I have been accustomed, for more than a quarter of a century, to come to your meetings, Sir, not to give utterance to my own sentiments and opinions, but to <illegible> your unfaltering fidelity to the slave, your <illegible> devotion to a hated and proscribed race; to have you, Sir, and the friends who cluster around you, <illegible> the cause of the hopeless bondmen in Christian and Republican America. (Applause.) I have <illegible> ways, Sir, concurred with you in opinion, nor in modes of practical action, but my heart has ever <illegible> responsive to your appeals for a race bending <illegible> oppressive laws, or the hardly less crushing force <illegible> unreasoning prejudice. Yes, Sir, differing as we  <illegible> agreed, I am sure, in our abhorrence of slavery, and in our intense, vehement and passionate love of equal and impartial liberty. (Applause.) In the year <illegible>in the capital of the Republic, with <illegible> and slave pens before my eyes, and the <illegible>words of slave masters ringing in my ears, I <illegible> that whatever of influence I might possess in <illegible> should be given against the dark spirit and <illegible> powers of slavery in America. Standing here <illegible> in the presence of passing events, I am cheered by the proud consciousness that no thought, word <illegible> of mine has given vitality to that system of <illegible> bondage, which, in every fibre of its being, is <illegible> to republican institutions, to the existence of the <illegible> public of the United States among the nations. <Applause.>
There may perhaps, Sir, be those among us, <illegible> in view of the dubious attitude of England towards our country, now struggling for existence against the Slaveholders' Rebellion, may not applaud this <illegible> commemoration of the anniversary of West India Emancipation. I am not one of these. In this great crises of our country, when patriotism demands disinterested actions, heroic deeds, and far-seeing statesmanship would gladly turn, for inspiration and instructions, <illegible> all nations and to all the ages. On the return of  the anniversary, I remembered that it was not the Commercial Interest of England, not her Established Church, not her Nobility, not her, Throne, the achieved the sublime deed of West India <w> tion. (Applsue.)Emancipation. (Applause.) I remembered, what Dr. <illegible> has told you, that this great deed of freedom was carried over Commercial Interest, over the Established Church, over Aristocracy, over the Throne, not by a majority of the British nation, but by the Christian men and women of England. (Applause.) That same minority of Christian men and women <illegible> achieved West India Emancipation, have pronounced for United America:; and we here this day, by the voice of Dr. Massie, and the message he bears <illegible> from four thousand ministers of the living God, have listened to their brave words of cheer. (Applause.) The corrupting influences of British commerce <illegible> cover the seas with piratical steamers; the British Established Church may turn from us in this hour, <illegible> Christian civilization is struggling against the aggressive barbarism of slavery; the British nobility my gleefully taunt us with the assumed failure of republican institutions; but the Anti-Slavery men of England are for us and with us; and Interests, and Churches, and Nobles, and Ministers must how to their decree. (Applause.)
Let every loyal American gratefully remember, that, in this troubled night of our national <illegible> the fast friends of America in England are her tried and true Anti-Slavery men and women., (Applause.) Surely then, loyal patriotism will sanction their commemoration of this great deed of freedom, achieved by those who are now faithful among the faithless to America and republican institutions.
I am accustomed, Sir, to take hopeful views of the future of my country. Not the shadow of a doubt of ultimate success has flitted across my brain since slavery raised the banners of treason. I believe in the vitality of republican institutions, in the exhaust less energies of a free people, in the progress of events, in the providence of Almighty God; and, therefore, amid disaster and gloom, I have had undoubting faith in the triumph of United America. (Applause.) Nor am I accustomed to complain of the active of the Government in the great work of humanity, justice and patriotism,-the utter extinguishments of slavery in the rebel States, which intelligent <illegible> with clear vision, sees is the heart, the soul, the brain of this foul and wicked rebellion.
My heart throbs with high hope and patriotic <illegible> as I review the wondrous progress of our country, during the past two years, in the destruction of an only enemy it has to fear, this hour, on the globe. I see that slavery has been forever abolished in the District of Columbia, its brutal Black Code annulled, and the oath of the black man received in its judicial <illegible> (Applause.) I see that slavery has been forever prohibited in the vast Territories of the United States, and abolished in West Virginia and <w> Missouri-adding two more free States to this sisterhood of free commonwealths. (Applause.) I see that all slaves escaping from rebels, and taking refuge within the lines of the army, and all slaves captured from rebels, "shall be forever free of their servitude, and not again held in slavery." (Applause.) I see that the President is authorized to secure the services of the slaves of rebels for military purposes, and that their mothers, wives and children, if held by rebels, are made free forever. I see that the negro, who had "no rights white men were bound to respect," is recognized by the Government as a citizen of the United States, and goes to foreign lands, bearing the passport of citizenship, signed by the Secretary of State. (Applause.) I see that colored men are wearing the uniform of the army, following the starry flag of the Republic, and pouring out their blood to preserve the menaced <illegible> of the nation. (Applause.) I see, too, that the president of the United States, in the exercise of the <illegible> powers of the government, has proclaimed that <illegible> than three millions of slaves in the rebel States <illegible> "thenceforward and forever FREE;" and that this <illegible> of freedom is to be "observed, obeyed and enforced " by army and navy,-by all the power of the nation. (Applause.) I accept, hail and welcome that deeds of humanity, justice and freedom, and <illegible> God that I have been permitted to have some human part in this work of freeing my country from this <illegible> wicked and treasonable barbarism.
But I confess to you, Sir, that, while I gratefully and proudly recur to these grand achievements, <illegible> by humanity and justice, religion and <illegible>, I am oppressed with anxiety for the future say to you, Sir , to these friends--who are proud to follow your lead in the cause of the bondman-I say <illegible> this assemblage of Massachusetts men, that the <illegible> of emancipation in the rebel States, proclaimed by the President, in the exercise of war powers, as the <illegible> policy, the irrepealable law of the nation, to be "observed, obeyed and enforced" by the authority of the nation, is this day in peril. (Hear, hear!) Yes, Sir, I repeat it,-and if I had the power, I would utter it in every loyal ear in America,-that this immortal decree of emancipation, upon which the President <illegible>voked the blessing of Heaven and the generous judgement of mankind, is this day and this hour in <illegible> The enforcement of this decree, to which the Government is irrevocably pledged to the proscribed <illegible> men of the rebel States, whose security is involved <illegible> the issue--to three million three hundred thousand slaves-to the nations of Christendom- now <illegible>, hardly less by the malignant hate of its <illegible>.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
cable, relentless, inexorable foes, than by the cowardly fears and timid counsels of its reluctant friends. (Hear, hear.)
When the President proclaimed, on the 22d of September, that, on the 1st of January, 1863,“ all persons held as slaves” in the rebel States should be “then, thence forward and forever free”-“that the Government of the United States would “recognized and maintain the freedom of such persons”- rebel chiefs avowed their readiness to “hoist the black flag, and proclaim a war of extermination to secure its withdrawal or non-execution;” but these deadliest foes of the republic now feel the fatal effects of this decree, and erelong, they will be urgently being for its “withdrawal or non-execution.” Rebel sympathizers, conditional Union men, foreign enemies, and doubting Thomas’s, saw in this beneficent measure of justice and patriotism the dire calamities of the war of races, fire and rapine. To the slave, the proclamation was not an invitation to the feast of blood and rapine, but to prayer, faith and hope. Gen. Hamilton, Judge Holt, and the noblest and truest men of the South, now tell us that the enforcement of the of emancipation us that the enforcement of the rebel States, by which the power of rebel masters will be broken, will along give permanent repose to the country, and security to loyal men. (Applause.) In the face of the nations, this immortal proclamation of freedom rescued the cause of our country from the seeming fiery and bloody struggle for power on the one hand, and independence on the other, and elevated it to the lofty height of a gigantic contest between Freedom and Slavery, Christian Civilization and brutal Barbarism. (Applause.)
The other day, I called on the President, in company with Mr. John M. Forbes, one of the most practical, sagacious, far -seeing business men of Massachusetts, who has just passed for months in England. Mr. Forbes said to the President, he “was fully convinced that this emancipation proclamation had prevented the recognition of the Confederate States by England, and preserved peace between the two countries.” (Hear, hear.) Mr. Lincoln promptly replied that he be “had no doubt of it.” (Applause.)
The Government stands pledged to more than three millions of slaves, that hunger and thirst for the priceless boon of promised freedom; to the unconditional loyalists, who are crushed beneath the hoof of the rebel Slave Power; to the champions of the United States in other lands, who are with holding their Governments from engaging in this bloody contest to dismember our country, and blot United America from the map of nations, to enforce the Proclamation of Emancipation in the rebel States. This Proclamation is a Decree of Freedom made in the face of earth and heaven. The peace and security, the unity and renown of the country demand its enforcement wherever the authority of the nation shall extend, as the irrevocable law of the irrevocable law of the Republic. It the President, if the Cabinet, if the statesmen of the administration shall prove false and recreant to this plighted faith of the nation, they will deserve the scorn of earth and the judgments of heaven. (Applause.)
I have, Sir, undoubting faith in the intentions and the purposes of the President of the United States. Dr. Massie told you to-day, that he “believed President, Lincoln desired the freedom of every slave in America.” I belive President Lincoln is a sincere and true anti-slavery man, as sincere and as true as any man that treads the soil of the republic. (Hear, hear.) Expressing to the President, the other day, my apprehensions in regard to the efforts making to thwart and defeat the enforcement of the Emancipation proclamation, he said to me that he “should never withdraw that proclamation.” (Enthusiastic applause.) I believe, Sir, that the President firmly intends to “observe, obey and enforce” the proclamation -to withdraw, modify or qualify it, never! (Applause.) But I see clearly, as the practical issues involved in it present themselves for solution, that its deadliest foes will resort to every device to thwart and baffle it; that conditional loyalty will wield every seductive influence to seduce, or silence, or demoralize the country. I see clearly, too, Sir, that the counsels of the nation, that should now be as inflexible as destiny, will waver and falter, unless assured and steadied by the iron resolution of that intelligent patriotism which sees, with clear and undazzled vision, that slavery now is, and ever must be, the mortal and deadliest foe to United America and her republican institutions. Let the true and the tried men of America, whose bosoms glow with the sacred fires of that patriotism which can never forget, and will never forgive, the bloody crimes of slavery against the life of the nation and its heroic defenders, demand, inexorably demand, the unconditional enforcement of the proclamation of emancipation in the States in rebellion.
Slavery, to extend its dominion, to enlarge its sway, raised the banners of treason, bathed the fields of America with blood, murdered and maimed her noblest young men, and carried into her homes the sumless agonies of civil war. God Almighty has given the opportunity-the President has uttered the decree- then let this bruised and bleeding people take God’s opportunity, enforce the President’s decree, and consign slavery in rebellion to the grave that knows no resurrection. (Applause.)
Sir, slavery has distinctly pronounced against the country, its faith, its creed, its institution for the culture and elevation of the toiling masses, its aspirations and its hopes. Its manifold crimes against the country, its institutions, and its defenders, glare upon us which sever way we turn. The time has gone by forever when any American, who is loyal to his country, who is imbued with the spirit of its institutions, who accepts its sublime creed as a living faith, who is inspired by its hopes of the future, can favour the longer existence of slavery in America. (Hear, hear.) He cannot be true to his country, who, in the lights of to-day, would perpetuate slavery in the rebel States. The loyal American, filled with divine charity, may forgive Davis and his compeers in treason; for they are but the instruments of slavery. He may forgive Price and Vallandigham, Seymour and Wood; for they are but sympathetic friends of slavery. He may forgive even the brutal friends of slavery. He may forgive even the brutal friends whose hands were reddened, the other day, in the city of New York, with the blood of inoffensive black men. But he can forgive slavery never, never! (Applause.)
The practical issues before the nation are the suppression of the rebellion by the hand of war, the extinguishments of its cause by the enforcement of the emancipation proclamation. These are the vital issues, and they are to meet the sternest resistance-to pass through trials that will test the fidelity and endurance of their supporters, as their fidelity and endurance were never tested before. (Hear, hear.) I tell you, Sir, and the men who believe in the emancipation proclamation, who mean to make it a practical reality, the irrepealable law of the nation, that they must prepare for a mighty conflict-a conflict that will stir the country to its profoundest depths. this Beside this transcendent question of the enforcement of the proclamation in the rebel States, all other questions, growing out of the existence of slavery, sink into utter insignificance; for its success carried with it everything else-ultimate emancipation in Delaware and Maryland, Kentucky and Tennessee, Fugitive Slave Law and all (Applause.) Let, then, the anti-slavery men of united America, by throught, word and deed, support the President in suppressing the rebellion, and in enforcing the proclamation. Let them raise no immaterial issues, no trifling questions to distract or divide their counsels or to impede their advance to the achievement of the crowning vicitory that shall bring along with it unity to a now dismembered country, peace to a wounded and bleeding nation, justice to a wronged race, and a future radiant with the elevating and refining inspirations of equal and impartial freedom. (Applause.)
A Williams & Co., 100 Washington street, Boston, have for sale the August number of Peterson’s Ladies; National Magazine, with numerous embellishments on steel and wood, fashion plates, &c. &c. Price $2.00 per annum
<c02>
THE BOSTON JOURNAL AND THE NEW BOOK.
FRIEND GARRISON:-When reading a noble notice from the Boston Traveller, of the volume of Phillips’s, works Mr. Red path is publishing, I was reminded, by way of contract, of one I saw of the same book in the Boston Daily Journal of this week,. Thursday. This Journal ought to be better understood than it is, by not a few intelligent men, and sincere Republicans even. It leaves out a great deal it should insert, and puts in some things that should be left out forever. I have seen in it some of the meanest insinuations and unfounded cant that I ever read anywhere. Now and then, it defiantly stable the cause that sustains it, and so cruelly that no copperhead refuses to buy it. Remember how this “whirling Boston Journal,” as the Liberator aptly styled it, befriended McClellan, and hinted adversely to Fremont; how doubtful of stringent measures it has often been, and apologetic toward inefficiency in our great struggle. Just about the time of the commencement of the label unutterably infamous and wicked riots in New York, I read an editorial line in the Journal, endorsing the foolish idea that the presentation of the case of the negro, to the extent the Y. Tribune and some other papers did, was one cause of the hatred to the negro. But to the point now before us. The notice, surely rather brief, admitted Mr. Phillips possessed natural eloquence, but charged him, as nearly as I can recollect—-I have not the paper before me—-substantially with these three things:
1. Malignancy. 2. Misrepresentation of men and, I motives. 3. Abuse of his friends. I think that it carried the idea that no one looked to him to get a truthful account of any matter.
Now, to my mind, it is a sufficient answer to all this to say, that should any one approach the Gospel narratives with the spirit the Journal manifestly has when it looks on the speeches, &c. of Mr. Phillips, he might charge the same things on the Lord Jesus Christ. The Journal does not know what it is to give one’s self ENTIRELY TO THE TRUTH; and until it deeply repents, is soundly converted, and thoroughly regenerated, it will not be prepared to speak of a man who does L. H.
Orange, Aug. 1st, 1863.

LETTER OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
The following letter was written with reference to a convention recently held at Poughkeepsie to promote colored enlistments:-
BOSTON, July 13, 1863.
DEAR SIR: It will not be in my power to take part in the proposed meeting at Poughkeepsie. But I am glad that it has been called, and I trust that it will be successful.
To me it has been clear from the beginning that the colored men would be needed in this war. I never for a moment doubted that they would render good service. And thus far the evidence in their favor is triumphant. Nobody will now question their bravery or their capacity for discipline. All that can be said against them is that they are not white.
But they have a special interest in the suppression of this Rebellion. The enemies of the Union are the enemies of their race. Therefore, in defending the Union, they defend themselves, even more than other citizens. And in saving the Union, they save themselves.
I doubt if in times past our country could have justly expected from colored men any patriotic service. Such service is the return for protection. But now that protection has begun, the service should begin also. Nor should relative rights and duties be weighed with nicety. It is enough that our country, aroused at last to a sense of justice, seeks to enroll colored men among its defenders.
If my counsels could reach such persons, I would say: Enlist at once. Now is the day and now is the hour. Help to overcome your cruel enemies now battling against your country, and in this way you will surely overcome those other enemies hardly less cruel, here at home, who will still seek to degrade you. This is not the time to hesitate or to haggle. Do I your duty to our country, and you will set an example of generous self-sacrifice which will conquer prejudice and open all hearts.
Accept my thanks for the invitation with which you have honored me, and believe me, dear Sir,
Very faithfully, yours,
CHARLES SUMNER.
EDWARD GILBERT, ESQ.

AN APPEAL
To the Editor of the Liberator.- After an earnest effort of years to establish “THE ANGLO-AFRICAN“-a newspaper devoted specially to the best interests of the colored people—-we find ourselves suddenly deprived of the support which many of them had given us, by reason of their flight from outrage and massacre. Our city circulation, which was our main dependence, has been broken up. In this emergency, we are compelled to appeal to the friends of such an enterprise, and of the wronged and outraged black man, to come forward and help us, either by subscribing for the paper, which is two dollars a year, or by donating such amounts as their generosity may direct.
ROBERT HAMILTON, Publisher,
50 Beckman street, New York.
THE BARBARISM OF SLAVERY. The Young Men’s, Republican Union of New York have published a new edition of Charles Sumner’s Speech in the U. S. Senate. June 4, 1860, entitled “The Barbarism of Slavery,” with a dedication by Mr. Sumner to the Young Men of the United States. It is a fitting time for the reproduction of this exposure of the true character of Slavery, for with the experiment of the last three years, the facts and arguments it presents will tell with increased force upon the public mind. The pamphlet can be obtained of A. Williams & Co., Boston.

PROPOSITION TO RAISE FIFTY THOUSAND COLORED SOLDIERS.
The following document is in circulation in this vicinity:
The undersigned, a Committee appointed by Gov. Andrew to aid in the enlistment of colored troops, and since enlarged by his Excellency’s authority, are assured that in order to raise Fifty Thousand acclimated soldiers, it is necessary to collect by private subscription the sum of Fifty Thousand Dollars, and that this sum with the facilities furnished by Government will accomplish the object.
The money to be used for extraordinary expenses by Major Stearns, the general Recruiting Agent of the Government, whose past success in this work ensures the accomplishment of his pledge to that effect.
It seems to us that the prompt enlistment of colored men is all important to the Union cause.
We therefore ask the loyal citizens of New England to furnish the sum named, and we firmly believe that for each dollar subscribed, a new soldier will be enrolled under the flag.
Boston, Aug. 4, 1863.
J. M. Forbes, Thomas Russell,
A. A. Lawrence, .E. S. Philbrick.
R. P. Hallowell, Oliver Ellsworth,
W. I. Bowditch, R. W. Hooper,
LeBaron Russell, J. H. Stephenson,
C. G. Loring, B. H. Silsbee,
C. W. Slack, Gtnery. Twichell,
J. H. Walcott, J. W. Brooks,
S. G. Ward, S. Cabot, Jr.,
J. M. Barnard, John Lowell,
W. F. Weld, Jas. T. Fields,
J. Wiley Edmunds,	Henry Lee, Jr.,
W. Endicott, Jr., George S. Hale,
Francis L. Lee, Wm. Dwight,
Oakes Ames, R. P. Waters,
James L. Little, Avery Plummer, Jr.,
Marshall S. Shudder, Alex. H. Rice.
George Higgioaon,
The clergy throughout the Commonwealth, by giving public notice on Thanksgiving Day of the great work already commenced, and most successfully carried on, will confer a favor not only on the Committee, but greatly assist in sustaining our armies, and thus lead many to forward to the Treasurer of this Association such assistance as will materially mid in the completion of the noble object.
<c03>
THE ATTACK UPON FORT WAGNER.
Edward L. Pierce, Esq., in a very interesting letter describing this perilous attack, and the gallant behaviour of the Massachusetts 54th, (colored.) says:-
Of the privates and non-commissioner officers, I send you a list of 144 who are now in the Beaufort hospitals. A few others died on the boats, or since their arrival here. There may be others at the Hilton Head hospital, and others are doubtless on Morris Island; but I have no names or statistics relative to them. Those in Beaufort are well attended to, just as well as the white soldiers, the attentions of the surgeons and nurses being supplemented by those of the colored people here, who have shown a great interest in them. The men of the regiment are very patient, and where their condition at all permits them, are cheerful. They expressed their readiness to meet the enemy again, and they keep asking if Wagner is yet taken. Could any one from the North see these brave fellows as they lie here, his prejudice against them, if he had any, would all pass away. They grieve greatly at the loss of Col. Shaw, who seems to have acquired a strong hold on their affections.
They are attached to their other officers, and admire Gen. Strong, whose courage was so conspicuous to all. I asked Gen. Strong if he had any testimony in relation to the regiment to be communicated to you. These are his precise words, and I give them to you as I noted them at the time:
“The 54th did well, and nobly, only the fall of Col. Shaw prevented them from entering the fort. They moved up as gallantly as any troops could, and with their enthusiasm they deserved a better fate.” The regiment could not have been under a better officer than Gen. Strong. He is one of the bravest and most genuine men. His soldiers loved him like a brother, and go where you would through the camps, you would hear them speak of him with enthusiasm and affection. His wound is severe, and there are some apprehensions as to his being able to recover from it. Since I found him at the hospital tent on Morris Island, about 91/2 o’clock on Saturday, I have been all the time attending to him or the officers of the 54th, both on the boats and here. Nobler spirits it has never been my fortune to be with. Gen. Strong, as he lay on the stretcher in the tent, was grieving all the while for the poor fellows who lay uncared for on the battlefield, and the officers of the 54th have had nothing to say of their own misfortunes, but have mourned constantly for the hero who led them to the charge from I which he did not return. I remember well the beautiful day when the flags were presented at Reedville, and you told the regiment that your reputation was to be identified with its fame. It was a day of festivity and cheer. I walk now in these hospitals, and see, mutilated forms with every variety of wound, and it seems all a dream. But well has the regiment sustained the hope which you indulged, and justified the identity of fame which you trusted to it.
I ought to add in relation to the fight on James Island, on July 15th, in which the regiment lost fifty men, driving back the rebels and saving, as it is stated, three companies of the 10th Conn., that Gen. Terry, who was in command on that Island, said to Adjutant James—
“Tell your Colonel that I am exceedingly pleased with the conduct of your regiment. They have done all they could do.”
The 24th Mass, was not, as far as I can learn, engaged in the fight of Saturday evening. They were, however, present. Brig. Gen. Stevenson marched at the head of his brigade, where I saw him as it passed along the beach to Fort Wagner.
THE 54th MASSACHUSETTS, by the admission of all who witnessed their heroic conduct at the storming of Fort Wagner, have added one more argument to sustain the policy of raising negro regiments, and furnished one more practical on tradiction to the slanders of the enemies of the policy. We trust, for the honor of human nature, that there is not a person in the loyal States,—if we except the brutes, ruffians and assassins of the New York mob,—who can read the accounts of the assault, without feeling his prejudices insensibly giving away before such examples of fortitude and daring, and without being impressed anew with the unfathomable baseness of the miscreants in New York City, who wreaked every outrage on the defenseless brethren of such soldiers, and who, recreants themselves to their country’s call, were furious at the idea that men whose skins were black should presume to be patriots and heroes.
The crimes perpetrated in New York against the negro were palliated by some disloyal journals on the ground that they were a natural reaction against the attempt of the Administration to raise the blacks above their natural level. It was highly presumptuous in the negro to wish to die for the nation, and therefore it was to be expected that whites should instantly proceed to burn black tenements and murder black citizens! We wonder if the white gentlemen of Five Points, Corlaers’ Hook and Mackerelville, even now consider the 54th Massachusetts as “up to their level.” Boston Transcript.
NEW YORK, July 30. The Tribune’s Morris Island correspondence says: “Our loss in the entire late assault on Fort Wagner, according to official report, is 1,517. The rebels claim to have buried 650 of them. This extraordinary proportion of killed could only have been reached by the indiscriminate slaughter of our wounded. One hundred and eight of our wounded are still at Charleston and Columbia. The officers and men of the 54th Massachusetts (colored) will not be given up to us, and unofficial reports say the negroes have been sold into slavery, and the officers treated with unmeasured abuse. In fact, all our wounded at Charleston have been treated most barbarously. Opportunities to amputate were eagerly seized on by rebel surgeons, and it was performed in cases of the slightest gunshot wounds.”
The rebel officers were excessively exasperated at being attacked by the Massachusetts Fifty-fourth. “We are gentlemen,” arid they; “and here you are sending against us your negroes to pollute our soil.” On being asked for the body of Col. Shaw, the reply was that “he had been buried along with his niggers.”
The Charleston Mercury says:-
The loss of the enemy is variously named; some placing the figures as high as 1,500 killed and wounded. They have probably 500600 killed. 231 of their wounded were in this city last night, including several negroes.
Of white prisoners we have taken six commissioned officers and ninety-four privates. Of blacks it is said we have over twenty, of whom several are severely wounded. A wounded negro is to be put into every ward of the white Yankees. The latter kicked at the base alliance, but the surgeons have plainly told them that if they put themselves on a par with the negroes as soldiers, the same relation must be maintained under all circumstances while they are in our hands. Public opinion will render the verdict, “Serve them right.”

A TRIBUTE TO THE LATE COL. SHAW.
BEAUFORT, S. C., July 27,1863.
To the colored soldiers and freedmen in this Department: It is fitting that you should pay a last tribute I of respect to the memory of the late Col. Robert I Gould Shaw, Colonel of the 54th regiment of Mass. Volunteers. He commanded the first regiment of colored soldiers from a free State ever mustered into the United States service.
He fell at the head of his regiment, while leading a storming party against the rebel stronghold. You should cherish in your inmost hearts the memory of one who did not hesitate to sacrifice all the attractions of a high social position, wealth, and home, and his own noble life, for the sake of humanity—-another martyr to your cause that death has added, still another hope for your race. The truths and principles for which he fought and died still live, and will be vindicated on the spot where he fell, by the ditch into which his mangled and bleeding body was thrown, on the soil of South Carolina. I trust that you will I honor yourselves and his glorious memory by appropriating the first proceeds of your labor as freemen towards erecting an enduring monument to the hero, soldier, martyr, Robert Gould Shaw.
R. SAXTON,
Brig. Gen. and Military Governor.

Protection of colored troops.
War Department, Adj’t General’s Office, Washington, July 21.
General Order, No. 233.-The following order of the President is published for the information and government of all concerned:-
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, July 30.-
It is the duty of every government to give protection to its citizens, of whatever class, color or condition, and especially to those who are duly organized as soldiers in the public service. The law of nations, and the usages and customs of war, as carried on by civilized powers, permit no distinction as to color in the treatment of prisoners of war as public enemies. To sell or enslave any captured person on account of his color, is a relapse into barbarism and a crime against the civilization of the age.
The government of the United States will give the same protection to all its soldiers, and if the enemy shall sell or enslave any one because of his color, the offence shall be punished by retaliation between the enemy’s prisoners in our possession. It is therefore ordered, that for every soldier of the United States, killed in violation of the laws of war, a rebel soldier shall be executed, and for every one enslaved by the enemy or told into slavery, a rebel soldier shall be placed at hard labor on the public works, and continued at each labor until the other shall be released and receive the treatment due to prisoners of war.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By order of the Secretary of War.
E. D. TOWNSEND, Asst. Adjt.-Gen.
<c04>
REBEL INHUMANITY.
The brief, disastrous career of “General Lee on Northern soil was marked by the most reckless inhumanity to his own unfortunate warriors. Even when flushed with high hopes of success, those who died from disease or skirmishes were buried, if at all, in rude holes scarcely large enough to hide the bodies; and his sick were left in Chambersburg without medical or other supplies, and that too, after he had robbed our druggists of all medicines, and destroyed our hospital goods. After his repulse at Gettysburg, he commenced his retreat without even trying to bury his dead, or minister to his thousands of wounded who could not be removed.
To his foe he left the lifeless forms of five thousand of his troops for sepulture, and full ten thousand of those most seriously wounded were allowed to lie on the gory field to writhe in agonies or die, unless the humanity of Strangers, whose homes they sought to desolate, should in mercy care for them. The lines of his retreat were strewed with exhausted men, some dying from wounds, some prostrated by over -exertion and disease, and they were left unpitied and unburied. Those who were but slightly wounded at Gettysburg were compelled to march with the wagons in which were placed such as were unable to walk. Not less than from eight to ten thousand were thus straggling in sullen, almost despairing efforts to reach the Potomac.
The wagons filled with wounded were driven rapidly to escape capture, and the entire line was hideous with the agonizing shrieks of the sufferers, whose shattered limbs were thrown from side to side by the uneven roads. Those who found relief in death were often thrown remorselessly into a field or fence-corner, and left to the humanity of enemies. From Hagerstown to Williamsport the same revolting scenes were witnessed after Lee’s final retreat across the Potomac. Nearly every house on his route, including many in Williamsport, was left filled with his wounded, without medical stores or food, and those who still survive are a charge upon the kindness of the loyal people to whom, according to the Richmond Enquirer, Lee was to minister with “fire and sword.”— Chambersburg Repository.
MORGAN’S BARBARITY. When the full history of the stupendous crimes committed by that bandit and murderer, John Morgan, is written, it will be a volume of barbarous deeds and fiendish outrages such as a bloody pirate of the olden time well might shudder at. A story comes to us well authenticated, of another murder done at his wicked instigation. After the capture of the 20th Kentucky, at Lebanon, they were compelled to march all the way to Springfield, on foot of course, and were compelled to make time with the well-mounted rebel cavalry. Many of the soldiers, from sheer exhaustion, gave out, and in every instance were treated in the most inhuman, unfeeling manner. One poor fellow, a sergeant in the regiment above named, not being well, gave out, and asked to be transported by some other means, as he could not proceed further. He was ordered forward, and told that if he did not go, death would be the consequence. He started, but a few steps further on, his strength entirely gave way, and he fainted, falling by the way side. Morgan deliberately ordered his brains knocked out, which was done quickly by one of his followers who had a clubbed musket. He was left lying where he had thus been brutally murdered, until some of his comrades, paroled at Springfield, were permitted to go back and bury him. They dug a mud grave, and deposited his dead body in it, the best that could be done for the poor unfortunate soldier, under the circumstances. We hope to hear no more prating of this inhuman wretch’s chivalry.-Louisville Journal 13th ult.
ANTAGONISM OF RACES. A while ago the faculty of Antioch College admitted a young woman of partial Indian descent to the privileges of the College. The young woman was possessed of an excellent moral character, and stood foremost as a scholar among other young ladies of the institution.
The students—-not the young ladies, but the young men—-very hastily deserted their college classes, and kicked up a row, on the ground that “a cussed nigger wench” was admitted. The faculty made no reply to their complaints, but promptly kicked them out into the cold, whereupon the Cincinnati Inquirer (copperhead) came out in a thundering article on the antagonism of races, justifying the students, and arguing “the right of society to protect itself against the introduction of disagreeable elements.”
After the “fuss“ had assumed portentous proportions, the faculty quietly came out in a card, announcing that the young woman was a woman of illustrious aboriginal blood, with an admixture of the white blood, probably of the democratic stripe, and that she should be protected in her rights, &c. On this the students came penitently back, apologized in public, gave written pledges of better behavior in future, begged pardon, and were permitted to return to their classes, taking the ground that, if the girl is of Indian blood, that, of course, puts a different complexion on her color—-or rather, puts a different color on her complexion—-in short, that the color, though just as dark, and the odor, though just as odorous as ever, has quite a distingue and aristocratic savor, it being well known that the leading democratic politicians of Virginia have always held that an admixture of squaw into a democratic white family rather improves the original stock, and is decidedly more fashionable than purer whites.-Grand Rapids Eagle.
NEGRES BOXED UP AS FREIGHT. The colored residents of this city, we learn, have been much excited during the past week, owing to threatened attacks upon them by the mob, and in consequence many have left the city. One or two collisions have occurred. A negro was attacked in Commerce street, on Saturday morning, and in the evening, another inoffensive man, who had been to a store to get some bread for his children, was attacked and severely beaten. Threats were made to throw him into the canal, and but for the interference of some parties he would have been roughly dealt with. Intimations have within a few days been made to various gentlemen that they must discharge their colored servants; or their places would be damaged or destroyed. In one or two instances, anonymous notes have been received. These actions have naturally created alarm among the colored people, who dread the enactment in our community of the horrid deeds perpetrated against their race in New York during last week.
Mr. John Williams, the well known colored barber formerly of this city, and recently on the North River steamer Francis Skiddy, it is stated, was among the victims of the rioters in New York last week. Two colored men in the employ of a large manufacturing house were boxed up, and shipped to the city as freight to escape violence Newark paper.
A. WHITE SUBSTITUTE FOR A BLACK CONSCRIPT. -Benjamin Johnston, a colored man, was drafted from the town of Scio, Allegany County. Mr. Johnston reported at the Provost Marshal’s office in this village, on Friday last, and offered an able-bodied white man as a substitute. He was examined and accepted-has been sworn into service, and is now in the barracks as the substitute for Mr. Johnston. It seems to us that if a black man may hire a white roan for a substitute, a white man ought to be allowed to hire a black man for a substitute. It is a poor rule that won’t work both ways. The present arrangement gives the “nigger” an advantage over the whites, since he may hire from any color or race. We present this case for the consideration and indignation of our Copperhead friends. It is another evidence of the “rank inequalities“ of the Conscript Law; and perfectly conclusive on the point, which has heretofore been doubted by some, that this is “a war for the nigger.”-Elmira paper.

THE EMANCIPATION QUESTION AT VICKSBURG.
The inevitable slavery question came up at Vicksburg, after the surrender. By the terms of the parole, officers were allowed to take away their “private property.“ Some of them churned that this included their “servants” or slaves. But the slaves did not take the same view of the case, and some of them had the audacity to enlist in the colored Union ranks, to the intense disgust and amazement of their late master. General Logan was appealed to for redress. He gave orders to enlist no more men while the Confederate officers remained in the place, but at the same time issued orders that no colored men should be carried away by the officers aforesaid. He afterwards removed all restraint upon the peripatetic “private property,” and allowed those who chose to remain within the Federal lines, whence they could not be removed. As soon as the rebel officers had left the city, the accessions of intelligent and ablebodied colored men to the Union ranks were frequent and valuable.
“INTERFERENCE FROM WASHINGTON.” Whoever was responsible for the neglect to attack Lee before he crossed the Potomac, or while one half of his army was on the Maryland side of the river, it is certain that this responsibility does not rest on the President or General-in-Chief, both of whom gave directions for as attack. The Washington correspondent of the New York Times say that, during the hesitancy to attack Lee, while the latter was escaping, General Meade telegraphed to General Halteck the divided opinion of his council of war. The following is the substance of General Hal leek’s reply:
“It is proverbial that councils of war never fight. Attack the enemy at once, and hold your council of war afterwards.”
Among the killed, during; the bombardment of Vicksburg, was a young lady named Miss Holly, regarded as the belle of Mississippi, whose bead was aken off by a shot.
<c05>
NEGRO SOLDIERS. The Raleigh Progress has the following article on the negro soldiers recently captured on Morris Island:-
“In the desperate fight on Morris Island on Friday, we captured two hundred prisoners, among them some negro soldiers. Now will the threat to hang negroes caught in arms be carried out, or will the power that made the threat back down as heretofore? If our own slaves, taken in arms against us, are to be treated as prisoners of war by the Confederate government. we had batter give up the contest at once, and so end the farce.”
ST. LOUIS, July 30. To prevent futher misapprehension regarding the scope of the act of Congress of March last, prohibiting officers and soldiers in the service of the United States returning fugitive slaves, Gen. Scholfield has issued an order declaring that it extends to all the troops of this Department, including the enrolled militia in active service.
COLORED CONSCRIPTS. The Secretary of War has sent the following despatch to the commander at Baltimore:-
“Major General Scheuck: Colored troops will be credited to the State the same as any other troops.
EDWIN M. STANTON,
Secretary of War.”
This seems to strike at the root of the Provost Marshal’s order that colored recruits are not to be deemed an equivalent for white conscripts.
WILDE’S AFRICAN BRIGADE.-The New York News asserts that Wilde’s African Brigade has been ordered from Newbern, N. C., to Morris Island. This brigade includes the Mass. 55th.
Adjutant-General Thomas is about to proceed to Memphis and New Orleans, to continue along the Mississippi the work of organizing negro regiments.
CINCINNATI, July 30. Morgan and several of his officers arrived at Columbus this afternoon, and were lodged in the penitentiary, where they will be confined according to the rules of that institution.
Jeff. Davis has issued a proclamation appointing August 21st as a day of humiliation and prayer.
RELEASE OF SLAVES IN BALTIMORE. Fifty-six slaves who had been sent to the negro jails in Baltimore by their owners for safe keeping, were set at liberty on Monday, by order of Gen. Schenck. Subsequently all the men enlisted in Col. Birney’s colored regiment.
Major Alonzo G. Draper, of Lynn, recently in command at Fort Albany, near Washington, has received a commission as Colonel of one of the new colored regiments of Gen. Wild’s brigade, now organizing in North Carolina.
Capt. Henry P. Bowditch, First Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry, was on Monday appointed by the Governor Major of the 54th regiment, and will leave immediately for Charleston, to assume its command.

AID FOR THE COLORED REGIMENTS.
The Misses Bradford gratefully acknowledge the following receipts in aid of the colored regiments of Alexandria:
Misses Newman $20, Miss M. A. Wales 15, Mrs. Harriet Blanchard 10, Miss Anna Lowell 3, Mrs. Edward Winslow 3, Miss Margaret Winslow 3, “Substitute” 3, Mrs. B. P. Winslow 2, Mrs. J. P. Blanchard 2, Miss Eliza Whitwell 2, Mr. Geo. Winslow 1, Miss Cora L. Clarke 1, Miss H. Hallett 27 filled bags, Miss Mary Jane Ellis 54 needle-cases, Mrs. Maj. Benj. Winslow 10 towels, Alice and Edith Brad. ford 16 pinballs furnished with pins, Mrs Chas. Lowell Thayer 2 prs. socks, Mrs. C. K. Whipple 1 pr socks. and 4 filled needle-cases, Miss Rosa Lee 26 cases of soap, “ Friend” 1 pr. socks, Mr. Young a packing-box which has been forwarded to Mrs. Jacobs, containing 232 towels, 156 hdkfs., 40 pairs of socks, 159 filled needle-cases, 27 filled bags, and 26 cakes of soap. REBECCA BRADFORD.
Roxbury, Aug. 3.

COLLECTIONS, BY AARON M. POWELL.
Valentine Hallack, Dover Plains, N. Y., $2 00
Joseph Carpenter, New Rochelle, N. Y., 0 50
Jonathan Carpenter, Rochelle 0 50
A friend, Rochelle 1 00
David Underbill, Rochelle 0 50
Hannah Underbill, Rochelle 0 50
N Tompkins, Mamaroneck, N. Y., 2 00
David Britt, Mamaroneck, 0 50
Gilbert Britt, Mamaroneck, 1 00
Henry Cornell, Mamaroneck, fi 50
P. P. Stewart, Troy, N. Y., 1 00
David Harvey, N. Y., 0 10
Sarah Harvey, N. Y., 0 07
Martha Harvey, N. Y., 010
A friend, N. Y., 050
A friend, N. Y., 0 50

THE “PECULIAR INSTITUTION” ILLUSTRATED.
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave’s back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running cross-wise and lengthwise—-the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. “This card photograph,” says the New York Independent,” should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye.” Price 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp. Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR, Boston, Mass.

MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
E. H. HEY WOOD will speak in Worcester, Sunday, Aug. 9, afternoon and evening.

THE GREAT BATTLES OF GETTYSBURG
ALSO,
“WHAT I SAW IN TENNESSEE,”
BY EDMUND KIRKE.
THE NEW YORK SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE of Tuesday, July 7, contains forty-eight columns of matter of unusual interest and variety, enough to make two good-sized volumes. Among these articles is the first of a series of Letters written expressly for THE TRIBUNE, by “EDMUND KIRKE,” author of “Among the Pines,” entitled, “What I saw in Tennessee.” Mr. “Kirke“ has recently made a tour in the Southwest, and proposes to give in these letters an inside view of the Rebellion, for which his familiarity with Southern people and their had , and his remarkable facility in describing them, eminently fit him. This first letter seta forth the character and portrays the enormities of the Rebellion with a vividness and power not hitherto reached by any other writer. A large portion of the sheet will be given up to a full account of the Battles of Gettysburg—-the most intelligent, complete, and best-written narrative of the terrible fighting of last week that has been published, and written by our own correspondents, who were eye-witnesses to what they relate. The account will be brought down to the latest moment. It will contain also a review of the forth-coming work of Mrs. Frances Butler Life as she saw it on a Southern Plantation—-embracing some long extracts from the book.

TERMS OF THE TRIBUNE.
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Single copy, - - - - - 3 cents.
Mail Subscribers, one year (311 issues) -- $8.

SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One copy, one year (104 issues) - $3.
Two Copies, one year, -- $5.
Five Copies, one year, - - - $12.

WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
One Copy, one year, (52 issues) - $2.
Three Copies, one year, $5.
Five Copies, one year, $8.
Ten Copies, one year, $15.
Any larger number, addressed to names of subscribers, $1.50 each. An extra copy will be sent to every club of ten.
Twenty Copies, to one address, one year, $25, and any larger number at same price. An extra copy will be sent to clubs of twenty. Any person who will send us a club of thirty or over shall receive The Semi-Weekly Tribune gratis.
Address THE TRIBUNE,
Tribune Buildings, New York.

English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, Sept. 2, 1863.
For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN,
July 31. West Newton, Mass.
<c06>
Second Edition, Published This Day, July 31.
SPEECHES, LECTURES,
AND
LETTERS,
BY
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
In one volume, Crown Octavo, 570 pages; printed on clear new type, and fine tinted linen paper; bound in rich maroon vellum cloth; with an illuminated title, and illustrated with an excellent portrait of Mr. Phillips, on steel, by H. Wright Smith. Gotten up at the Cambridge University Press, uniform with their admired edition of De Toequeville’s Democracy in America, it will challenge the most fastidious criticism as a specimen of book-manufacture.
Price Two Dollars.
This volume has been revised by Mr. Phillips himself, and contains his best Speeches with his last corrections. It is the only collection of his Speeches extant, and will be the only selection of them permitted by he author.
The statement, recently published, that this volume will be succeeded by a complete edition of Mr. Phillips’ works is essentially incorrect, as the project of such a publication has never yet been practically entertained. But, whether or not, it is certain that no such publication will be issued for some time; and that in the volume just published, and in it alone, can the greatest efforts of this distinguished Orator and Reformer be found.
CONTENTS
I.
The Murder of Lovejoy.
II.
Woman’s Rights.
III.
Public Opinion.
IV.
Surrender of Sims.
V.
Sims Anniversary.
VI.
Philosophy of the Abolition Movement
VII.
Removal of Judge Loring.
VIII.
The Boston Mob.
IX.
The Pilgrims.
X.
Letter to Judge Shaw and President Walker.
XI.
Idols.
XII.
Harper’s Ferry.
XIII.
Burial of John Brown.
XIV.
Lincoln’s Election.
XV.
Mobs and Education.
XVI.
Disunion.
XVII.
Progress.
XVIII.
Under the Flag.
XIX.
The War for the Union.
XX.
The Cabinet.
XXI.
Letter to the Tribune.
XXII.
Toussaint L’Ouverture.
XXIII.
A Metropolitan Police.
XXIV.
The State of the Country.
This book will be sold by the Publisher and his Travelling Agents only. A few more Agents wanted in Vermont and Maine. Massachusetts, (with the exception of Berkshire County,) New Hampshire, Connecticut (with the exception of Fairfield County,) and Rhode Island are already given out. Agents who will pledge themselves to canvas their respective districts thoroughly can have the exclusive Agencies for Counties.
The volume will be sent , postage paid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of Two Dollars.
Agents wanted in every county of the Loyal States. Liberal commissions allowed. Address for Circular,
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street,
BOSTON.

IN PREPARATION.
HOSPITAL SKETCHES:
BY
Miss L. M. Alcott.
The Sketches published in The Commonwealth, with large additions, and the author’s last corrections, will be issued, early in August, in a 12mo. volume of about 128 pages.
No republication of the new chapters will be permitted in any journal.
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street,
BOSTON. 49
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
A MEMORIAL—M. A. C.
BY JOHN G. WHITTER
O thicker, deeper, darker growing,
The solemn vista to the tomb
Must know henceforth another shadow,
And give another cypress room.
In love surpassing that of brothers,
Our foot prints track a common way.
One in our faith, and one our longing
To Make the world within our reach
Somewhat the better for our living,
And gladder for our human speech.
Thou heardst with me the far-off voices,
The old beguiling song of fame.
But life to thee was warm and present,
And love was better than a name.
To homely joys and loves and friendships
Thy genial nature fondly clung;
And so the shadow on thy dial
Ran back, and left thee always young.
And who could blame the generous weakness
Which, only to thyself unjust,
So overprized the worth of others,
And dwarfed thy own with self-distrust?
All hearts grew warmer in the presence
Of one who, seeking not his own,
Gave freely for the love of giving,
Nor reaped for self the harvest town.
Thy greeting smile was pledge and prelude
Of generous deeds and kindly words;
In thy large heart were fair guest-chambers,
Open to sunrise and the birds!
The task was thine to mould and fashion
Life’s plastic newness into grace;
To make the boyish heart heroic,
And light with thought the maiden’s face.
O’er all the land, in town and prairie,
With bended heads of mourning, stand
The living forms that owe their beauty
And fitness to thy shaping hand.
Thy call has come in ripened manhood,
The noonday calm of heart and mind;
While I, who dreamed of thy remaining
To mourn me, linger still behind:
Live on, to own, with self-upbraiding,
A debt of love still due from me,—
The vain remembrance of occasions,
Forever lost, of serving thee.
It was not mine among thy kindred
To join the silent funeral prayers,
But all that long sad day of summer
My tears of mourning dropped with theirs.
All day the sea-waves sobbed with sorrow,
The birds forgot their merry trills,
All day I heard the pines lamenting
With thine upon thy homestead hills.
Green be those hillside pines for ever,
And green the meadowy lowlands be,
And green the old memorial beeches,
Name-carven, in the woods of Lee!
Still let them greet thy life-companions
Who thither turn their pilgrim feet,
In every mossy line recalling
A tender memory sadly sweet.
O friend! if thought and sense avail not
To know thee henceforth as thou art,
That all is well with thee forever
I trust the instincts of my heart.
Thine be the quiet habitations.
Thine the green pastures, blossom-sown,
And smiles of saintly recognition
As sweet and tender as thy own.

Thou com’st not from the hush and shadow
To meet us, but to thee we come;
With thee we never can be strangers,
And where thou art must still be home!
NOTHING NEW.
Tell me not, thou unbeliever,
Mocker of the good and true,
"Time, the changer and upheaver,
As he tunnels ages through,
In his ceaseless toil and striving,
Plowing, delving, hewing, riving,
Brings forth ever nothing new"
Nothing, as was truly told us,
Is there new beneath the san;
Still the olden skies enfold us,
The old stars their courses run; 
As of old the flowers are springing,
As of old the birds are singing,
As they will, till all is done.
Naught is taken, nothing given,
From or to what God has wrought;
Rolls the same old ball through heaven,
Rolling as it first was taught;
As it was in the beginning,
Nothing lessened by our sinning,
Weight and measure lessened not.
Life of man adds nothing to it,
Death takes not a drop of dust;
Souls of us alone pass through it,
As they have, and as they must.
All our loss and gain of living,
All our feeling and contriving,
Do not stir the balance just.
But the souls that God created
Surely gain and surely grow;
Upward tending, they are fated
To soar higher than we know.
Not a cubit to our statures
Can we add, but heavenly natures
Are not tethered here below.
Ever longing and aspiring,
If for good, or if for ill;
Seeking still, and still inquiring,
Onward, outward, upward still;
Thus we search around about us,
Search within us and without us;
Thus we ever have and will.
Very wide is God’s creation—
We must know it through and through;
Net to one man or one nation
Is it given the work to do.
Every day our minds are growing,
Learning something worthy knowing,
Learning ever something new.
True, our souls are not creators,
But discoverers are we;
To our being we are traitors,
If we labor fruitlessly.
Daily we our task are learning,
Daily something new discerning,
Something good for you and me.
Seeking, finding; striving, gaining;
Reaching far, and grasping near;
Still some better end attaining,
We are well rewarded here;
Still insatiate onward pressing,
Every hour brings newer blessing,
Life or death to case and cheer.
Almost equal to the legions
Of whose brightness none can tell,
Who in far-off starry regions
Ever in God’s presence dwell;
Upward tend we toward the golden
Gates of heaven, and the olden
Heights from which our spirits fell.
Nothing new? Through countless ages
Still the search we may pursue;
Still are hid in Nature’s pages
Many secrets from our view;
Let us, then, with faith move onward,
Looking Godward, looking sunward:—
Death will show us something new!
<c02>
The Liberator.
TRUST IN PROVIDENCE.
DORCHESTER, July 28th, 1863.
The wisdom of ages, tempered for more than eighteen centuries by the peace-breathing spirit of Christianity, could not save us from precipitating ourselves into all the horrors of this wealth-destroying, soul-wasting, life-consuming civil war. At this late period of the world’s history, including that of Christianity, we find ourselves in the midst of a revolutionary struggle, in which the earnest, liberty-loving freemen of our land are called upon to defend once more, by force and arms, the inalienable rights of man. The foundations of civil society among us are shaken; its pillars tremble; and the whole fabric, subjected to the strain and shock of civil war, reels and quakes as if it were about to be resolved into its original elements, or tumble into irretrievable ruin.
Such is the catastrophe which patriots so much dread—the loss of national unity. And the question is, will a people who had not the wisdom to avert the storm, taught by reverses, be wise and strong enough to control and master it, and thus save our country and the world from so disastrous a result?
What do we see and hear? The conflict deepens. The great sea of politics is stirred, as it was never stirred before. Its very lees are pushed to the surface. Struck by "airs from heaven, or blasts from hell," the elements are in violent commotion, heaving and surging, plunging and dashing, and boiling and tossing, in every direction. Confusion rules the hour. Indeed, in some localities it could hardly be greater, were Pandemonium let loose,
-"and at its heels all hell should rise
With blackest insurrection, to confound
Heaven’s purest light;"
or should chaos come again, and rayless darkness brood once more over the face of the great deep.
Throughout one-half of the land, with defiant air and haughty step, Rebellion stalks abroad, and in her wide sweep with fire and sword carries destruction in her path.
Hardly less disastrous, in court and cabinet and field, discordant counsels neutralize our efforts and paralyze our strength. For, disguise it as we may, no small fraction of the great North and West lean toward rebellion, and, to the extent of their ability, lend it their aid. First and foremost among the allies of the confederacy, and enemies of the Republic, stands the Chief Justice of the United States. To say nothing of the Dred Scott Decision; in the midst of a tremendous civil war, with the enemy at the gates of the Capital, and the fate of the republic at stake, he incontinently throws himself across the track of the Executive, that he may embarrass or checkmate that functionary in his efforts to crush the rebellion, and save the life of the nation. For the same malignant purpose, the civil authority is arrayed against the military, and the State courts are to be invoked to sit in judgment upon a law of Congress; a law, too, by which the representatives of the people, in the exercise of their discretion, authorize the President to call upon the able-bodied men of the country to take up arms in its defence; to restore the integrity of the Nation; to preserve and defend the Constitution; to execute the laws; and to maintain rightful jurisdiction throughout all the land, among all the inhabitants thereof.
Even the commanders of army corps, though holding important trusts, are sometimes cursed with narrow views and selfish aims; and so far from acting in harmony and earnest cooperation with their superiors, will, by withholding timely aid, thwart their plans and purposes, and give the victory to the foe; thereby imperilling the country’s cause, and the best interests of mankind.
Ex-Presidents and Governors of States, who, of all men, should be the conservators of law and order, so far from denouncing the rebellion or its authors, denounce the government for resisting and attempting to crush them. Instead of upholding the government in the execution of its laws, they denounce Congress as usurpers, the President as a tyrant, and throw themselves, with all their weight and strength, into the arms of the insurgents. Voluntary enlistment they oppose; conscription they resist; for the purpose of either is, in brief, to crush the rebellion. And, so far from wishing to crush or even check the rebellion South, they stir up sedition, and put themselves at the head of a northern insurrection, whose end and aim are to stop the draft; in other words, to nullify the conscription law, and thereby put it out of the power of the government to maintain its authority. Professing to be democrats, they are allies and co-workers with Southern conspirators and rebels. Fit subjects of the Southern confederacy, they would subvert our republic, and inaugurate a slaveholding despotism in its place.
Such men as Roger B. Taney, Franklin Pierce, and Horatio Seymour, therefore, are, to the measure of their ability, no less criminal than Jefferson Davis, Alexander H. Stevens, James M. Mason, and Francis Slidell. These are, at least, open in their sublime villany, and, therefore, command some respect: those add hypocrisy to wickedness" steal the livery of heaven to serve the devil in"-and thus doubly hateful, call forth in us abhorrence, mingled with indignation and contempt. They are the most dangerous men in the country; and to think of forming an alliance with them, in the work of building up a republic, would be as consummate folly as to employ Satan himself as prime minister in building up the kingdom of God. With them, as with the open enemies of the government and of the country, our main hope is, that their power for evil will be destroyed by their very excesses; that, in the storm of righteous indignation, even their own party will turn from them with abhorrence, or visit them with tokens of the wrath to come; and that their diabolical purposes will thus be overruled for good. Men propose their petty schemes, but God disposes of events. Our trust is in the living God. 
With many noble, thoughtful, patriotic persons—men and women—we doubt not, the late news from the battle-fields, though telling of success, has an effect so awful, almost stunning, upon their minds and spirits, that they will not easily recover from them; so dreadful was the loss of life. What matter how? By cannon-ball or musket-shot, by bayonet-thrust or sabre-stroke, at Gettysburg alone, twenty thousand loyal men poured out their blood, and died. The carnage was indeed appalling, but a victory was won. "Cui bono," do we ask? Did they not fall in Liberty’s defence? Were they not freshly invaded, their farms ravaged, houses pillaged, stores and workshops robbed, villages sacked; their wives and children driven from their homes? Were they not battling with tyrants and oppressors—the enemies of God and man, and their country’s deadliest foes? Did they not, amidst blood, and fire, and smoke, devote themselves a willing sacrifice, that others might be free?
We can hardly hope, they think, for continued success after such fearful loss of life—not dreaming that, in truth, those lives were the price paid even for that measure of success. Say not that they were lost. Say, rather, they were a fresh installment of the debt their country owed to the great cause of liberty and the rights of man; that they were a pledge of more complete success; and that the rest shall be forthcoming. From every rood of that ensanguined field, the voice of our brother’s blood calls to us from the ground: "Fathers, brothers, sons, dulce et decorum est pro patria mori: better die freemen than consent to live slaves." And who shall say that to those who, at their country’s call, laid down their lives that others might be free, a door was not unexpectedly opened; and that, following that voice, they found the way to heaven—an introduction to a higher life?
The brave and patriotic men, who, by tens and scores of thousands, have fallen on other bloody battle-fields, victorious or otherwise, are in the same category. The expenditure of life has, indeed, been enormous; but even to themselves they are not lost. To their friends and countrymen, to the cause of free-
<c03>
dom and the redemption of the race, their sacrifice is an unspeakable gain. "The blood of the martyr," it has been said, "is the seed of the Church." It is no less true, that the blood of these martyrs to freedom is the seed of a democratic republic. On many a tract in that vast region, where the rankest despotism had most deeply struck its roots, and held triumphant sway, the ground is literally filled with it. Some day it will spring up, and bear fruit; twenty, sixty, or a hundred fold. It is thus that God "causeth the wrath of man to praise him; the remainder of wrath he will restrain"
"Judge not the Lord by feeble sense,
But trust him for his grace;
Behind a frowning providence
He hides a smiling face."
He sitteth serene in the heavens, and "his tender mercies are over all his works." "His power created and his wisdom guides."
Omniscience is his-knowledge coextensive with the universe—with the power that wields and the benevolence that directs it. Yes, God is good as well as great. True, we know but in part. Even the great Newton, "whom God to mortals lent, to trace his boundless works in all philosophy," with all his knowledge said, in his humility, comparing his acquisitions with the vast unknown, that he seemed to himself "to have gathered only a few pebbles or shells upon the sea-shore."
Said that intellectual prodigy, La Place, author of the "Mechanique Celeste," "What I know is finite; what I do not know is infinite." The province of faith is coextensive with the realms of the unknown. Where we cannot unriddle, we must learn to trust; and in the realm of faith he is wisest and most rational, whose faith is most implicit. For if, so far as God has unveiled or revealed himself to us, his benevolence is conspicuous and unquestionable, the inference is, that it is equally prevalent; and could we but comprehend it, would be equally unquestionable throughout the realms of his infinite domain, whether in the heavens above, or in the earth beneath; whether he speaks to us through the material world, or through the souls, the words and deeds of good and holy, men, who spake and wrought as they were moved by the holy spirit, in conscious obedience to the will of God. We believe in God. We believe, too, in his well-beloved Son. Let us believe, also, in his providence; in a moral government by which He sways the armies of the heavenly hosts, and through men, willing or otherwise, works out his vast designs among the inhabitants, families, tribes and nations of the earth:
"From seeming evil still educing good,
And better thence again, and better still,
In infinite progression."
We must not, therefore, measure our success by the victories we gain upon the battle-field alone. It depends a hundred times more upon the spirit, motive, aim and purpose with which we go into the conflict. If it be to establish justice, to insure domestic tranquillity, and secure the blessings of freedom "throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof," we are invincible, and might defy the world. The conflict is mainly a moral one, and our business is, if possible, to reconcile this people to the reign of justice in the land; in other words, to establish the kingdom of God on earth. With God upon our side, with earnest hearts and willing hands in such a cause, there is no such thing as fail. Our very defeats are blessings in disguise. The mercies of apparent disaster are beginning to be realized. We have needed, and still need, the discipline of discomfiture and loss. If we will not profit by it, we prove ourselves unworthy of complete success. We shall pass away. Other generations, peoples, races, wiser and more virtuous than we, will take our places in this mighty struggle, and will bear it forward to a triumphant and successful issue. They will have their work and their reward, as we have ours. For generations, peoples, races, like individuals, have each their appropriate work; and faithful or otherwise, like individuals, too, they have their appropriate recompense or reward.
"Oppression shall not always reign." Slavery has received its death-blow already. Its smouldering fires are burning feebler and feebler, and will soon be extinct. Then shall the clang and roar of battle cease; the strife, and sweat, and turmoil of war, for lack of stimulus, will die; and in their places will be heard the busy hum of industry, or the plaintive wail of chastened joy, at the incoming reign of peace. That joy shall swell and spread from heart to heart, and from mind to mind, till it pervades, and warms, and animates the nation; and where it glows with most intensity, there it will break forth in songs of congratulation, thanksgiving and praise; Glory, glory hallelujah, to the God of their salvation! "Jehovah has triumphed, his people are free!"
Then, too, there shall be joy in heaven, and quiring angels may renew the song, "Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth, and good will to men." For a mighty people, checked in their career of wickedness by the stern discipline of war, will have put away their great transgression; and, for their country at least, will have pledged themselves anew to the defence of the inalienable rights of man.
With God for their ally, and clothed anew with the majesty of his strength, may they stand forth a nation without reproach, erect and firm; the champions and exemplars of civil and religious liberty before the nations of the earth; a model republic indeed, throughout whose wide domain the people shall work out for themselves that weight and worth of character, which shall command the respect and admiration of the world! H. W. C.

MRS.HATCH AND THEODORE PARKER.
DEAR GARRISON—As a friend to humanity, I feel grieved at the unwarrantable use that has been made of the pen of your nameless correspondent, who calls himself a friend of Theodore Parker, in your issue of July 10. Being one of those "bewitched fanatics" who labor under that "delusion" he is pleased to call "spirit-mania," I can but do justice to myself and my own idea of truth by replying to a few remarks he has been pleased to make. It is not my purpose to defend the public or private character of Cora L. V. Hatch, or attempt to prove her a medium through which Calhoun, Webster, Douglas, or even Theodore Parker, still speak their thoughts to mundane audiences. She is of age; ask her. The fact that she married a man unworthy of her, and old enough to be her grandfather, or even married her grandfather himself, or that she publicly disgraced herself while in Lynn, because she failed to solve a certain mathematical problem, is not sufficient proof to me that I am a "deluded maniac," and I have sincere doubts about its being sufficient light to the eyes of those benighted millions to enable them to see any thicker Egyptian darkness than that surrounding the brain of your worthy correspondent. As he seems to think that the "spirit-mania" will exist long after all of Mr. Parker’s friends, who are best qualified to speak his past and present thoughts, shall have passed away, I can but think it the religious duty of those friends to labor as assiduously as your correspondent has done to "stem the torrent of this mania," before passing away.
He says, "Mr. Parker did not believe in mediums; he did not believe that departed spirits ever take possession of the living, and speak through them in the way he is now made to say they do. During the year 1850, it was my privilege to investigate the phenomena of spiritism, in connection with Theodore Parker, and I am certain as to what his views were upon the subject, up to the time when he left this country for Europe. He admitted the facts, (physical phenomena,) but he utterly ignored the idea of spirits in their origin; and he accounted for all that the mediums do by laws that appertain to this world. As far as can now be determined, Mr. Parker left us in the full belief that all mediums, so-called, are self-entranced and hallucinated, when they imagine that ‘spirits’ speak through them. This fact is important, inasmuch as spiritism teaches, as one of its fun-
<c04>
damentals, that we commence in the next world with precisely the same views and prejudices in which we leave this world." Because Mr. Parker, on leaving his body in Florence, possessed certain views in regard to the transmission of spiritual truth, is it any proof, or does "spiritism" or common sense teach, that he retains them now, and that they must stick to him through all coming time? I think your correspondent claims too much, and then lays it at the door of "spiritism." Suppose Mr. Parker now ceases to believe that spirits have nothing to do with the phenomena, but actually knows that they have-that, instead of mediums being self-entranced, they are impressed by minds who have passed on to a higher sphere—would it be characteristic of the man, would it be Theodore Parker-like, to confess his error by telling his earthly friends of his presence? or would he refuse to speak to his former friends because he expressed the opinion while here in the body, that spirits had nothing to do with it?
I looked upon Mr. Parker as the giant intellect of America, as a truly great and good man, but I am extremely unwilling to think that he is infallible or unchangeable, or so bigoted as not to admit a truth, because it conflicted with previous expressed opinions, or long established faiths. I know too little of his capacious mind to know that he has changed it, and I cannot but think that your correspondent knows too little to know that he has not. Changing one’s mind is a human, and perhaps spiritual privilege; asses never do. Let him prove that Mr. Parker has not, and he has dealt the "spirit-mania" one deadly blow.
Again, is your correspondent prepared to show that he and Theodore Parker, while pursuing their investigations in the year 1850, became perfectly acquainted with all the facts that are proving existence beyond the grave to millions, and as familiar with the different laws or conditions through which these facts are being developed? If so, was not the publication of a full report a duty they owed the world, and more especially the "deluded and fanatical" portion of it? Would not the wealth of Theodore Parker’s fame have served as a bulwark to "stem the torrent of this mania," which seems not only to be drawing millions of Americans into its "delusive" eddy, but also to be slowly yet surely engulphing no small portion of Europe? It is the private opinion of a warm admirer of the talents and genius, benevolence and charity of Theodore Parker, that his mind was too much occupied with other matters to give to Spiritualism a thorough and scientific investigation. Prof. Hare strongly believed it a cheat, but, after a thorough searching into the matter, decided it the work of spirits. Rev. Charles Beecher, of Newark, was some years since appointed by the Brooklyn Association of Congregational Ministers to investigate and report upon Spiritualism. The following is a part of his report, as condensed by the New York Tribune:-
1. The idea that these "rappings," or whatever they may be called, are the product of mere juggle, or intentional imposture, is not to be entertained by any one even imperfectly familiar with facts abundantly verified.
2. The hypothesis, that these phenomena have their origin in some hitherto latent action of electricity, magnetism, or any other natural and physical force, creates many more difficulties than it overcomes, and is also inconsistent with some of the best attested facts.
3. In like manner, the idea that these phenomena are caused by some unconscious, involuntary mental action of some person or persons still in the body is equally unphilosophical; equally at odds with the attested facts, and equally open to the objection that it magnifies the marvel it professes to explain. To say that a table which sustains itself on two legs, or one, or none, at the request of some person near it, and responds intelligently to a dozen questions as they are asked, is impelled so to act by electricity, or magnetism, or mental impulse of an individual wholly unconscious of such influence, is to assume as true what is incredible, because contrary to the world’s uniform experience, and all the known laws of causation.
4. The assumption, that disembodied spirits cannot communicate with persons still in the flesh is opposed to the whole tenor, not merely of Hebrew and Christian, but also of Pagan history. The possibility of such intercourse—nay, the fact that it has occurred—has always been believed by the great mass of mankind."
Let us add to this report and Prof. Hare’s decision, the investigations of Adin Ballou, T. W. Higginson, Robert Dale Owen, S. B. Brittan, Judge Edmonds, Gov. Tallmadge, Dr. Gardener, William Howitt, with scores of other intelligent minds who have examined into this matter through a series of years, and perhaps it will more than balance the investigations of your correspondent with Theodore Parker during the year 1850.
Your correspondent asks, "But what shall be done to stem the torrent of this mania, when its victims are numbered, not by tens of thousands merely, but by millions?" Could he not induce those Cambridge Professors to give us that report which they promised years ago, which, as we understood, was to unravel this tangled subject, thereby opening the eyes of the blind, and giving understanding to the simple? If not, let Prof. Grimes and C. C. Burr be hired at once to perambulate the country, snapping their toes and fingers in the faces of honest people: thereby showing to the world their utter incapacity to appreciate truth, or comprehend a principle. If those notables should not succeed in raising the veil from the eyes of the bewitched millions, I am quite positive that they are yet masters of the art of extractions-extracting dimes from the pockets of the people, and safely depositing them in their own.
If your correspondent thinks the remedy worse than the disease, then let him administer his own medicine, which seems to be this:-"When a man dies, his work is done on this earth." Let him but prove this assertion by science, history, or facts, and I will warrant the torrent effectually stemmed, and the "mania" dispelled forever. The door of the whole spirit-mania swings alone on this one principle, that we have something to do with mortals after leaving the body; and he has but to prove his assertion true, to forever close the door against us; leaving us without, to be stared at as poor deluded maniacs by a reasoning world. Will he do it? If so, he shall receive the eternal thanks of one, at least, of those millions, who, at present, are groping their way through error, darkness and gross materiality up to truth, light and immortal life beyond the grave.
East Toledo, O. L. L. BUGGLES.

OBITUARY OF JAMES REEVE.
To the Editor of the Liberator:-
A few weeks ago, I sent you an obituary notice of Rumay Reeve, which you published in your paper. I now send you a notice of the death of his oldest son, Captain James Reeves. He died in the hospital in Tennessee, on the 25th of June, aged forty-six years. He was born in the town of Lyme, Connecticut, and when his parents moved to Ohio in 1821, he came with them. About nine years ago, he moved from Ohio to Franklin county, in Iowa. He was the first settler in that county, and by his industry and indomitable perseverance has accomplished wonders.
When the war broke out, he was engaged in cultivating between three and four hundred acres of land, raising large quantities of wheat, oats, corn, and so forth. Being strongly imbued with the spirit of his father in reference to slavery, and believing the war would ultimately destroy the accursed thing, he wanted to have a share in the glorious struggle, but the pressure of his business deterred him from enlisting.
About a year ago, he felt his time for action was come. He received the sad intelligence that his youngest brother, Harrison Reeve, a young man of twenty-one years, had died from sickness brought on by hardships incident to a soldier’s life. With a burning zeal for the cause of freedom, Harrison had enlisted under John Brown, Jr. After serving under that noble son of the noble old martyr for ten months, he sickened and died. While in the service, Harrison made it his primary object to liberate as many slaves as possible, and he could boast of having, in connection with his fellow-soldiers of the same company, accomplished a great deal in that direction. 
When Harrison died, James determined he would supply his place as well as he could. Not being con-
<c05>
tented with the idea of only going himself, he raised a company of brave and liberty-loving men. His company was at once accepted, and put into active service. In a letter to his father, dated September l6th, 1862, he says: "I have enlisted in the United States service, and am a captain in the 32d regiment of Iowa volunteers. I have left my business and farm at a time when it was very necessary I should be at home, but my mind was all the time with the war, and I could not feel contented without being there. I have been in camp about one week, and do not expect to go home until the war is over, be it long or short." 
In his letters to his parents, he gives very interesting cases of liberating slaves, in which he and his men were engaged. He was so earnest in the work of freedom that he counted no risk too great, no sacrifice too dear, if he could but make the heart of some poor slave glad by releasing him from the jaws of the monster. In one of his letters to his mother he says, "It may be I shall venture so much, I shall lose my commission." What sad thoughts this sentence suggests! An officer in the national army, fighting against rebellion, in danger of losing his commission for aiming his blows at the sole foundation and support of that rebellion! 
One of the slaves he liberated begged the privilege of going to Iowa to take care of his family until the war closed, and he should go home. He sent him there, and says, "The people about there are well satisfied with my Joe darkey, and call him a sensible man and a real gentleman. He has done a good deal to do away the prejudices against the blacks, and I knew he was the one to do it."
Captain Reeve leaves a wife and eleven children, two of whom are in the army.
As an example to others who may be placed in similar circumstances, I would say that his mother who has so recently been left a widow in her old age, and who has to mourn the loss of her two sons in the war, bears up heroically, feeling proud, even in her sadness, that they have so nobly sacrificed themselves in behalf of human freedom. M. BRETTELL.
CRITICISM ON PSALM OX. Part II
BY REV. LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
TEN INDEPENDENT TRANSLATIONS.
I. SEPTUAGINT VERSION, 150 B.C
Psalm, for David.
1. Kurios said to my Lord, "Sit on my right hand, till I make your enemies a stool of your feet."
2. A rod of power shall Kurios send out to you from Zion; rule in the midst of your enemies.
3. The principality [is] with you in the day of your power, with the splendors of your saints. I begat you from the womb before the morning star.
4. Kurios swore, and will not repent, "You [shall be] a priest forever, according to the order of Melchisdek."
5. Kurios on your right hand crushed kings in the day of his wrath. He shall judge among the nations.
6. He shall fill them with dead bodies; he shall crush the heads of many on the earth; he shall drink from the torrent in the way; therefore shall he exalt the head.
II. CHALDEE TARGUM VERSION—-ancient, but date uncertain.
For the band of David, a Song.
1. Jeva said in his word, that he would constitute me a ruler over Israel. But he said to me again, Wait for Saul, who is of the -tribe of Benjamin, till he dies, because an associated kingdom is not good; then afterwards I will make your enemies a stool of your feet.
[Another Targum.] Jeva said in his word, that he would give me dominion, because I applied myself to the beaming of the light of his right hand; wait, [says he,] till I make your enemies a stool of your feet.
2. Jeva shall send the rod of your strength from Zion, and you shall rule in the midst of your enemies.
3. Your people of the house of Israel shall apply themselves willingly to the light; in the day in which you shall engage in battle, you shall help with them in the splendor of the sanctuary of the mercy of God, and [men] shall hasten to you like the falling of dew; your youth shall sit trustfully.
4. Jeva swore, and will not repent, You shall be set up for a prince for the world to come for your merit, because you have been a pure king.
5. The majesty of Jeva on your right hand crushed kings in the day of his anger. He will judge among nations, he will fill [them] with ruins.
6. He will dash together the heads of many on the earth. He will drink from the brook in the way; therefore will he exalt the head.
III. THE PESHITO SYRIAC VERSION; 250 A.D.
For David, concerning the throne of the Lord, and his glorious virtue; a prophecy of Christ, and a victory against the enemy.
1. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit on my right hand, till I make your foes a stool of your feet.
2. The Lord sends you a strong sceptre from Zion, and it shall rule over your foes.
3. Your people shall be illustrious on the day of your power with the splendors of sanctity. I begat you from the womb for a son from of old.
4. The Lord swore, and will not lie, You shall be a priest forever like Melchisedek. The Lord is on your right hand.
5. He crushed kingdoms in the day of his wrath. He will judge peoples, and fill [the world with] dead bodies.
6. He will cut off the head of many on the earth; he will drink from the torrent in the way; therefore will he lift up the head.
IV. LATIN VULGATE VERSION, 400 A.D.
Psalm David.
1. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit on my right hand, till I make your enemies a stool of your feet.
2. The Lord will send the rod of your virtue out of Zion; rule in the midst of your enemies.
3. The principality [shall be] with you in the day of your virtue, in splendors of saints; I begat you from the womb before Lucifer.
4. The Lord swore, and it will not repent him, You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchisedek.
5. Dominions are your right hand; crushed kings in the day of his anger; he shall judge among nations, he shall fill [them] with ruins.
6. He shall break to pieces the heads of many in the earth; he shall drink from the torrent in the way; therefore shall he exalt the head.
V. CATHOLIC VERSION FROM THE DOUAY BIBLE.
1609 A. D.
Dixit Dominus; Christ’s exaltation and everlasting
Priesthood.
A Psalm of David.
1. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thy enemies thy footstool.
2. The Lord will send forth the sceptre of thy power out of Zion; rule thou in the midst of thy enemies.
3. With thee is the principality in the day of thy strength, in the brightness of the saints; from the womb, before the daystar, I begot thee.
4. The Lord hath sworn, and he will not repent, Thou art a priest forever, according to the order of Melechisedeck.
5. The Lord at thy right hand hath broken kings in the day of his wrath.
6. He shall judge among nations, he shall fill ruins, he shall crush the heads in the land of many.
7. He shall drink of the torrent in the way; therefore shall be lift up the head.
VI. COMMON VERSION. 1611 A. D.
A Psalm of David.
The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.
<c06>
2.The LORD shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.
3. Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth.
4. The LORD hath sworn, and he will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedek.
5. The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath.
6. He shall judge among the heathen; he shall fill the places with the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries.
7. He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head.
VII. PROF GEORGE R.NOYES’S VERSION,1846, A.D.
A Psalm of David.
1. Jehovah said to my Lord, Sit thou upon my right hand, until I make thy foes thy footstool.
2. Jehovah will extend the sceptre of thy power from Zion. Thou shalt ride in the midst of thine enemies.
3. Thy people shall be ready when thou musterest thy forces in holy splendor; thy youth shall come forth like dew from the womb of the morning 
4. Jehovah has sworn, and he will not repent, Thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchisedeck.
5. The Lord is at thy right hand; he shall crush kings in the day of his wrath.
6. He shall execute justice among the nations; he shall fill them with dead bodies; he shall crush the heads of his enemies over many lands.
7. He shall drink of the brook in the way; therefore shall he lift up the head.
VIII. PROF. J. A. ALEXANDER’S VERSION, 1858 A.D.
By David, a Psalm.
1. Thus saith Jehovah to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool.
2. The rod of thy strength will Jehovah send forth from Zion; rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.
3. Thy people [are] freewill offerings in the day of thy power, in holy decorations; from the womb of the dawn to thee [is] the dew of thy youth.
4. Sworn hath Jehovah, and will not repent., ‘Thou [shalt be] a priest forever, after the order of Melchisedek.’
5. The Lord on thy right hand has smitten in the day of his anger kings.
6. He will judge among the nations; he has filled [them] with corpses; he has smitten the head over much land [the wide earth].
7. From the brook in the way he will drink; therefore will be raise the head.
IX. SAWYER’S VERSION, NO. I, 1863 A. D.
For David, Psalm.
[Prologue.]
1. Jeva said to my Lord, "Sit on my right hand, till I make your foes a stool of your feet".
2. Jeva sends the rod of your power from Zion, [saying,] "Rule in the midst of your foes."
3. Your people [shall be] freewill offerings in the day of your power, on the mountains of the sanctuary; you shall have your youth [like] dew from the womb of the morning.
[Epilogue.]
1. Jeva swore, and will not change his mind, "You shall be a priest forever on account of my righteous king."
2. The Lord on your right hand [David] smote kings in the day of his anger. He judges the nations [which] he filled with dead bodies.
3. He smote the head over the land of Rabbah from a brook; he drinks in the way; therefore he exalts the head.
X. SAWYER’S VERSION, NO. II 1863 A. D.
For David, Psalm.
[Prologue.]
1. Jeva said to my Lord, "Sit on my right had, till I make your foes a stool of your feet.
2. A rod of your strength sends Jeva from Zion, [saying,] "Rule in the midst of your foes."
3. With you shall be a nobility in the day of your host in sacred vestments, [and] you shall have your youth [like] dew from the womb of the morning.
[Epilogue.]
1. Jeva swore, and will not change his purpose, ""You shall be a priest forever on account of my righteous king."
2. Adonai [David] on your right hand, smote kings in the day of his anger; he judges among the nations he filled with dead bodies.
3. He smote the head over the land of Rabbah from a brook; he drinks in the way; therefore he exalts the head.
The exact translation of odes is impossible. This is clearly true of many of the Hebrew odes; they never have been translated exactly and perfectly, and never can be, for two reasons: 1st, Many Hebrew words have no English representatives which exactly correspond to them; 2d, Many words are indefinite, and the exact idea of the writer is only indicated proximately by them. The Hebrew language is made less exact than modern languages.
Every independent translation made by a scholar of truth and judgment may be studied with profit; and each will have some gems which another will lack. of very different translations of the same sentence, it is sometimes difficult to decide which is best, on the whole.
No one translation of the Scriptures is so good as to make all others unprofitable. The Septuagint and Vulgate are among the greatest treasures of ancient learning, and the Targums are not to be despised.
The ancient translations are monuments both of the state of the text when they were made, and of then prevailing methods of interpretation. Both these showings are of great consequence. Nothing can be more stupid than the disposition evinced by many, to disparage all deviations from the common version in new translations. Many deviations from it are of great positive advantage. Liberal inquirers will find themselves much interested in a comparison of different translations of this psalm, and will often refer to them with satisfaction and profit in their Biblical studies. Many of the variations which appear as the foregoing versions are different possible meanings of the original; some are erroneous.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
A. FOLSOM & SON,
MANUFACTURERS OF
OIL CARPETING,
-AND
ROOF CLOTH,
23 WATER STREET,
A. FOLSOM, BOSTON.
S. P. FOLSON, BOSTON
