THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Country are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Print.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 6. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1863.WHOLE NO. 1670.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Mr. Wendell Phillips in the character of a commentator upon the Constitution can only be likened to Rabelais editing the "Confessions of St. Augustine," or to Theodore Hook lecturing upon Baxter's "Saint's Rest."
As an American citizen, Mr. Phillips admits himself to be less than two years old. During his whole previous life, he was just as much a foreigner in America, as if he had worn a pigtail and talked pigeon English. To confound Mr. Phillips with the dismal horde of vulgar Abolitionists who take to anti-slavery just as Stiggins, in the "Pickwick Papers," took to total abstinence and tea, is to do him both more and less than justice. He is both less offensive and more inexcusable than the peripatetic twaddlers with whom he has allied himself for years. Born of a good family and gently bred, according to the measure of the citizens of Boston, Mr. Phillips, at the very outset of his career, revolted from the platitudes of Beacon street, and the cheap conservatism of Cambridge. There are men who instinctively take to the minority, from a passionate scorn of common-place men whom applause provokes and abuse inspires; men whose impulse is to ask, with the Greek orator, when they find the multitude moving with them, "What nonsense have I uttered that these people agree with me?" Wendell Phillips is one of these men. Had he been penniless in the world, he would still have deserted the dull routine of decorous respectability for the exhilarating eccentricities of an aggressive independence. But be had fortune enough to take the field on horseback, and his career has been one long tilt of philanthropic knight-errantry. Had the cause he espoused continued to be the persecuted creed of a knot of fanatics, he might have lived and died an impracticable but not a contemptible man, a quixotic theorist, but not an enemy of his kind, a paradoxical and amusing critic of all things American, but not an Erostratus of the National temple.
Unfortunately for himself, however, he now finds the doctrines which he loved, mainly because other people hated them, suddenly adopted into the policy of a national administration. From the sweet habit of blaspheming all manner of Presidents and proclamations, he is suddenly called upon to descend to the endorsement of a resident and proclamation. Fro a pestilent Luther thundering at the church-doors, he is suddenly converted into a canny <illegible> decent responses, and drawling out acquiescent amens. The position fits neither his genius nor his habits, and his oration last night, delivered in this city, proves that the Bayard of the ex-communicated Abolitionists has dolefully declined into a mere Dugald Dalgetty of the gun-contracting Republicans.
There was a time when Mr. Phillips would hardly have descended to the tricks of a caucus demagogue: when, however low his estimate of his audience might have been, he would have respected his own intellect too much to confound Eleusinian phrases about "broken fetters fired from the bastion of absolute justice" with electioneering clap-trap about profane Puritans who insist on the Mississippi, or to falsify the history of a Constitution which he has studied with the intensity of hate by making Rufus King and James Madison believers in the doctrine of the "irrepressible conflict," and asserting that South Carolina put her destiny into hotch-potch with Massachusetts when she consented to the Union. Mr. Phillips's chicanery sits upon him as ungracefully as his loyalty. Wilfully to deceive the silly people who hang upon his silver lips, to move the idle laughter and the facile applause of an unthinking crowd, is the lowest triumph of the speaker's art.
The aptitudes which command it are neither rare nor refined. A George Gordon could kindle mobs to frenzy when a Burke sent legislatures to sleep: an Orator Hunt wielded masses of men more easily than Canning controlled the elect of the State. To echo the ardor of the people clamoring for wrong and reckless acts—to fool to the top of their bent fanatic souls who crave to be deceived—these things can be easily done, but they can be done only at the sacrifice of self-respect and truth and justice. In taking out his papers of naturalization under The Tribune, Mr. Phillips has lost the attributes which once secured to him the sympathy even of those who detested the extravagance of his views and abhorred the tendencies of his career.
And in sacrificing these, he has made no counter balancing gains. He has lost the single-mindedness of Don Quixote without acquiring the astuteness of Sancho Panza. His old instincts are just strong enough in him to perturb his new intentions; and there is something at once ridiculous and pathetic in the unconscious glee with which, after extolling to the skies the new policy of Mr. Lincoln, he exclaims that however the President may try "to stop in the rapids on the verge of Niagara, both he and the ship of State will surely go over the fall together!"—N.Y. World.

THE LESSON OF A NIGHT.
Two contemporary gatherings in this city on Thursday evening—one at the Music Hall and one at a private mansion near the Old Hancock House—were unusually suggestive; and, as belonging to the passing hour; not unworthy of comment.
 The Music Hall was lines with the Jacobins of the time—the ultra Abolitionists. On the platform were black spirits and white, of both sexes, which we could fancy were the "Committee of Twelve" of the days of the Reign of Terror; while in the body of the house, were the crowd that usually make up these motley assemblies. Long beards; lean, lank, and blank faces; slip-shod blue stockings; the wild, strange, indescribable air of the spiritualists, fourierites, free-lovers and transcendentalists run to seed, looking as though, if they were in this world, they were not of it, but as though they belonged to another place, which they might enter and dwell in without having naturalization papers. Garrison was there. Phillips was there. Stephen S. Fost and the like incanters were there. Their utterances were incoherent, fierce, intolerant, bloody and massacre like. President Lincoln, Secretary Seward, Gen. McClellan, Gen. Banks, and a score of public men, even of Republican stripe, to say nothing of others, were ridiculed, or unsparingly denounced, or were held up as traitors; and when Phillips, as he drew a future when by way of servile insurrection the hand of the negro should be on the throat of the white man, rose to the full measure of the savage looking set, a gray bearded man stepped forward on the platform and proposed three cheers for the sentiment. They were given with a will. What a scene for Boston! In the minds of this assembly public virtue could only be found with the Abolitionists. "Guard the Republican leaders when asleep," said Phillips, "and don't trust them when awake." Trust only Fremont, the flesh and bones of the Proclamation! This terrible imprecation recalled Dan-
<c02>
ton's speeches, nude just before the Paris massacres. " Rally all," were <illegible> actual words, " against those cowards <illegible> to the Girondists.) those cowards there, Link yourselves, and call the people
to unite themselves in arms against their enemies without, but crush those who arc enemies within; and confound, by the vigor and inflexible steadiness
of your character, all these knaves, these aristocrats, these Moderes." In this spirit was the harangue of Wendell Philips; and almost in these words. He, 
too, called upon the motley crowd before him to crush the traitors, and the Democracy were of the traitors! 
At a stone's throw distance, a large company had gathered, at a private residence, to honor one of the men whom these Jacobins were denouncing and would fain destroy, Gen. McClellan. Men of enterprise and character and position in the varied walks of life, men of renown in science and art, men honored and loved and respected, were here; and it may be truly said, that law and order and constitutional liberty, and comprehensive patriotism, all had fitting representatives in this brilliant gathering. How different the general look from the look of the crazy set who were vituperating at the Music Hall! Here were the very men upon whom these Jacobins were showering their denunciations, and called cowards and imbeciles. Here were characters analogous to the noble men who tried to stem the French Jacobins: answering to a Lafayette, a Roland and a Vergniard. Here were orators who have just spoken golden words for country, and here were jurists who have plead for LAW as though they realized the truth that it is from the bosom of God, and is the harmony of the world. Let Vergniard's words at-test how he opposed the savage Jacobins of his day: "Citizens," his words were, "profit by the lessons of experience. We have gone on from crimes to amnesties, and from amnesties to crimes, till a greater number of our citizens have, at last, reached the point of confounding the insurrections of sedition with the grand insurrection of liberty; to regard the outrages of brigands as the explosions of minds of energy, and brigandage itself as the measure of safety." " Citizens, it is quite reasonable to apprehend, that the revolution will, like Saturn, devour, successively, all its children, and at last engender despotism, with all the calamities by which it is accompanied." It was of no avail! The Jacobins were allowed their rule, and the finale was despotism! 
The two assemblies represent two ideas. One represents the principle of anarchy—and the other the principle of law. The struggle is to see which,
shall succeed. At the South, anarchy appears with arms in its hands. And with arms must be met here anarchy appears fulminating only words, and must
be met by the solid sense of men, and ultimately at the polls. In proportion as the Jacobin element presses, let the law element brave itself to resist the
pressure. Surely our land is not about to be given over to Red Republicanism on the one hand, or to the suicide of disunion on the other—but the grand 
order of patriotism that created the nation assuredly will come forth to rescue it and to save it.—Boston Post. 

BEGINNING TO SENSIBLE.
The Tribune of Saturday evinces a consciousness of the critically dangerous condition we are in. Would that it could see how fatally it has contributed to the evils it begins to realize and deplore:— 
"We are beginning to see that about the worst battle lost to the Union cause, thus far, is that of the New York State Election."
This "battle was lost to the Union cause" by the teachings and influence of the Tribune. It imbued Republicans with its ultra views. Fanaticism was not content to see, as a just consequence of and penalty for rebellion, slavery abolished in the District of Columbia and in the State of Delaware; Freedom inviolably established in the Territories of, the Union; the African slave trade prohibited by treaty with England; and slavery disappearing simultaneously with the progress of our armies—all this, we say, did not satisfy Abolition. That pernicious evil—and next to slavery—cursed spirit, represented by the Tribune and Independent of the press, and "Wendell Phillips and Gerrit Smith from the rostrum, and Mr. Sumner in Congress, thrust it-self forward, demanding a change of' policy in the Administration, with a " new pilot:" a policy which avows the war is no longer to be prosecuted to " PUNISH REBELLION," and that there must be a Cabinet whose motto will be "FREEDOM TO THE SLAVE, or DEATH TO THE UNION." 
And from these "tares" insidiously sown in Union soil come the "conspiracies" and "disunion" that threaten the "final overthrow of the republic ":—
Already we begin to hear of Western Confederacies, of New England Confederacies, of Middle States transmogrified into Middle Confederacies. Already we have hints of new and tempting combinations, aiming at safe and convenient boundaries, and the monopoly of internal navigation."
Our readers—especially Republican journals— can scarcely forget with what earnestness we have contended, from the beginning, that nothing but a united North could carry us through this fearful conflict. For such union we have labored. And for the first year of the war, the North was gloriously united. But the rebellion proved more formidable than was apprehended; disaster attended our arms; discontent began to manifest itself: treason, at home, began to crop out—and now, as a remedy for all, abolition comes in demanding the government helm, and insisting that the ship of the nation, under " a new pilot." shall be put on a course that will run her ashore, to be broken up and to go to pieces!— Albany Evening Journal.

FITZ-JOHN PORTER.
Those who reflect upon the appointment of Carl Schurz to the command just assigned him, will not be surprised at the dismissal of such a faithful, brave and noble officer as Fitz-John Porter, from the service. It is of no consequence that he is innocent—: he is innocent he-is of course, found guilty when such influences prevail at Washington. It is certain that the whole nation is surprised, however; nor is it less certain that its indignation will gather strength from day to day, against those who have been guilty of this outrage. We dare not trust ourselves to express all which we feel. Be it enough to say, that, looking carefully over the New York papers of yesterday, we find no mention of the finding of the court martial, except in the Tribune, which seems to have been in fall communication with it. That pestilent sheet gives the charges and specifications in fall, and a statement of the finding of "guilty" upon all the charges, with wide-spread headings in broad capitals —among which is—" The culprit dismissed from the service." In addition, it has an editorial article in commendation of the action of the Court. These people will find, however, before long, whom the American people look upon as the worst and most incorrigible culprits, who will be held to the strictest account for their unexampled misdeeds.—Boston Courier.
<c03>
selections.
WANT OF SYMPATHY WITH THE UNITED STATES IN ENGLAND.
BY EDWARD EVERETT.
[Extract from an Article in the New York Ledger.]
Surely one might expect that in such a contest, forced upon them for such purpose, the constitutional government, and loyal people of the country, might expect the sympathy, at least, of the kindred people beyond the ocean, who, a their years before, had expended millions of dollars to abolish slavery in their own colonies; a people with whom the anti-slavery feeling was so strong and general, that for twenty years the American government had hardly deemed it safe to send them a minister from the Slaveholding States; by whom a year or two before the author of Uncle Tom's Cabin had been received with honors little less than royal; and whose press for a generation had poured a steady blast of denunciation, sarcasm, and ridicule on slavery and slaveholders. Alas, far otherwise! At an early period of the rebellion, and before the attack on Sumter, the cause of the South began to find advocates in the foreign press. London and Paris swarmed with emissaries of the Confederacy, some of whom, accredited as Commissioners, obtained unofficial access to the governments. Men who for years had been goading their followers to madness on the subject of the imputed designs of Northern abolitionists: men who had favored the re-opening of the African slave-trade; men who had taken the lead in founding a new confederacy on " the corner-stone of slavery; men who had contributed their full share to make this subject for years the turning point of our politics, the almost exclusive subject of discussion in Congress, the sole topic dealt with in the projects of compromise;—these men when arrived in Europe were not ashamed to proclaim that slavery had nothing to do with the quarrel; that it was a struggle of the Southern States to throw off the yoke of an oppressive government, (which in all its branches they had nearly monopolized themselves,) and, oh, monstrous! they were not ashamed to add, that if aided by foreign powers to establish their independence, they would ameliorate, and in due time abolish slavery! And this from men, who, in the United States, would have made a merit of hanging, on the first tree, a Northern schoolmaster, suspected rightfully or wrongfully with being an abolitionist! 
Such were the representations made by the Southern <illegible> but in formal and written memorials which have been published. The only shadow of foundation for the monstrous paradox is, that the Constitution of the United States recognizes slavery for certain purposes and that those provisions have been honestly fulfilled by the North. They rebel at home because, as they say, the North is intent to abolish slavery; and they go abroad and say the North is as much pro-slavery as themselves. On this side of the Atlantic, they drive their deluded believers to madness, because their "institution is menaced to destruction." They cross the water, and persuade not merely credulous or interested partisans, but intelligent inquirers, honest philanthropists, and grave ministers of State, that slavery was rather safer under the old Constitution, than the new Confederacy; and is neither the sole nor the chief cause of the rebellion!
And these false and absurdly paradoxical statements are implicitly received, and constitute the plea by which those, who might have been expected to sympathize with the North, justify the favor with which they look upon the rebellion. In vain the notorious fact, that throughout the North, and by all parties, slavery is more and more regarded, as it was in better days also by the South, as " a social, political and moral evil;" in vain that with a near approach to unanimity, the conservative North concurs with the Republican party, in holding that it is the right and duty of Congress, in conformity with all the precedents of Government for sixty-five years, to prohibit the extension of slavery into the unoccupied territory of the United States; in vain that the present Administration came into power, pledged to carry this policy into effect; in vain that it has hastened to concede to England a mutual right of search for the suppression of the African slave-trade, a measure against which the slaveholding democracy of the South had for thirty years set its face as a flint; in vain that it has recognized the republics of Liberia and Hayti, to which no urgency had ever been able to bring the South to assent; in vain that it has carried into execution the dread penalty of the law for active participation in the slave-trade, while those concerned in carrying it on have been openly screened, and rescued from the hands of justice in the streets of Savannah; in vain that slavery has been abolished by law in the District of Columbia, and abolished in fact wherever the armies of the United States are in force; in vain that the term " abolitionist" is, in the present contest, applied collectively by the South to the armies and people of the North; in vain, finally, that the Administration, having exhausted all the resources of ordinary legislation, is now attempting in the exercise of the war power, a final and comprehensive measure of emancipation. All this, and more that might be cited of the same character, forming a system of principles, a course of measures, and a series of efforts, such as no other government has made, or been in a condition to make, to solve the great and terrible problem of the age,—the greatest problem of any age,—all passes for nothing in the eyes of anti-slavery England. It not only wins us no sympathy in the desolating war forced upon us in the manner and for the objects which I have described, but by the government of the kindred people, which for half a century has seemed to have nothing more at heart than to lay the axe at the root of slavery, this slaveholding Confederacy a fortnight old was, with a haste unexampled, I believe, in diplomatic history, placed as a belligerent on a level with the United States, with which England had been in amity, with a brief interruption, for near eighty years. By the press of anti-slavery England, almost without exception, and by her public men with an equal approach to unanimity, the facts to which I have alluded, have been either wholly ignored, or mentioned with scornful indifference, or considered as sufficiently balanced by sophistical allusions to the recognition of slavery in the Constitution of the United States. In the meantime, the so-called Confederacy is kept from crumbling on its "corner stone" by a contraband trade, which, though pushed in a direct contravention of the Queen's proclamation, is, as far as the Law of Nations allows, protected by the royal navies and the colonial authorities, with as much jealousy as the legitimate commerce of the kingdom. The lawful! trade of the United States is at this moment the prey of a Corsair, built, equipped, manned, probably, in effect, armed in England, in open violation of her municipal law, as well as of the Queen's proclamation, and the Law of Nations; roaming the sea
<c04>
without " a recognized nationality, or an acknowledged flag;" but at all times entrapping its victims by displaying that of England; a vessel that never
was in an American port, and which has never attempted to send a prize into any port for adjudication. In one respect, this Sea rover must be allowed
the credit of ingenuity. Improving upon the fiend-like barbarity of the wreckers, who attach torches to the horns of grazing animals, in order that the
mariner, by whom they are seen, mistaking the dancing lights for those of vessels at sea, may believe himself at large, and so dash on the rocks be
sets fire to his prizes at night in order that other ships, seeing the flames and hastening, as they suppose, to the relief of fellow-men, overtaken by that fearful calamity, may be decoyed into the clutches of the pirate. It is an artifice worthy of his cause. Such things may have been done by his predecessors, Blackboard, or Captain Kidd, but surely never before by an officer or a gentleman. 
Boston, 22d Dec., 1862.

ENGLAND AHD AMERICAN SLAVERY.
Is England to recognize the right of property in man? We do not mean by the acknowledgement of Southern independence." If the Confederates
can make good their boast of invincibility, we must, of course, admit the fact of their separation from the Union, and consent to receive their representatives. They will then be entitled to the same respect
that we accord to the King of Dahomey and other sovereign masters of a slave-breeding soil. We can not refuse to the auction block at Richmond the
measure that we mete out to the barracoons of the Niger. If the Devil were to set up a visible kingdom on earth, it must, be recognized—though all decent
 people would give its ambassadors the scantiest possible entertainment. But recognition of the Confederacy need not, in that case, involve recognition
of its peculiar laws and usages. It would be nothing to us but as a blot and scandal upon our common human nature, that the Confederate constitution contained clauses making slavery co-extensive and coeval with the Confederacy itself. The men who are strong enough to make their own the Southern half of the North American continent, must be left to work their will therein. But the question is, whether or no they shall be admitted to have the right of reclaiming from soil subject to the English flag negroes, who have gone thither to enjoy the free exercise of their industry. 
The question appears to be too extravagant for serious answer. Every English tongue would be ready with an indignant negative to the claim <illegible>. Every English memory would be fruitful in great aims and glorious precedents, affirming the inviolability the refuge that we offer to the fugitive from oppression. But we can assure the impartial reader that the question is not thus to be get aside. It has arisen in a very sober shape, and cannot be dismissed without a positive matter-of-fact reply. There are now some two hundred thousand free negroes on the American continent, who were this time last year in abject bondage. They are free both in law and in fact. They have obtained their liberty by the chances of war, but it is secured to them by several distinct acts of legislation and magisterial authority. If it were not so,—if the Federal and Confederate Governments were alike inimical to their freedom,—they would be secure from reclamation by cither power, if they succeed ' in crossing our Canadian frontier. But they have no wish to go to Canada. It is a long way off. It j is an inclement climate to persons of tropical extraction. It is unsuited to their habits of life and labor. They are not accustomed to plough in frost and snow, nor to fell forest trees, nor to navigate timber rafts across inland seas, and down great rivers. There would be little chance of their living by servile or precarious labor in the frugal cities or a colony that contains but the population of one London spread over many Englands. There is the same objection to their settling in the Northern States of the Union. The prairie farmers, even more so than the English and Irish, do not like negroes either as helps or neighbors. The towns have as much unskilled labor as they want. Tens of thousands of colored men are so comfortably settled in the Free States—as Mr. Adams was told by Lord Russell, on the authority of an agent from our West India colonies—that they have no desire to better themselves by emigration. Not so these additional two hundred thousand. They are as much American as they are African, but just now America has no place for them. By-and-by, the congenial solitudes of Florida or of Texas may be assigned to them. A negro peasant proprietary may be planted in the vast plains of the South, when the South is subdued to the law that consecrates a free soil to free labor throughout the Union. Meanwhile, what are they to do, and what is to be done with them? The Federal Government and the Northern people have the best of dispositions towards them, but their hands are grappling with a deadly enemy, and cannot take up their work of mercy. Three months ago, Mr. Seward addressed himself to England on the subject. He proposed a convention, under which these poor people should be enabled to emigrate to our West India Islands as free laborers. Congress was willing to find money, and to provide for the strictly voluntary character of the emigration. Who would not have thought that England would have "jumped" at the proposal? Lancashire wants cotton—Jamaica wants laborers. Ever since the epoch of emancipation, we have heard of nothing so often and so loudly, from our- sugar-growing colonies, as of the want of labor. The Anti-Slavery Society has had to keep watch over the immigration system, lest Chinamen, Malays, or Africans should be entrapped into becoming slaves, under the name of Coolies. The schemes of cotton culture in these colonies languishes, only because the hands bear no proportion to the amount of suitable and unoccupied soil. Why, then, did not Lord Russell instantly close with Mr. Seward's proposal, or at least authorize the colonial Government to make their own terms with the United States Because, as his lordship told Mr. Adams, the Government feared that " it might be the means of entangling them, in some way or other, with the difficulties in the United States, by possible reclamation of fugitives, or in some other way—a danger which they were most desirous to avoid." As the convention proposed would have been with the United States Government, there would be no " possible reclamation of fugitives" from that quarter. It must be the Confederates of whom our Government stands in fear. The emigrants could be their property alone—and they only would have any interest in, or any pretence to the reclamation of the fugitives. So that it is really, as we have said, a practical question whether or no England (hail acknowledge the right of one human being to hold property in another. We are deeply ashamed to have to ask whether such a motive shall be allowed to continue, to influence the action of this country, or of its colonies. It is certain — a shameful certainty _ that for the moment it does prevail over every con
<c05>
sideration of interest, of humanity, and of honor. Lord Russell's answer to Mr. Adams embodied, it seems, the deliberate resolution of the Cabinet—for the Duke of Newcastle has communicated the same resolution to the Lieutenant Governor of Jamaica. The Duke's despatch has been laid before the two Houses of Assembly. We are glad to learn that a deep feeling had been excited thereby throughout the colony, and that a motion was about being made for the appointment of a committee of Assembly on the subject. It will not be long before the mind of England finds expression on a matter that so closely touches the strongest of national sentiments. For once, at any rate, the West India interest will be on the same side with the friends of the negro; and the partisans of the Confederacy mast be strong, indeed, to resist such a combination. It was but the other day that the negro, John Anderson, left this country for Liberia, after having ran the gauntlet of a law process, conducted through our Canadian courts, at the instance of the United States Government, for his reclamation. In that case, the fngitive was claimed under extradition treaty, having slain his attempted captor. But the law and the sentiment of the whole British nation were at one in holding that killing is no murder, when the life and liberty of an honest man are at stake. And our Government will soon be made to understand that if the whole four millions of American slaves could make their way to British soil, they must be defended there, though the world were thundering at our gates a demand for their surrender.—London Morning Star.

A LOYAL BANQUET.
On Thursday night, some prominent citizens of Maryland gave a banquet to Gen. Schenck, in Baltimore, at which Gov. Bradford, the Hon. Henry Winter Davis, the Hon. A. S. White, of Indiana, the Hon. Horace Maynard, of Tennessee, and other prominent gentlemen, were speakers. Gov. Bradford spoke feelingly of the loyalty of the people of Maryland. He said:
It will repudiate all local, all sectional, all subordinate, all selfish considerations—every consideration, in fact, that has the power or possibility of diverting its hand from the great work that occupies its heart. (Applause.) The loyal men of Maryland have but one purpose and one hope—but one ambition and one thought—and that is the Union, its restoration, its preservation, its perpetuity. (Applause.) We would save it, if it be possible, with all the institutions, and with every interest that has ever found shelter beneath it. Save it, and save it we may if from no other object than that we would heritors received it from their own glorious ancestors. (Applause.) We would, therefore, save the ark and all that it contains—every bird, and every beast, and every creeping thing that baa ever found refuge beneath its roof. (Applause.) But if this be not possible, and some must be thrown overboard, let them go—let them go. (Great applause.) Let them go—sacred, patriarchal, though some may believe—to the depths of the sea, so that we can save the ark itself, and its precious freight of popular government, public liberty, republican institutions, the home of our children, the hope of the universe— all, all to be annihilated whenever it goes down. (Applause, and three cheers.)
Gen. Schenck (who is Representative elect to the next Congress, from Ohio) made a patriotic and eloquent response, in which he proclaimed himself not a party man, but for the Union first, last, and all the while; parties may differ as to the mode of running the Government machine, but when it became a question of the safety of the machine itself, differences were at an end, and all good men would rush to the rescue.
The Hon. Henry Winter Davis spoke proudly of Maryland's faith and courage. He said the Union must be preserved, though this whole generation should fall in its defence:—
Perish in its defence? Why, what is this generation? It is the life of the men who are before me, it is our liberty and the union of this country, it is our willingness to endure all, and to be ready in our own persons to do what so many soldiers by the thousands have done, on every field of battle—to be prepared to die, that their blood be not in vain. By no dalliance in your ladies' chambers can this be accomplished, by no debating upon streets, nor by any consideration in the council, but by stubborn, hard, resolute, fearless blows upon the deadly field, where true men lay down and seal their patriotism with their blood; and they who live owe it to the memory of the dead that their blood shall not have been shed in vain. (Applause.) An armistice! say the doubtful, hesitating Union men. (A voice, "Traitors.") An armistice that would relax your arms would compel your submission: recognition of the Confederate States; the disruption of the American name, its eternal degradation; peace for a month, for a year, for five years, wars for generations, and anarchy to the end of time. (Applause.) Once make a division line between the North and South, said the speaker, and more than one will divide the North itself. One stone from the arch brings it in ruin on your heads. But who are they that moot these questions? They of the South do not talk of armistices; they are the men of the loyal States of the North, and of Maryland; they are those who have crept surreptitiously, under false pretences, into power, and now, in more than one great State, threaten to transfer the theatre of civil war from the rebellious to the loyal States. I speak in the presence of the military and political representatives of those States here this night, and I say rather than that the arm of the Government shall be palsied, welcome the spears to our breasts, welcome civil war to our soil, and let them know that we are not now to be frightened by civil war in the North, any more than when its hydra-head was raised in the South. (Applause.) I here recognize but two classes of men, and we confine them to no political geography: they are the enemies and friends of the Union, (applause.) whether they lire in Ohio, or in Missouri and Maryland. (Applause.) Shall those who now attempt to arrest the powers of the Government succeed? I say to those present, who stand now here with me upon the border of this terrific gulf, looking into it until oar eyes swim, that they will succeed, unless we say that we know no end to this war, no termination to this collision, other than the prostration of the rebellion, and that rebellion 'will be suppressed in the North as well M in the South. (Applause.) These are not boastful words. They are but the sober language of common sense. You are committed to the issue, yon are joined in the fight, and you cannot stop short of your own destruction or the destruction of your enemies, if you would Lay down your arms, and instantly the Coxes and Vallandighams, the Walls and Reeds, will try to drag the West to the South, and expel from the Union the Puritan States. Your alternative must be "victory or death."
Brave and patriotic words for a distinguished Marylander, putting to open shame a Northern faction!
<c06>
AN APPEAL FROM AN OFFICER OF THE 
 ARMY TO THE COUNTRY.
 HEADQUARTERS, SECOND DIVIS., SECOND CORPS, NEAR FALMOUTH, Va., Jan. 1, 1863.
To the Editor of the New York Times:
 The critical state of our government, just at this juncture, has induced me to risk being misinterpreted, and set before you some of the feelings and thoughts of an officer in the field, who yearns for the welfare of his country. Sometimes I hear, "there is apathy at home among a large class"; then, that "the disloyal are gaining over to themselves this "pathetic class"; that "thousands are crying for 'peace,' at all events." What does all this mean? What does it portend? I have left my precious family, and offered myself to my country; gone to the threatening points, breasted the storm, and thrown every obstruction I could in the way of the enemy, and am still facing him; but what boots it if there is no support from home- if there is nothing but indifference or open opposition there? Why struggle on and wet this soil with out blood, if there is no love of country among our people?
 Let the enemy come in like a whirlwind. Let the cities of Philadelphia and New York be turned over to pillage. Let the horrors of a desolating war sweep over the thickly populated districts of the Western and Middle States; then, 'perhaps, by-and-by, our good people will wake up to a sense of their sinful selfishness and folly. Peace! There is no peace. God will gives us no peace till we conquer it. We may change the theatre of the war, but we can have no peace short of the destruction of the country. From infancy I have been taught to love my country and to love freedom. At times, I have been able to apologize for slavery, but have always felt that it was a blot upon us. Now, must I sacrifice my country to save slavery? The rebels might have enjoyed their darling institution a while longer, but they would not have it so; they might still, perhaps, preserve a transitory remnant by promptly yielding to law and returning to allegiance, but this they will not do. Let us out with it; we have no alternative; let us destroy slavery, root and branch; we must do it in order to "subjugate" the persistent enemy of republican government.
 God grant us the strength and stamina to meet the issue boldly! If we do not, He will bring us to it by chastening and scourging. This is a hard duty-a terrible, a solemn duty; but it is a hard duty-a terrible, as solemn duty; but it is a duty. I am not prepared to see this government destroyed; not willing to give my children anarchy and shame for an inheritance; not ready for a patched-up peace that will cause the land to be again drenched fied at the prospect of a border that five hundred thousand troops could not more than half man. No, we will bear our own burdens, and not bequeath them to our children. While I have a corporal's guard to lead, I will lead them against the enemy of my country.
 Mr. Editor, you are a writer. This is your business. Work, work-destroy this fatal apathy-convince the faint-hearted of their hopeless folly, and root out the insidious, poisonous plants of disloyalty that are growing up in the shape of partisan opposition to the government.
 Yours, truly, O. O. HOWARD, Brig. Gen. Vols.

WHAT A MAJOR GENERAL SAYS OF MCCLELLAN.
 In consequence of an error occurring in the report of the testimony of Major General Hitchcock, at the McDowell Court of Inquiry, as published in the New York Times, the General makes a correction, and then gives his opinion of Gen. McClellan's neglect to properly protect Washington:-
 "The Court asked my opinion touching the responsibilities in case of a disobedience of orders by Gen. McClellan, in not leaving for the security of Washington the force designated by the four commanders of the four army corps composing the army of the Potomac.
 In answering this question, I placed the responsibility where military law and army usage have always placed it-with the officer who, as was assumed in the question, had disobeyed the order-to wit, with Gen. McClellan, and not with the President, who, in making good his original order, by the detention of a part of McDowell's Corps in front of Washington, merely took a necessary step to repair a mischief committed by Gen. McClellan himself, in not attending to the order of the 8th of March, which was reiterated through the Secretary of War on the 12th of the same month. In the Times' report of my testimony, this portion of it is inverted, and I am put forward-I am bound to suppose by accident-as placing the responsibility with the President, and not with Gen. McClellan.
 My opinion was, and was so stated to the Court, that Gen. McClellan, in disobeying the orders of the President, took upon himself the responsibility for all the consequences that might follow such disobedience. This is a plan military principle, which every soldier understands.
 I will add here that Gen. McClellan's proper course, under the orders of the President, was first to obey the orders of the President, punctually and precisely, and then to consider whether he had sufficient force left for the execution of his plan of going to Richmond via Yorktown and the peninsula. If not, he should have reported to the President before starting on his expedition. If, in that case, the President had required him to proceed in the execution of his plans, all the world would have placed the responsibility at the door of the President. Gen. McClellan did not do this. He commenced his expedition, 'neglecting' the point so 'explicitly' ordered by the President, and put a large part of his force in motion for the Isthmus before the President knew of that 'neglect,' and thus took upon himself the entire responsibility for all that followed.
 A brilliant success has often protected an officer from the penalty affixed by law to disobedience of orders; but it will be a new feature in military history when failure, resulting from a departure of plans and orders, shall be visited upon the superior, whose plan was not followed, and whose orders were 'neglected.' Respectfully, &c., E. A. HITCHCOCK."

GEN. FITZ-JOHN PORTER.
How does it come to pass that every paper with South-side predilections denounces the verdict in the case of Gen. Fitz-John Porter? The Argus says, "There was no evidence to convict." How does the editor of that paper know there was no evidence to convict? Did he listen patiently and impartially to all the testimony that was put in? Did he not only hear the language of witnesses, but scan the countenances and watch the appearance of each upon the stand, so as to judge whether or not they appeared truthful? Is it to be supposed, that sitting in his sanctum, reading indifferently detached portions of
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
the testimony, he has the means of coming at a more correct conclusion than the gentlemen who sat on the trial? 
 Because Gen. Porter is a Democrat, and a friend of Gen. McClellan, muse be necessarily be innocent of the charges preferred against him? Cannot a Democrat sometimes do a wrong act? We must admit that Gen. Fitz-John Porter is guilty of the charges preferred against him beyond a reasonable doubt,—that each specific charge was fully and undeniably proved.—or we must charge the men who so decided, after hearing the testimony, with perjury and gross violation of all the obligations growing out of the relation they held to an officer, who had earned laurels in years past by his sword. Such men as composed that court—men who had been associated with Gen. Porter as politicians and soldiers, holding in their hands his military character, valued more by a soldier than his life—would not have rendered a verdict that was to bring lasting disgrace upon him, unless the clearest, the sternest, the most unrelenting sense of duty and regard for their oaths and their country had demanded it at their hands.
 It is equally the duty of all loyal citizens to acquiesce in the judgment: of that court. Better far that one man suffer, brave and skillful though he may have been as an officer, than that the commands of superior officers should be disregarded in time of war, and the laws of the country be set at defiance. —American Sentinel.

HON. CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS AND THE 
LONDON EMANCIPATION SOCIETY.
 On the 16th ult., a deputation from the Executive Committee of the Emancipation Society waited upon our Minister to England, Mr. Adams, to present him with a resolution approving Mr. Lincoln’s emancipation policy. Among the addresses made to him, the following will be read with interest:—
 The Hon. And Rev. Baptist Noel said he cordially approved Mr. Lincoln’s policy. He had observed Mr. Lincoln’s honest intention to maintain the Constitution on the one hand, and to do what the constitution allowed, on the other, for the liberation of the slave. The President had used the war power which had been put into his hands, and he (Mr. Noel) hoped that, under God’s blessing, it might be the means of bringing the rebellion to a close. In abstaining from taking the same course in the Border loyal States, he recognized the President’s submission to the Constitution. But he (Mr. Noel) hoped and trusted that the loyal States would accept the liberal offer which the Government had made: and that, before long, America would be free from the stain of slaver. (Applause.)
 The Rev. Newman Hall said the opinion of this country on the American struggle had been greatly misrepresented. The leading newspapers, which were supposed to represent public opinion, really did not represent the feelings of the masses. Many of the upper and middle classes had been misled on the question. But the working classes had not. No meetings had been called for the support of slavery, while the meetings that had been held against it had been of the most triumphant character. All the opposition that had been attempted had been an utter failure. He would just give one illustration of the inconsistency of those who misrepresented public opinion. In the Times of the day before there had beer, a leading article, in the first paragraph of which the President had been condemned, on the high ground of philanthropy, for not issuing the Proclamation, while in the next paragraph he had been condemned for what he had done on the ground that he had invaded the Constitution. Now, when one paragraph in a lading journal contradicted another, he did not think there was mach danger that the great body of the people would fall into error on the question. (Hear.)
Mr. Jacob Bright said he concurred in what had already been said. In Lancashire, where they should find opposition to the continuance of the war, if they were to find it anywhere, the working classes were almost unanimously in favor of the North. He had seen the question tested in Rochdale and many other places, and in these places he had seen a strong, warm and earnest feeling in tavor of emancipation displayed. (Approbation.) 
 Mr. Adams replied in the following terms:—
 Gentlemen—I receive this expression of the sentiments of so respectable a body with great pleasure and great satisfaction. I need not say how encouraging such manifestations will be to those per the United States, who have been driven into the necessity of maintaining such a painful struggle as has been carried on by them in America in devotion to the great principles of public law and public order. I am very much encouraged by the circumstance that there is growing here, and in Europe generally, a better conception than has heretofore prevailed of the principles involved in the struggle.
 The election of Mr. Lincoln was a great declaration of the majority of the people of the United States in favor of the principle of human freedom. The signification of it was that the persons then elected to places of responsibility should be so far imbued with that principle as that, while they carried on the Government in the spirit of freedom, they should at the same time avoid the necessity of a struggle of physical force. It was the conviction, on the part of the opponents of that policy, that the result would be as certain by that process, though perhaps much slower, that drove them into the desperate measures of stopping it at the threshold by violence. The consequence was, that the Government was attacked at its very foundations. The struggle to preserve it has been going on from that time to this. If, therefore, there has been what might otherwise be thought extraordinary haste and precipitate energy in any of the measures which have been taken by the Government, it has not been owing so much to any will of their own, as to the fact that the violence of the resistance has caused the necessity for them.
 I think the idea which it is desirable to present distinctly is this—that the struggle has been one of self-defence against the aggressive system that was threatening destruction to the whole edifice of government as it stood, for the reason that it was too favorable to freedom. And with regard to this proclamation, the desire on the part of the President of the United States has been, as I conscientiously believe, not to hasten the measure of emancipation any faster than popular sentiment in the slave States would demand nor any faster than the emergency should dictate, or in other words, simply so to act as to prevent those very convulsions which war is too apt to precipitate. Therefore, in all matters incidental to the maintenance of his policy, regard has been steadily had to the possible avoidance of those dangers of servile war which necessarily must have been foreseen by all thoughtful persons during the contest. Therefore, while always keeping in view the ultimate consequences of this most remarkable, and I may say unprecedented struggle. I trust that the great results which we all hope to arrive at will be eventually reached, not, perhaps, immediately—not, perhaps, to-day or to-morrow, or the next day, but ultimately, by a steady perseverance in one course, which may force the consent of all parties, and yet avert the fearful cousequences which we might naturally apprehend.
 I am extremely gratified in the assurances which have been given by several gentlemen with respect to the state of popular feeling England on this subject. I have myself had occasion to notice the fact that, although some of the exponents of the public sentiment have appeared to be at times exceedingly harsh upon the United States, yet that when opportunity offered for an appeal to the people them-selves, the sentiment has uniformly responded to the policy which the United States Government have enunciated. I am, therefore, encouraged to hope that the clouds which have hitherto gathered, and at times somewhat portentously, over the amicable relations of the two countries, have now more and more the appearance of vanishing from the sky. I feel sanguine that the expression of sympathy from here, which I have been lately the medium of repeatedly communicating to my countrymen, will have the effect of clearing away many impressions that may have been received by reading the attacks of hostile journals, and taking them too much as the true expression of the sentiment of the people. I think, by understanding distinctly—which they will now have the opportunity of doing—that the policy of Great Britain is not retrograde on the subject of slavery. Wherever it may yet exist, and that it is true to the former pledges it so nobly gave to the world of its devotion to the principles of human freedom—the growing conviction of that fact will have the effect in America of restoring those amicable relations and reviving those warm sentiments which ought to be entertained between the two kindred peoples at all times. Gentlemen, I shall not longer detain 
<c02>
you. I will Just say that I shall have pleasure in communicating to my Government a knowledge of the sentiments which have been expressed here by you to day."

The Liberator.
No Union with slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY.^FEBRUARY 6, 1863.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSORIBERS.
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers—i. e-, such as are owing from January 1, 1862, to January 1, 1863— that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual.) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULE. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness, and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirtieth Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti Slavery Society was held at the Music Hall in Boston, on Thursday, Jan. 29th, 1863.
EDMUND QUINCY, President, called the meeting to order at 10 o'clock.
Rev. WM. G. BABCOCK, of Scituate, offered prayer.
The Treasurer of the Society, EDMUND JACKSON, Esq., presented his Annual Report, duly certified by WM. I. Bow DITCH, Esq., the Auditor. It showed receipts for the year of 92388.91; expenditures, $238l.95. Balance in the treasury, $6.96.
The Report was accepted.
SAMUEL MAT, Jr., from the Committee of Arrangements presented the following lists of Committees, &c.: — 
Committee am Business—William Lloyd Garrison, Theodore D. Weld, Wendell Phillips, John H. Stephenson, Parker Pillsbury, Charles L Remond, Andrew T. Foss, Stephen S. Foster, Henry C. Wright, George W. Stacy, Wm. Wells Brown, Sarah J. Nowell, Elizabeth U. Chase.
Committee to Nominate Officers for the ensuing Year— Bourne Spooner, Plymouth; William Ashby, Newbury-port; Samuel May, Jr., Leicester; Josiah Hayward, Salem; John Clement, Townsend; Samuel Dyer, Abington; Samuel Barrett, Concord; Jonathan Buffum, Lynn; Elias Richards, Weymouth; Alvan Howes, Barnstable; Mary Willey, Boston.
Committee on Finance—James N. Buffum, Lynn; E. D. Draper, Hopedale; Lewis Ford, West Brookfield; Joseph Merrill, Danvers; Reuben H. Ober, Boston.
Assistant Secretaries—Samuel May, Jr.; Wendell P. Garrison.
After some amendments, by addition of names, the Committees and Secretaries above-named were unanimously elected.
Mr. May, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, made a statement with regard to the holding of this Annual Meeting but a single day.
Letters were read from A. M. POWELL, of Ghent, N. Y., and Hon. SAMUEL GALE, of Montreal; the latter having been addressed to Mrs. Child, in behalf of the Ladies' Subscription Anniversary.
ANDREW T. FOSS, of Manchester, N. H., gave an interesting account of his recent lecturing tour in the State of Maine, and its encouraging results. He had found the pulpits and churches of different denominations very cordially opened to him, had spoken twice in the State House at Augusta to large audiences, receiving the public thanks of the same, and, best of all, had found nine-tenths of the people strongly in favor of the Emancipation policy of the President.
EDWIN THOMPSON, of Walpole, spoke earnestly and stirringly upon the prospects of the country, and of the Anti Slavery cause. He adduced many in-public and conspicuous, as fully supporting the view he took of affairs.
Mr. GARRISON reported the following resolutions from the Business Committee:—
Whereas, (to quote the language of John Quincy Adams,) "military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and slavery among the rest; that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where- slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the Prescient of the United Slates, but the Commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves; and that from the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, in every way in which it can be interfered with "; and,
Whereas, the slaveholding section of the Union has for the last two years been in open rebellion against the Federal Government, and is still waging malignant and bloody war, under the leadership of an impious slave oligarchy, for the avowed purpose of crushing free institutions, and making slavery the corner-stone of an independent confederacy; therefore,
1. Resolved, That slavery being the source and sole cause of the rebellion, and the rebellion being for the sole purpose of perpetuating slavery, from the hour that hostile shots compelled the capitulation of Fort
Sumter, it became not only the martial prerogative but the constitutional duty of the President to decree the total abolition of slavery in every slave State, in order to stop a frightful effusion of blood, prevent the
needless sacrifice of an immense number of lives, bring the rebellion to a speedy termination, and thus place the unity of the republic upon an indissoluble basis.
2. Resolved, That in delaying to strike an annihilating blow at slavery, and treating it as something too sacred even for the strong arm of military power to touch,—and in endeavoring to conciliate, and win back to their allegiance, the rebellious slave-traffickers of the South, by an assurance of the prompt enforcement of the old proslavery guarantees by the Federal
Government,—the President and his Cabinet showed themselves, for the time being, to be given over to judicial blindness and perilous infatuation,
and allowed the strength of the entire slave population to be actively and unceasingly wielded in support of the rebellion, and to the discomfiture of the Federal forces.
3. Resolved, That while deploring a procrastination so fraught with danger, suffering and guilt, we, nevertheless, rejoice, " with joy unspeakable," that at
last the President was constrained, on the first day of January, 1863, "as an act of justice," and as essential to the salvation of the country, to proclaim the emancipation of more than three millions of slaves,
belonging to the traitors in arms; and we hail the act as constituting a great historic era, carrying with it the approval and benediction of every true patriot, and giving a staggering blow to the rebellion; and none but traitors, and those who are in sympathy with treason, will be arrayed against its enforcement. Nevertheless,
4. Resolved, That the exigencies of the country, moral consistency, and the highest political wisdom demand the immediate suppression of the remaining
portion of slavery, exempted in the President's Proclamation: sod to this end we earnestly implore the President, seconded by Congress before its dissolution
on the fourth of March, to " proclaim liberty through out all the land unto alt the inhabitants thereof"; so shall the issue presented to mankind be clear and definite between impartial freedom and slaveholding despotism, the American flag made the symbol of genuine democracy, the axe be laid at the root of the rebellion, the certain and glorious triumph of the Federal government be secured from the Lakes to the Gulf, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific every dweller upon the soil shall be in full possession of his natural, nalienable, God-given rights.
<c03>
STEPHEN S. FOSTER, of Worcester, addressed the Society in regard to the proper position and existing duties of Abolitionists. Mr. F.'s speech was a strong
and eloquent plea for a thorough onion of the North, and of all antislavery men, upon the ground of absolute, unconditional emancipation in every portion of the country, and insisting that the officers of the Government, both civil and military, shall be men who trill heartily sustain and enforce the most radical anti-slavery policy.
CHARLES L. REMOND, of Salem, thought that the anti-slavery people were far too much disposed to be satisfied with political arrangements which do not recognize and protect the colored man's equal rights in this country, as a man and citizen. At one moment we are called to rejoice for the Proclamation of Emancipation, and at mother are told it is only a piece of parchment. At no time have the spite and hatred towards the colored man been more venomous than now.
Mr. OSGOOD, of Salisbury, denounced the existing Democratic party of the country as false to every idea an-1 principle for which the recognized fathers and leaders of Democracy had ever contended.
S. S. FOSTER rose to make an inquiry of Mr. Osgood, relating to his past course in supporting men for office who have not been faithful to the principles of true democratic anti-slavery. Mr. Osgood yielded the floor, and
JAMES N. BUFFUM vindicated the National Administration, and the President in particular, from charges made against them by some of the speakers.
CHARLES L. REMOND replied, reiterating his dissatisfaction with the Ami-Slavery Societies for what he deemed a too ready satisfaction with the so-called Emancipation policy of the Government.
Adjourned to 2½, P. M.
AFTERNOON. Met according to adjournment, the President of the Society in the chair.
HENRY C. WRIGHT offered the following resolutions, which he advocated in some brief and earnest remarks:—
5. Resolved, That the great issue between freedom and slavery, free institutions and slave institutions, free labor and slave labor, now being tried in this nation, can never be decided in a war of bullets, but must be settled in a war of IDEAS; therefore, the friends of impartial justice and freedom have no cause to be disheartened by the temporary and partial reverses that have attended the movements of the Federal armies.
6. Resolved, That the prospect of the abolition of slavery and the triumph of freedom over all the earth, so far as this nation is concerned, has never been so bright as at this hour; and whatever may be the immediate results of the civil war, our faith in the principle of the equality of man as to natural rights is unshaken, and our hearts are made glad by every step taken by the Government towards universal emancipation.
He moved their reference to the Business Committee, which was voted. They were subsequently reported back to the Society by the Committee.
EDWIN THOMPSON asked for the reading of the resolutions previously reported to the Society, and they were read.
He supported the resolutions as, in his judgment, unexceptionable and unanswerable. He referred to Mr. Remond's remarks in the morning, and, after speaking of the equal rights, as citizens, which the colored people now enjoy so extensively in Massachusetts, in the public schools, at the ballot box, in the railroad cars and all public conveyances, &c, said he was astonished to hear Mr. Remond say that the prevailing enmity to the colored people was as great here to-day as it had ever been.
Mr. OSGOOD, of Salisbury, continued his remarks of the morning, closing with n confident prediction of the speedy triumph of the principles of liberty.
The Finance Committee announced that they would call upon the members and friends present for their annual donations to the Society.
<illegible>
the steady improvement in the character addition, and circumstances of the colored people in the United States. He spoke especially of the capability of the colored people to maintain themselves comfortably and respectably, and to contribute to the general welfare of the country. He spoke of the wretched food dealt out to the slaves of the Southwest, and said that, when freemen, they would require very different food, clothing, &c., and so open a new and vast market for the manufactures of the East, and the produce of the Northwest. He closed with some entertaining anecdotes of his while relations in Kentucky, &c.
AUGUSTUS COBURN, Esq., of Haverhill, spoke in an encouraging strain of the present prospects of the cause of freedom. He differed from Mr. Wright that slavery could not be put down by bullets; it never would be put down, except by bullets.
The Committee on the nomination of officers presented their Report as follows:—
President—EDMUND QUINCY, of Dedham.
Vice Presidents—Bourne Spooner, Plymouth; William Ashby, Newburyport; Adin Ballou, Hopedale; Jefferson Church, Springfield; Josiah Henshaw. West Brookfield; Henry I. Bowditch, Boston; James N. Buffum, Lynn; John T. Hilton, Brighton; Ellis Allen, Mod field; George S. Flint, Rutland; John Bailey, Lynn; David P. Harmon, Haverbill; Thomas T. Stone, Bolton; Ezekiel Thacher, Barnstable; Charles Lenox Remond, Salem; John Clement, Townsend; Atkinson Stanwood, Newburyport; Joshua T. Everett, Princeton; Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitchburg; George Miles, Westminster; Timothy Davis, Framingham; Zebina H. Small, Harwich; William Pope, Jr., Dorchester.
Corresponding Secretary—SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Leicester.
Recording Secretary—ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Boston.
Treasurer— EDMUND JACKSON, Boston.
Auditor—WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Brookline.
Councillors,—William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Marin W. Chapman. Charles K. Whipple, Anne W. Weston, John T. Sargent, Charles E. Hodges, Ezra H. Heywood.
The Report was unanimously accept, d, and the persons named duly elected officers of the Society.
The President spoke of the great loss which the Society had sustained in the death of its Senior Vice President, ANDREW ROBESON of New Bedford, who had home nobly and unchanged in spirit the various trials of prosperous fortune, and of loss of property and friends, continuing a faithful Abolitionist to the last moment of his life.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER again spoke, to plead for a stricter and more radical standard of political and moral action.
Mr. GARRISON further reported from the Business Committee as follows:—
7. Resolved, That while we feel thankful for the Proclamation of January 1st, we respectfully but earnestly call upon the President to see that its execution be placed in the hands of those who are known to believe in its rightfulness and necessity; and that it be made a practical fact to the slaves, as well as a test of loyalty in the army, by placing them in the same category and on the same fooling with all others who are ready to die, if need be, in the service of our common country.
8. Resolved, That the question of emancipation, under the Proclamation, is assuming such gigantic dimensions as imperatively to require a new Bureau in the Department of Government at Washington, for the special purpose of guarding the rights and interests of the liberated bondmen, providing them with land and labor, and giving them a fair chance to develop their faculties and powers through the necessary educational instrumentalities, and we urge upon Congress the vast importance of instituting such a Bureau with out delay.
WENDELL PHILLIPS spoke briefly in their support, and of the results of the observation be had within a few days been enabled to make, at Washington, of the purposes of the President and the Administration.
Adjourned to 7, P. M.
<c04>
EVENING. Met again at the Music Hall, the President in the chair.
The venerable JESSE STEADMAN, of Springfield, Vermont, addressed the meeting. At the age of nearly 82 he had come, he said, from his distant borne, to attend this meeting, and look into the faces of the Massachusetts Abolitionists. He spoke easily, clearly, with an evident keen perception of the real portion of things, and with frequent applause.
Wm. LLOYD GARRISON reported from the Business Committee the following resolutions:—
Whereas, the moat untiring efforts have been made by that mercenary and depraved sheet, the London Times, and by leading journals throughout the kingdom, to commit the public sentiment of England to the side of the traitorous Confederate States,—and, for a time, with such apparent success as to make it seem as though that sentiment was overwhelmingly pro-slavery, to the perplexity, grief and astonishment of the friends of free institutions universally; therefore,
9. Resolved, That it gives us unspeakable satisfaction to see that a powerful reaction is taking place across the Atlantic, in stern condemnation of the Southern Slaveholders' Rebellion, and in outspoken sympathy with the North; and we desire particularly to proffer our hearty thanks and our expressions of admiration to the operatives and working men of Lancahires and other counties, who, though on the verge of starvation by the failure of cotton supply and manufacture, in consequence of the war, have sent an address of sympathy and rejoicing to President Lincoln in view of his Emancipation Proclamation, nobly preferring mill to suffer for lack of bread, rather than to give any countenance to the traitorous designs of the relentless enemies of free labor and free institutions.
10. Resolved, That the cause of freedom, not only in this country but throughout the world, is signally indebted to the indefatigable efforts of such men as GEORGE THOMPSON, JOHN BRIGHT, Prof. CAIRNES. Prof. NEWMAN, JOHN STUART MILL, WILLIAM E. FOSTER and Rev. NEWMAN HALL, and of such journals as the London Daily News, Star, Dial, and Anti-Slavery Advocate, to enlighten the people of England respecting the real nature and tendency of the conflict now going on in America, and to keep them true to the principles of civil and religious liberty, unseduced by the wiles of secession, and unbribed by the temptations of commercial and manufacturing cupidity.
These resolutions were supported in a speech of great power and eloquence by Mr. Garrison.
Mr. G. was followed by WENDELL PHILLIPS, in a speech of considerable length, and evidently of very deep interest to the audience. [The speech of Mr. Phillips may be expected to appear in full next week, as photographically reported.]
Mr. GARRISON reported from the Business Committee the following additional resolutions:—
11. Resolved, That in the invitation of Gen. George B. McClellan to Huston, and the offering to him a public reception and public honors, when taken in connection with the fact that he tins been recently removed from his command, by reason of incompetency and failure to obey the orders of the Government, we sec too palpable evidence of a spirit in Boston hostile to the Government, willing to compromise the great principles of Justice and Right, and hastening to strike hands with Seymour, Wood, Cox, and other enemies of the Union, in welcoming slaveholders and slavery back to the control and mastery of the Federal Government.
12. Resolved, That in the deaths of two of the oldest and most faithful of the Vice Presidents of this Society,— ANDREW ROBESON, of New Bedford, and WILLIAM WHITING, of Concord,—we have sustained a loss which we can hardly expect to see repaired to our cause or our association. Their ripe and manly virtues, their steadfast and firm adherence to anti-slavery principle in sunshine and in shade, their modest yet fearless self consecration to the cause of the Abolition of Slavery in all circumstances of private trial and public temptation, endear their memory to us, and will ever keep it in deserved honor.
The resolutions before the Society were then adopted by a general vote, and without dissent.
On motion of JOHN H. STEPHENSON, Esq., of Boa-ton, and seconded, it was
Voted, That the resolutions in the series now adopted, which relate to the execution of the Proclamation, and to the establishment of a Bureau of Emancipation, be fairly engrossed and transmitted to the President of the United States, feigned by the President and Secretaries of this Society.
Adjourned, sine die.
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Secretaries. 
WENDELL P. GARRISON, Secretaries.

SPEECH OF WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
Delivered at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts
 Anti-Slavery Society, in Music Hall, Jan. 30.
MR. PRESIDENT,—I am proud and delighted to follow in the footsteps of my venerable predecessor, [JESSE STEADMAN, Esq., of Vermont,] who has just taken his seat. He sets an inspiring example to men much younger than himself, in his devotion to liberty, his uncompromising abhorrence of slavery, and his desire to see man recognized and treated as man the world over.
I do not think that my excellent friend intended to reflect at all upon my non-resistance principles, in the case which he suggested as putting them to a severe trial. If that doctrine is true, it is capable of meeting every emergency, and resisting every temptation. If it is right, then no human being may plead his or her necessity to have the right put aside; because principle is above all personal considerations of safety, divine and eternal; and I see no conflict between the most thorough non resistance, and the application of it in any supposable case of violence and outrage. Never did I have a stronger assurance in my own soul than now, that it is true Christianity, and cannot be overthrown; but it is a doctrine greatly misunderstood, often wantonly caricatured, and so rendered ridiculous in the eyes of the unreflecting. But, Sir, this is not the place to discuss the question of non resistance.
It seems to me, Mr. President, that the least we can do, before our final adjournment, is to make a distinct recognition of a most cheering fact—that while, for some lime pant, the sentiment of England has seemed to be strangely gravitating toward the Southern Confederacy, and disposed to give it sympathy and aid; now, all over the kingdom, there is an uprising of that good, the true, the virtuous, who are giving us the real opinion, of the people, in strong sympathy with the American Government, and in decided condemnation of the rebellion. Particularly noticeable is the case of the noble, suffering, starving operative, of Lancashire and other counties, who are presenting to the world the sublimes! spectacle of fidelity to the right under the severest trial; for if any thing will tempt men to compromise their principles, it is when they see their wives and children starving, and that by sacrificing their integrity, they can procure bread. But the working men of England have nobly trodden the temptation under their feet, and.aid to the Southern demon, "Got thee behind me, Satan!" As their Address is in few words. I deem it due to those noble working men to read it to the Society:
'To his Excellency Abraham Lincoln, 
 President of the United States:
SIR—We who offer to you this address are Englishmen and working men. We prize as our dearest inheritance, bought for us by the blood of our fathers, the liberty we enjoy—the liberty of free labor upon a free soil. We have, therefore, been accustomed to regard with veneration and gratitude the founders of the great Republic, in which the liberties of the Anglo Saxon race have been widened beyond all the precedents of the Old World, and in which there was nothing to condemn or to lament but the slavery and degradation of men guilty only of a colored skin or an African perentage. We have looked with admiration and sympathy upon the brave, generous, and untiring efforts of a large party in the Northern States to deliver the Union for this curse and shame. We re-


<c05>
joice, Sir, in your election to the Presidency as a splendid proof that the principle of universal freedom and equality were rising to the ascendant. We regarded with abhorrence the conspiracy and rebellion by which it was Sought at once to overthrow the supremacy of a Government based upon the most popular suffrage in the world, and to perpetuate the hateful inequalities of race. We have ever heard with indignation the slander that ascribes to England sympathy with a rebellion of slaveholders, and all proposals to recognize in friendship a Confederacy that boasts of slavery as its cornerstone. We have watched with the warmest interest the steady advance of your policy along the path of emancipation, and on this eve of the day on which your proclamation of freedom takes effect, we pray God to strengthen your hands, to confirm your noble purpose, and to hasten the restoration of that lawful authority which engages, in peace or war, by compensation or by force of arms, to realize the glorious principle on which your Constitution is founded—the brotherhood, freedom, and equality of all men.”
In the new order of things, I will not suggest an emendation, even in regard to the word "Constitution " in that Address; for I bold that, in consequence of the rebellion, slavery being in arms to destroy the Government and overturn all that is dear to us as freemen, it has made itself an outlaw, and has no constitutional right left, except to be capitally executed without delay. (Applause.) So that, whereas I was once a Disunionist, on moral grounds, I am now a very tenacious Unionist. (Loud cheers.) I am not willing, now, that the South shall go; for I think God has delivered her into our hands (loud applause)—not to do her any evil, but to save her from her deadliest curse and her colossal crime; and it will be to the everlasting condemnation of the Government, if it allow this sublime opportunity to pass without breaking every yoke, and letting the oppressed go free throughout the land. (Applause.) I have no Idea, therefore, of advocating a recognition of the independence of the Southern Confederacy; on the contrary — “Liberty and Union—one and inseparable—now and for ever!"
Let me say, Mr. President, that I think we, as Abolitionists, have a right to be jubilant in spirit on this occasion. I do not understand how it is possible for any man, white or colored, bring conversant with the history of our great struggle, to come here and talk in a desponding strain, as though, after more than thirty years of sacrifice and toil, "in season and out of season," the Anti-Slavery cause had virtually made no progress! Why, I would not continue to give my support to a cause that could not produce a better result than that! I would not believe in a God that, after thirty years' trial, proved that reliance upon Him availed nothing in the cause of soot-ring humanity! (Applause.) Our cause—at the outset, what was it? Nothing! Nothing, I mean, in regard to men, or numbers, or influence. What is it now? The commanding power of the nation. (Applause.) Then, there was only here and there a person willing in a whimper to acknowledge himself an anti-slavery man; now we have hosts in all the Free States—they are to be counted by hundreds of thousands—more or less deeply baptized into the spirit of our glorious 
enterprise, and ready to meet the final issue with the Slave Power. Thirty years ago, it was midnight with the Anti-Slavery cause; now it is the bright noon of day, with the sun shining in his meridian splendor. (Applause.) Thirty years ago, we were in the arctic regions, surrounded by icebergs; to-day, we are in the tropics, with the flowers blooming and the birds singing around us. I say this simply as a matter of contrast and comparison.
When our enterprise was commenced, of course, it was to be put down! Everybody said it must be put down. All over the country. North and South, there was a solemn determination that the hated cause of Abolitionism should be put down. The Church raid, "It must be suppressed"; the clergy said, "It must be. suppressed"; the commercial and manufacturing power of the land said, "It shall be suppressed "; all the political parties said, "It shall be suppressed; "all the wealth and power and fashion of the country declared, "It shall be suppressed"; and they all tried their best to suppress it. Did they succeed?
<illegible> been delivered front the hated Anti-Slavery agitation since its commencement? Have we been going backward or forward? Now, Sir, if our cause could not be put down by the combined power of this nation, thirty years ago, when it had scarcely a single adherent, what party shall hope to succeed in any effort to put it down at the present time, now that its friends and advocates are multitudinous? The idea is absurd! Whether we are many or few, one thing is certain—ours is the cause of God—the cause of man the world over. Who can put down the cause of God? Who can successfully measure weapons with God? Who is it that has given us strength and victory? God! And why is it that we have gone on, conquering and to conquer, seeing we have bad nothing but a simple, naked, abstract truth to apply to the hearts and consciences of the people? Because that truth is of God. " The Almighty has no attribute that can take sides with the slaveholder!” That is the secret of Anti-Slavery success and the cause of Pro-Slavery defeat. Who made that declaration? Thomas Jefferson. What State gave birth to the man who uttered it? Virginia; and Virginia, to-night, in this hall, is a witness to the divine nature of the Anti-Slavery cause, and testifies that no weapon against it can prosper. Public men have tried to put down the Anti-Slavery cause, and found themselves put down. Parties have tried desperately to extinguish it, and they have been broken in pieces. And so it will be to the end. Why, then, should we not always De in a hopeful state of mind? What though, temporarily, the heavens are dark? Heavy clouds interpose now and then between us and the son, but the sun is still behind, shining in his strength. The clouds are ephemeral and will pass away, but the sun shall come out again in the fullness of his mid-day glory. So, however dark may be the skies in a certain quarter,—and it depends very much upon the standpoint an individual occupies what he sees and what is his conclusion,—nevertheless, the Anti-Slavery cause is growing in strength and numbers every day and every hour. It has at last so changed the great Northern heart as to make it impossible for the slave-traders and stave drivers of the South any longer to remain in partnership with the North. It is a mighty moral change that has produced this convulsion in our land; and we need not shrink from the imputation, maliciously thrown by those who wish to convey the idea that we have done an evil work, that to us, as Abolitionists, is attributable the present rebellion of the South. Certainly, Sir, under God, it is true bat not to our condemnation. What has been our crime? Is there a decent man in this assembly, is there a truly honorable man in the world, who will venture to stand up here, or any where else, and assert that when we say, “ The laborer is worthy of his hire " it is fanaticism?-that when we say, the marriage institution ought not to be aboard to give unlimited license to lust, but sacredly maintained, we are guilty of fanaticism?-that when we say, God made the human intellect to be developed, and. therefore, there ought to be the conditions of development secured, it is fanaticism?-that when we say, there should be traffic in human flesh-the babe belongs to the mother who bore it, the husband has a sacred right to his wife, the wife has a sacred right to her husband— we ought to be branded as fanatics and extremists? I maintain, Sir, that we have done nothing more than this: we have advocated simple honesty, simple humanity, simple justice between man and man; and they are the fanatics, disorganizers, infidels and traitors, in a most evil sense, who spurn these sentiments, in their application to the negro race, and endeavor to shield from infamy the accused system of slavery at the South. (Applause.)
What a cheering gathering we had last evening in this hall! What a collection of brains and of hearts! What a willingness to come forward again, and on the altar of bleeding humanity to lay generous contributions, that still the struggle of ideas may go on, the moral fight be continued; that still the American Anti-Slavery Society may be enabled to go forth, ed-
<c06>
ucating the conscience and the heart of the North, and confirming it more and more in favor of; immediate and universal emancipation!
 My friend, Mr. foster, on being interrogated as the his views on the state of the country to day, sail— “I think the cause of Liberty will triumph.” Se do I. I know it will triumph. In any fair field, when was Liberty ever vanquished? Wherever freedom of speech was left, when, 1 ask, was Liberty defeated in argument, or driven back with shame? I have that the oppressed are to be set free. Do I know precisely when, or how? No—God only knows. Still, it is as settled a fact as the law of gravitation, that the time is coming—I believe it is near—when every chain shall fall, and every bondman stand erect, the freedman of the Lord. (Loud applause.) Yet, Sir, I am not inclined at any time to be over-jubilant. I believe my friends will bear me witness that I have never taken any change, however favorable to our cause, very extravagantly; and if I have been lest conspicuously exultant in view of the Presidents Emancipation Act, it is not because I have not felly realized the vast importance of the measure; it is not because I do not regard it as having a momentous bearing upon the success of the Anti-Slavery cause, and the suppression of the rebellion. True, men parchment is nothing; and if the Government means to leave it just as it is, and to allow men to lead its armies who have no sympathy with the proclamation, and no regard for the oppressed. I do not know that much will come of it. But, sir, I take it her granted that the Government, having committed itself to an anti-slavery policy, and declared more than three-fourths of the slave population free, means to be equally earnest and consistent in carrying that proclamation into effect; and the cheering news that comes to us to-day that no less than eighty officers of the army of the Potomac are to be “sent to Coventry,” because of their opposition to the proclamation, (applause,) indicates a determination on the part of the government to see that the right men, like Phelps and Fremont, (applause,) are put in the right places.
 Sir, I do not forget, for one moment, the work that remains to be done. Gentlemen, personally unknown to me, and but recently converted, frequently say to me,—evidently very sincerely,—“Mr. Garrison, we congratulate you on the termination of your labors! You can now disband the anti-slavery organization, and cease sending forth anti-slavery lecturers-for your work is done.” I have no doubt it gives these gentlemen real pleasure to say this; but it is a little too rose-colored, —that is all. They do not yet understand the nature or the power of the monster to be slain. It is true that he has been speared through and through many times, and that he begins to spent blood,—which indicates that he is in his dying agonies; but I must see him dead and buried before I shall consider my work done. (Applause.)
 Let no one suppose that the Abolitionists wish to continue in the field a moment longer than their labors are needed. I would to God that this might be the last meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society—that the annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in May next, might be the last meeting of that Society, in consequence of the instant and eternal overthrow of slavery in our land; but, however cheering the signs of the times, surely, while millions are still in bondage, we must not dream even of a respite. We have a great deal yet to do. Our mission is a very distinct one. Nobody accuses us of looking after the loaves and fishes of office. We have made ourselves, for the slave’s sake, outlaws for the last thirty years, and by our principles cut ourselves off from all hope of worldly preferment or emolument. We are not partisans, in a political sense; we are not sectarians, in a religious sense. We stand outside of all parties and sects, and beyond their control; have we are able to see them, measure them, and speak of them as they are, without partiality, and with all possible fidelity. That is our mission. No political party, of course, seeks to effect a moral regeneration of the people; but it is, or may be, the product of such a regeneration. A great deal is said about the <illegible> of the ballot. Granted, that is has its value and importance in the termination of a struggle like ours. But there is something behind the ballot. It is that truth which makes a man see, in the despised and hated slave, a copy of himself—a brother man—and feel that he ought to “remember those in bonds as bound with them,” and to give his vote, therefore, to strike the chain off the slave as effectively as he <illegible>. Every one who is intelligent on this question know that, just in proportion to the amount of moral influence exerted by the Abolitionists in any community, there is a sure political result—namely, Republicanism. It is cause and effect.
 A great deal has been done to mitigate the cruel, unnatural, and unchristian spirit of complexional caste in our country. Yet my friend, Mr. Remond, was perfectly right in saying there is still a vast amount of it in existence; malignant, active, unappeasable, ever seeking occasion to insult and brow beat the colored man, and to drive him to the wall. Our work, therefore, is still to testify against this wicked spirit; to show how utterly unmanly and brutal it is; and by a constant presentation of the claims of our colored brethren to justice and humanity, at last get those claims acknowledged and allowed, in every part of the country. 
 Again, sir, we see cropping out at this time, all ever the North, a great deal of sedition—democratic sedition. Think of a democracy which goes for the slave auction—for making man the property of man!—which’s ready to lick the feet of a bloody, rebellious and most impious slave oligarchy!—which labors by day and by night to put down freedom of speech and of the press at the North, and to protect and perpetuate charted slavery at the South! That, Sir, is all the democracy left in the land. I hold it to be form hell, and that it ought to be sent thither. (Loud applause.) It is impudent, deflant, factious, devilish to the last degree. It talks of successful opposition to the Government—of winning back the rebellious South, by concession and compromise, to exercise absolute supremacy over the whole country; but it is counting without its host. There is a reserved moral power in this mighty North of ours, that will, in the hour of extremity, sweep coward like Niagara, and overwhelm every vestige of this satanic democracy. (Applause.) Our duty is a brand it by its right name—not for any party purpose, but because such a democracy is the synonym of Robbery, of Cruelty, of Adultery, of Lust, of Murder,—in a word, of accursed Slavery.
 Let us go on, anti slavery men and women, rejoicing that thus far we have been enabled to continue, by the help of God; and let us not dream of disbanding our organization or furling our banner, until from the Atlantic to the Pacific, every human being shall rejoice in his freedom. (Applause.) Then, and not until then, will our work as Abolitionists be accomplished. Then, indeed, we shall no longer need an American Anti Slavery Society, or anti-slavery papers, of any anti-slavery agitation; but we shall all he united as brethren in the spirit of Justice, and sitting under the tree of Liberty, with none to molest or make afraid. The North and the South—now armed in deadly conflict with each other—will embrace each other fraternally, and all sectional animosities and rivalries be banished forevermore.
 Our next work will be, as philanthropists, to do all in our power to succor and elevate the liberated bondmen; to see that they have all desirable means of education—that they are fully protected on the soil where they belong, in all their rights and interests—that they are fairly paid for their labor, and allowed to possess land and become freeholders, like others who are of a different complexion. But as Abolitionists distinctively, our special work is to raise the public sentiment of the North, morally and religiously, to the height of demanding of the Government, in this emergency, the utter annihilation of slavery, not only as a means of suppressing the rebellion, but, in the language of the President, which I delight to report, “AS AN ACT OF JCSTICE,” to receive the blessing of Almighty God and the approving verdict of an admitting world! (Loud applause.) 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE ANTI-SLAVERY ANNIVERSARIES.
In compliance with the public invitation of the estimable women whose names were appended to the call for the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRTPTION ANNIVERSARY, a large gathering of the devoted and persistent friends of universal freedom came together in Music Hall, On Wednesday evening last, to congratulate each other on the marked success of the cause during the past year, to take counsel as to the line of duty to be pursued in the present anomalous state of the country, and to contribute of their means for the continuance of those moral instrumentalities and efforts which have been so wonderfully blessed in exciting a strong abhorrence of slavery, and deep sympathy for the oppressed. The various sections of the State were well represented, and there were many from other parts of the country. It was inspiring to see present so numerous a body of the anti-slavery standard bearers, who, through the storms and conflicts of many a lingering year, have ever exhibited a faith that nothing could shake, and a courage that nothing could daunt; and if we missed the well remembered countenances of some who have finished their earthly course, their places were supplied by others who owe their conversion to examples of such high worth and noble devotion.
The hall was appropriately decorated with various anti-slavery banners, bearing impressive and inspiring mottoes-with the busts of John Brown, Wendell Phillips, and other prominent defenders of the slave, and various portraits-among them those of O’Connell, Clarkson, President Geffrard of Hayti, and John Brown-the last a remarkable life-like painting, full size from an excellent photograph, taken by Black, of this city.
The exercises consisted of instrumental music, remarks by Rev. M.D. Conway and William Wells Brown, and select patriotic readings by Mrs. De Mortie, who acquitted herself in a very creditable manner. The chair was occupied by Edmund Quincy, Esq. the remainder of the evening was devoted to promenading, social intercourse, and receiving donations for the cause by the ladies who charge of the tables. Altogether, it was a very gratifying occasions the pecuniary results exceeding the highest anticipations. We are not able to give the precise aggregate, but it amounted to upwards of THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS, without reckoning any of the aid usually furnished by our trans Atlantic friends, to whom no special appeal was made this season, but from whom something may be expected by way of cooperation. The Managers desire it to be understood, before submitting their official report, that they are still ready to receive any persons, near or remote, may be disposed to make to swell the sum total. These can be forwarded to Rev. Samuel May, Jr. Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington Street, Office, 48 Beekman Street, New York.
The Anniversary of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society was held in Music Hall on Thursday, forenoon, afternoon, and evening. The attendance was good and choice, and speeches were made by Andrew T. Foss, Edwin Thompson, Stephen S Foster, Charles L Remond, Henry C. Wright, James N. Buffum, Wm. Wells Brown, Jesse Steadman of Springfield, (VL) Mr. Osgood of Salisbury, Wendell Phillips, and Wm. Lloyd Garrison. [For an extended report of the Proceedings, see preceding page.]
As usual, the weather proved very unpropitious; but Abolitionists are known to be storm-proof.
MR. BEECHER’S MUSIC HALL LECTURE. That eminent Yankee, Henry Ward Beecher, on Tuesday evening last, addressed to an audience of Yankees (the Mercantile Library Association) an oration to the praise and glory of the Yankees everywhere, and received unbounded applause. There was in his discourse a great deal of wit, a great deal of truth, and a great deal of eulogistic exaggeration, with a moderate amount of penitential confession. But if what be claimed in regard to an enthusiastic devotion to liberty in New England had been true, either of the mass of the people or of his brethren the clergy, we should have made an end of slavery long ago, and ended it in a short and easy manner, without either war, or those awful uncertainties, delays, backslidings and perversities with which our war is now complicated,- C.K.W.
READINGS BY MRS. DE MORTIE. On Monday evening, Madame Louise De Mortie gave some “Readings from the Poets,” at the Meionaon. She has some excellent qualifications for public reading. With much case and grace of manner, she possesses a voice of great compass and strength, flexibility, sweetness and power of expression. She seems to have applied herself diligently to the work of preparation, and is she keeps in mind the need of still further improvement; she may not attain distinction among those who now attract the public to their readings, but may benefit her auditors by deepening in their minds the impression of the truths presented to them.
One who worthily labors to make this preparation should be helped by the public to display her attainments. The readings of Madame De Mortie would give variety and attraction to many a Lyceum course, or be found interesting as a separate exhibition.-
C.K.W.
HARPER’S WEEKLY For January 24th has, among its other good things, a grand double page drawing of the great event of the day-Emancipation. In the centre of the picture is the negro’s free home, smiling with comfort, intelligence, peace and happiness. This centre piece is crowned by the Goddess of Liberty standing in the light of the new dispensation, while underneath it the new year is striking the manacle from the wrists of kneeling slave. On the left are the familiar scenes of slave life, whippings, brandings, shootings, auction-blocks, slave-pens, the cruel pursuit of bloodhounds, the demon of Slavery fleeing from the light of humanity stolen from the coast of Africa. On the right we see the laborer gratefully receiving the wages of his toil-the glad faces of children on their way to school-the church spice the quiet cottage of the contented laborer-Justice with her scales-the soldiers of the Republic cheering the Goddess of Liberty, and in the distance the marts of trade and the white sails of peaceful commerce. The picture is a triumph of act, and is worthy of a more enduring form than a mere news paper illustration.
A GOOD MOVEMENT. A Washington correspondent says it is probable that an African bureau will be added to the Interior Department upon the application of the Emancipation League of Boston, recommending the establishment of a bureau of emancipation. It is claimed that the number of negroes in the country entitle them to equal consideration of the government with the Indians, as many thousands are not employed by the government or supported by it, and the establishment of such a bureau is demanded for reasons of both economy and humanity.
RECEPTION OF GEN. MCCLELLAN. General McClellan has been spending several days in Boston, and during that time has been receiving the fulsome adulations of Beacon Street Upper Tendom, and the hurrahs of democratic seditionists. Costly entertainments, attended by crowds of fashionable admirers, have been given him by several wealthy citizens; on Monday, for two hours, a curious throng pressed through the Tremont House to take him by the hand; he has been extensively serenaded; and flattering ovations have also been made to him in Lawrence and Lowell. What folly-effrontery-indecency-humbug!
The interesting and instructive letter from Col. Thomas W. Higginson to Gov. Andrew, which we publish in another column, is copied from the Journal of Tuesday. How nobly the colored freedmen of the South are repelling every aspersion coast upon them by their malicious traducers at the North!
<c02>
LETTER FROM COL TH0MAS W. HIGGINSON TO GOV, ANDREW.
P'ORT ROYAL ISLAND, S. C. 
HEADQUARTERS 1ST REGT., S. C. V., 
CAMP SAXTON, Jan. 19. 1863. 
Hon. J. A. Andrew, Governor of Massachusetts:
Sir,-To-day's morning report gives an aggregate of 849. It is seven weeks to-day since I took command. The first morning report gave an aggregate of 499. The accession in seven weeks has therefore been just 850-fitly per week, or about seven daily. This I consider a very creditable rate of enlistment, especially when one considers that it is a three years regiment, that no bounty is paid or promised, and that it costs but a trifle to transport the recruits to camp.
It is also to be considered that there is full employment for all able-bodied colored men. So that we receive little aid. and often great opposition, from other employers of labor-as superintendents of plantations. United States Quartermasters, naval officers and officers of other regiments, who wish them for servants. Add to this the misrepresentations often given by white soldiers, who sometimes try to terrify the wives and mothers, and finally the legacy of distrust bequeathed by the Hunter regiment. In view of all this competition and opposition, I consider our rate of enlistment a great triumph and a second regiment altogether probable.
Seven weeks have certainly given me some opportunity to form a deliberate judgment of the prospects of this enterprise, and I can only say that every day makes them appear brighter and brighter. It will require some great and signal injustice or ill treatment to defeat it.
So docile and amenable to discipline are these men; so free from camp vices; so peculiarly apt for drill, because of their imitativeness and musical ear; so conscious of their peculiar position, that they must fight or be slaves; so happy when quiet, and of such a fiery energy when roused, that I am more deeply impressed every day with their wonderful availability as soldiers.
Compare for a moment. The 51st regiment was, in my opinion, the very best of the Massachusetts regiments; yet there never was a time during my two month’s connection with it when the introduction of liquor into the camp was not a source of constant anxiety-never a time when we had not two, three or a dozen men in the guard house for drunkenness. There has never been an arrest for drunkenness in this regiment since it was formed nor have I been compelled even to recognize liquor as a subject of legislation, or to allude to it or think of it in any way. It can be bought in Beaufort without difficulty, and a portion of my men have recently been paid off. Yet this state of things continues.
Again, in respect to guard duty. Never have I seen such sentinels. In my former regiment, for nearly two months after its formation, the countersign was commonly withheld from the sentinels, so constantly was it revealed if entrusted to them. But in this regiment, among these untaught people, there never has been an instance, of the betrayal of the countersign, save in a single case, and that a new recruit, a mere boy, who was visited with the greatest indignation in consequence by his comrades. Such is their pride in the discharge of their guard duty, that it is now recognized among the officers as a matter of absolute danger to go about the lines in disguise, on dark nights, for the sake of testing the sentinels, as officers in camp often do. Such a clicking of musket locks and charging of bayonets I have never seen elsewhere. It is not sale to trifle with them, I assure you.
At first, my greatest drawbacks were in respect to the health of the camp, and in regard to absences without leave, or want of punctuality in returning. Strict discipline has now almost wholly conquered the latter, and improved sanitary regulations have greatly improved the former. These negroes seem to have a sort of childish physical constitutions, easily made sick and as easily cured. I doubt if they endure the nightly chill of this season better than the whites, perhaps not so well. They are not accustomed to being exposed to the night air. Nor am I sure that they will bear the fatigues of “double quick” as well. This, however, may be only a suspicion. 1 am fortunate in having an excellent medical department; my head surgeon, Dr. Rogers, of Worcester, being perfectly invaluable. His hold upon the confidence of the soldiers, and power of controlling them, is astonishing. As one said yesterday:” Every man in de regiment doats his eyes on de Doctor."
After the privileges I enjoyed as Captain in a Massachusetts regiment, and that regiment the 51st, I certainly ought to have a high standard both of camp discipline and of military drill; and with the aid and advice of so accomplished a soldier as Gen. Saxton, I ought not to accept any code below the highest. In respect to drill, the men are practised daily in the manual of arms, company movements and skirmishing; and we have daily battalion drill likewise. I have now drilled them in all the prescribed battalion movements; marching by the flank, by platoon, by company, by division and in regimental line in which last they especially excel, I think); in passing from column to line and from line to column, changing front forward and to rear, countermarching, forming square both by Hardee and Casey's method, and, in short, all the regular movements, both by the right of the battalion and by the left. In maneuvering by the rear rank I have not yet had time to practise them, but this I find to be the case with most volunteer regiments, however long in service.
I have once marched my regiment through Beaufort, and afterward drilled it on the parade ground before a large number of spectators, civil and military, and I believe that it was generally admitted to take a fair rank among the regiments in this department.
For myself, I have as yet seen none for which I would exchange it.
I do not write this for print, but for your Excellency's own personal information, because I know that you must be interested in an effort so important. And you will believe me when I say that if I seem to speak strongly, it is only because I am compelled to speak the truth. Were I to quote what has been already said about the regiment, by military men originally opposed to the enterprise, it would only fortify my statements.
The merit is not mine, because I have had such admirable material to work with. As a mere matter of military satisfaction, if I were appointed to a new regiment, or even to a brigade, tomorrow, apart from all humanity considerations, I would have the soldiers colored men, and freed slaves.
It will be a grave error if it is expected to use these troops for garrison duty only. As I have said, they make good sentinels, but their place is with the advance, la their simple, affectionate fidelity, and in the fiery energy that lies behind it, I see for the first time what the Chasseurs d' Afrique must be; and I predict that they will show in action (as indeed they have already shown) a dash and fire in which our army has been confessedly too deficient. And, from their thorough knowledge of the country, its ways and resources. its wood, water, fuel, game, and of the habits of the enemy also, they will be the natural leaders in every bold expedition. To use them for garrison duty only would be like reserving cavalry to defend a fortress, or making a reconnaissance with heavy artillery.
I take pleasure in saying that Captain J. S. Rogers, who was promoted through your Excellency's aid from the 51st Regiment, proves an admirable officer, as is also Lieut. Dewhurst, of Boston, my Adjutant. Our Chaplain, Rev. J. II. Fowler, of Cambridge, Mass., is also very efficient, and has much power in addressing the soldiers. In view of the prejudices which have too often made the Celt and the Negro appear antagonistic races, I have been gratified to find that three of my best lieutenants are of Irish birth-Lieut. O'Neal, late of the regular army, and two brothers named West. I have also the aid of Lieut. Stockdale, who has been long in the English army, and is so accomplished a fencer with the sword and bayonet that, the officers of other regiments here
Have applied to me for his to instruct them in the sword exercise. One of my captains is a Canadian Frenchman, Capt. Thibadeau. All the other officers are of American birth.
I trust I have not weared your Excellency with this unsolicited communication; but knowing as I do the fostering care with which you watch over your own regiments. I have felt a natural desire to include mine within the sphere of your knowledge.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
T. W. HIGGINSON,
Col, commanding 1st Reg. S. C. V.
P. S. It may not be improper to add, that the original prejudice against this regiment must be gradual wearing away-at least, I have been brought but little in contact with it. I have treated with uniform courtesy by the officers of other regiments, and it is very rarely that my men complain of any annoyance from white soldiers, when they visit Beaufort, though their path lies beside the camps, both in going and returning. I fancy, therefore, that the enterprise must be more favorably regarded.
LETTER TO HON. WM. CLAFLIN,
OF WEST NEWTON.
MY DEAR SIT,-Pardon the publicity given to a few earnest words which I feel impressed to address you. I cannot, if I would, refrain from this duty which I owe alike to you and the cause of human freedom. If I forbear, my heart will condemn me, and I shall cease to be self-approved. A “conscience void of offence” is better far than human friendship, or shouts of empty or momentary applause. “Hear me, then, for my cause, and be silent that you may hear.”
My friend, “instinct is a great matter,” and you cannot, judging from your praiseworthy antecedents, fail to appreciate the profound astonishment in seeing your honored name in affiliation with numerous others, in giving an approved reception to Gen. George B McClellan. And more than this, you have willingly joined hands and made one of the number of partisans and admirers of this pseudo Union General, who, before this bleeding and suffering nation, stands condemned as unfit and unworthy of trust in the hour of our greatest peril. It needs no argument to convince you, sir, that George B. McClellan has allowed the golden hour to pass,-ay, has sacrificed many a brave son of New England to a premature grave, by a studied indifference to the demands of all that makes existence desirable and happy.
 In vain am I told, McClellan has won the love and esteem of the army. I know, like Absalom of old, he has stolen the hearts of the soldiers, by fulsome flattery and democratic bearing in camp life. But what single act has he ever done to elicit the censure of the Rebels, or cause our own “native land” to bless him? What straw of evidence has he thrown into the scale of justice and right? His military prowess and genius may not be questioned, but a disposition to move even a little finger in smiting down the Southern usurpers he has never shown. Was it not enough, sir, that Edward Everett, who once declared himself ready to buckle on his knapsack, in defence of human slavery, should have made hot from Boston to Worecester to greet and appland this boon companion of Vallandigham, Fernando Wood, and others of like proclivities? Say, did not this suffice? Or must you, with record so clean, and so high in the estimation of your political friends, dash all hope and confidence in your manhood and love of human rights, and follow in the wake? Alas! Had this been predicted,-despite of the stubborn fact now revealed, I should have said, impossible; this servant of truth and righteousness is not so fallen.
When your name was dropped to make place for the successful rival, Judge Thomas your friends remonstrated. They said, “We have been cheated in Adams; let us now have a true man-a man to be trusted in the hour of trail. And that man is WILLIAM CLAFLIN.” Wendell Phillips, with his persuasive eloquence, plead your cause to the multitude assembled previous to the election, at Framingham “Shame,” said Mr. P., “on the party that will throw over a true man with a clean record, and take one who has no antecedents upon which to depend.” Thus have the friends conflicted in your integrity, and been ready to believe, whoever else forsook the vanguard of freedom, it would not be you. Have we been deceived? Can you, in such a crisis, identify yourself with the treacherous band of political trimmers who are laboring to revive a wicked and rotten Democratic party-the sole mission of which is to establish human bondage?
Pause, my dear sir, at this critical moment. Let not the pageant and pomp of an hour seize upon your birthright. It is but a “mess of potage”-say to the temper, “Get behind me!” Your political friends are grieved and astonished at this misguided step. They would feign believe it a mistake of the moment. And not the result of “sober, second thought.” Heaven grant, for the sake of humanity, and the utter destruction party, now thank God defeated, would destroy the country, that you may at once return to your integrity. “Let the dead bury their dead.”
Accept, without any apology from an humble individual these words of protest and remonstrance. They are recorded in grief for the occasion upon which they are based, with the hope that, upon a review of the past, you, my dear sir, will return to your honored position, with hands cleaned by repentance from all participation with sneering hunkerism and political debauchery.
Yours, for Freedom and Right,
“WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH NEW ENGLAND?”
On Tuesday evening last, Rev. Henry Ward Beecher lectured at Music Hall, under the auspices of the Mercantile Library Society, on the topic, “What shall be done with New England?” which was discussed in a brilliant and popular manner. A great audience was present. A very full of the report of the lecture appears in the morning Journal of Tuesday, from which we take the following extracts:-
“New England is no longer mere territory-she is a moral power. Her name stands for ideas, as Athens did and Rome does. It is her moral power, not her social nor material prosperity, that enrages the enemies of mankind. We may sum up the real cause of her offence in this land under two heads-her political ideas and religious philosophy. Her political doctrines are very simple, but very radical. For holding them, her fathers were hated by every throne in Europe, and for these same doctrines of the rights of man and the civil liberties of nations is New England now hated by every aristocrat of the plantation, and by every sneaking sympathizer with oppression in the Free States. (Applause.) When in the history if this people was not the New England name the synonym for liberty? (Applause.) She is the true founder, on this continent, of popular government. New England gave to America Republican institutions. Let men take the testimony of the impartial De Tocqueville, the noblest political philosopher of this age, and the best writer on liberty of any age. He does not hesitate to declare that this nation is indebted, not only to New England, but to New England townships, for the best ideas of our institutions. New England was the teacher of the political philosophy of this continent; but an inferior race, in a tropical climate, seized the capital-its ideas represented by the miasmas of the plantation and the Gulf; the Constitution was construed by judges who were foes of liberty, and the government that was ordained to maintain impartial liberty has been controlled, for fifty years, by men who sought to establish slavery for ever by its forms and its power. In this infamous revolution, openly and secretly, individually and collectively, New England has been unbribable, and would not revolt from her principles, and she is on trail for her inexpugnable fidelity to liberty. (Applause.) If she would yield her philosophy, if
<c04>
She would so far yield it that it should be but the philosophy of the schools and lecture-room, if she would withdraw the power that she exerts upon the minds of men to baffle tyranny, and destroy the most infamous of all tyranny-that of the intelligent white, strong, over the poor besotted black, weak-if New England would consent to overthrow all this doctrine that made her own original life and stamped her for immortality, she would become popular in half an hour. She is hated in every Southern State for the very reason that Fire Points hates the churches of New York, that the burglar hates the law, that the thief is against the judge, that crime hates virtue, that oppression hales liberty; and the brightest star that has shone out in her history yet, is that New England stands ready to be burned-a martyr that will not flinch, bearing testimony to her own original political doctrines. (Tremendous applause.)
And now what is the crime of this disturber of the nation? Is it that New England loves money? Since is the only part of the nation that does, may she not be forgiven? (Laughter.) New England owns the money that she earns with her honest hands. Others love money that is earned by the black hands of Slavery. That is the difference. Is it that New England boasts? She ought not, having such unparalleled examples of modesty of the first families of Virginia, the meekness of the Carolinians, who have taught her to be meek. The boasts of New England stand in singular contrast with the exquisite principles of modesty of every part of this land; she should be condemned for boasting. Is it that in national trusts and burdens she has meanly shirked her share? Take the statistics of history, and ask who gave the most money and the moat men in the revolutionary struggle. Go back and ask it in the war of 1812, which New England hated, she did not give the money and was not the moral support of the administration? Ask in every struggle since, when the Government has been jeoparded, which part of the country has given the most material and the most moral support to the public welfare, and that shall be New England's clearance and apology for the declaration that has entered all this land. New England has patiently borne the brunt, and has never shrunk nor failed to hear more than her part of the public burdens. Wherever there is a State, you will find the glory of New England, her school mistresses and masters, and churches testifying all over the land what has been her fidelity in the civilization of this continent. No! This is the cause of her offence, that in a nation that run greedily after worldly gain, she would never suffer this mischief, that when the nation was giving up its principles and salvation to Southern revolutionists, New England stood firm as the apostle of God against apostacy. For this national fidelity, it is proposed to reconstruct the Union, and leave her out. But will you be kind enough to tell me where New England is? Not on her own territory. New England is wherever her ideas are, and you have got to tear down the books that fill the libraries of this continent before New England is shut out. Shut out this territory-New England ain't out. The laws that she made throb still, the blood that she put into them, the institutions that she framed, stand as witnesses to bring her back. Her sons and her daughters fill the land. One-third part of the population of America is either New England, or descended from New England people to-day. More than one million men live in this nation today that were born in New England, and are you going to turn them out? What will you do with those threads woven into the fabric of the country? There will be holes and patches, I take it, when New England is turned out. (Applause.) And if she were turned out, is her honor gone? Was Christianity destroyed when they destroyed Jerusalem? Again, it you should sack Rome and raze it to the ground, would the Roman Catholic faith go because Rome went? If you burn the old cradle and nurse, do you burn the man that forty years before slept in it? Do what you can with New England, the influence of her work abides still, and will abide upon this continent. Not until you have reorganized the States, not until you have taken from them every fundamental idea, not until you have changed every portion of this government, can you get rid of New England. No, not then; for if you should destroy her books, shut her schools, send home her professors, return her population back to her, and fill her up with people from her shores to her mountain sides, and build a wall of exclusion, have you got rid of her then? I tell you that you cannot make a law that will keep ideas at home. You may as well make a law that birds shall not fly higher than a fowler's aim; for ideas fly high, and are quick-winged, and we send them abroad. We do not need to be in a fort to bombard a fort. Every New England battery-her brains-will bombard slavery still. (Applause.) Stop her if inn can. The ages move with her. God's providence points that way; that is the road toward the millennium, and millions are walking on that road, and she leads them. Her work is not yet done. She knows the liberties that she planted-she means to defend them. She stood by the beginning; she shall not depart from the end. And as Christ waited three days after he heard Lazarus was sick, and came to find the beloved dead in the tomb, she can cause the stone to be removed, and call Liberty forth, though in grave-clothes, and, pointing to the continent, shall say, “Loose her, and let her go!”
NEGRO REGIMENTS. In the U. S. House of Representatives, on Monday last, after a protracted discussion, the following important Bill was passed by a rote of-yeas 85, nays 65:-
Be it enacted, by the Senate and House, of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, That the President be, and is hereby, authorized to enroll, arm, equip and receive into the land and naval service of the United States, such a number of volunteers, of African descent, as he may deem equal to suppress the present rebellion, for such term of service as he may prescribe, not exceeding five years; the said volunteers to be organized according to the regulations of the branch of the service into which they may be enlisted, to receive the same rations, clothing and equipments at other volunteers, and a monthly pay not to exceed that of the volunteers, to be offered by white or black persons, appointed and commissioned by the President, and to be governed by the rules and articles of war, and such other rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the President. Provided, That nothing herein contained, or in the rules or articles of war, shall be so construed as to authorize or permit any officer of African descent to be appointed to rank, or exercise military or naval authority over white officers, soldiers, or men in the military or naval service of the United States; nor shall any greater pay than ten dollars per month, with their usual allowance of clothing and rations, be allowed or paid to privates or laborers of African descent, who are or may be in the military or naval service of the United States: Provided further. That the slaves of loyal citizens, in the States exempt by the President's proclamation of January 1st, 1863, shall not be received into the armed service of the United States; nor shall there be recruiting offices opened in either of the States of Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, or Missouri, without the consent of the Governors of said States having been first obtained.
No doubt the Senate will strongly concur.
MORE TREASON. The Democratic majority in the Illinois Legislature have proposed a bill to take all the military power of the Slate from the hands of the Governor, even to the appointment of the officers of the army, and vest it In three Commissioners-a majority Democrats, of course. The Governor is Commander-in-Chief of the Army of the State, but this bill virtually places him one side, and installs in his place a triumvirate, in whose hand he is a mere poppet-a prisoner in his own house. It is one of the most bare-laced attempts at usurpation, and usurpation for the basest of purposes, ever attempted. The mover tried to rush it through the Senate under a suspension of the rules, but he did not succeed, and it takes the usual course. The reason for the movement is obvious. Gov. Yates is a Republican, and in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war, and the Democratic majority desire to wrest from him all power which may be used to help the National Government against Jeff Davis.
CORNING, N. Y., Feb. 2. The dwelling house of H. C. Pool, near Titusville, was burnt on Saturday, and his wife and daughter, and a Mrs. Gonzales, perished in the flames.
<c05>
REBELS SHOOTING NEGOROES. We have noticed the fact of the shooting of the negroes found on the Union transports lately burned by the rebels at Harpeth Shoais, on the Cumberland Cumberland. The New Albany (Ind.) Ledger of the 20th ult. gives the following account of the affair:-
"The most atrocious and cold-blooded affair of the present war is live shooting of tome eighteen of the negro cabin boys and cooks on the strainers lately captured at Harpeth Shoals. These and boys were tied and taken to an open field near the Shoals, and deliberately shot down in cold blood. Two of the negro servants on the Sidell got in between the wheel and stern of the boat, and let themselves down into the water, holding on to the rudder. They were discovered by rebels, and several soldiers were ordered into a skiff, and rowing close up to the unfortunate negroes, discharged the contents of their muskets at them, literally blowing their heads into atoms.”
SOLICITOR OF THE WAR DEPARTMENT. Among the new offices which the exigencies of the war have created there into one of greater importance than that of Solicitor to the War Department, now filled by Mr. William Whiting of this city, whose recent work tm the war powers of the President has given him added distinction in his profession. The labors and responsibilities that devolve upon him in his prevent post are of a character that would appal any man with leas tenacity and power of endurance as a worker, and, we may add, with less experience and intelligence in the various ramifications of his profession. All the contracts, past, present and contingent, under which questions of fraud or of illegality have arisen, come under his scrutiny; and he is not the man to let the wrong-doer go undetected or unpunished. He leaves an eminently lucrative business at home to help the War Department in its work of investigation and reform, and in this makes a pecuniary sacrifice of which few men are capable. His heart is in the righteous cause, and if Government has any scruples as to its power of dealing with traitors and plunderers, it will not be through the lack of his sound legal advice and patriotic cooperation.-Boston Transcript.
A REMARKABLE COMPLIMENT TO CHARLES SUMNER. The Motional Intelligencer, a paper whose opinions have more weight with the conservative members of the late whig party at the North, than those of any other journal in the country, says, in an article on Mr. Sumner's recent election:
"If we are not able to concur with Mr. Sumner in certain of his opinions on questions of domestic politics, it gives us only the greater pleasure to bear our cheerful and candid testimony to the enlightened judgment and peculiar qualifications he brings to the discharge of the important duties devolved on him as Chairman of the- Committee on Foreign Relations in the Senate. In this capacity he has deservedly won the confidence of the whole country.”
There could be no stronger testimony than this on a point to often denied-Mr. Sumner's practical abilities.
TAKING IT PHILOSOPHICALLY. The Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican finds a humorous consolation in the recent displays in the Massachusetts Senate, of Messrs. Tucker and Swan, lie says:
“There is a very general effervescence of hunkerism all over the North, and as there are threats to leave New England “out in the cold,” I, for one, am glad that we are able to demonstrate to the people of New York and Pennsylvania, and the West, that we have as mean and violent hunkers as any they can produce. In the good time coming of harmony and reconstruction, Swan, and
Tucker, and Lunt shall have pedestals in the State House yard, as the three righteous friends of Slavery, whose devotion to the cause of despotism softened the heart of Jeff Davis, and induced him to consent to allow New England to return to his empire, on the express condition that she should resume and continue in her old position of thirty years ago, as hewer of wood and drawer it water for an oligarchy of nigger-drivers.”
NEW YORK, Jan. 30. A despatch from Newbern says." Gov. Stanley's resignation was sent hence to Washington by the last mail. It is based upon the President's Proclamation, which he strenuously opposes. The Army and Navy, and the Union citizens here, are strongly averse to the appointment of a successor, as the office is not only universally regarded as needless, but as a serious obstacle to the progress of our arms. A strong movement is on foot here for the establishment of a Provisional Court, similar to that instituted at New Orleans. The President and members of Congress have already been memorialized on the subject
The 3d N. Y. Cavalry recently made a brilliant and successful reconnoissance to Jacksonville, 60 miles from Newbern, capturing valuable stores.
Gen. Foster is accepting the services of negroes for garrison duty, notwithstanding the remonstrances of Gov. Stanley.”
The exhibition of Senator Saulsbury, of Delaware, on Tuesday, was the latest, and in some respects, the most audacious outrage of decency that has as yet, been committed. The man acts as it the palmy days of slavery were in full bloom. He raves at the President, he violates the rules of order and decorum, he refuses to obey the decisions of the presiding officer, he shows his revolver, in short, he conducts himself like a domineering despot, like a Turkish bashaw, who has a right to lord it over a set of slaves who should wince and cringe on hearing his voice. We hope the Senate will vindicate its dignity in this matter, and rid itself of the presence of the ruffian who has so insulted not only it, but the entire nation.-New Bedford Standard.
The Governor of Delaware, in his annual message, takes a patriotic stand on the subject of slavery. He shows that it is decidedly for the interest of Delaware to choose the side of freedom. Her trade and commerce are with the North, and her prosperity is indissolubly linked with that of the Free States. He takes high and unequivocal ground for emancipation, recommending the passage of a law for the gradual abolition of slavery, and brings to the support of his view some very strong arguments. His remarks on the conduct of the Administration are also in a very different tone from those of some Governors in the Free States. He pledges prompt and entire co-operation with the National Government in every effort to restore the unity of the nation, and the supremacy of the Stars and Stripes. On the matter of arbitrary arrests, he is of opinion that no loyal citizen will grumble at mistakes made by the Government in such a time as this, and that the unpatriotic and disloyal have no right to complain, under any circumstances.
OUTRAGEOUS. Among the whole number over sixty of Justices of the Peace in Washington City, there recently could not be found one to issue a writ on the plea of a colored man for the arrest of a white man who had stolen his property; and it is conceded to be impossible for a colored citizen to prosecute in either one of the Courts a claim against a white man. Even their testimony is excluded from the Courts, in plain violation of the laws passed last summer for their protection. And now the President is urged to nominate officers of the same stripe with those already in office to fill existing vacancies.
THE COLONIZATON OF REBEL STATES. Hon. Eli Thayer has been invited by prominent citizens of New York, without distinction of party, to deliver an address in the Cooper Institute, in exposition of his plan for the social and political reconstruction of Florida and other rebel States, by the aid of organized immigration from the Northern States and from Europe. Mr. Thayer has accepted of the invitation.
The New York City Council has tendered a complimentary reception to Gen. Fitz-John Porter, just dismissed from the service in disgrace. The soul of treason in New York, like John Brown's soul, is “marching on,” but we rather think if the capitalists of New York can afford to patronize anarchy and rebellion, other portions of the country-more honest though not so rich-can stand the consequences as well as they can.
Jeff. Davis was possibly an unconscious “seer” of coming events when, in a recent address, he spoke of the South as “the asylum of the oppressed and the home of true representative liberty.” The “oppressed” are there, beyond a doubt; and if the patriotism of the country is true to its duty, they may soon find the South indeed an asylum for themselves as freemen.
MASSACHUSETTS AND THE WAR. Statistics at the Adjutant General's office show that Massachusetts has contributed for the war 58,214 three-years men, which, with the three months and nine months volunteers, and the 12,000 men furnished the navy, make nearly 100,000 volunteers from this State.
The Fugitive Aid Society held a very successful Fair at Mechanic Lower Hall, on Wednesday and Thursday, and realized over $100 in aid of the Contrabands. Our colored friends managed the affair in fine style.-Salem Observer.
PERSONAL. Rev. Edward Robinson, Professor of Biblical Literature in the Union Theological Seminary, in New York, died on Tuesday evening, in the sixty-ninth year of his age: He was widely known as the author of works on Palestine and several Greek translations. He was a Professor at Andover for several Years.
Benj. Wade has been re-elected U. S. Senator from Ohio, for the term of sixty years from the 4th of March next.
<c06>
COLLECTIONS
by Finance Committee, for expenses of Annual Meeting, January, 1863.
Edmund Quincy, $5 00 S. K. McIntyre, $1 00
Moses Wilmarth, 1 00 B. J. B., 25
E. G. Richardson, 50 Edna Dean, 1 00
Mary May, 2 00 Louisa Humphrey, 1 00 
Sarah R. May, 1 00 Edwin Thompson, 1 00
Sarah G. Atkinson, 1 00 Josiah Hayward, 1 00
A. B. Chase, 50 Perley King, 1 00
P. E. & S. Hawkins, 15 Samuel May, Jr., 2 00
Katherine E. Farnum, 1 00 George W. Walbridge, 1 00
Elizabeth B. Chase, 1 00 R.R. Crosby, 1 00
Samuel Barrett, 1 00 Mrs. Lawrence, 1 00
Henry Abbott, 2 00 Mrs. Tenney. 1 00
Jerome Fuller, 1 00 N. L. Tucker, 10
Mary G. Chapman, 1 00 George W. Simonds, 1 00
D. Weston, 1 00 A. Listener, 50
E. Densmore, 1 00 S. J. P., 1 00
Mary P. Clough, 50 Richard Clapp, 1 00
Sarah J. Nowell, 1 00 E. A. Morrill, 2 00
Sarah H. Pillsbury, 1 00 L. S. Richards, 50
Helen B. Pillsbury, 50 Andrew Davison, 1 00
Wm. L. Garrison, 1 00 R. H. Ober, 1 00
Mrs. Wm. B. Ives, 2 00 N. T. Allen, 1 00
Ruth Wheeler, 1 00 Fusan H. Cowing, 1 00
Maria S. Page, 50 R. Plumer, 1 00
J. B. Pierce, 1 00 Cash, 3 00
I. S., 50 Mrs. A. T. Foss, 1 00
Catherine Clap, 1 00 Caroline Wellington,1 00
Rebecca C. Trask, 1 00 Eliza Wellington, 1 00
Luther Melendy, 1 00 D. Kimball, 1 00
H. W. Carter, 1 00 P. R. W., 2 00
C. K. Whipple, 1 00 Mrs. D., 2 00
D. Y. Kendall, 1 00 Helen E. Garrison, 1 00
Asa Brett, 50 Lucinda L. Jameson,1 00
John Clement, 1 00 J. & F. H. Drake, 1 00
Lydia Brown, 50 Thomas P. Knox, 1 00
Lewis McLauthlin, 1 00 Georgina Otis, 2 00
Alvan Howes, 1 00 H. M. Ireson, 1 00
Nancy L. Howes, 1 00 L. S. N., 2 00
William Sparrell, 1 00 J. Horsewell, 1 00
Maria A. Sawin, 50 Daniel Low, 2 00
E. & E. H. Richards, 2 00 Samuel Dyer, 1 00
Edward B. Perkins, 1 00 B. F. Hutchinson, 1 00
Mary C. Sawyer, 1 00 M. J. Parkman, 2 00
Mrs. A. W. Clapp, 1 00 Daniel Thaxter, 1 00
A. B. Ashby, 1 00 Melzar Sprague, 1 00
S. Dodge, Jr., 1 00 Nahum Osgood, 1 00
Mrs. L. H. Bowker, 1 00 A. M. Newell, 1 00
C. M. Leonard, 1 00 A. L. Breed, 1 00
William Lovell, 1 00 Hannah M. Castell, 1 00
S. Shaw, 1 00 Allen Sanger, 1 00
C. B. McIntire, 1 00 Benjamin Bruce, 1 00
E. Sprague, 2 00 J. E. Brown, 1 00
Gridley Beal, 1 00 H. S. Porter, 1 00
Adams Twitchell, 1 00 E. H. Merrill, 1 00
Joseph Merrill, 1 00 L. B. Pulsifer 1 00
Charlotte A. Joy, 2 00 H. L. Broaders, 1 00
Mrs. M. A. Hale, 50 Mehitable Haskell,1 00
F. Chapman, 1 00 John B. Hall, 1 00
W. W. Dutcher, 1 00 E. D. Draper, 1 00
M. A. Dutcher, 1 00 Cash, and Friends, in 
Anna T. Draper, 1 00 Various Sums, 21 70
G. W. G., 50 
DONATIONS
To Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, January 29th, 1863.
Samuel Barrett, $20 00 B. F. Danforth, $5 00
Nathaniel White, 10 00 Jonathan Buffum, 5 00
Mary G. Chapman, 10 00 I. S. Ladd, 5 00
John B. Pierce, 10 00 C. M. Severance, 5 00
Cash, (Lynn,) 10 00 Mrs. Buffum, 5 00
William Ashby, 5 00 A. M. Chase, 5 00
E. G. Lucas, 5 00 S. S. Hemmenway, 5 00
Martha B. Goodrich, 5 00 Sarah J. Nowell, 3 00
Abner Belcher, 5 00 A. A. Bent, 3 00
Seth D. Chandier, 5 00 Stephen Barker, 3 00
Ezekiel & Alice Thacher, George W. Flanders, 3 00
4 00 Joshua Perry, 2 00
PLEDGES
To the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, at its Annual Meeting, January 29th, 1863.
Mary May, $50 00 D. O. Goodrich, $5 00
Samuel May, Jr., 50 00 Alden Sampson, 5 00
Edmund Jackson, 25 00 H. A. Conley, 1 00
Bourne Spooner, 20 00 Miss C. Bowers, 1 00
R. H. Ober, 10 00 
ANNUAL REPORT
Of the Treasurer of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, for the year 1862.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in the Treasury, January 1, 1862, $ 11.06
Contributions at annual meeting, January, 1862, 471.97
Contributions at New England A. S. Convention, 441.00
Contributions at the 4th of July meeting, 89.59
Contributions at the 1st of August celebration, 62.04
Pledges, donations and subscriptions, as published
monthly in the Liberator, 1313.25
Total, $2388.91
DISBURSEMENTS,
During the same period, as follows:
Paid E. H. Heywood, Lecturing Agent, and for expenses, $146.71
Expenses of annual meeting, in 1862, 183.37
Printing, 47.30 
Robert F. Wallout, for services one year, 425.04
Rent of Office one year, 400.00
Samuel May, Jr., services and expenses as General Agent, 481.17
Repairs in Office, 8.25
A. T. Foss, for lecturing, 307.62
Expenses of New England Anti-Slavery Convention, May, 1862,119.30
Expenses of 4th of July Convention, at Framingham, 42.71
Expenses of 1st of August Celebration, at Abington, 32.68
Miss Dickinson, for lecturing, 12.00
Charles C. Burleigh, for lecturing, 10.00
J. M. W. Yerrinton, for reporting, 93.00
American Anti-Slavery Society, 20.00
Fifty copies Liberator for members of Congress, 52.80
Balance in treasury, 6.96 
Total, $2388.91
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
JANUARY 29, 1863. The whole amount received and paid corresponds with the above abstract, and the balance now in the treasury of the Society is as above stated.
W.M. I. BOWDITCH, Auditor.
CONVERSATIONS ON MEN AND THE TIMES.
Mr. A. BRONSON ALCOTT will give his next Conversation at the TEMPERANCE HALL in Bromfield street, on Monday evening, Feb. 9th, at half past 7o’clock.
NOTICE.-HENRY c. WRIGHT will lecture in HY, ANNIS, Sunday afternoon and evening, Feb. 8th. SUBJECT-Mission and Destiny of the American Republic, and the bearing of the Proclamation on the cause of Freedom throughout the world.
NOTICE.-HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture Sunday evening, Feb. 15th, in Union Hall, FELTONVILLE, at half past 6 o’clock. SUBJECT-The Proclamation-its bearing on the Mission and Destiny of the American Republic.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M.D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
EUROPEAN AND FANCY FURS,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. Nov7-3m
A. FOLSOM & SON,
MANUFACTURERS OF
OIL CARPETING,
AND
ROOF OLOTH,
23 WATER STREET,
A.FOLSOM, BOSTON.
S. P. FOLSOM, 
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., rn.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8. tf.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
No. 6, TREMONT STREET,:: BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
For the Liberator.
THE LANCASHIRE OPERATIVE. 
Wife and children, I’ve heard of such good news!
It will fill all our sad hearts with glee;
There are brave ships, well filled with provisions,
Coming to us across the wide sea.

And they come from America’s merchants,
From her farmers, away in the West;
They had heard we were workless and foodless—
‘Twas not idleness made us distrest.

They had heard how our landlords and merchants,
And our ladies, the rich, and the great,
Our masters, our children, our poor men,
Knowing if we’ve no work, we can’t eat;

All joined in contriving to lighten
The sufferings we work people bear;
So our cousins, across the wide ocean,
Thought they, too, in the good work would share.

And they said what they knew would please England,
How much they respect our good Queen,
She who reigns in the hearts of her people—
Such another has earth never seen.

So, when work comes again to our engines,
And our labor supplies all our needs,
While we thank God for the help that he sent us,
Through our country, its kind words and deeds,—

While we thank English brothers and sisters,
Who helped us when starving and poor,
We will thank our American cousins—
They, too helped keep the wolf from our door.
Hastings, Sussex, England. JANE ASHBY.

For the Liberator.
NO!
PARODIED FROM HOOD.

No brands—no whips—
No more slave ships—
No cats—no hounds—no Southern aristocracy—
No king with cotton crowned—
No babies by the pound—
No bogus, sham secesh democracy—
No court-house hung with chains—
No Yankee slave pens with their bloody stains—
No railroads under ground—
No pious sermons with uncertain sound—
No mobbing of free speech—
No flogging schoolma’ams who go South to teach—
No “nigger with two g’s,” no bleaching
of human cattle by their lords—
No preaching secesh for sound Yankee teaching—
No “South-side Views”—
No church with hidden negro pews—
No North, no South, no Border State neutrality,
But LIBERTY, EQUALITY—
No stocks, no contrabands, no F.F. V’s—
No bloody wars to show our bravery—
No banner but the stars upon the breeze—
No foes, no fears, no shrieks, no tears—
No Slavery! J.S.A.

From the New York Tribune.
TREASON’S LAST DEVICE.
“Who deserves greatness,
Deserves your hate. * * * * 
You common cry of curs, whose breath I loathe
You reek o’ the rotten fens.” [Coriolanus.
“Hark! Hark! the dogs do bark.”
[Nursery Rhyme.
Sons of New England, in the fray,
Do you hear the clamor behind your back?
Do you hear the yelping of Blanche, and Tray,
Sweetheart, and all the mongrel pack?
Girded well with her ocean crags,
Little our mother heeds their noise;
Her eyes are fixed on crimsoned flags;
But you—do you hear it, Yankees boys?

Do you hear them say that the patriot fire
Burns on her altars too pure and bright,
To the darken’d heavens leaping higher,
Though drench’d with the blood of every fight;
That in the light of its searching flame
Treason and tyrants stand reveal’d,
And the yielding craven is put to shame,
On Capitol floor or foughten field?

Do you hear the hissing voice, which saith
That she—who bore through all the land
The lyre of Freedom, the torch of Faith,
And young Invention’s mystic wand—
Should gather her skirts and dwell apart,
With not one of her sisters to share her fate:
A Hagar, wandering sick at heart;
A Pariah, bearing the Nation’s hate?

Sons, who have peopled the gorgeous West,
And planted the Pilgrim vine anew,
Where, by a richer soil carest,
It grows as ever its parent grew,
Say, do you hear—while the very bells
Of your churches ring with her ancient voice,
And the song of your children sweetly tells
How true was the land of your fathers’ choice;—

Do you hear the traitors who bid you speak
The word that shall sever the sacred tie?
And ye, who dwell by the golden Peak,
Has the subtle whisper glided by?
Has it crost the immemorial plains,
To coasts, where the gray Pacific roars,
And the Pilgrim blood in the people’s veins
Is pure as the wealth of their mountain ores?

Spirits of sons who, side by side,
In a hundred battles fought and fell;
Whom now no East and West divide,
In the isles where the shades of heroes dwell;
Say, has it reach’d your glorious rest,
And ruffled the calm which crowns you there—
The shame, that recreants have confest,
The plot, that floats in the troubled air?

Sons of New England, here and there;
Wherever men are still holding by
The honor our fathers left so fair!
Say, do you hear the cowards’ cry?
Crouching amongst here grand old crags,
Lightly your mother heeds their noise,
With her fond eyes fixed on distant flags;
But you—do you hear it, Yankee boys?
Washington, Jan. 19, 1863 EDMUND C. STEDMAN.

From the Boston Transcript.
ABOU BEN. BUTLER.
Abou Ben. Butler (may his tribe increase!)
Awoke one night down by the old Balize,
And saw, outside the comfort of his room,
Making it warmer for the gathering gloom,
A black man shivering in the winter’s cold:—
Exceeding courage made Ben. Butler bold,
And to the presence in the dark he said—
“What wantest thou?”—The figure raised its head,
And with a look made of all sad accord,
Answered—“The men who’ll serve the purpose of the Lord.”
“And am I one?” said Butler. “Nay, not so,”
Replied the black man. Butler spoke more low,
But cheerily still; and said, “As I am Ben,
You’ll not have cause to tell me that again!”

The figure bowed, and vanished. The next night
It cam once more, environed strong in light,
And showed the names whom love of Freedom blessed,
And, lo! Ben. Butler’s name led all the rest!

TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Lincoln, that with thy steadfast truth the sand
Of men and time and circumstance dost away!
The slave cloud dwindles on this golden day,
And over all the pestilent Southern land,
Breathless, the dark expectant millions stand,
To watch the northern sun rise on its way,
Cleaving the stormy distance—every ray
Sword-bright, sword-sharp, in God’s invisible hand:—
Better, with this great end, partial defeat,
And jibings of the ignorant worldly wise,
Than land and triumph won with shameful blows.
The dead Past lies in its dead winding sheet;
The living Present droops with tearful eyes;
But far beyond th’ awaiting Future glows.
London, Jan. 1, 1863. EDMUND OLLIER.

<C02>
The Liberator.
THE B0ST0N REVIEW 0N SAWYER’S RECONSTRUCTION OF BIBLICAL THE0RIES.
REMARKS BY THE AUTHOR No. III.
MR. EDITOR:
DEAR SIR—Having shown, in the two previous articles, that several of the principal positions assumed by the Boston Review against the reconstruction of Biblical theories are not well sustained, I beg leave to reinforce the main position assailed by the Review, the post Mosaic authorship of the early Hebrew books. Its language on this subject is as follows:—
"In preparing the way for the reconstruction of Biblical theories, it is a prominent labor with Mr. Sawyer to show that the use of letters was unknown among the Hebrews till the times of Samuel and David. Then, of course, Moses did not write the Pentateuch, and, of course, he who did write it used traditions, myths, and any other drift-wood on the stream of time. Then we may treat the earlier portions of the Bible, including the Pentateuch and some other books, at we do the earliest records of Greece and Rome, or any other nation." p. 636.
The questions between us are questions of facts, Knowledge is not a matter of opinion; it dots not rest on probabilities, nor consist of guesses and conjectures; it is a matter of certainty, and rests on evidence; it consists of judgments which are irresistible, and capable of being verified by all human minds that give the evidence their attention. Arithmetic is not the science of numbers for minds peculiarly constituted, it is the science of numbers for all minds; not only can all minds grasp it, none can resist it. Knowledge may be obtained with infinite labor and difficulty, but there are steps by which it can be reached, with entire certainty, and when reached, mistake in regard to it is impossible. Opinions may be erroneous, knowledge cannot be. Such judgments constitute the sciences and arts, and their certain character is the basis of the general agreement of mankind in regard to them. They defy infidelity and skepticism, and expel them from large fields of ideas. Infidelity and skepticism hold only those fields in which knowledge is impossible; as fast as knowledge extend, infidelity and skepticism retire. Knowledge is individual and personal; it is never communicated, it is essentially incommunicable, an inalienable possession. All that the possessor can do for others is to put them on the track where his knowledge is to be found. By the same means by which he reached it, they can reach it; the same evidence that shows it to him, will show it to them. The reconstruction proposes the post Mosaic authorship of the early Hebrew sacred books as a matter of knowledge, and not merely of opinion.
Three suppositions on the subject are possible, and one of them must be true: 1. Moses can be known to have been the author of the early Hebrew sacred books; or, 2, it can be known that he was not the author of them; or, 3, it can not be known whether he was the author of them or not. The review assumes that it can be known that Motes was the author of them, the reconstruction that he was not. The fallacies of the showing of the Review have fully appeared, in the two previous numbers of these remarks. The truth is only made to appear when it is shown by evidence that can not be resisted, and that makes doubt and unbelief impossible. Any thing short of this gives us guesses and conjectures, but leaves us without knowledge, and makes knowledge impossible. Let us resume the argument for the post Mosaic origin of the early Hebrew sacred books, and see if it cannot be made certainly and universally convincing. What are the facts?
I. Moses does not claim to be the author of any one of the early sacred books; he is introduced as a prominent actor in the second, third, fourth and fifth, and the latter book describes his death. Moses is described in these books, and made to act his part as other less prominent actors are, and is the first person to whom writing is ascribed. He is not said to have written one of the books in the Pentateuch, but is said to have recorded several things which they relate. The writing of Moses is reported in these books as his other doings are: it is not pretended to constitute the books themselves. Had they been written in the name of Moses, and ascribed to him, this would have proved nothing in favor of his authorship; but they hare not even this. They are neither claimed by him as his, nor ascribed to him; they are anonymous, and as perfectly so, as any books that were ever written.
These books are not allowed to tell the name, or age, of their author. It would have been a short and easy story, and have added greatly to the value of the books, and the information would have been thankfully received, and carefully handed along by the ages. To assume Mosaic authorship, in the silence of the books themselves, is most absurd. This silence is a certain proof that Moses was not their author. Had he been, the fact would have been important, and it would have been incumbent on him to make it manifest. The anonymous character of the books compels us to assume that there was some reason for their being published anonymously; it is a fact that demands explanation. How has it happened? Two suppositions are possible: 1.The author published the work anonymously, without any notes of his age, and never gave his name or age to the world; 2, he published it with his name, and notes of his age, and these were dropped by the Hebrew canonists. The truth lies between these two supposition. But it is not credible, either that Moses published these writings without giving them hit name, and claiming them as his work; neither is it credible that he gave them Iris name and the attestation of his hand, and that the Hebrew canonists suffered this information to perish, while they carefully preserved and cherished the remaining part of the work.
II. One language without change is continued from Genesis to the end of 2d Kings, 550 years before Christ. This is the language of the Jews in the times of Haggai, Zachariah, Malachi, and the composition of the Hebrew Daniel, extending from 520 to 164 B. C, 356 years. If we had an English history written by King Alfred, 870 A. D., in five books, carried forward from his time by King Henry VIII., in four books begun in l540, and completed and supplemented by other volumes written by Queen Victoria and her contemporaries in twenty-seven books in 1850, the work would be a great curiosity, and would be likely to command much attention. If such a book should be advertised for publication, those who believed it genuine would look for it with great interest. But if, on its publication, it should be found to represent the English language of 1850 throughout, who would be deceived by it? Who would not conclude at once, that the entire work was the production of 1850 or later, and interpret it accordingly? The English language of I850 did not exist in the time of Henry VIII., and still less, in that of Alfred; the authorships, therefore, claimed for Henry VIII. and for Alfred would be impossible. The period from King Alfred, 870, to Queen Victoria, 1850, is 980 years; that from Henry VIII., 1540, to Queen Victoria, 1850, is 310 years; in each of these periods the English language has been greatly changed, and shows its change on every page and in every line of its productions.
The period of Moses at the age of 80 is 1491. From this time to the close of Samuel's administration, 1095, is 396 yean, 86 years longer than the period from Henry VIII. to Queen Victoria; the period from Samuel, 1095 B. C, to Malachi, 400, is 695 years; both periods combined are 1091 years. This combined period must have wrought great changes in the language of the Hebrews; but the Pentateuch claimed for Moses in 1491 is in the same language as that which related the instruction of Malachi, 400 B. C. This is impossible. The language of Malachi is known to have been the Hebrew language of 400 B. C. It can not, therefore, hare been the language of Samuel, 695 years before—1095 B. C, any more than the English language of Queen Victoria in 1850 can have been
<C03>
that of Henry VIII., 310 years before, in 1540. So also the Hebrew language of the time of Samuel, whatever it was, can no more have been the language of Moses, 396 years before in 1491 B. C., than the language of Henry VIII., in 1540, can have been that of King Alfred, 670 years before, in 870 A. D.
This argument against the Mosaic authorship of the earliest Hebrew sacred books is conclusive; they can not be Mosaic. Living languages are continually changing—they never stand still; witness the ancient Egyptian, Greek, Latin, the Hebrew after the time of Malachi, the Chaldee; witness all the known languages of the world. There is not a language on the earth that has held its position a thousand or fire hundred years, as a living language, without change. All the languages of Europe, Asia, and the North of Africa, have been changed in the last five hundred years, and show their changes in every page and line of their productions. The Hebrew language of 400 B. C, as it appears in the book of Malachi, in the time of Christ, had become the Chaldee of the earliest Targums; it still bore the name of Hebrew, and is so called in the New Testament, but scarce a word is unchanged. It is called another language, and is studied and explained as such. Words wear out, and become obsolete, and require to be replaced by others; knowledge advances, and new objects are ascertained, which require to be denoted by: new words. Every change in thinking requires a corresponding change in speech and writing. We know the history of the Hebrew language from the age of the book of Malachi to that of Christ, 400 years. In that interval, the Hebrew of Malachi was changed into the Chaldee of Onkelos and the earliest Targums. If, therefore, the Hebrew of the book of Malachi passed into the Chaldee of Onkelos and the Targums in 400 years after Malachi, it must have I undergone an equal if not a greater change from a previous lost language used by the Hebrews in the times of Samuel, 695 years before—1095 B. C.; and must have changed still further from the Hebrew Ianguage of the Exodus, 1291 years before—1491 B. C, and can hardly have had any thing in common with the language of Abraham, which was many centuries earlier still. The language of Abraham was a lost language in the time of Moses, that of Moses in the time of David, that of David in the time of Malachi, and that of Malachi a dead, but not hit language, in the time of Christ. The oldest language preserved among the Hebrews is the language of Malachi, extending back some 250 years to the close of the Babylonian exile. All the remote languages of the human race have perished; that of the Hebrews has only shared the common lot. The extant Hebrew language is a century older than that of the ancient Greeks, and these two are the oldest of known languages represented by Aramaean letters. We probably have little reason to regret the loss of all before; we begin our harvests quite soon enough, and some time before the products of the mind have been matured. The dead past was never meant to rule the living present. The present is the creation of all the past, its elaborate result, and, from its position, is the heir of higher inspirations, and more comprehensive analyses, than were ever possible before.
Had scholars sufficiently attended to the nature of living languages, they never could have been imposed upon as they have been by Jewish dogmatism and tradition on this subject. Rivers flow through all their course; so it is with languages, and with the Hebrew language equally with others. We trace back its changes 400 years from Onkelos and Christ to the book to Malachi, then 150 years more to the close of 2 Kings, which is in the language of the whole series of books to Genesis. 2 Kings was written 560 B. C, or later; it could not have been written earlier; all the previous books, being in the language of this period, may lie referred to it with as much certainty as books in the language of King Alfred may be referred to the period of King Alfred, and those in the language of Henry VIII. to that period. It may be possible to stultify ourselves over the subject, and give books of the time of Henry VIII. to King Alfred, or of our times to Henry VIII.; but if we commit such a folly for a time, it is soon corrected long persistence in it is impossible.
We follow the river of the Hebrew language from Christ to Malachi, and from Malachi to the close of 2 Kings, 550 B. C, and are amazed at the changes we find. But we have not yet reached the source of this mighty river; beyond 550 B. C. it has been flowing down incessantly from earlier years. It did not always flow calmly; it came down the slopes of mountains, and plunged over vast precipices in its course. Rivers may as well stop in their way to the sea, and rocks from a precipice pause in their fall, and hang suspended for ages, as a living language cease to change. Abraham, in elder time, had one language, Moses and the Hebrews of his age another, David and the Hebrews of his age another, the author of the sacred books from Genesis to the close of 2 Kings another; and Onkelos and Christ another.
It is of no use to quarrel with facts; they are stubborn and unyielding; they never give an inch of ground; they will not accommodate themselves to us, we must accommodate ourselves to them; they make no compromises, and suffer no violence. Facts are true witnesses, and tell no lies; they are determined witnesses, and declare all they know.
The unity of the historical books of the Hebrews, from Genesis to 2 Kings, is demonstrated by considerations having relation to that subject. Their belonging to the same period does not prove that they are the work of a single author, but other considerations do. The following, among others, are of this description:—
1. One language, with no variety of dialect, is continued from the first of Genesis to the end of 2d Kings, 550 B. C.
2. One historic method pervades the whole, with no systematic chronology, and no division of time by epochs into eras, but making each birth the independent epoch of each life which it introduces. This shows that the great science of history was yet in its infancy, and some of its cardinal principles undiscovered. These books begin with the history of creation in six days, and then give us the stories of Adam and Eve, and the earlier patriarchs, down to the time of Joseph. Here occurs a break in the narrative, and an indefinite space is passed over. Then commences the story of Moses and the Exodus, followed by those of Joshua, the Judges, and, lastly, the Kings, to the death of Jehoiachin.
The story of Moses is concluded with an account of his death and burial in Deuteronomy, and that of Joshua commenced in the next book in the same style, and the two are connected by the Hebrew conjunction "And." This particle is not an appropriate connective of books, the compositions of different authors, but of sentences belonging not only to the same book, but to the same continuous narrative. The stories of Moses, Samuel, David, Hezekiah and Zedekiah all correspond, and bear marks of a common hand and common design. These and other considerations indicate a common authorship, and there is no contrary indication.
The divisions of the books are all arbitrary to Deuteronomy, which is an introduction to Joshua and the rooks that follow, and commences the second part of the work. On a strict analysis, the work consists of two books. The first book begins with Genesis, and ends with Numbers, and the second begins with Deuteronomy, and ends with 2 Kings. Both belong to the same age, and are so entirely similar in language, style and method, as to demand a common authorship.
 Yours, most truly, L. A. SAWYER.

BUREAU OF EMANCIPATION. Mr. Eliot, of Massachusetts, has given notice in the House of Representatives of his intention to introduce a bill creating an office in the War Department to be called "The Bureau of Emancipation," to take cognizance of and to have the superintendence of the slaves who will become freedom under the Proclamation of the President.
<C04>
GERRIT SMITH TO GOVERNOR SEYMOUR. 
LETTER II.
PETERBORO,’ Jan. 12,1863. 
Hon. HORATIO SEYMOUR:
DEAR SIR,—In your infatuation, you propose to cross swords with the President—and this, too, not figuratively, but literally. You threaten the forcible supplanting of the military power of the United States by the merely civil power of this single State. This is your way of standing by the President in his patriotic endeavors. This is your way of standing by your country as she reels under the blows of traitors —of traitors in arms, and of more effective traitors not in arms—of traitors in the rebellious Slates, and of more dangerous traitors in the loyal States. You say that the Union must be preserved. But your means for preserving it prove what kind of a Union it is that you are so intent on preserving. It is a Union for submission to the South—a Union for slavery and for the Democratic party. You well know that our nation would have gone down very speedily had the civil power of Missouri, Kentucky and Maryland been allowed to override the military power of the nation. No man knows better than yourself to which side, but for the dread of that military power, the State, whose city shed Massachusetts blood, would have gone, carrying with her both her civil and her military power. She might have gone South, even though opposed by a very large nun-slaveholding majority.
To say that slavery is not the cause of the Rebellion is to say what is infinitely absurd. And yet for you to say it is anything but strange. For you are a politician: and as all your political hopes are identified with slavery, you love it, cling to it, and are ever alert to screen it from blame. In consenting to let your idol be held responsible for this horrid Rebellion, you would consent to the only death you dread—your political death. Hence your queer theory that the Rebellion resulted from the characteristic differences between the people, of New England and the people of the Cotton States. I admit the existence of these differences. But who cannot see that they have, in the main, proceeded from slavery? You imply that, had there been as much homogeneousness between these people as is found " in the portions traversed by the great East and West lines of commerce," there would have been no Rebellion. I agree with you. But I bid you remember that this is the homogeneousness of anti-slavery " portions." For, save that one of these
" lines " is partly in the skirts of the slaveholding section of the country, they all traverse States consecrated to freedom, and only such. I thank you for this illustration of the homogeneousness and peacefulness of the anti-slavery " portions" of the country—for this illustration of the falseness of your position that an anti-slavery portion share in the responsibility of the Rebellion. You further imply that, had there been between the people of New England and the Cotton States the homogeneousness there is between the Border Free States and the Border Slave States, the Rebellion would not have been. You enumerate the causes, viz., "confluent rivers," &c, &c., to produce this homogeneousness; but you do not give facts to prove that it has been produced. There are none to give. How can there be facts to prove the homogeneousness of two peoples, one of whom holds the family relation sacred, and the other separates its
members upon the auction block? — among one of whom the laborer is counted to be worthy of wages, and among the other of whips?—among the native adult population of one of whom not a third can read, whilst in such population of the other the individual who cannot read is a curiosity seldom to be met with? homogeneousness between the Border Free and Border Slave States! What imputation could be more insulting to the former, and what more false in the face of the fact that, whilst the Border Free States have furnished soldiers but to the loyal army, and these cheerfully and abundantly, the Border Slave States, except little Delaware not so many, have furnished thousands — nay, some, and probably each of them, tens of thousands— of soldiers to the rebel army! There is not homogeneousness between Pennsylvania and Maryland; nor between Ohio, Indiana and Illinois on the one hand, and Kentucky on the other; nor between Iowa and Missouri. I admit that the people of Missouri are coming to resemble the people of Iowa. But it is only because Missouri is casting off slavery, and hasting to make her grand State the grandest of perhaps all the States,
and her city the Capital of the Nation, whilst Washington is left to be the University of the Nation. I admit that there is a class of men in the Border Free States, and indeed in all the Free States, who are exceedingly homogeneous with a class of men in the Border Slave States. I refer to the pro-slavery politicians in each section. Take, for instance, Gov. Robinson of Kentucky and yourself. One might be tempted to conclude that the same pen wrote your recent Message and his—so equally imbued are they with the pro-slavery spirit; so equally devoted are they to the Border State policy, which makes the saving of slavery paramount to the saving of the country; and so equally determined are they that even in time of war, " the military is and must be subject to the civil authority "—and must be made and kept so "at all hazards."
I ought to have said, in its more proper connection, that such a State as Ohio or Iowa will not thank you for implying that slavery is less repugnant to her moral sense than to New England's; and that Western hatred of oppression is less radical than Eastern.
To bolster up this theory, you say (for this is your meaning, and the only meaning that would be at all pertinent to the case,) that the Border Free and Border Slave States came out as one at the breaking out of the Rebellion. This is entirely true as regards the former, but it is glaringly false as regards the latter. Virginia went with the rebels; and for a longtime there was a strong doubt, (not even yet wholly dispelled,) whether there was not in Maryland, and also in Kentucky and Missouri, a majority in favor of going with the rebels. You are constrained to except " Eastern Virginia "—though you do it in a way so ingenious and artful, that the careless reader would make scarce any account of the exception. Nevertheless, this " Eastern Virginia " is several time as populous as the remainder of Virginia. And is it really so, that you did not see that this exception, which you make, is fatal to your attempt to prove that slavery is not the cause of the Rebellion? If you did not, then is there here another fact of the stone-blindness which has come upon you. Why did Western Virginia cast in her lot with the North? Because she has but half a dozen thousand slaves, and wants to get rid of them. And why did Eastern Virginia go with the South t Because she has several hundred thousand slaves, and wants to hold and multiply them. Can you doubt that Eastern Virginia, had her slave population been as sparse as that of Western Virginia, would have come North? Can you doubt that Western Virginia, had hers been as dense as that of Eastern Virginia, would have gone South?
That the Western and Central Free States " enlisted warmly in a war for the Union and Constitution," I admit. But your implication that New England did not is baldly and cruelly false. That the Administration has abandoned its "sole purpose to restore the Union and maintain the Constitution" is a slander. I had no part in bringing it into power, but not the less ready am I to do it justice. And if, as you substantially say, "the Central and Western States." have in this gloomy hoar, when to stand by the country is to stand by the Administration, given the cold shoulder to the Administration, then it is the slanderers, and not the slandered, who are responsible for so calamitous an alienation. I charged you with slandering the Administration. The sole difference between Democrats, Republicans and Abolitionists, at this point where you slander it, is, that whilst all three agree that the one issue is the salvation of the Constitution and the Union, the Democrats are not willing to have them saved at the necessary sacrifice of slavery; the Republicans are; and the Abolitionists rejoice in the necessity.
<C05>
To return for a moment to your queer theory. What will not a man do when he is in straits? You would not content to the disgrace and rain of your pro-slavery party, as you would do if y«w consented to haw slavery held responsible for the accursed Rebellion. Hence your queer theory, that hat not one fact or one semblance of a fact to sustain it. The theory which is made from facts is valuable; but the theory to which facts are made is worthless. Emphatically worthless is yours, since you have not so much as taken the pains to coin facts, and hare substituted for the coinage simple assertion!
Slavery not the cause of the Rebellion! Then why is it that, whilst every Free State came out instantly in battle array against the Rebellion, eleven of the Slave States embarked in it, and three, if not indeed all four, of the others gave only too abundant signs that they also would embark in it but for their fear of Federal troops t Slavery not the cause of the Rebellion! Then why is it that the rebels say it is? —and why is it that they insult the civilization of the age by making slavery the boasted cornerstone of their new nation?—and by making the first of all the objects of their diabolical movement the protecting, spreading and eternizing of slavery?
I do not murmur at the providence which has brought you again into high political power. On the contrary, I submissively accept it as a part of the penalty of the American people for their oppressions of the poor. Your election, instead of the election of the brave and noble man who rejoices in the deliverance of the slave, and who with his three sons is in the army of his country instead of being hi the counsels of its foes, is, notwithstanding it is so frightfully calamitous, to be endured as one of our merited inflictions. Every nation prepares its own cup. We have made ours very bitter; nevertheless, we must drink it. As a part of the punishment for our unsurpassed crimes against humanity, we may have to witness the failure of all endeavors to save our beloved country, and may have to pass through the humiliation of recognizing the Southern Confederacy. But
God be praised that over against all this deep and unutterable sorrow will be the deep and unutterable joy that the slave is free! In spite of the influence of your party to the contrary, and of your individual and amazing determination to the contrary, the slave will go free. Yes, though the guilty nation, with whose continued existence stands connected the highest object of your ambition, may be left to perish, the innocent slave, nevertheless, shall surely go free. Do you wonder at the positiveness with which I express myself at this point? I answer that this being, high above all human purposes and issues in it, a war of God against slavery, pro-slavery men are but fools in it, and only Abolitionists competent to advise in it, and foresee its grand results.
Faithful were the Abolitionists, all through a quarter of a century, to warn their countrymen of this day of blood. Bui pro-slavery politicians requited them with scorn. And so frenzied are such politicians now, as to purpose to save the country by crushing the Abolitionists. This, however, is but as every impenitently wicked people have dealt with their faithful prophets.
The counsels of the Abolitionists—of the men who have made slavery their life long study—can alone, under God, save our appallingly imperilled nation. Every step taken by her in accordance with these counsels is a step in the way of her salvation; and her every step to the contrary is in the way to her destruction.
Your former and your present friend,
GERRIT SMITH.
LETTER FROM PORT ROYAL.
CAMP SAXTON, Port Royal Island, 
Jan. 21, 1863. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON—The South Carolina volunteers have had a glorious day. Their true friend. Gen. Hunter, now in command, has visited them with his staff, Gen. Saxton, and others. We had long hoped Gen. Hunter would be restored to hit command, but tremblingly, lest he who bat ruled should be lifted into the saddle, when we knew our team would not be desirable. Who can tell what might have been the consequences, had the meanest and bitterest enemy to this movement been Major General here? It's now up to the highest hope of every true friend of the cause here. After the reviews, martial exercise and battalion movements, the regiment formed a square, into which the Generals were admitted. Gen. Hunter then addressed a few pointed words to the soldiers, expressing his satisfaction with what he had seen, and hoping he should soon see fifty thousand of their people in some condition ready to light for their liberty. If they would not fight for liberty, they ought not to have it, and would not have it. He would use all his energies to see that their welfare was attended to, and all lie asked was, that they would do their duty.
Three hearty cheers were most readily given for the General, three for his staff, and three for Liberty. Gen. Saxton—truest of the true—said Gen. Hunter told him fitly thousand muskets were on their way to put into the hands of these people.
One company now have the Springfield musket. The others have old muskets of the poorer sort. We hope to get better, but, probably, shall have to use these first—for action mutt commence here very soon: where it shall be it yet only a conjecture. But we are now ready for action, and have been on a severe drill ever since Col. Higginson's arrival. No body complains of this, or of the strict discipline he requires. Never had a Colonel more entire confidence of officers and privates. Our regiment now numbers 850 strong, is healthy and in beat of spirits, wanting to fight, but not spoiling for it. There cannot be the least doubt as to its efficiency. No regiment can go above it. Shocking language is the rarest thing. Prayers, hymns and exhortations, moat fervent and sincere, are most abundant; sometimes ten prayer-meetings are extemporized in the own streets before daylight, and again as many in the evening. The cause they regard at religious, and take hold of it as such. It is truly a praying regiment. The canse of the country it theirs, and that of their friends. It is deeply personal with them, and they enter into it with an earnestness and a will.
Thus far, only voluntary enlistments have been made, and for the past two months, our efforts have been directed to perfecting ourselves for action against the enemy, when we hope to find plenty of recruits, rather than procuring them from those now free.
It should be borne in mind by our Northern Mends, that the colored people of this department are mostly unfit for military service—the able-bodied having been removed by the rebels. Wait few weeks, and then see what yon will see.
Everything indicates work here; we feel it; the Monitor and Ironsides forebode it. A fleet just arriving, and more Monitors to come strengthen the impression. Nobody thinks Gen. Hunter hat come down here again to be idle. I think now is the time for true, courageous anti-slavery men to take up arms.
Here is the place. Let them come to fight. The sale of these lands as advertised will effectually turn the negroes out of their homes. It should be put a
stop to, if possible. Thanks to Sumner for his efforts to that end! J.H.F.
The Harwich Cape Cod Republican contains the following notice of Mr. Wright's lecture:—
"Henry C. Wright lectured in the Congregational Church in this village on Sunday and Monday evening. last. Both were attended by large and interested audiences. His subject on the former evening was Abraham Lincoln's Proclamation; and on the latter the mission and destiny of the American Republic. His arguments were powerful and convincing;.showing most conclusively that the Proclamation will result in the final overthrow of slavery. At the close of the last lecture a vote of thanks was tendered him—manifested by rising, when every person arose.”
To the hardy and enterprising sons of the Cape. Liberty ever confidently looks, in every hoar of danger, for her sturdiest defenders.
<C06>
Lewis's Normal Institute
—FOR—
Physical Education,
No. 20 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
[Incorporated in 1861.]
THIS Institution is a pioneer in a new profession. Ladies and gentlemen of enterprise and industry will find in this field health, usefulness, and Large profit. These eminent medical men teach in the departments of Army, Physiology and Hygiene. Prof. LEONARD has charge of Elocation; Dr. DIO LEWIS of Practical Gymnastics, and the Movement Cure. The course continues ten when Tickets $75. Matriculation $5. Diploma $10. These prices are reduced 25 per cent. To Ladies. Two and the 2d on the 5th of July.

For a full circular, address Dr. DIO LEWIS, Box 12, Boston, Mass.

Dr. Lewis has solved the problem; he has marked at the way. Many eminent teachers are pursuing it with the most excellent results. We recognize the debt in Dr. Lewis; he has done us teachers and our pupils are amount of good.—D.B. Hagar, Pres. of the American Institute of Instruction.
I am now satisfied that Dr. Lewis has found the true scientific process for physical development. It was my privilege to welcome Dr. Lewis at his very first arrival here and every thing since then has only confirmed my confidence in his ability to superintend the work.—Rev. B. Kirk, at the first Commencement of the Institute.
Henceforth we shall delight to think of Dr. Lewis at one who holds our welfare very near his own; we she turn to his for sympathy and encouragement in our features, and shall love to bring our successes to him a belonging more to him than to ourselves.—Miss May, Valedictory at the first Graduating Class.
I rejoice, Mr. President, that the Normal Institute in Physical Education has been established in Boston. I rejoice that it has at its head a gentleman so admirally verified to give it eminent success. I believe that no individual has ever, in this country, given the subject of Physical Education such an impulse as has Dr. Lewis. He is serves the credit of it.
You may not know it, ladies and gentlemen, but the Institution is famous in every part of the land. There is not a live educator in America who is not looking to us what is to be the result of Dr. Lewis’s institution in Boston. These exercises can be introduced into any school-room with desks. The problem is solved.
I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the commencement of a new era, and that the system tangle by Dr. Lewis will be universally introduced into the schools.—Extract from a speech delivered at the second Commencement of “Lewis’s Normal Institute,” by J.D. Philbrick Esq. Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston.

THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN.
THE ILLUSTRATED SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, the best mechanical paper in the world, commences a new volume on the first of January. It is published weekly and every number contains sixteen pages of useful information, and from five to ten original engravings of new inventions and discoveries, all of which are prepared expressly for its columns.

No person engaged in any of the mechanical or manufacturing pursuits should think of “doing without” the Scientific American. It costs but six cents per week; every number contains from six to ten engravings of new chiues and inventions, which cannot be found in any the publication.
The Scientific American is indispensable to every investor, as it not only contains illustrated descriptions of neatly all the best inventions as they come out, but each number contains an Official List of the Claims of all the Patent issued from the United States Patent Office during the week previous; thus giving a correct history of the progress of inventions in this country; and also a summary at all that is transpiring in mechanical science and art in the old countries.
To Chemists, Architects, Millwrights and Farmers, the Scientific American will be found a most useful journal. All the new discoveries in the science of chemistry as given in its columns, and the interests of the architect and carpenter are not overlooked; all the new inventions and discoveries appertaining to these pursuits being published from week to week. Useful and practical information pertaining to the interests of millwrights and mill-owners will be found in the Scientific American, which information they cannot possibly obtain from any other source. Subject is which farmers are interested will be found discussed in the Scientific American; most of the improvements in agricultural implements being illustrated in its columns.
TERMS—To mail subscribers: Three Dollars a year, of One Dollar for four months. The volumes commence of the first of January and July. Specimen copies will be sent gratis to any part of the country.
MUNN & CO., PUBLISHERS,
Jan2tf 37 Part Row, New York.

IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
NO. 31 WINTER STREET,
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure then are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in the country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
NO. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
154 Washing St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m.
THE PROBLEM SOLVED.
THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION.
BY M. AUGUSTIN COCHIN.
Translated by Miss. Mary L. Booth, translator of M. Gasparin’s Works on America.

M. COCHIN is an ex-maire and municipal councilor of the city of Paris. He has had great advantages for research among both public and private documents; and has devoted his life to the subject on which his fourth coming volume treats. He recently received the order of knighthood from the Pope, in acknowledgment of the ability displayed in this book; to which also was recently awarded the first prize of three thousand franes by the French Academy.
So little is positively known of the economical and social results of Emancipation in those countries where it has taken place, that the importance of this volume to the people of the United States, in the present crisis, can hardly be overestimated.
It was written at the suggestion of the learned Count Montalembert; is based entirely of official reports; and its statements, which comprehend every form of the question, are fully reliable.
Of the style and attractiveness of the book, the following extract from a notice of the French edition, in the Christian Examiner, may testify. It is pronounced, “among the most remarkable, fascinating, and timely books of the year. It is, at once, cautious and eloquent, candid and enthusiastic; as sagacious as De Tocqueville’s work on America; and as ardent as Victor Hugo’s Legend of the Ages. It is scientific in its arrangement, accurate in its display of facts, logical in its reasoning, and clear in its conclusions.”
12mo. Sent FREE BY MAIL. On receipt of the price,—$1.50.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
dec12.1.s3t 245 Washington Street, Boston.

