THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 19. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1585.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
A CLERICAL CALUMNIATOR.
The following is an extract from a sermon on the War. by Rev. E. B. FOSTER, pastor of the John Street (Congregational) Church, Lowell, Mass., preached April 21, 1861, and published entire in the Lowell <illegible> of the 27th ult. Its representations of abolitionists are equally mendacious and venomous. We know nothing of its author, except that, in this instance, he is a wilful deceiver of the people.
We are led anxiously to inquire, is there any excuse for any portion of the secessionists? Yes, the apology offered for the crucifixion of our Lord, "they know not what they do." The large majority of the South, I believe, are acting under a profound delusion. Subtile, designing, unscrupulous leaders have rushed them into this rebellion, by grossest misrepresentations, and under a dense cloud of ignorance. The masses believe that the North are ready to trample on the Constitution; are the enemies of Church and State; are infidel towards the Bible; are reckless and radical in their political principles; are ready to stir up servile insurrections, and to carry fire and slaughter through the innocent homes of the South-in short, they believe that all the educated, controlling minds are Garrisons, and all the populace are John Browns. They do not know that the populace are all educated, and that Northern men are, almost universally, the haters of insurrection, lawlessness and bloodshed. These ambitious, malignant leaders of the South know the truth, but their followers are dupes. Slavery, at the South is woven in with all the domestic, social, daily interests of the people. It is their labor, and the source of their wealth, and even of their hourly comforts. It is their daily bread and their infants' milk. As Rev. Dr. Thornwell says, in his recent pro-slavery discourse, there are very few in his congregation, who have not been fed at the generous black breast. It is a question as to the preservation of their homes and the education of their children. They are sensitive, vigilant, jealous, eager, excitable, on the subject of slavery. If you bring upon them servile insurrection, their houses are in flames; their women are made the spoil of rapine; their childrens' tortures satiate the revenge of black barbarians; their own blood stains the lintels of their doors.
There is not the slightest ground for the belief which they entertain as to the designs of the North. Republicans, Douglas Democrats, Breckinridge voters, Bell-Everett men alike, in every possible form of protestation, speech, editorial, sermon, resolve, convention platform, constitutional amendment, have utterly repudiated the wish or the purpose to favor a servile insurrection, or to make the slightest aggression upon the rights of the South. John Brown was an exceptional character, and his principles are repudiated at the North as well as at the South. Garrison is an exceptional character, and his principles are repudiated at the North as widely as at the South. Infidel abolitionism is near its last gasp. Garrison is the writer of its Koran, and Wendell Phillips is its Prophet Mohammed. When those two men are dead, this form of radicalism will be as dead, amongst all enlightened Christian men, as Mohammedanism now is. There is a little clique of men, whose numbers are less than the Mormons; whose faith is equally odious; whose centre is in Boston; whose creed is, "Tear down the Church, tear down the Bible, scorn the principles of the fathers which have made our country so exalted and so happy." They do not vote. They do not hold office. They do not take oaths of allegiance. They do not, by violence, oppose the law, for they are non-resistant. Neither do they obey law-it is their special mission to spurn it.
These men are disunionists, by right of original discovery. As individuals, and as a party, (if you can call five hundred men, scattered over the State, a party.) they seceded from the General Government several years ago. They partake of the blessings of these Republican institutions. They circulate and receive their letters and papers through the mails. They sleep quietly in their beds at night, they go forth unmolested to the labors of the day, under the aegis of Federal laws. They acquire property, and appropriate it, and preserve it, under the protection of our courts. They eat sugars, and are healthy. They wear cottons, and are warm, notwithstanding the negro's groans. They meet on the Sabbath, to hold their anti-political and irreligious worship, and still our Republicanism extends over them its shield. They receive, with every inhalation of their lungs, with every palpitation of their hearts, with every exercise of their free intellect and unfettered tongue, with every joyous emotion of the loving heart in gentle homes, the sweet, diffusive influences of our Republican Government, and of Christ's Gospel. I respectfully submit, that, in their radical destructiveness, aiming constant blows at the Bible and the Union, they are both inconsistent and ungrateful. I have no charge to bring against the intellectual force, and social courtesy and morality of these men. I have no charge to bring against their conscientiousness and sincerity. But it would be impossible for me to receive their opinions. I would as soon be a slaveholder as a Garrisonian, and I would give my body to the flames and my soul to God before I would be either.

WHAT OF THE SLAVES?
It is reported that Gov. Sprague has returned to their owner, Hon. George W. Hughes, of Washington, three slaves that followed the Rhode Island regiment some ten miles, hoping to escape. We also have a report from Fort Munroe that they are much annoyed by fugitive slaves seeking refuge there, but in all cases they are returned. This action, and the proposition of Gen. Butler to suppress a negro insurrection, may seem monstrous to some harum scarum zealots, who regard this as an opportunity to perfect what John Brown failed to accomplish; but if there is one duty we can owe the South now, or that we do owe the world and each other, it is to show that our sole and only object is the maintenance of the constitutional government, and that we will not war upon any local institutions that do not stand in hostility to the government, and least of all will we turn barbarians, and incite slaves to the murder of women and children. To do that would sink us to a level with the Sepoys of India, or the maddened butchering hordes of Syria. No-none of this; we go to war to sustain the national banner and the national government, and our own acts must show, and will show, how deluded has been the South in supposing that we wished to violate their rights, disturb their property, or interfere with their local customs and habits.-Newburyport Herald.
The writer of such a paragraph as the above reveals a spirit worthy of a Southern slave-driver or a slave-trader on the African coast.
<c02>
Selections.
TREASON AND DISUNION AVOWED. 
[From the Political Text-Book for 1860.]
In 1856, as now, many of the leading Statesmen and editors of the Democratic party in the Southern States uttered predictions of Disunion, made arguments for Disunion, and very solemn threats of Disunion in case they should be beaten in the Presidential election. Mr. Slidell, Senator from Louisiana, and the particular friend and champion of Mr. Buchanan, declared in 1856 that "if Fremont should be elected, the Union would be dissolved." Mr. Toombs, of Georgia, said "that in such an event the Union would be dissolved, and ought to be dissolved." Mr. Butler, of South Carolina, a leading member of the U. S. Senate, and chairman of the Judiciary Committee in 1856, said:-
"When Fremont is elected, we must rely upon what we have-a good State Government. Every Governor of the South should call the Legislature of his State together, and have measures of the South decided upon. If they did not, and submit to the degradation, they would deserve the fate of slaves. I should advise my Legislature to go at the tap of the drum." 
Mr. Keitt, of South Carolina, made a fiery speech at Lynchburgh, Va., in 1856, and in view of the apprehended election of Col. Fremont, exclaimed:-
"I tell you now, that if Fremont is elected, adherence to the Union is treason to liberty. (Loud cheers.) I tell you now, that the Southern man who will submit to his election is a traitor and a coward." (Enthusiastic cheers.) 
This speech was indorsed as "sound doctrine" by the Hon. John B. Floyd, of Virginia, now Mr. Buchanan's Secretary of War. 
Mr. Preston S. Brooks was complimented for his attempted (and nearly successful) assassination of Senator Sumner, by an ovation at the hands of his constituents, at which Senator Butler, of South Carolina, and Toombs, of Georgia, assisted. The hero of the day. Mr. Brooks, made a speech on the occasion, from which the following is an extract:-
"We have the issue upon us now; and how are we to meet it? I tell you, fellow-citizens, from the, bottom of my heart, that the only mode which I think available for meeting it, is just to tear the Constitution of the United States, trample it under foot, and form a Southern Confederacy, every State of which will be a slaveholding State. (Loud and prolonged cheers.) I believe it, as I stand in the face of my Maker; I believe it on my responsibility to you as your honored representative, that the only hope of the South is in the South, and that the only available means of making that hope effective is to cut asunder the bonds that tie us together, and take our separate position in the family of nations. These are my opinions. They have always been my opinions. I have been a disunionist from the time I could think.
"Now. fellow-citizens, I have told you very frankly and undisguisedly, that I believe the only hope of the South is in dissolving the bonds which connect us with the Government-in separating the living body from the dead carcass. If I was the commander of an army, I never would post a sentinel who would not swear that slavery is right. 
"I speak on my individual responsibility: If Fremont be elected President of the United States, I am for the people in their majesty rising above the law and  leaders, taking the power in their own hands, going by concert or not by concert, and laying the strong arm of Southern freemen upon the Treasury and archives of the Government." (Applause.) 
The Charleston Mercury, the recognized organ of the South Carolina Democracy, says:-
"Upon the policy of dissolving the Union, of separating the South from her Northern enemies, and establishing a Southern Confederacy, parties, presses, politicians, and people, are a unit. There is not a single public man in her limits, not one of her present Representatives or Senators in Congress, who is not pledged to the lips in favor of disunion. Indeed, we well remember that one of the most prominent leaders of the cooperation party, when taunted with submission, rebuked the thought by saying, 'that in opposing secession, he only took, a step backward to strike a blow more deadly against the Union.'" 
In the autumn of 1856, Henry A. Wise, then Governor of Virginia, told the people of that State that 
"The South could not, without degradation, submit to the election of a Black Republican President. To tell me we should submit to the election of a Black Republican, under circumstances like these, is to tell me that Virginia and the fourteen slave States are already subjugated and degraded (cheers); that the Southern people are without spirit, and without purpose to defend the rights they know and dare not maintain. (Cheers.) If you submit to the election of Fremont, you will prove what Seward and Burlingame said to be true-that the South cannot be kicked out of the Union." 
During the Presidential campaign of 1856, the Washington correspondent of the New Orleans Delta, a journal high in the confidence of the Pierce dministration, wrote:-
"It is already arranged, in the event of Fremont's election, or a failure to elect by the people, to call the Legislatures of Virginia, South Carolina and Georgia to concert measures to withdraw from the Union before Fremont can get possession of the army and navy, and the purse-strings of government. Governor Wise is actively at work already in the matter. The South can rely on the President in the emergency contemplated. The question now is, whether the people of the South will sustain their leaders." 
At a Union meeting recently held at Knoxville, Tennessee, Judge Daily, formerly of Georgia, made a violent Southern speech, in the course of which he said:-
"During the Presidential contest, Governor Wise had addressed letters to all the Southern Governors, and that the one to the Governor of Florida had been shown him, in which Governor Wise said he had an army in readiness to prevent Fremont from taking his seat if elected, and asking the cooperation of those to whom he wrote."
Charles J. Faulkner, formerly a Representative in Congress from Virginia, Chairman of the Democratic Congressional Committee, in 1856, and now Minister to France, at a recent Democratic meeting held in Virginia, over which he presided, said:-
"When that noble and gallant son of Virginia, Henry A. Wise, declared, as was said he did in October, 1856, that if Fremont should be elected, HE WOULD SEIZE THE NATIONAL ARSENAL AT HARPER'S FERRY, how few would, at that time, have justified so bold and decided a measure? It is the 
<c03>
fortune of some great and gifted minds to see far in advance of their contemporaries. Should William H. Seward be elected in 1860, where is the man now in our midst, who would not call for the impeachment of a Governor of Virginia who would silently suffer that armory to pass under the control of such an Executive head?"
The Richmond Enquirer, long one of the leading exponents of the Southern Democracy, in commenting on the murderous assault on Senator Sumner, said:-
"Sumner, and Sumner's friends, must be punished and silenced. Either such wretches must be hung or put in the penitentiary, or the South should prepare at once to quit the Union. 
"If Fremont is elected, the Union will not last an hour after Mr. Pierce's term expires.
"If Fremont is elected, it will be the duty of the South to dissolve the Union, and form a Southern Confederacy.
"Let the South present a compact and undivided front. Let her, if possible, detach Pennsylvania and southern Ohio, southern Indiana, and southern Illinois, from the North, and make the highlands between the Ohio and the lakes the dividing line. Let the South treat with California; and if necessary, ally herself with Russia, with Cuba, and Brazil."
Senator Iverson, of Georgia, in a speech made to his constituents previous to the assembling of the second session of the 36th Congress, said:-
"Slavery must be maintained-in the Union, if possible; out of it, if necessary; peaceably, if we may; forcibly, if we must.
"In a confederated government of their own, the Southern States would enjoy sources of wealth, prosperity, and power, unsurpassed by any nation on earth. No neutrality laws would restrain our adventurous sons. Our expanding policy would stretch far beyond present limits. Central America would join her destiny to ours, and so would Cuba, now withheld from us by the voice and votes of Abolition enemies."
"During the late memorable contest for Speaker, the same Senator remarked, as follows:-
"Sir, I will tell you what I would do, if I had the control of the Southern members of this House and the, other, when you elect John Sherman. If I had control of the public sentiment, the very moment you elect John Sherman, thus giving to the South the example of insult as well as injury, I would walk, every one of us, out of the Halls of this Capitol, and consult our constituents; and I would never enter again until I was bade to do so by those who had the right to control me. Sir, I go further than that, I would counsel my constituents instantly to dissolve all political ties with a party and a people who thus trample on our rights. That is what I would do."
In an elaborate speech delivered later in the session by the same Senator, he said:-
"Sir, there is but one path of safety to the South; but one mode of preserving her institution of domestic slavery; and that is a confederacy of States having no incongruous and opposing elements-a confederacy of slave States alone, with homogeneous language, laws, interests, and institutions. Under such a confederated Republic, with a Constitution which should shut out the approach and entrance of all incongruous and conflicting elements, which should protect the institution from change, and keep the whole nation ever bound to its preservation, by an unchangeable fundamental law, the fifteen slave States, with their power of expansion, would present to the world the most free, prosperous, and happy nation on the face of the wide earth.
"Sir, with these views, and with the firm conviction which I have entertained for many years, and which recent events have, only seemed to confirm, that the ' irrepressible conflict' between the two sections must and will go on, and with accumulated speed, and must end, in the Union, with the total extinction of African slavery in the Southern States, that I have announced my determination to approve and urge the Southern States to dissolve the Union upon the election of a Black Republican to the Presidency of the United States, by a sectional Northern party, and upon a platform of opposition and hostility to Southern slavery."
Senator Brown, of Mississippi, in a recent speech to his constituents, said:-
"I want Cuba; I want Tamaulipas, Potosi, and one or two other Mexican States; and I want them all for the same reason-for the planting and spreading of slavery. And a footing in Central America will powerfully aid us in acquiring those other States. Yes; I want these countries for the spread of slavery. I would spread the blessings of slavery, like the religion of our Divine Master, to the uttermost ends of the earth; and, rebellious and wicked as the Yankees have been, I would even extend it to them.
"Whether we can obtain the Territory while the Union lasts, I do not know; I fear we cannot. But I would make an honest effort, and if we failed, I would go out of the Union, and try it there. I speak plainly-I would make a refusal to acquire territory, because it was to be slave territory, a cause for disunion, just as I would make the refusal to admit a new State, because it was to be a slave State, a cause for disunion.
"The election of Mr. Seward. or any other man of his party, is not, per se, justifiable ground for dissolving the Union. But the act of putting the Government in the hands of men who mean to use it for our subjugation ought to be resisted, even to the disruption of every tie that binds us to the Union."
Jefferson Davis, U. S. Senator from Mississippi, in an address to the people of his State, July 6, 1859, said:-
"For myself, I say, as I said on a former occasion, in the contingency of the election of a President on the platform of Mr. Seward's Rochester speech, let the Union be dissolved. Let the ' great, but not the greatest of evils,' come."
Mr. Clay, of Alabama, in a recent speech in the Senate, contemplating the possible defeat of his party in the coming Presidential contest, said:-
"I make no predictions, no promise for my State; but, in conclusion, will only say, that if she is faithful to the pledges she has made and principles she has professed-if she is true to her own interest and her own honor-if she is not recreant to all that State pride, integrity and duty demand-she will never submit to your authority. I will add, that unless she and all the Southern States of this Union, with perhaps but two, or, at most, three exceptions, are not faithless to the pledges they have given, they will never submit to the government of a President professing your political faith, and elected by your sectional majority."
When Mr. Clay had taken his seat, Mr. Gwin, of California, made a speech in which he declared it as "the inevitable result that the South would prepare for resistance in the event of the election of a Republican President."
<c04>
On the 24th of January, 1860, the Hon. Robert Toombs, of Georgia, made a violent speech in the Senate, on Mr. Douglas's resolution directing the Judiciary Committee to report a bill for the protection of each State and Territory against invasion from any other State or Territory. Mr. Toombs commenced his speech by the announcement that the country was in the midst of civil war, adding, " I feel and know that a large body of these Senators are enemies of my country." Mr. Toombs proceeded in an elaborate and vituperative speech to prove that the people of the North had violated the Constitution, by refusing to capture and return fugitive slaves to their masters in the South:-
"Sir, I have but little more to add-nothing for myself. I feel that I have no need to pledge my poor services to this great cause-to my country. My State has spoken for herself. Nine years ago, a convention of her people met and declared that her connection with this government depended upon the faithful execution of this Fugitive Slave Law, and her full enjoyment of equal rights in the common Territories. I have shown that the one contingency has already arrived; the other waits only the success of the Republican party in the approaching Presidential election. I was a member of that convention, and stood then and now pledged to its action. I have faithfully labored to avert these calamities. I will yet labor until this last contingency happens, faithfully, honestly, and to the best of my poor abilities. When that time comes, freemen of Georgia, redeem your pledge; I am ready to redeem mine. Your honor is involved-your faith is plighted. I know you feel a stain as a wound; your peace, your social system, your firesides are involved. Never permit this Federal Government to pass into the traitorous hands of the Black Republican party. It has already declared war against you and your institutions. It every day commits acts of war against you: it has already compelled you to arm for your defence. Listen to ' no vain babblings,' to no treacherous jargon about 'overt acts;' they have already been committed. Defend yourselves; the enemy is at your door; wait not to meet him at the hearthstone-meet him at the door-sill, and drive him from the temple of liberty, or pull down its pillars and involve him in a common ruin."
Senator Clingman, of North Carolina, in a recent speech, says that "there are hundreds of disunionists in the South now, where there was not one ten years ago," and that in some of the States the men who would willingly see the Union dissolved are in the majority. In considering the proper cause for disunion, Mr. Clingman continues:-
"In my judgment, the election of the Presidential candidate of the Black Republican party will furnish that cause.
"No other 'overt act' can so imperatively demand resistance on our part as the simple election of their candidate. Their organization is one of avowed hostility, and they come against us as enemies.
"The objections are not personal merely to this Senator, (Mr. Seward.) but apply equally to any member of the party elected by it. It has, in fact, been suggested that, as a matter of prudence, for the first election they should choose a Southern free-soiler. Would the Colonies have submitted more willingly to Benedict Arnold than to Lord Cornwallis?"
Mr. Curry, of Alabama, a member of the House of Representatives, in a recent speech, says:-
"However distasteful it may be to my friend from New York, (Mr. Clark,) however much it may revolt the public sentiment or conscience of this country, I am not ashamed or afraid publicly to avow that the election of William H. Seward or Salmon P. Chase, or any such representative of the Republican party, upon a sectional platform, ought to be resisted to the disruption of every tie that binds this Confederacy together." (Applause on the Democratic side of the House.)
Mr. Pugh, of the same State, made a speech in the House, in which he said:-
"If, with the character of the Government well defined, and the rights and privileges of the parties to the compact clearly asserted by the Democratic party, the Black Republicans get possession of the Government, then the question is fully presented, whether the Southern States will remain in the Union, as subject and degraded colonies, or will they withdraw, and establish a Southern Confederacy of coequal homogeneous sovereigns?
"In my judgment, the latter is the only course compatible with the honor, equality, and safety of the South; and the sooner it is known and acted upon, the better for all parties to the compact.
"The truest conservatism and wisest statesmanship demand a speedy termination of all association with such confederates, and the formation of another Union of States, homogeneous in population, institutions, interests, and pursuits."
Mr. Moore, of the same State, said:-
"I do not concur with the declaration made yesterday, by the gentleman from Tennessee, that the election of a Black Republican to the Presidency was not cause for a dissolution of the Union. Whenever a President is elected by a fanatical majority at the North, those whom I represent, as I believe, and the gallant State which I in part represent, are ready, let the consequences be what they may, to fallfell back on their reserved rights, and say, 'As to this Union, we have no longer any lot or part in it.'"
Mr. Bonham, a member of the House from South Carolina, said:-
"As to disunion, upon the election of a Black Republican, I can speak for no one but myself, and those I have here the honor to represent; and I say, without hesitation, that, upon the election of Mr. Seward, or any other man who indorses and proclaims the doctrines held by him and his party-call him by what name you please-I am in favor of an immediate dissolution of the Union. And, sir, I think I speak the sentiments of my own constituents and the State of South Carolina, when I say so." 
Mr. Crawford, of Georgia, said:-
"Now, in regard to the election of a Black Republican President, I have this to say, and I speak the sentiment of every Democrat on this floor from the State of Georgia: we will never submit to the inauguration of a Black Republican President. (Applause from the Democratic benches, and hisses from the Republicans.) I repeat it, sir-and I have authority to say so-that no Democratic Representative from Georgia on this floor will ever submit to the inauguration of a Black Republican President. (Renewed applause and hisses.) The most confiding of them all are, sir, for 'equality in the Union or independence out of it;' having lost all hope in the former, I am for 'INEPENDENCE NOW, AND INDEPENDENCE FOREEVER!"
Mr. Gartrell, of the same State, said:-
"Just so sure as the Republican party succeed in electing a sectional man, upon their sectional, anti-
<c05>
slavery platform, breathing destruction and death to the rights of my people, just so sure, in my judgment, the time will have come when the South must and will take an unmistakable and decided action, and that then, 'he who dallies is a dastard, and he who doubts is damned.' I need not tell what I, as a Southern man, will do-I think I may safely speak for the masses of the people of Georgia-that when that event happens, they, in my judgment, will consider it an overt act, a declaration of war, and meet immediately in convention, to take into consideration the mode, and measure of redress. That is my position; and if that be treason to the Government, make the most of it."
Mr. McRae, formerly Governor of Mississippi, now a member of the House of Representatives, recently spoke in that body as follows:-
"I said to my constituents, and to the people at the capital of my State, on my way here, that if such an event did occur, while it would be their duty to determine the course which the State would pursue, it would be my privilege to counsel with them as to what I believed to be the proper course; and I said to them, what I say now, and will always say in such an event, that my counsel would be to take independence out of the Union in preference to the loss of constitutional rights, and consequent degradation and dishonor in it. That is my position, and it is the position which I know the Democratic party of the State of Mississippi will maintain."
Mr. De Jarnette, a member of the House from Virginia, says:-
"Thus William H. Seward stands before the country a perjured traitor; and yet that man, with hands stained with the blood of our citizens, we are asked to elect President of the United States. You may elect him President of the North, but of the South never. Whatever the event may be, others may differ; but Virginia, in view of her ancient renown, in view of her illustrious dead, and in view of her sic semper tyrannis, will resist his authority. I have done."
Mr. Leake, also of Virginia, declares:-
"Virginia has the right, when she pleases, to withdraw from the Confederacy. (Applause from the Democratic benches.) .... That is her doctrine. We will not fight in the Union, but quit it the instant we think proper to do so."
Mr. Singleton, of Mississippi, says:-
"You ask me when will the time (for disunion) come; when will the South be united? It will be when you elect a Black Republican-Hale, Seward or Chase-President of the United States. Whenever you undertake to place such a man to preside over the destinies of the South, you may expect to see us undivided and indivisible friends, and to see all parties of the South arrayed to resist his inauguration.
"We can never quietly stand by and permit the control of the army and navy to go into the hands of a Black Republican President."
Governor Letcher, of Virginia, in his recent message to the Legislature of his State, avows the rankest disunion and revolutionary sentiments. In this document, he declares that if a Republican President is elected in 1860:-
"It is useless to attempt to conceal the fact that, in the present temper of the Southern people, it cannot be and will not be submitted to. The 'irrepressible conflict' doctrine, announced and advocated by the ablest and most distinguished leader of the Republican party, is an open declaration of war against the institution of African slavery, wherever it exists; and I would be disloyal to Virginia and the South if I did not declare that the election of such a man, entertaining such sentiments, and advocating such doctrines, ought to be resisted by the slaveholding States. The idea of permitting such a man to have the control and direction of the army and navy of the United States, and the appointment of high judicial and executive officers, postmasters included, cannot be entertained by the South for a moment."
The Hon. William L. Yancy, a leading and prominent Democratic politician of Alabama, and formerly member of Congress from that State, wrote the following letter in 1858, which the Washington States, a Democratic journal, recently published under the title of the "Scarlet Letter":-
"MONTGOMERY, June 15, 1858.
DEAR SIR: Your kind favor of the 15th is received. I hardly agree with you that a general movement can be made that will clear out the Augean stable. If the Democracy were overthrown, It would result in giving place to a greater and hungrier swarm of flies.
The remedy of the South is not in such a process. It is in a diligent organization of her true men for prompt resistance to the next aggression. It must come in the nature of things. No national party can save us; no sectional party can ever do it. But if we could do as our fathers did-organize committees of safety all over the Cotton States (and it is only in them that we can hope for any effective movement)-we shall fire the Southern heart, instruct the Southern mind, give courage to each other, and at the PROPER MOMENT, by one organized concerted action, we can precipitate the Cotton States into a revolution.
The idea has been shadowed forth in the South by Mr. Ruffin; has been taken up and recommended in the Advertiser, (published at Montgomery, Alabama,) under the name of 'League of United Southerners,' who, keeping up their old party relations on all other questions, will hold the Southern issue paramount, and will influence parties, Legislatures, and statesmen. I have no time to enlarge, but to suggest merely.
In haste, yours, etc., W. L. YANCY.
To JAMES S. SLAUGHTER, Esq."
The Montgomery (Ala.) Confederation thus gives the record of the leading secession delegates from the Charleston Convention from that State. It says:
"No one can be deceived as to what are the objects of the Charleston Convention. Listen to what their men say:-
"'I want the Cotton States precipitated into a revolution.'-William L. Yancy.
"'If I had the power, I would dissolve this Government in two minutes.'-J. T. Morgan.
"'Let us break up this rotten, stinking, and oppressive Government.'-George Gayle.
"'Resistance! Resistance to death against the Government is what we want now.'-David Hubbard."

WHO ARE THE REVOLUTIONISTS?
Extract from an able pamphlet, entitled "Violations of the Federal Constitution, in the Irrepressible Conflict between the Pro-Slavery and Anti-Slavery Sentiments of the American People-a Lecture delivered in sundry places during January and February, 1861, by ADIN BALLOU," of Hopedale:- 
THE REVOLUTIONARY ASPECT. Here we meet face to face at once with treason, rebellion and war. Revolution has commenced. Who are the Revolutionists? The 4,000,000 of slaves, one hour of whose
<c06>
bondage, Thomas Jefferson declared, is "fraught with more misery than ages of that which our fathers rose in rebellion to oppose"? No, not they. The long-abused Abolitionists, who have been so unconstitutionally outlawed? No; many of them would not, and the rest of them could not, to any purpose, draw the sword. The Republican party, who, in flagrant violation of the Constitution, have been silenced throughout the South by a "Reign of Terror"? No, not they. They are remarkably loyal, and altogether for the Union. Who then? No others than the slaveholders! For what cause are they revolutionizing? Have their families been invaded and violated by anti-slavery ruffians? Never. Have their citizens, travelling North on pleasure or business, been lynched, robbed, scourged, banished, or murdered? Never. Have their religious and political advocates of slavery-their pro-slavery divines, orators and electioneerers, been silenced or insulted anywhere in the whole country? Never. They have had free course and been glorified all through the North, even in abusing its best citizens and most cherished institutions. Have any of their Representatives and Senators in Congress been threatened with assassination, as John Quincy Adams was, or stricken down without warning, almost into a bloody grave, as Charles Sumner was? Never, even when bandying the most abusive epithets. Have they been taxed without representation? Never. But they have had from fifteen to twenty-five Representatives in the lower House of Congress and in the Electoral College, for three-fifths of their slaves, without any taxation for them, except in one or two instances. Has the North threatened or proposed the abolition of slavery in any State, without its own consent, or to meddle with slavery in the States at all? Never. Do President Lincoln and his party even propose to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia? No. For what, then, do the slaveholders plunge into the bloody vortex of rebellion and civil war? For one grand right:-the right to uphold and extend chattel slavery, without restriction and without hindrance, at will, including the right to control the administration and policy of the Federal Government. This is the whole of it in a nut-shell. Let the civilized world note and understand their sublime motives. How have they been oppressed! 
For such a worthy cause, their creatures in the Cabinet, Congress and lower departments of the General Government have machinated treason, made use of all their opportunities in office to prepare the way for Revolution, violated their solemn oaths, betrayed the national confidence, and all in their power to embarrass the administration of its affairs.
For such a worthy cause, State after State has seceded, seized the United States forts, arsenals, ships of war, navy-yards, custom-houses, sub-treasuries and other public property within their reach, raised military forces, and initiated all the defiances of war!
For such a worthy cause, the remaining slave States, with few exceptions, declare menacingly for the doctrine of rightful secession, and against the right of the Federal Government to coerce the rebels; threatening to follow the seceders out of the Union, if the North does not speedily give slavery a new batch of guaranties for transcending those of the Constitution.
For such a worthy cause, conspiracies and threats have been announced, that the Revolutionists would capture the national Capital, with all its edifices, archives, treasures, munitions and valuables; that they would disperse Congress and prevent the inauguration of the new President, even if they had to assassinate him; and that they would not submit to Black Republican rule!
Never before was such a comi-tragical, ludicromonstrous exhibition made in the name of Revolutionary Republicanism! But what is coming? What are to be the results? None but God, or some superior being, can clearly foresee. "Clouds and darkness are round about." Our imperfect powers can only approximate a correct forecast of future developments. Will the Revolutionary States succeed in establishing an independent Confederacy? This they must do, either by force of arms, or by the politic consent of the still United States. If all the slave States should finally go out, the whole together would be formidable in war, but by no means a match for the remaining States. It might, however, in that case, be deemed expedient to let them go, and endeavor to make the best peace possible with them, till war should be rendered inevitable by their probable injustice, insult and outrage, which would soon come; for their peculiar institution renders them an imperious, usurping and insolent people. In the Union, they have given the North a thousand causes of war, such as would have been so deemed, had they been given by any foreign people. Supposing that they be allowed to set up for themselves as a separate nation, what is likely to follow? I venture to predict,-
1. That no more fugitive slaves will be returned to them, and that for every one heretofore lost, they will hereafter lose five hundred.
2. That they will be permitted to annex to themselves no more new territory for the extension of slavery; that the anti-slavery nations will hem them in all sides, and oblige them to keep the peace.
3. That they will have to suppress their own slave insurrections, and will have them multiplied more than a hundred fold.
4. That they will never be permitted to prosecute the African slave-trade-not even under the pretext of civilizing and Christianizing the poor heathen.
5. That they will never be permitted to control the navigation of the Mississippi, or any other waters necessary to the uses of the inland States.
6. That they will not be permitted to hang, lynch, rob, banish or maltreat their Northern neighbors, as they have heretofore done with impunity.
7. That many of their best people will emigrate from among them, whilst few but unprincipled adventurers and restless desperadoes will join them from abroad. 
8. That they will have perpetual rivalries, quarrels and secessions among themselves; that mobocratic and military violence will prevail, and their government continually fluctuate from one from to another, till it results in sheer despotism.
9. That they will have no moral respect, and very little pecuniary credit abroad.
10. That king Cotton will be dethroned in a very few years, by the anti-slavery  nations opening ample cotton fields in other parts of the world.
11. That controversies with other nations, on the foregoing points, will keep them almost continually in a state of war, or preparation for war, impover ished, over-taxed, vexed with domestic insurrections and intolerable troubles.
12. That all this will result in a miserable failure of their evil enterprise, and the total abolition of their darling institution. God speed that day; for it will be the day of their redemption. Then will the converted prodigal return willingly to his father's house, and find rest.
This Lecture-with an Appendix-makes a pamphlet of 48 pages-to be obtained at Hopedale.

The United States Constitution is "a convenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind ... It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it—no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can belikended. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation—a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."—JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
JOHH QUINCY ADAMS ON EMANCIPATION UNER THE WAS POWER.
The following extracts from the memorable speech of John Quincy Adams, delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, April 14 and 15,1842, on War with Great Britain and Mexico, will be seen to hare great significance at the present time:-
What I say is involuntary, because the subject has been brought into the House from another quarter, as the gentleman himself admits. I would leave that institution to the exclusive consideration and management of the States more peculiarly interested in it, just as long as they can keep within their own bounds. So far, I admit that Congress has no power to meddle with it. As long as they do not step out of their own bounds, and do not put the question to the people of the United States, whose peace, welfare and happiness are all at stake, so long I will agree to leave them to themselves. But when a member from a free State brings forward certain resolutions, for which, instead of reasoning to disprove his positions, you vote a censure upon him, and that without hearing, it is quite another affair. At the time this was done, I said that, as far as I could understand the resolutions proposed by the gentleman from Ohio, (Mr. Giddings,) there were some of them for which I was ready to vote, and some which I must vote against: and I will now tell this House, my constituents, and the world of mankind, that the resolution against which I would have voted was that in which he declares that what are called the slave States have the exclusive right of consultation on the subject of slavery. For that resolution I never would vote, because I believe that it is not just, and does not contain constitutional doctrine. I believe that, so long as the slave States are able to sustain their institutions without going abroad or calling upon other parts of the Union to aid them or act on the subject, so long I will consent never to interfere. I have said this, and I repeat it; but if they come to the free States, and say to them, you must help us to keep down our slaves, you must aid us in an insurrection and a civil war then I say that with that call comes a full and plenary power to this House and to the Senate over the whole subject. It is a war power. I say it is a war power, and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and must carry it on according to the laws of war; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and martial law takes the place of them. This power in Congress has, perhaps, never been called into exercise under the present Constitution of the United States. But when the laws of war are in force, what. I ask, is one of those laws? It is this: that when a country is invaded, and two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipation all the slaves in the invaded territory. Nor is this a more theoretic statement. The history of South America shows that the doctrine has been earned into practical execution within the last thirty years. Slavery was abolished in Columbia, first, by the Spanish General Morillo, and. secondly, by the American General Bolivar. It was abolished by virtue of a military command given at the head of the army, and its abolition continues to, be law to this day. It was abolished by the laws of war, and not by municipal enactments; the power was exercised by military commanders, under instructions, of course, from their respective Governments. And here I recur again to the example of Gen. Jackson. What are you now about in Congress? You are about passing a grant to refund to Gen. Jackson the amount of a certain fine imposed upon him by a Judge under the laws of the State of Louisiana. You are going to refund him the money, with interest; and this you arc going to do because the imposition of the fine was unjust. And why was it unjust? Because Gen. Jackson was acting under the laws of war. and because the moment you place a military commander in a district which is the theatre of war, the laws of war apply to that district. 
I might furnish a thousand proofs to show that the pretensions of gentlemen to the sanctity of their municipal institutions under a state of actual invasion and of actual war, whether servile, civil, or foreign, is wholly unfounded, and that the laws of war do, in all such cases, take the precedence. I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and slavery among the rest; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves. I have given here more in detail a principle which 1 have asserted on this floor before now, and of which I have no more doubt, than that you, sir, occupy that chair. I give it in its development, in order that any gentleman from any part of the Union may, if he thinks proper, deny the truth of the position, and may maintain his denial; not by indignation, not by passion and fury, but by sound and sober reasoning from the laws of nations and the laws of war. And if my position can be answered and refuted. I shall receive the refutation with pleasure; I shall be glad to listen to reason, aside, as I say, from indignation and passion. And if, by the force of reasoning, my understanding can be convinced, I here pledge myself to recant what I have asserted.
Let my position be answered; let me be told, let my constituents be told, the people of my State be told-a State whose soil tolerates not the foot of a slave-that they are bound by the Constitution to a long and toilsome march under burning summer suns and a deadly Southern clime for the suppression of a servile war; that they are bound to leave their bodies to rot upon the sands of Carolina, to leave their wives and their children orphans; that those who cannot march are bound to pour out their treasures while their sons or brothers are pouring out their blood to suppress a servile, combined with a civil or a foreign war, and yet that there exists no power beyond the limits of the slave State where such war is raging to emancipate the slaves. I say. let this be proved-I am open to conviction, but till that conviction comes, I put it forth not as a dictate of feeling, but as a settled maxim of the laws of nations, that, in such a case, the military supersedes the civil power; and on this account I should have been obliged to vote, as I have said, against one of the resolutions of my excellent friend from Ohio, (Mr. Giddings,) or should at least have required that it be amended in conformity with the Constitution of the United States.

FUGITIVE SLAVES.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
We have seen repeated accounts from the seat of war, that slaves who have run away from their masters, have been returned by our commanders. Now it may be true, as has been asserted, that they do not know what to do with them; but I would submit that, under present circumstances, the very worst use to which they can be put is to remand them to slavery. Shall Jeff. Davis issue letters of marquee for the purpose of plundering our merchants? shall Northern vessels be seized by the secessionists, and Northern men be confined in their prisons? shall our troops be murdered on their march to defend the National Capital, and we, forsooth, return to these very aggressors the identical property for the sake of which they are committing these traitorous outrages? Why does not the press speak out on this point? The slaves from the Confederate States, including Virginia, when they desert their masters, should not only receive aid and comfort, but should be encouraged and induced to break their bonds by all the means in our power; and this, not so much on the plea of the injustice of slavery, as a deserved retaliation of the piratical expedients of the South. Let them be made to feel that the only security for their colored property, (and it is almost the only property they would possess if their debts were paid,) is the fellowship of the North. Let every ship sent to blockade their ports be instructed, to harbor all fugitive slaves. And let Maryland be placed in the same category, unless she decidedly and speedily enrolls herself on the side of the Government, and effectually crushes the hydra which has raised its heads within her metropolis, I speak not now of encouraging insurrection-may God grant that this contest may not become so embittered as to justify a resort to such extreme measures! But the South should be made to feel that, if our property is imperiled by the war, their whole living is staked upon it. And then this contest will become, not only (as Horace has it) bella matribus detestata, a war detested by mothers, but a war detested by slaveholders. J. R.
<c02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1861.
THE RELATION OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY CAUSE TO THE WAR.
There seems to be some diversity of feeling and sentiment among Abolitionists, in regard to the bearing of the present civil war in our land upon the Anti-Slavery cause. This arises from no wish or purpose, in any direction, to retreat a hair's breadth from the line of duty originally marked out by them, and adhered to, through countless temptations and trials, with unsurpassed fidelity; but solely, we think, from a difference in the stand-point of judgment and observation occupied by the parties. By some, this tremendous conflict of hostile forces is regarded as without any cheering significance, or sign of promise, to those who have so long struggled for the utter abolition of slavery; by others, it is deemed to have a mighty bearing toward hastening the day of universal emancipation, if not intentionally on the part of the government, (and they attribute no such design to it primarily,) at least by the necessities of the case,-being essentially the South against the North,-and is therefore to be viewed hopefully. It would be absurd to deny, that the war presents some very paradoxical and complex features, so as to render it extremely difficult to speak of it without being misunderstood, either on one side or on the other. Nevertheless, we shall venture to express our opinions of it in a spirit of just discrimination, as far as in our power; leaving those who cannot adopt them, entire liberty to criticise or refute them in our columns.
In the first place, let us correct a widely prevalent but mistaken opinion as to the pacific principles of the Abolitionists. They are generally supposed or represented to be a body of non-resistant, who cannot consistently, therefore, do otherwise than condemn or deplore the present clashing of arms in deadly strife. So far from this being the fact, the number of avowed non-resistant in their ranks is, and always has been, extremely small. It is true, they pledged themselves at the outset not to encourage, in their organized capacity, as an association, any insurrectionary movement among the slaves, or any measures of violence on their part, in seeking the overthrow of slavery. This pledge they have sacredly kept; their weapons have been purely moral and religious; they have made their appeals to the consciences and hearts of the people, hoping thereby, under God, to effect such a regeneration of public sentiment as would lead to a bloodless deliverance of the enslaved millions at the South. But, as individuals, acting on their own responsibility, while Largely imbued with the spirit of peace, they have never adopted the doctrine of non-resistance, with a few exceptional cases.
The whole land is tumultuous like a storm-swept ocean. From one end of it to the other, the earth is trembling under the tread of armed hosts, gathering not to repel an invading foe, but to measure their strength upon the field of civil strife against each other. The idolized Union is broken asunder; virtually, every slave State is against it, every free State for its preservation. The government at Washington finds no support except at the North; a treasonable Southern confederacy defies its power, and contemns its authority, for the vilest and most treasonable purposes; and the prospect is, such a collision as shall redden the soil with blood, and send wailing and lamentation into every household.
To what is this awful state of things owing? Men in their folly and madness have answered-"To the Abolitionists! Had they not meddled with slavery, and exasperated the South by their vituperative assaults, all would have gone on peaceably and prosperously to the end!" The accusation is absurd and libellous. A system of oppression which legalizes concubine and adultery on a gigantic scale-which robs its victims of all natural rights, and disposes of them as cattle and merchandize-which forbids education, fosters tyranny, ensures demoralization, and breeds the most desolating judgments-can claim no rightful exemption from the severest criticism and the sternest condemnation. Every good man is bound to protest against it, and to labor for its extinction. There ought to be no toleration of it on any terms. No more comprehensive iniquity can be committed than to let it alone. The Abolitionists have only pleaded for justice and mercy to a race cruelly meted out and trodden under foot; they have done so disinterestedly, as a matter of conscience, with feelings of humanity, in obedience to God; they have suffered as martyrs, "not resisting unto blood," but taking patiently insults and outrages innumerable; they have asked for nothing unreasonable, injurious or partial, but only to give to the husband his wife, to parents their children, to the laborer his hire, to all their dues. To hold them responsible for the atrocious deeds of Jefferson Davis and his godless band of conspirators is moral idiocy, consummate ignorance, or downright knavery.
These reckless accusers should go further hack. Had there been no slavery and no slaveholders, there would have been no Abolitionists; no anti-slavery agitation; no sectional divisions; no " covenant with death," no "agreement with hell," in trying to make a Union for the whole country; no haughty and lawless slave oligarchy; no Fugitive Slave Law; no conflict of interests; no Northern doughfaceism; no hatred of free institutions; no outbreak of Southern treason; no civil war! Then would our power, our glory, and our prosperity, as a nation, have extended from sea to sea,-every man sitting under his own vine and fig-tree, with none to molest or make afraid. The one great cause of all our national troubles and divisions is SLAVERY: the removal of it, therefore, is essential to our national existence. What can be plainer than this? How harmoniously all the free States gravitate around the same unerring centre of liberty! "Like kindred drops, they mingle into one." What jealousy does Massachusetts entertain of Ohio? or Wisconsin of Maine? or New Hampshire of Iowa? or Michigan of Vermont? or Rhode Island of Pennsylvania? They have one common interest-that of free labor; one basis of action-that of equality; one aim-the good of all. There is no antagonism of freedom with freedom; free institutions do not clash with free institutions;-but how can there be any concord between liberty and slavery, any more than between Christ and Belial? It is not those, therefore, who would abolish, but those who would perpetuate the "sum of all villanies," who are responsible for the appalling condition into which the nation is now thrown. God grant that this may be seen and acknowledged by all parties at the North before it is too late!
Well, at last the day of visitation has come. Why should the righteous be disquieted? " The house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt very treacherously against me, saith the Lord. They have belied the Lord, and said, It is not he; neither shall evil come upon us; neither shall we set sword nor famine They lay wait, as he that setteth snares; they pet a trap, they catch men. They are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds of the wicked. They judge not the cause of the fatherless, yet they prosper; and the right of the needy do they not judge. Shall I not visit for these things? saith the Lord: shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this? Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? Nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore they shall fall among them that fall: at the time that I visit them, they shall be east down, saith the Lord." And so the whole land is to be scourged with fire and blood for its unparalleled and long-continued oppression; for the justice of God cannot be turned aside. "Ye have not hearkened unto roe, in proclaiming liberty, every one to his brother, and every man to his neighbor: behold, I proclaim a liberty for yon, saith the Lord, to the sword," Is this to be deplored? Is divine retribution to be accounted as evil? Does it prove that God is vindictive and unmerciful? Or
<c03>
does it militate against the soundness of the principles of peace? Then the moral law should be without a penalty; then sowing and reaping should be eternally divorced from each other; then for the just there should be no hope, and for the oppressor no recompense; then should the right go down, and the wrong be triumphant. Rather, let the will of God be done, in judgment as in mercy; nay, his judgments are always merciful. "When thy judgments are abroad in the earth, then shall the nations learn righteousness." 
For thirty years, the Abolitionists have been faithfully warning the nation that, unless the enslaved were set free, a just God would visit it with tribulation and woe proportional to its great iniquity. Now that their predictions have come to pass, are they to indulge in morbid exclamations against the natural operation of the law of immutable justice, and to see in it no evidence of the growth of conscience, the power of truth, or the approach of the long-wished for jubilee? Surely, this would be to arraign Infinite Wisdom, to be blind to the progress of events. Surely, emancipation is nearer than when we believed, and the present struggle cannot fail to hasten it mightily, in a providential sense.
It is alleged that the Administration is endeavoring to uphold the Union, the Constitution, and the laws, even as from the formation of the government; but this is a verbal and technical view of the case. Facts are more potential than words, and events greater than parchment arrangements. The truth is, the old Union is non est inventus, and its restoration, with its pro-slavery compromises, well-nigh impossible. The conflict is really between the civilization of freedom and the barbarism of slavery-between the principles of democracy and the doctrines of absolutism-between the free North and the man-imbruting South; therefore, to this extent hopeful for the cause of impartial liberty. So that we cannot endorse the assertion, that this is "the darkest hour for the slave in the history of American servitude." No, it is the brightest! Hear Whittier:
"A sound of tumult troubles all the air,
Like the low thunders of a sultry sky,
Far-rolling ere the downright lightning glare:
The hills blaze red with warnings; foes draw nigh,
Treading the dark with challenge and reply.
Behold the burden of the prophet's vision-
The gathering hosts-the Valley of Decision,
Dusk with the wings of eagles wheeling o'er.
Day of the Lord, of darkness, and not light!
It breaks in thunder and the whirlwind's roar!
Even so, Father! Let thy will be done-
Turn and o'erturn, end what thou hast begun
In judgment or in mercy; as for me,
If but the least and frailest, let me be
Evermore numbered with the truly free,
Who find thy service perfect liberty!
I fain would thank Thee that my mortal life
Has reached the hour (albeit through care and pain)
When Good and Evil, as for final strife,
Close dim and vast on Armageddon's plain;
And Michael and his angels once again
Drive howling back the spirits of the night.
O! for the faith In read the signs aright,
And, from the angle of thy perfect sight,
See Truth's white, banner floating on before;
And the good cause, despite of venal friends,
And base expedients, move to noble, ends:
See Peace with Freedom make to Time amends,
And, through its clouds of dust, the threshing floor,
Flailed by thy thunder, heaped with chaffless grain!

MILLARD FILLMORE AND THE UNITARIANS,
DEAR MR. GARRISON-It has been rumored in the papers that ex-President Millard Fillmore had been invited to preside at the Annual Festival of the Unitarians in Boston this year, and that lie had accepted the invitation. Some wore unwilling to believe it, but others feared (from the close resemblance the thing bore to the customary policy of Boston Unitarian management) it was only too probable. Now it is confirmed by positive announcement in the Monthly Journal; and we have occasion to lament and censure this new and indeed extraordinary proof of the indifference to the cause and principles of freedom, of impartial justice, and of Christian good-will to all men, which has so long existed in the Unitarian body, and which has as steadily and constantly controlled it, (spite of the few noble individual exceptions,) as slavery has controlled and directed (until within a very brief period) the whole policy of the National Government. I refer to the exceptions among the Unitarians, for justice demands it. Considering its small numbers, the Unitarian body has doubtless given as many faithful advocates and servants, men and women, to the great Anti-Slavery Reformation, as any other religious body in the land; and, as representatives of the slave, we always remember them with gladness and thanksgiving. But how much is this saying? Very little, indeed. The Anti-Slavery cause, though an outgrowth of the highest and purest Christianly, though wonderful for its parallelism in all its history to that of the Gospel itself in its first planting and propagation, has from its beginnings to the present hour incurred no debt of obligation to any religious body in the land. Never heartily aided by a single one of them, receiving from only one or two an occasional and rather formal recognition, but hated, scorned, and overwhelmed with denunciation as fanatic and as infidel, (save the mark!) by ALL the great, popular, influential religious denominations, bodies, associations, journals, seminaries, &c., &c., it has worked and compelled its way in the land, solely by its own vitality, solely by the spirit of the living God which was in it. Unitarianism, with its intelligence, learning, talent, wealth, and with its entire freedom from church rule, might have reasonably been expected to do more for such a cause than any other body. Considering these things, considering still more the claims set up by Unitarians to hold in peculiar reverence the doctrines of God as the equal and impartial Father of all men, and that all His children should be, in truth, brethren one of another,-considering these things, the Unitarian body stands this day condemned as signally guilty for its indifference, and for its hostility to the Anti-Slavery work.
We are obliged to recall these things by the addition now made to them in the special honor which the Unitarians propose to render to ex-President Fillmore. And what service has Mr. Fillmore rendered to the cause of a liberal theology or a humane religion, that he should be promoted to the highest seat of honor among the Unitarians, or in any religious body? We venture to say he has rendered no such service,-none, certainly, that would have attracted attention to him for a moment, had he not been a Vice-President-by the death of Gen. Taylor, the Acting President-of the United States. This eminence gives him, certainly, a degree of conspicuity. But how did he use that office? What record has he left of his Presidency? Alas! the history has been only too fearfully written in the sufferings, the agonies, and the cruel wrongs of a great multitude of humble men and women, in every part, of our land. Above all other records made of his Presidency is this-that HE SIGNED THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW, and sent it forth on its merciless errand among those of our brethren who most needed protection and care. That most wicked, inhuman, and hateful law, which defies God and curses man in one bold act, is the fruit of his presidency, and received its first impetus at his hand. And is this the man to be brought to Boston, and set in a high position of religious confidence and honor? Shame, shame, we say, on the thought and the deed! Has Mr. Fillmore ever repented him of that act? Who pretends if? Has he not, ever since, steadily lent his name and influence to, parties which sought to distract the public mind from the great question of Liberty, and to cripple the onward movement of the North against the despotic claims and grasping power of Slavery? HE HAS. He is an enemy of Freedom and of the free North. Instead of being drawn into a post of honor, he should be consigned to oblivion, or to the pitying scorn of every friend of liberty. What then is the responsibility of those men who now seek to compel for him the public applause and honor? Is it said, that in these limes we should know no party? True-we should know no party, but we are thrice fools and blind if we forget those who have proved themselves Freedom's foes, and unworthy the confidence and trust of a free people. Open and long repentance, and "works meet for repentance," alone can save such. M.
<c04>
LEETER ON THE WAR.
PHILADELPHIA, May 4th, 1861.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR AND ESTEEMED FRIEND,-At last my spirit-longings are answered. Your messenger of 28th ult. is nailed with delight
You refer to the convulsed present, and in the midst of war say, "your peace principles and convictions were never more deeply rooted. "The fact is, ever since the sign of war, I have been immovably fixed upon my adamantine foundation of peace and non-resistance by force of arms, and I find very, very few here to stand by me. I: waited for the voice of Wendell Phillips: it came, but not in the peaceful tones of yore. I waited for the spirit-notes of William H. Furness and Gerrit Smith; but when they came, I was not satisfied. Not enough for peace-too much for revenge. Yet you stand firmly, and I rejoice, I feel as if I wanted to say to Wendell Phillips-You own that, for thirty years, you have stood by your peace principles, and in that time, by pure moral forces, the great triumph has been attained. You have argued and appealed, petitioned and protested, reasoned and demanded; and now the result is being felt. Why not trust those great levers of an enlightened age? Why descend to arms, and accept the ignoble position of fighting men? Take Wendell Phillips on the platform, and Wendell Phillips in the army. Where does he weigh the heaviest? Any one can fill the latter, few can grace the former. In the army, the first shot may destroy him; on the platform, he can resist all.
I never felt calmer, clearer or cooler, than at the present. What are our principles worth, if, when the time comes to try them, we lay them aside? What is the example of the "meek and lowly" Jesus worth, if we follow it until the test of all comes, and then fail? What is our conscience worth, if, when we consult it, we find it points to our responsibility, as children of a common Father, whose teaching is love, and, instead of loving our erring brother, we hate him, and seek his life? And what is our highest duty worth, if we place imagined duty to country above revealed duty to God? The former may do to live by, but the latter only will do to die by. This is a transitory and preparatory state, and as we have to die, let us die by the immutable principles of peace. I mean to be charitable to those who feel that our cause, so just, demands even war. Patriotism is a virtue, but take heed that it does not mean, instead of love of country, a love to have our own way in our country! The South raises the cry of patriotism and rights. Love of liberty, life, home and family are all virtues, but we must be watchful that the means used to protect them sub serve the highest morality. Our duty to God is a virtue above and beyond all others.
I know there are many noble spirits who have enlisted, but I regret it. I think there is nothing like moral force. It achieves miracles; and I feel that, could the 75,000 men, or rather this unit of a North, be aroused on a peace basis, with all the fire of patriotism, liberty and right, that they manifest, and present themselves unarmed and undisguised by warlike trappings, (for it seems to me that the military dress takes away from men their real identity, and makes them more like glittering, unaccountable automatons, than conscience-given brothers-the noblest creation of our Father)-let them so present themselves to the South, with the word, "We will not take your lives; we will not stoop to war; we insist upon the progress of truth, liberty and justice; we will love you; we will be your best friends." I am aware to do this requires a revolution of sentiment, an abnegation of all carnal weapons, and a preparation to meet any sacrifice. Oh! if the North could be united for this cause as one man on this peace basis, as easily as it is aroused on a war basis, how great and enduring would be the result! Peace, conquered by force of arms, will never insure a perpetual peace. War begets war, as evil begets evil, and the history of the world proves that war has never yet ensured, a long continued peace. It is so demoralizing that it seems to live in the very vitals of the nation.
I write from the city of "brotherly love" We had a peace government here once, that was complete, and an example I regret that has not since been followed. How my heart runs over with feeling in this cause! I find it necessary to watch myself, or the enthusiasm of the hour, and the great question at issue, almost carry me along. As merchants, we are asked to close our stores at 3 and 4 o'clock, to give our employes the opportunity for military training; we are asked to contribute money and sell goods for war purposes; we are asked to open our libraries for drill rooms, &c.-to all of which I respond,-No! What! learn and teach the arts of war! Why, our very churches and public schools are raising flag-staffs, and the members and pupils drilling. Some divines are heading the companies. Oh, how wrong! What! teach peace principles and morality, in church and school, in times of peace, and yet in times of war teach revenge and murder! How strange! Glad would I be to close store at 3 o'clock, open our libraries, school-houses and churches daily, to teach the arts of peace. They have never yet been developed. They mean, not merely education and prayer, but comprehend amusements, cheer, and social life of the most liberal kind-the development of freedom, the exclusion of caste, and the guarantees of the rights of man. I should like to sec our people thus united, and learning the arts of peace. It seems wonderful how they flock to the war standard, and how sluggishly they crawl up to the peace standard.
Even now, a Bill is pending in our special session of the Legislature, to establish a military professorship in all our corporate institutions, colleges and academies. Is this the mission of America?
Abolitionists! your title has been the synonym of purity, love and perfection. Liberty has been your watchword; and now beware lest you become the slaves of the sword! Not that the North will not be victorious in this struggle, for that, is beyond doubt; but you have been regarded as occupying a stand-point high above war, revenge, and immorality. Take care that you do not become drift-wood! The rushing, swelling tide has overleaped its banks. Drift-wood won't dam it, won't control it-rock-masonry will! And the great flood will then deepen and strengthen, and its great powers may be used to turn the glorious machinery of the world-the grist mills and the saw mills-which otherwise would run to waste, devastating all in its course.
It is our duty to be true to ourselves and the highest convictions of present duty. If we are called upon to suffer for our principles, we must do it; the greater the sacrifice, the greater the glory. Test questions arc parts of life.
I love life, I love my country and my home, and dearly love my wife and little ones, but I love my Creator most of all; and for Him, and for the right, I am willing to forego all, if it becomes necessary.
The right knows no alternative. We must begin sometime!
Thus you can see, my dear friend, why your letter was a messenger of joy. You do not waver-do not hesitate in this hour of trial. May the cause of right prosper, and our souls' earnest yearnings for liberty to all, and eventual peace and good brotherhood, be realized! A. H. L.
REMARKS. Though the foregoing letter from a highly esteemed friend in Philadelphia was written simply for our private perusal, yet it breathes so excellent and earnest a spirit, and expresses so much moral solicitude, in regard to the civil strife going on so threateningly in the land, that we take the liberty to publish it without abridgment. It is certainly true that our peace principles were never more deeply rooted than at the present time; nevertheless, we are none the less interested in the martial aspect of affairs, regarding as we do the uprising of the entire North, without distinction of party or sect, like a general and an instantaneous resurrection from the dead, in defence of whatever of freedom remains in the land, and in direct and deadly conflict with the Slave Power, as a hopeful sign of the times even for the sacred cause of peace, in comparison with that moral paralysis and compromising spirit which have so long held mastery over the minds of the people of the North. God's hand is in it.-[ED. LIB,
<c05>
NOT A WAS FOR LIBERTY,
MR. EDITOR,-Not a few Abolitionists, who are wont to follow the leadership of the Liberator and Mr. Phillips, are surprised and grieved at the position taken by both these organs upon the war. I think it must be admitted to be, at least prima facie, somewhat singular, if not unaccountable, that Abolitionists and Disunionists of thirty years' standing should now be found lending pen and voice to uphold and urge on a war waged solely and avowedly to preserve and perpetuate the Union. Mr. Phillips tells us that man is a traitor to freedom who does not join to push on the war, while he knows, as every other man does, that the war means nothing for the slave but a re-forging of his fetters, and a new lease of power and existence to slavery. "Blame me not," says Mr. Phillips, "that I make all things turn on liberty and the slave." O, no, not for making all things turn on the slave, but for consenting to trust, for one moment, the freedom of the slave to a war waged by an administration, and supported by a people whose sole aim is to establish a Union whose foundations an fixed on the blood of the slave. What have we to hope for the slave from such a war-what for any interest of humanity? Look at the facts. What is the origin, the aim, the animus of this civil war? Why, who does not see that it is the pet war of those whose hearts, neither in the past nor present, ever have had one emotion of pity or sympathy for the slave? Who does not know that it is waged in the interests, solely, of the Union which means slavery? Is any one so blind as to fancy that the capitalists, who last winter wore mobbing Mr. Phillips, have now struck hands with him for a crusade against slavery? Can you tell me of a single leader in this war, from Democratic or Republican ranks, who would lift his hands to help the slave; nay, who would not, like Gen. Butler already, join even with Southern rebels to crush the faintest beginnings of an uprising of the slaves? Point me to a single word or whisper of love or regard for the rights of the slave, in all this disgusting and senseless vaporing about the flag, and the Union, and the dignity of the Government. Does Douglas utter it? Does Caleb Cushing? Does the New York Herald? Does Mayor Wood? Does Mr. Seward or Mr. Lincoln? Does even the Tribune.? No, not one of them. Not a syllable, not a whisper. Every gun will be fired at the slave. Every dollar will buy him new fetters. Is this the war which Abolitionists arc to wage, the men who make "all things turn on liberty and the slave "? Mr. Phillips has told us all winter that Jeff. Davis was as much entitled to the Presidency of the Southern Confederacy as Mr. Lincoln to the Presidency of the Northern. He has, on all occasions, vindicated the claim of the Gulf States to be allowed to go in peace. He would even build them bridges of gold over which to pass out of the Union, which is the only ark of their safety. But the Administration has refused to let them go, and is now commencing a war, not for the slave, but to force the South to remain, and enjoy yet longer the immunities and constitutional privileges which slavery claims by virtue of the Constitution. Why is not the voice of Mr. Phillips and the Liberator still for Disunion? Why do they not still vindicate the claim of South Carolina to go in peace? What have the Gulf States done beyond attempting to establish that claim? Nothing. The Administration refused to withdraw military forces from their borders. The Gulf States waited long to see the final resolve of Mr. Lincoln. They saw he meant to hold them to the Union. Was it not, then, their only course to reduce Fort Sumter, if possible? Why docs not Mr. Phillips still vindicate the right of South Carolina to go? If she has a right to go, she surely has a right to fight for it. Why should we denounce her armed struggle to secure what we have all along granted her as a right? What star of hope has risen from this civil commotion, to cheer the heart of the slave? What new ally have the times brought him? True, there is a North, but a North only for white men. True, the North are burning with hate to the South, but not with love for the slave. No John Brown is leader in this war. It is a war incited, supported and conducted by men who would fight more fiercely to quell a servile insurrection than even to maintain the Union. The North says, "It is all well in the Union; let us fight to establish that." And, lo! strangest of all, Abolitionists cry amen! and make their "welcome to the war hearty and hot." I call it the darkest hour for the slave in the history of American servitude. Men and money flow in uncounted and unnumbered profusion to establish a Union, and perpetuate a Government, whose whole track in history will forever be black with eighty years of inhuman oppression and cruelty. Andrew Johnson told the South a great truth when he told them that disunion was abolition-Union, the support of slavery. Are the Union men of the South less friendly to slavery than the fire-eaters? Yet these are the men whom Mr. Lincoln is careful to conciliate, to attach to the Administration by Federal offices and bribes.
Suppose, what cannot be doubted, that the result of the war shall be the defeat and subjugation of the South-is the slave free? Are the Union men, at least of the South, who have stood by the Government, are they, as the reward of their services, to be deprived of their slaves? The Administration will be bound by the strongest of all ties to establish, in safety and peace, the claim of these men to their property. Surely, the abolitionist who would not join the war which could free the slave might be called "a traitor to liberty"; but what abolitionist, who consents to join such a war, as is now being inaugurated in the interest of the Union, is not "a traitor to liberty"? Do you think John Brown would be fighting for the Union, were he to see these times, in the body? John Brown fought to destroy the Union. The Union to him meant slavery. Tell me wherein it has changed.
YALE COLLEGE, May 6, 1861,

THE RESULTS OF THE CONFLICT,
The great North is at last a unit. Did human eye ever rest on so sublime a sight? Twenty millions of men that are men, not only worthy the nineteenth, but of any century in the distant and glorious future, all these bosoms heaving with a mighty impulse for Liberty and Union forever! How tremendous the exhibition of both Northern and Southern character, the last few eventful months! How legitimately do deeds flow from principles! How true that slavery poisons and demoralizes-that freedom elevates and ennobles! Crime, on the one hand, of every varying depth from the top to the bottom of society, as we have seen to our sorrow. Firmness, forbearance, conciliation, respect for law and order, a world-wide hatred of oppression, and a genuine belief in a Creator whose laws cannot be trifled with, on the other.
In the enjoyment of this glorious condition, let us not forget that we are still human. Let a sincere prayer go up from every heart, hourly and daily, that we may not be tempted from the path of rectitude and honor. In the consciousness of strength, let us he both merciful and just in the present, and to those who are to succeed us. Let no defeat discourage; let no victory flush us with pride. Time and determination will insure the grandest results. We are now at work, as never before, in the solution of the great problem of human destiny. To us has Divine Providence committed the task of erecting the standard of liberty over this broad domain to its remotest possible boundaries. It is a holy war. We are about to measure swords to know whether the everlasting TRUTH or the damnable LIE, justice or injustice, freedom or slavery, heaven or hell, shall reign on the American continent; whether we shall continue to invoke all noble civilizing influences over the North, and over the South, or whether we shall sink to barbarism; whether we shall still respect ourselves, and be respected by the Lest developed nations of the old world; whether we shall see to it, before this contest ends, that the United States government of the people shall cause the gates leading to the Southern section of this country to be thrown wide open forever to the 
<c06>
entrance of ALL MEN, of whatever tongue or clime, with the full guarantee of protection not only of life and property, but to the permanent establishment of all means of education, moral and intellectual, that the country shall be peopled by civilized men, and not by savages and brutes. The retaking of forts and punishment of traitors we necessary links in the chain, but only links and points of honor in comparison with the great end of complete regeneration, social and political.
Why, in the name of Heaven but for the accursed institution of slavery in the South is there not, to-day, instead of twelve, twenty millions of people, equal in all respect, to the people of the North and a unit with them? Why! And yet, through all, and in spite of all, that beautiful climate and soil, which ought to have been the garden of the world, can make no other show in three hundred years than what we now see it With slight exception, a degraded and degenerate population, certainly not superior and perhaps not equal, in the scale of being, to the wretched half-breeds of Mexico or South America. Let this shameful condition of things last no longer. Let the war now inaugurated, and thrust upon us, yield up its Results, as it only can, at the point of the bayonet and at the cannon's mouth. Let the North-all right as she is in this issue-see to it that justice is made to reign hereafter, and forever, throughout this Southern section. Let the work be done speedily and thoroughly. Let the government, private enterprise, and if need be, friendly powers on this and the other side of the Atlantic, interested in the cause of human rights take the field in friendly co-operation, or by special, effort, whenever and wherever a blow can be struck, When slavery shall have been wiped from our Constitution and statute-books, and free tread and head allowed to walk the earth with firm tread and head erect over the whole land, millions yet unborn shall speak their gratitude to this generation.
Who that recognizes the finger of God in history can doubt that Southern barbarism is destined to be speedily supplanted by Northern civilization?

SPEECH OF ME. PHILLIPS AT MUSIC HALL,
NEWTON April 27, 1861
FRIEND GARRISON:
On the third Sunday of this month, in company with several highly intelligent friends, we attended the regular Sabbath services of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, which holds its meeting at Music Hall, Boston-having been informed from various creditable sources that Mr. Wendell Phillips would deliver an acceptable discourse on the war To say that we were much pleased and highly gratified at the remarkable display of forensic eloquence and power exhibited by the speaker docs not exceed the truth; but, in the humble estimation of your correspondent, there seemed to be such a wide and marked departure from he noble sentiments so often expressed in previous speeches and sundry addresses by the acknowledge edged Cicero of the Abolition parry, that we were reluctantly forced to the irresistible conclusion that even the fascinating orator of Music Hall felt the overpowering pressure of public sentiment, and bowed the knee at the bidding of an excited populace.
At the close of Mr. Phillips's powerful address, the audience lingered on the outside of the building grouping themselves together considerable numbers on the sidewalks and in the adjacent streets, discussing, in a commendable spirit, the "why and where fore" of the speaker's sudden conversion.
The prevailing impression was, so far as we could learn from the instructive and entertaining conversations of those who were present, that, when the speaker avowed, in plain and unequivocal language, his perfect willingness and determination to support the flag and the Administration, he departed from sacred principles which had been promulgated for twenty-five years past by the Abolition party.
Mr. Phillips says in his masterly argument, that the Administration is all right! Let as examine briefly this point, and see whether it be so or otherwise, Mr. Lincoln and his wily, cunning cabinet say, that they do not propose, in the "war" already inaugurated in fratricidal blood, to liberate the down-trodden, oppressed slave, to " strike the letters from every limb." Oh no! only to retake the captured forts, and secure all "property," belonging by purchase and annexation to the United States, from unlawful seizure. When you look, with an impartial, unprejudiced eye, at the masterly inactivity of the national administration during the past three or four weeks, it is evident that those in power are not equal to the crisis precipitated upon us 
Mr. Seward, Secretary of State, prophesied in the Senate Chamber at Washington, a few months since, that the country would, within ninety days, be restored to harmony and its former prosperity. Mr. Lincoln is an ardent supporter of the infamous Fugitive Slave Law, and believes that a black man has no right to vote or be tried by a jury of his own color in any civil or criminal ease. Edward Bates, of Missouri, another member of the national executive department, furnishes voluminous proofs, in several letters published in 1860, that he substantially agrees with the President; and yet with these facts flaunting in our faces, Mr. Phillips, in the presence of a Boston audience, avows his determination to support the government, because the administration is all right! and speaks voluntarily under that flag which waved over four millions of slaves, and symbols only the crushing out of "rights" which belong to the negro by virtue of birth. In these "trying times," let every Abolitionist be true to his cause, not forgetting "those in bonds as bound with them." My motto is, and ever will be, "No Union with Slaveholders!"
Yours, fraternally,
AN OLD LINE ABOLITIONIST.
Our correspondent certainly misapprehends Mr. Phillips. In saying that the Government is wholly in the right, Mr. P. had exclusive reference to the issue raised by the Southern conspirators, and to their nefarious acts, and not to the character of the Constitution of the United States, his opinion of which remains unaltered.-[ED. LIB.

ATHEISM-ABOLITIONISM-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
MR. EDITOR,-Ever since I have read the speeches of Abolitionists-now some twenty years-I have noticed that their prominent orators have been in the constant habit of throwing every species of villany upon Atheism and Infidelity. Nor have they yet given up this practice, which I presume they have learnt from the Christian religion. I see, by the last Liberator, that Wendell Phillips-the principal Abolition speaker of Massachusetts-made the following abusive remark in his war sermon at Music Hall, on Sunday, April 21. Speaking of the country, he said, "If you let it trespass on the domain of morals, it is knavish and atheistic."
The idea conveyed by this language is, that Atheism is knavish or immoral. Mr. Phillips means this, or his language has no meaning at all. Now where is the Atheism that supports the evil of slavery against which he is contending? He must know-for he is not an ignorant man-that shivery is authorized and sustained by the Bible, the very book which he read from on the above occasion in order to condemn the South, and the book which he professes to believe is the word of God. I have been an Atheist for many years, and have read a number of Atheistic works; but I have yet to see the first one that justifies slavery, or sanctions any description of fraud or immorality, The Bible, however, has direct and positive commands in favor of slavery; the South are continually reminding us of this fact, and we cannot in truth deny it. Bat Mr. Phillips seems anxious to make Atheism responsible for the evil, and indeed for knavery in general! I do not wonder that he should desire to make out as good a case as possible for Christianity and the Bible, for he is no doubt a religious man. But the kind of religion that induces such unfairness or want of candor is a poor article, and honest men are much better off without it. W. G.
Dedham, April 29, 1861.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
“THE DOWNFALL OF ABOLITIONISM.” The New York Herald announces the downfall of Abolitionism, because their annual meeting for May has been postponed. It asserts that the thunder of the batteries that opened the fire against Fort Sumter annihilated the power and influence of Abolitionism. Was ever a more absurd statement made? Abolitionism is to-day on the top wave of the flood that rolls over the country. It may well postpone its meetings, for others are doing the work that it has labored to perform for thirty years, and which it might have labored for unavailingly for a century, but for the thunder of the batteries that opened that fire. There never was a day since he was born, when Wendell Phillips was so popular as to-day; and nobody is offended if he says he “has not a word to retract,” though his motto for years has been “disunion is honor; disunion is gain:” and what is very strange is this fact, that must have been well known to the Herald, that while Bennett was fleeing from the mob in New York, pale and trembling, the office of the Anti-Slavery Standard was as safe as the State House of Vermont. Tell of the downfall of <illegible>! Garrison laughs at it, while his Liberator talks as flippantly as the New York Herald of the “traitor Davis,” it continues its “league with death and a covenant with hell.” We have not seen the end of this matter yet; but if we live till the end is reached, we shall look carefully at its close to see if there is any New York Herald, with leaders headed in big letters “The Downfall of Abolitionism.”Newburyport Herald.
WENDELL PHILLIPS ON THE WAR. Of the intellectual ability of Wendell Phillips, there has never been any question; on the contrary, it has been the unusual oratorical power with which he has expressed obnoxious opinions that has made him one of the most unpopular men living. In spite of this unpopularity, when, for an evening abandoning the discussion of morals for that of literature, Wendell Phillips announces a lecture on some topic remote from the slave question, the hall wherein he speaks is crowded. There is little doubt that, had he devoted himself to a political career, had he fought under the banner of the Union, he would have stood in popular estimation by the side of Clay or Webster. His latest speech in Music Hall, Boston, will be read by thousands, who <illegible> to have been deaf to all his eloquence. New York Century.
The report that Massachusetts troops had been ordered to suppress negro insurrections, is confirmed by a letter of Gen. Butler to Gov. Hicks, under date of April 23. The General says:
“I have understood, within the last hour, that some apprehensions were entertained of an insurrection of the negro population of this neighborhood. I am anxious to convince all classes of persons that the force under my command are not here in any way to interfere with or countenance any interference with the laws of the State. I am, therefore, ready to cooperate with your Excellency in suppressing, most promptly and effectively, any insurrection against Maryland.
I beg, therefore, that you announce publicly that any portion of the forces under my command is at your Excellency's disposal, to act immediately for the preservation of the peace of this community.”
The Governor replied that the citizens were fully able to suppress any slave insurrections, and declined General Butler's offer.
It would appear that General Butler was ready to place the Eighth Regiment under the command of Governor Hicks, of Maryland, to shoot down slaves. “Was this the object in sending Massachusetts troops to Washington?” We pause for a reply.Boston Herald.
MASSACHUSETTS. A gentleman recently from Albany, of which city he is a resident, writes to us as follows:
“We sent a splendid regiment of troopsthe Twenty-Fifthfrom Albany, N. Y., on Monday, to Washington, among whom were 400 Germans, nearly all men of the European revolutions of 1848, and who have long ago learned not to fear martial array or the smell of powder.
Massachusetts is upon every lip in the Empire State: we hear no more of ‘little, boastful Bay State,’ ‘Puritanical Boston,’ &c. &c. The day of sneers is past; none speak her name but to applaud her merits. Instead of ‘leaving out New England,’ and ‘ignoring Massachusetts in any reconstructed government,’ as was the talk for awhile, every one regards her as the ‘banner State,’ and even the phlegmatic Dutchmen are hunting over their pedigrees, in the hope that they shall be able to squeeze out at least a drop of Yankee blood, to warrant them in claiming some share in the honors now so universally accorded.”
A BALTIMORE ROUGH'S OPINION OF THE MASSACHUSETTS SIXTH. We learn from an authentic source, that after the gallant Sixth had fought their way through the streets of Baltimore, and were seated in the cars, one of the rioters was heard to say: “It's no use; we can't do anything with those fellows.” “Why not?” was asked. “Because, (with an oath, and pointing to the cars,) there goes Bunker Hill.”
LIBERAL DONATION FROM THE OCCUPANTS OF QUINCY MARKET. The marketmen doing business both inside and outside of Quincy Market have made a generous donation to the Massachusetts troops now at the seat of war. They have contributed 5000 pounds of beef, 3000 pounds of mutton, 1000 pounds of fresh pork, 1000 pounds of veal, 500 pounds of poultry, 100 barrels of potatoes, 100 barrels of vegetables of various kinds; also, a large quantity of butter, cheese, lard, pigs’ feet, etc. The value of these provisions is between $2000 and $3000. They have been forwarded in the vessel freighted with ice by Addison Gage & Co. The meats were sewn up in cotton cloth, which, with everything else, is furnished gratuitously.
THE FIRST DEAD. On Wednesday afternoon, last week, private Merrill S. Wright, of the Richardson Light Infantry, Sixth Regiment, of Lowell, arrived in Boston with the bodies of three soldiersJohn Keenan, Company C, Lowell, Edward Coburn, Company D, Stoneham, and Sumner H. Needham, Company I, Lawrencewho were killed at Baltimore April 19th. The first two were killed outright by the mob, and the last named died of his wounds.
The Southern leaders are now powerless; they have no more Custom House patronage to bestow. They no longer control the Army and Navy and the National Treasury. They can no longer buy up Northern presses with Government offices and Government advertising. Their spies and pimps are every where being driven from public employment, and forced into retirement. The rascality carried on when they were in power, and which has well nigh ruined the country, cannot be continued with impunity. Already the halter has commenced its functions, and traitors are dangling from yard-arm and flag-staff.Boston Herald.
THE PRICE OF BUNTING. Little or none of this material is manufactured in this country, and we are almost entirely dependent upon the English for the article. The market here is cleared of it, and orders have gone out by the last steamer which will sweep the English market. The New York Evening Post says the demand for flags has raised the price of bunting from four dollars and seventy-five cents a piece to twenty-eight dollars, and book muslin, usually worth six to ten cents, now brings three dollars a yard!
WASHINGTON, May 6. Gov. Letcher has published a communication saying that the sovereignty of the Commonwealth of Virginia having been denied, her territorial rights assailed, her soil threatened with invasion by the authorities at Washington, and every artifice employed which could inflame the people of the Northern States, it therefore becomes the solemn duty of every citizen in Virginia to prepare for the impending conflict to this end, and for these purposes, and with the determination to repel invasion.
Gov. Letcher authorizes the Commanding General of the military forces to call out and cause to be mustered into service from time to time as public exigencies may require, such additional volunteers as he may deem necessary.
WASHINGTON, May 4. Government has been officially advised, that at the last dates no commissioners from the Confederate States had presented themselves at the French Court. The State Department has instructed Minister Davison to make known to the French Government that there is no idea existing in this government of suffering a dissolution of the Union to take place in any way whatever.
John Tyler has put the finishing touch to the peculiar reputation he acquired while in the Presidential chair, by sending to Gov. Pickens, of South Carolina, the following dispatch, which is copied from the Charleston Courier:
RICHMOND, April 25, 3, P. M.To Gov. PickensWe are fellow-citizens once more by an ordinance passed this day. Virginia has adopted the Provisional Constitution of the Confederate States.
JOHN TYLER.
All the other Ex-Presidents stand by the Union and the Government.
KINGSTON, N. C., April 25th. The Old North State is awake. The news from Virginia has fired every heart. Washington city must be taken! and in doing this, no time is to be lost. The Northern Congress should not be permitted to meet there. No, never! Let the barbarians be driven to their native North. They should never be permitted to plot the ruin on our own soil.
PHILADELPHIA, May 7. Senator Bayard of Delaware has arrived here, fearing personal violence if he remained in Wilmington. He was taken into custody at the depot here, but was discharged by Mayor Henry, there being no charge against him. As he entered the Mayor’s office, his hat struck against a rope with a noose which was suspended over the door, labelled “Death to Traitors,” that had been removed by the police from one of the street lamps.
<c02>
DETERMINATION OF THE GOVERNMENT. Letters from Washington, says the New York Evening Post, speak of the determination of the President and his Cabinet to bring the entire military force of the Union to bear upon the rebellion, as fully taken. Troops in addition to those already called for, will be immediately requiredswelling the whole number to one hundred and fifty-eight thousand men, as follows:-75,000 militia already called for; 40,000 to be called for three years' service; 25,000 regulars for five years' service, and 18,000 seamen for the same period. Even this large number falls short of the actual offering of troops already made. One correspondent says:
“I dined alone with a member of the Cabinet yesterday. The tendency of things is such as will lead to very grave results in a few days. The policy of the Administration is fixed: the whole power of the government, and all the money and men of the West and North, will be used to put down rebels and traitors."
Another writer says:—
“Proclaim these sentiments from the house-tops. There is trouble ahead for all who have been disloyal to the governmentwe can now have but two parties, enemies and friendsthe former class will be extirpated. We are on the eve of momentous eventsprepare for a scene of blood and carnagewe are prepared here, but more forces should come, and increased supplies of provisions."
Mr. James A. Hamilton writes:—
“I am authorized by the President to say that he is determined to prosecute the war begun against the government of the United States, with all the energy necessary to bring it to a successful termination. He will call for a large additional force, relying upon Providence and the loyalty of the people to the government they have established."
Most active preparations are being made for the further blockading of Southern ports. Ten vessels of the <illegible> will, within a week, be at sea. The entire fleet will consist of at least fifty war vessels of various descriptions, accompanied by sufficient steam transports for the accommodation of a land force of at least 20.000 strong. Thus it will prove sufficient to make an efficient blockade of every inlet on the Southern coast, into which any vessel drawing six foot of water might otherwise enter.
UTOPIAN POLITICS. M. Charles Jared Ingersoll, of Philadelphia, invites the living ex-PresidentsVan Buren, Tyler, Fillmore, Pierce and Buchananto become arbitrators to settle the differences of the North and South. Mr. Ingersoll shows an unusual degree of imbecility. Every one has long known that the class of politicians to which he belongs have never understood the North, but we never supposed them so profoundly ignorant of the South. The man who would chase such a foolish fantasy at such a moment as this, reminds us of Pickwick at the military review, running after his hat in a high wind, with a bayonet charge behind, and another one before.
This Mr. Ingersoll is the identical gentleman who has frequently said in public that if he had lived in the times of the American Revolution, he would have been a tory! What a negotiator for such times as these!New York Century.
H. W. BEECHER AND HIS CHURCH. One hundred and twenty-five members of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, have enlistedamong them, Mr. Beecher's oldest son and the betrothed of his eldest daughter. A member of the church has engaged to furnish every one going from the church with revolvers, up to the number of 200. The church will make ample provision, for the outfit of its members. In the church parlors, every day, from nine to one o'clock, the ladies of the congregation meet for the purpose of making up articles necessary for soldierAnti-Slavery Standard.
A letter from Nashville, Tenn., states that nearly all the preachers in the city have volunteered. Dr. Summers, Dr. McIntyre, Dr. Huston, and Rev. Mr. Reed, have all joined volunteer companies. Rev. Jesse B. Ferguson is a member of a cavalry company in the city.
Rev. Mr. Wheelwright, of the Methodist Episcopal Church South, has tendered his services to Governor Letcher, and they have been accepted. He now appears in uniform, and ready to shoulder his musket. He was educated at the Virginia Military Institute.
One hundred and thirty clergymen in the State of Maine have signified their readiness to receive appointments to chaplaincies in the army.
JOHN BROWN, Jr. There is no truth in the statement that this individual is concentrating colored men for the purpose of making another attack on Virginia, and his present visit to Boston is on business connected with the Haytieh Bureau of Emigration, of which he is an agent
Francis P. Blair, Sr., received notice some days since, from the Secessionists about Silver Springs, that his house would be set on fire if he did not leave the vicinity. The plucky old gentleman immediately notified them in return, that there would be two parties to that bargain, removed his family to Washington, and prepared for a vigorous defence, by arming his servants to the teeth.
It is stated by the correspondent of the Tribune that while Capt. Pray’s company of regulars were on board a transport at Annapolis, a man rushed on with a jug of whiskey, and gave it to the captain. His manner excited suspicion, and a chemical analysis discovered a large deposit of arsenic.
A Northern merchant just from the South says that he can “convey no idea of the intensity of the war feeling, nor the energy of preparation in the States which I have traversed. The preparations which I have witnessed on my way hither in the Northern States seem languid in comparison."
The Cleveland Herald says that a lady from Mobile has just arrived, bringing with her a paper containing an address made by Jeff. Davis to his army, on his leaving Montgomery for the North last week, in which he represented that they were going to march against the half-starved and scurrilous mob of the North, and pledged himself to be back in sixty days with the scalp of Lincoln!
Gov. Jackson, of Missouri, has sent in his message to the Legislature. He does not advocate the immediate secession of Missouri, but denounces the Administration, and recommends arming the State.
Three hundred and seventy-three companies have been accepted by the Commander-in-Chief of New York State up to Friday lasta force equal to twenty-eight thousand seven hundred. This is independent of the fully equipped and uniformed regiments of the State, which is equal to thirty thousand. This does not include the volunteers formed into regiments in New York city and other portions of the State, which would swell the present military force of the State to seventy-five thousand men.
The number of troops offered the Government west of the Alleghanies is stated at two hundred and fifty thousand.
Major Anderson passed through Philadelphia, May 3, en route to Washington, and was greeted with intense enthusiasm.
The flag of the schooner Hezron, of Newburyport, recently sunk by the Virginians, was raised near Market square, Newburyport, recently, bearing this motto:” The flag was all that was saved of her." Speeches were made on the occasion.
The Governor of Rhode Island has given up his contemplated trip home, hearing that his troops will soon move Southward, and has resumed the command of his regiment.
Col. Samuel Colt has made an offer, which has been accepted, to promote the enlistment of troops, and to arm them with his revolving breech-rifles, at his own expense. This is equivalent to a donation of $50,000.
Mr. Humphrey, a wealthy ship-owner in Thomaston, offers to arm and equip a company of volunteers in the most efficient manner, at a cost of $15,000.
The Frenchmen in New York have given $4770 to equip the Lafayette Guards, made up wholly of Frenchmen.
J. F. D. Lavier, banker in New York, offers to the Governor of Indiana, his native State, $25,000, for the equipment of her troops.
Dr. Morris, of Charlestown, Mass., just returned from Washington, slates that he met six gentlemen who were serving as privates in the Rhode Island regiment, who represented three millions of money. Perhaps some of the boasting Southerners would like to put that in their pipe and smoke it.
The Cincinnati Gazette mentions a company in that vicinity of twenty-seven members, whose property is estimated at nine millions of dollars.
A committee of New York citizens waited upon President Lincoln recently, and tendered him seventy-five thousand additional men, and one hundred millions of dollars, to be used in keeping an open highway between New York city and Washington.
All the foreign Ministers have expressed strong sympathies with the Administration for the uprising of the North for the maintenance of the Union, and do not conceal their belief that the rebels will receive no countenance whatever at the hands of their respective governments.
Washington has been placed under martial law. Lieut Elwood is appointed Provost Marshal. The law does not extend to civilians, although a close supervision will be kept over their movements,
LEGISLATURE. Governor Andrew has issued his proclamation for an extra session of the Legislature of Massachusetts, to commence May 14th It will probably be a short but an efficient one.
<c03>
The Mobile Register of the 27th remarks “Simultaneously the Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina and Louisiana troops will be thrown into Virginia. In about twenty days, we are going to have a fight and a victory."
The same braggart print is quite joyous and poetical over the present position of the new Confederacy. It gives vent to its feelings in the following unique style:—
"The tocsin of war has sounded, and through the length and breadth of these seven Confederate States, it falls upon the ears of our people as does the sweet chime of marriage bells. We do not merely accept the challenge as a dire necessitywe hail it with delight. As a maiden prepares for her first ball, so is our young Confederacy aglow with bright anticipations of showing her glory and testing her powers."
This modern Falstaff was one of the Southern Commissioners sent to Washington.
Another Mobile paper,the Mercury,-one of the most ready and violent promoters of sedition, is beginning to realize the true condition of affairs at the North, and manifest a different tone in commenting upon the coming struggle. In its issue of the 28th ult.:-it says:—
“The last few days have amazed the government of the Confederate States, we imagine, no less than the people. The public mind at the North is in a furor and a unit on the present practical question. Our Northern friends, it is remembered, were always “Union men." The Union men at the North are now practically our enemies as much as the Abolitionists. Their voice is for wartheir money is for war they offer their bodies to go to the field to slaughter us.
With all the imagined peace sentiment which was hoped to exist to control the war spirit, we scarcely dare to hope to see Southern spirit aroused to so high a pitch to resist it as the Northern spirit is to subjugate and force us back into a hateful Union. The power that is marshalling with men and money to an amount beyond anything it is possible for the Confederate <illegible> threats of carrying our flag triumphant over their Capitol and through their country, but with strong arms and stout hearts upon our own soil, whenever and wherever invaded. Upon our own soil we can be conquerors."
The Mobile Advertiser of April 24th says:
“There are now, as nearly as can be estimated, upwards of 100,000 organized and armed men in the seven Confederate States, under orders, or anxiously awaiting them, to spring to the post of danger, at the word of Jefferson Davis. Within eight days time, at the farthest, he can concentrate 60,000 of these men the best soldiers in the worldat any point on the Northern border, and hurl this splendid army like an avalanche on the foe. If the battle-ground be in Virginia or Maryland, as it probably will, the grand army of the Confederacy will be doubled or trebled by the rallying hosts of those States. We have reason to believe that hundreds of companies are now on the move, or will be in twenty-four hours all bound somewhere.”
MESSAGE OF JEFFERSON DAVIS. We give up considerable space to-day, to the Message of Jefferson Davis, delivered at the assembling of the Southern Congress at Montgomery on the 29th of last month. It is principally devoted to a defence of the position assumed by the revolted States, attacks the course of President Lincoln, attempts to cheer up his fellow rebels by over sanguine statements in regard to the action of the Border States, calls for an army of 100,000 men and an additional supply of money, defends is course in regard to issuing letters of marque, and closes with the declaration that he desired peace, but failing in that, will press the war with every means at the command of the Confederacy.
Taken altogether, it is a document well worthy of the pen of the Arch-Traitor of this unprovoked and outrageous rebellion.—Traveller.
A SECESSION CLERGYMAN IN PHILADELPHIA. Rev. Mr. Wise (a son of ex-Governor Wise of Virginia,) who is stationed over an Episcopal church in West Philadelphia, on Saturday evening stepped into a barber's to get shaved. While the process was advancing, he said, “One Virginian is worth three Northerners," and hoped the latter would be whipped. At this, the master of the razor-<illegible> took offence, and instantly ejected the reverend gentleman into the street half shavedone half of his <illegible> yet lathered, and in his shirt sleeves. A member of his church, passing by, got a carriage and took his home, and begged him to keep still. He did not preach the next day, and in the night was packed off.
Gen. Harney has addressed a letter <illegible> Col. O'Fallon, of St. Louis, declaring he will never serve under any other banner than the one he has followed for forty years; that he will continue in the service of the Government which has bestowed its honors upon him, and so long as he has breath he will be its faithful and loyal soldier. He says that secession will lead to anarchy; that the secessionists design to establish a military dictatorship, and have made war upon the Government and dishonored its flag, and that secession will be utter ruin to the disunionists. He implores his fellow-citizens of Missouri not to be seduced and become the instruments of the mad ambition of designing men. Although the owner of property in, and a resident of that State, he felt bound to stand by the Union, and, remaining in its service, will devote his efforts to the maintenance of the Federal Government and the perpetuation of its blessings to posterity.
An officer of the U. S. steamer Powhatan writes to the New York Herald, dating off Pensacola, April 22, as follows:
"General Bragg sent word to the fort yesterday that Virginia had seceded, and that General Scott had resigned. The news caused great excitement among the Southern officers in the squadron, and several have tendered their resignations to the senior officer; four of our officers have sent in theirs, and we will have only one deck officer when they go. The other ships are equally short-handed.
The secessionists have been very busy, lately, building sand batteries. They have at least one hundred and fifty guns mounted in sand batteries, and over ten thousand men. Troops are arriving daily, and they are determined to resist to the last.
It will be madness for us to try and get in the harbor. Every ship would be sunk. The enemy would have a clean sweep at us for one mile before we reached McRae, and the Barrancas and sand batteries would finish us if we passed McRae.”
A citizen of Indiana, who has been down into Kentucky and Tennessee, writes to the New York Post as follows:—
“Almost every man at Nashville, between the ages of sixteen and sixty, is drilling for the conflict. They have wrought themselves into such an excitement as to resemble fiends rather than men. The drum and fife, and measured military tread are heard on every side.
To pay a Northern debt is treason. I was told of one case where a man showed his creditor a bank account of $27,000, and refused to pay him $700. As a general thing, however, I think that these men have very little money, a short supply of provisions, and no great abundance of arms or munitions of warfor all which thank Heaven, and not our Northern foresight or precaution.
Our Northern men, judging them by their words and actions, must be willfully blind or idiotic to place any reliance upon the Border States, or give their assurances of love for the Union a second thought. They are allied to the Cotton States, and have only sought to maintain a neutrality for the purpose of gaining time.
I am well satisfied that the Legislature of Tennessee has, before this, actually passed an ordinance of secession; and that Kentucky holds off only because she hopes to obtain arms from the Government With all her boasted loyalty, the American flag is not protected from insult upon her soil. Even in Louisville, no one dares to unfurl to the breeze our national stars and stripes. I could not find a solitary American flag, great or small, in the entire city. Men fear to express themselves."
The Paris correspondent of the New York Commercial Advertiser thus speaks of the public sentiment in regard to the war on the other side of the water:—
“Neither of the governments of France or England dare to countenance a slaveocracy, based upon such principles as those announced by Mr. Stephens in his Savannah speech. They will either attempt to control it, and by conquest or treaty change the present relation of the slave, or they will shun the Confederacy entirely by cultivating cotton elsewhere. You may rely upon this, for the anti-slavery sentiment of the people of France and England is deep-rooted and thorough, and will not bear tampering with.
It is admitted here that a reasonable compromise may be made; but only because it is to save so glorious a thing as the American Union, and that under no other circumstance could such a compromise be made to such a power as the Slave Power. But should a civilized and intelligent community, like that of the Southern States, resist all compromise, and persist in setting up such a monstrosity as a government, whose vitality, according to their own boast, is slavery, they need not expect the sympathy or the good wishes of the people of Western Europe. On the contrary, they may look at no distant day for a combination against them, which, in spite of the power of King Cotton, will crumble their slaveocracy into the dust."
The Fillmore School in New Orleans has been changed to ”Jefferson School," and the venerable ex-President pronounced “a fanatic, a <illegible>, and a traitor to the soil,”
<c04>
FINANCIAL DESPERATION. The “fifteen million loan” still drags its slow length along. Much of it is not yet taken, and so desperate is the financial condition of the traitors that they are obliged to call on the negroes to help them raise the wind. In proof of which statement, read the following from the Montgomery (Ala.) Mail, which we find in the New Orleans Picayune, prefaced with exultant comments:
The Poor African, and the Confederate Loan. Albert, a slave, the property of Gen. S.G. Hadaway, accosted Mr. Knox, President of the Central Bank and Chairman of the Board of Loan Commissioners, this morning, on the steps of the Central Bank, when the following conversation ensued:—
"Good morning, Mr. Knox; I am told you have some Southern Confederacy bonds for sale."
“Yes, Albert, the loan is not all taken, although it is being rapidly subscribed for.”
“Well, Mr. Knox, I want to take some; I have got three hundred dollars which I have saved out of my earnings in odd times, and I want to put it in these bonds, if you will let me."
“You cannot do so without your master's consent,” replied Mr. Knox; “but if he is willing, there will be <illegible> difficulty about it”
Albert went out, found his master, obtained his consent, and the books of the loan subscription show three hundred dollars of coupon bonds subscribed for and paid “by Samuel G. Hadaway, trustee for his slave Albert," and with the money of Albert.
Alfred, the slave of Col. W. Crawford Bibb, being told of Alfred's subscription, drew out one hundred dollars which he had on deposit, and subscribed for coupon bonds to that amount.
We give the factsGreeley may make the comments.
DEPARTURE OF NEGROES FOR NORFOLK. A very interesting scene was witnessed in our streets yesterday morning, previous to the departure of our dark regiment for Norfolk. At an early hour in the day, the members were busy receiving their provisions, blankets and shoes; afterwards collecting in the vicinity of the Court House. A dense crowd of negroes, composed of friends, relatives and interested lookers-on, <illegible> the street leading to the Temple of Justice. At length, about 11 o'clock, when everything was in readiness, the men were drawn up in line on the Court House Square, in the presence of a large assemblage of whites. Petersburg (Va.) Express.
Fifteen hundred free colored men in New Orleans at a meeting there recently, enrolled themselves for military duty in defence of the Confederate States. They were organized at a large meeting, and were addressed by several leading citizens, and also by some of their own members.
REGIMENT OF FREE COLORED MEN. The New Orleans True Delta, of the 30th ult, has the following item:—
“Governor Moore, we have heard, has authorized the organization of a regiment of free colored men. We have always relied upon the free colored men who were born in New Orleansthe descendants of those who fought on the plains of Chalmotte. And we expect that, when the regiment is fully organized, and if the mean, false, dastardly Black Republicans of the North endeavor to make a hostile approach to New Orleans, our free colored regiment will help to teach them, by a bloody lesson too, that they know their true from their false friends. We heard it said that Felix Labatut, Esq., an old, esteemed, and wealthy citizen, would be requested to become Colonel of the regiment.”
FROM NORFOLK, VA. Negroes from surrounding cities are in Norfolk, and work well. They are engaged at Fort Norfolk erecting batteries and mounting guns.
The Southern leaders have enlisted free negroes and slaves in their rebellion, though we expect they don't trust them far out of sight with arms in their hands. But this is a luxury which the North also can indulge in, and in this behalf we notice that the colored men of Boston have enrolled themselves for military service, and formed a company of 125, under the name of the Home Guard. Isn't it about time to strike” the word white" out of the militia law?Salem Observer.
THE FEELING IN ALABAMAINSECURITY OF SLAVE PROPERTY. A gentleman from Mobile, who has just arrived in New York, states to the editor of the Evening Post that money matters in Alabama are in a state of the utmost confusion. He was compelled to pay a discount of thirty per cent. on Alabama money to obtain the means to go South. There was a strong Union feeling prevalent in that part of Alabama. It was generally believed that if the federal administration at Washington would adhere firmly to its position, and prosecute the war with vigor, so as to assure them of sympathy and support, there would be an uprising of the Unionists in strong force. The despotism of Jeff. Davis was considered as resting upon a sandy foundation. The planters were gloomy and despondent on account of the apprehended insecurity of their slave property. They are convinced that their tenure is very frail. One man, the owner of four plantations and fifteen hundred slaves, declared openly in the streets of Mobile, that he expected to lose all his slaves. Slavery, he avowed, was doomed by the firing of the first gun at Fort Sumter. The impression existed that if the federal government would act with courage and promptness, sixty days would suffice to end the war; that by that time the seceders would sue for peace, if they did not actually beg security for their own lives.
NEGRO TROUBLE IN NEW ORLEANS. The negroes of New Orleans are being made sensible that the whites are afraid of them. The negro churches have been closed; several steamboat crews of blacks, both slave and free, have been locked up, and every measure resorted to prevent servile insurrection.
THE CONTENTED SLAVES. A gentleman who has just returned from a journey through Louisiana says, that in the up-river parishes of that State, a general fear is entertained by the farmers and planters of a rising of the slaves. Almost every plantation is doubly guarded; everywhere the slaves are watched with the utmost vigilance. Planters refuse to let any of their white employees enlist, but arm them, and keep them as a private guard. One planter, the owner of 200 negroes, expressing his fears, said,” Dn the niggers, they know more about politics than most of the white men. They know everything that happens."
In the interior of South Carolina fears of slave insurrections are exciting much alarm. Men sleep with guns of their bedsides; women refuse to be left alone on the plantations. In one neighborhood, forty miles from Charleston, it is certain that an attempt at insurrection was put down ten days ago, and seven negroes were hung.
NEGRO INCENDIARIES IN LOUISIANA. A letter has been received, within a day or two, from the wife of Bishop Polk, of Louisiana. She, with her family of three daughters, was alone in their new house at Sewanee, Tennessee. On the night of the 12th of April their house was burned over their heads by negroes. At the same time, the residence of Bishop Elliot was fired also. The ladies escaped with some trifling injuries, but lost almost all their clothes. Books, jewelry, pictures, all were destroyed by the devouring flames.
A letter from a gentleman in the interior of South Carolina says that, while absent at the Charleston fight, the negroes in his town burned four dwellings and eight stores in the town, and four more in the vicinity; eight negroes were hung, and a dozen more would soon be hung.
EXODUS OF SLAVES FROM MARYLAND. The reported stampede of slaves from Maryland into Pennsylvania is confirmed by the following statement from the Media (Pa.) Advertiser:
"Numbers of fugitive slaves have passed through Delaware County, Pa., during the past week. No one interfered with them, but rather aided them on their way, with the exception of one instance, where a ruse was resorted to ascertain whether two stopped at the mill of Samuel Ogden, in Thornby, to beg something to eat, were genuine fugitives, as they represented. While some one left for the house to procure them food, a hand in the mill stepped into the room where they were with a pitchfork, and asked for writing materials, saying that he wished to arrest them, whereupon they darted off with almost the speed of a deer, leaving their shoes and small bundles behind, and took to the woods. The miller pursued to call them back, but they only ran the faster, and nothing afterwards was seen of them, although diligent search was instituted in order to return their shoes and bundles. The case of the poor fellows, who were probably half starved, excited considerable sympathy. They represented that they came from the lower part of Maryland!”
There is a colored woman in Charleston, S. C., who pays taxes on $40,000 of real estate and fourteen slaves. If the Carolinians really believe slavery the only proper condition for a negro, why don't they confiscate this woman and her property to the use of the State?
CAPTURE OF 450 U. S. TROOPS BY THE TEXANS.—New Orleans, May 2d. Col. Van Dorn with 800 Texans captured 450 federal troops under Major Sibley, who were at Indianola, and attempted to escape in two sailing vessels. Van Dorn pursued them in three small steamers, and shortly after their route seaward was cut off by a steamer from Galveston with 120 men, and three pieces of artillery. Sibley surrendered. The officers are on parole, and arms turned over to the Texans. The men allowed either to join the Confederate army, or take the oath not to serve against the Confederacy.
The “Stars and Stripes" have been flung to the breeze from the apex of Trinity Church spire in New York, 344 feet from the ground.
<c05>
MORE VIRGINIAN VENGEANCE. The Washington correspondent of the New York Herald furnishes the following, under date of May 2:-
"Ten gentlemen arrived here last night from Fairfax, Virginia, having been tried and drummed out of the State for refusing to join the Confederate army, and expressing Union sentiments. They proceeded North.”
An Irishman in Memphis, for expressing his determination to fight for Lincoln, was thrashed on the spot, and then taken before the Recorder, who sentenced him to the chain-gang for twenty-three days.
THE ANCIENT BLOOD IN HER VEINS. Mrs. Lawrence, the widow of the hero who would not “give up the ship,” resides in Newport. She was a few days ago called upon by a friend, who made some remarks favorable to the South. The old lady rose in wrath and ordered him out of the house, in her own peculiar and emphatic style. He took leg bail without waiting for a second bid.
THE KEYSTONE. Pennsylvania has raised seventeen regiments and sent them to Washington, or holds them in camp, ready to march. The President has just made a requisition on that State for twenty-one more regiments-making in all 38,000 men from the Keystone.
POPULAR SOVEREIGNTY IN VIRGINIA. They have a singular way of showing respect to the popular will in Virginia. “The Governor invites the State of Tennessee to send three regiments into Virginia, and the convention annexes itself to the Confederacy; invites the Congress to adjourn to Richmond, appoints members to it, and ordains that no elections of members shall be made to the Congress of the United States.
AN EXCUSE FOR DISHONESTY. Messrs. Clarkson & Anderson, hardware firm, of Richmond, Va., had their paper go to protest with this answer returned on the protest: “We pay no more money to men of any State who furnish A. Lincoln with men or money to make war with the South.”
COMIC STATE OF THINGS AT MONTGOMERY. A Capital without any capital; a President without any precedent; a Secretary of the Treasury without any treasury; a Secretary of the Navy without any navy; a Secretary of the Interior without any interior; a Secretary of Foreign Affairs without any foreign affairs; a Postmaster-General without any post-office; a Judiciary without any judgment; and, in fine, an administration without head or tail.-N. Y. Leader.
SOUTHERN PUBLIC SENTIMENT. The secession ordinances of South Carolina and Georgia were drawn up and presented by Old-School Presbyterian elders. They would have engaged in no such work if they had believed the doctrine of their Church, that slavery' is “utterly inconsistent with the law of God, and totally irreconcilable with the spirit and principles of the Gospel.” So says the Western United Presbyterian.
JUDGE RESIGNED. Judge Campbell, of the United States Supreme Court, residing in Alabama, has resigned his office, to follow the fortunes of his State, although a friend to the Union. [No-a traitor.]
SEIZURE OF VESSELS IN MOBILE BAY. The Mobile Tribune says: “At about ten o’clock, on the night of the 24th, a party took and seized the Belle of the Bay, a new and beautiful brig, which arrived a few days since, laden with ice from Boston. She now lies at the wharf, with the Southern Confederate flag floating at her mainmast. Another party took charge of the Daniel Townsend, which is from New York, with an assorted cargo, but hails from New Jersey.”
The Confederate pirates have taken another prize. They have captured and carried into Wilmington, N. C., the U. S. steamer Uncle Ben, and imprisoned her officers and crew as spies. The Uncle Ben was chartered by the Government of a firm in New York, for service at Fort Sumter.
The Memphis Argus, of the 25th ult., states that by order of Governor Rector, of Arkansas, General Jones seized at Napoleon 140,000 ball cartridges, 100 Maynard rifles, 200 cavalry saddles, and 500 sabres, belonging to the Federal Government, for the use of the Secessionists.
President Lincoln has issued a second Proclamation, calling for 42,000 additional volunteers for three years, unless sooner discharged. He also directs the regular army to be increased by the enlistment of 22,714 men, and the navy by the enlistment of 18,000 seamen, in addition to the present forces of the United States.
A PATRIOTIC MOTHER. Henry B. Stanton, of Seneca Falls, now in New York, has received a letter from his wife, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Seneca Falls, stating that their two older sons had joined the army, and that she regretted that the next three were too young for service. Mrs. Stanton is daughter of Judge Daniel Cady, and grand-daughter of Colonel Livingston, who figured in the war of the Revolution.
Mr. James Jennings, of Preston, Conn., has sent one son in the Buckingham Rifles, telling him at parting: “Do your duty, my son; if you fall, your brother shall take your place, and after him I shall go myself.”
Five regiments of stalwart men, well armed and equipped, a battalion of Rifles and a company of Flying Artillery-the descendants of the heroes who fought at Lexington and conquered at Bunker Hillsent to the field, most of them hundreds of miles from their homes, in six days! These are the ,”mud-sills,” the “filthy operatives and small-fisted farmers,” whom South Carolina and chivalrous Virginia were to awe into submission!-Chicago Tribune.
NEWBURYPORT, April 24. Hon. Caleb Cushing, in a speech, at the raising of an American flag in this city this afternoon, announced that his fortune and services were at the disposal of his country, and that he was willing to give up his friends at the South, however near and dear to him, on the altar of his country, and that the Government and Union must be sustained at all hazards. Wherever Massachusetts was, there he was with her.
It is said that Caleb Cushing applied in person to Gov. Andrew for a commission, the other day, and the reply of the Governor was“What! a commission to the owner of the vessel which first hoisted a secession flag in the harbor of Charleston? It would freeze the heart and palsy the arms of the soldiers of Massachusetts to think of such a thing.”
LOUISVILLE, Ky., May 7th. Reliable private dispatches say that Arkansas yesterday, passed the ordinance of Secession, 69 against 1.
NEW YORK, May 8th. Gentlemen from Virginia report 7000 troops at Richmond on Saturday, 4000 at Lynchburg on Friday, 4000 at Culpeper Court House, 5000 at Dumfries, Sunday, and 5000 at Harper's Ferry on Monday. Troops are rapidly coming North. Armed guards are posted day and night on the road from Weldon to Petersburg.
A Montgomery paper says that over 300 applications have been made for letters of marque.
Major Anderson has accepted the command of the Kentucky Brigade, with the consent of the President.
Secretary Chase has ordered the stoppage of all supplies at Cairo for any of the rebellious States. This will be a severe blow to the rebels, who are in want of provisions and breadstuffs for the troops.

A GREAT AERONAUTIC FEAT. The Cincinnati Gazette says that Prof. Lowe ascended in his balloon from that city on Saturday morning, April 20, and returned on Friday last, having alighted near Columbia, S. G., in nine hours. Prof. Lowe states that he landed at Columbia a little before one o’clock, on the day succeeding that on which he left Cincinnati. The distance travelled was over one thousand miles, making the rate of speed at which the balloon moved about one hundred and ten miles per hour. This is one of the most wonderful balloon excursions ever made.
TERRIBLE EARTHQUAKEAPPALLING LOSS OF LIFE. Valparaiso dates are to the 23d ult.. Mendoza was destroyed by an earthquake, and eight thousand people killed, on the 20th of March.
San Juan is also reported to have been destroyed, and the bed of the river turned upon it, by the same earthquake. Two other towns are reported to have been destroyed.

SUSPENSION OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY BUGLE. The last number of the Anti-Slavery Bugle.-we deeply regret to say-brings the intelligence of its suspension. At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Western Anti-Slavery Society, held at Salem, held at Salem, (Ohio,) on the 21st ult, the following preamble and resolution were adopted:-
“Whereas, the great alterations which have recently occurred in the relations of the two sections of the country to each other, render it impossible to prosecute anti-slavery field labor to advantage-a condition of things not contemplated by the Committee when it accepted Mrs. Foster's proposition to make up any deficiency in means for the publication of the Bugle until the 1st of September, and which utterly precludes the possibility of making collections for its support, either by donations or subscriptions in a community whose pecuniary means and interest are so wholly absorbed by the question of War, as is the case with the people of the west; therefore,
Resolved, That this Committee find it necessary to decide upon the present suspension of the Anti-Slavery Bugle, and hereby direct that its issue cease on the 4th of May.”
The Bugle has done great service to the Anti-Slavery cause by its uncompromising course. It has gone down with its flag nailed to the mast-head.
<c06>
MRS. MARCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years’ experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
ReferencesDavid Thayer, M. D.; Lather Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.

WANTEDBy a young man, 22 years of age, a situation as Book-keeper, Secretary, or Amanuensis. Understands book-keeping both by double and single entry, is a good penman, correct in figures, and can furnish, good references as to character and ability. Would prefer to work for an Abolitionist or a Republican. Address D. W. D., Box 2702, P.O. 3t April 12

COPIES OF WENDELL PHILLIPS'S MUSIC HALL SPEECH ON THE WAR may be obtained at Room No. 8, HAYTIAN BUREAU OF EMIGRATION, Washington Building, 221 Washington Street, Boston. 
P.S.
PERUVIAN SYRUP,
THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE.
TRY IT.
IT will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropay, Diarrhoea, General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood.
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWETT & COMPANY,
No. 39 Summer st., Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
April 19.3mis.
LADIES'
Spring Over-Garments,
FOR
Cost of Cloth and Trimmings,
AT
HEBBARD'S,
365 Washington Street.
HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) Term of the Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 1, and continue Ten Weeks. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely chiefly upon the patronage of the more advanced and liberal portion of the public for support.
For particulars, send for Circular to the address of 
WM. S. HAYWOOD, Principals
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., March 30, 1861. 4w
The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine.

1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative.)
2.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS.
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $300
For any two of the four Reviews, 500
For any three of the four Reviews, 700
For all four of the Reviews, 800
For Blackwood's Magazine, 300
For Blackwood-and one Review, 500
For Blackwood and two Reviews, 700
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the-four Reviews,10.00
N. B.The price in Great Britain of the five Periodics above-named is $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT & CO,’
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec.28. 6m
The Herald of Progress,
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS, EDITOR,
ASSISTED BY AN ASSOCIATION OF ABLE WRITERS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
COSMOPOLITAN in every department of knowledge; its crystallized thoughts are intended to furnish a beacon light for the future. Its columns are open it to communications upon every subject. Its work is, to elevate the mind, and to add to man’s material comforts Particular attention is given to the department of Health, with new and progressed methods of treating disease, by the Editor. Devoted to no sect, belonging to no party, not given to ONE IDEA, it presents itself to a liberal-minded community, and asks their co-operation.
The Herald of Progress is published every Saturday, on a double folio of eight pages, for two dollars per annum, or one dollar for six months, in advance. Specimen copies forwarded gratis. Address, A. J. DAVIS & CO., 274 Canal street, New York. April 10.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents, of Howe, Wheeler $ Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington Street.
GEO. R. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
NEMESIS.
BY R. L. YOUNG.
Our sin has found us out; our pride
The poor, the bound, remembered not;
Now darkness gathers far and wide,
With shame and grief and ruin fraught.
We have delivered the oppressed
Into the strong oppressor's hand;
If now their wrongs shall be redressed,
With us, O God! how will it stand?
We have upheld the spoiler's power
For paltry ends, for trade and gain;
At last, our blood we freely pour:
O may it not be all in vain!
The tender Spring, with bud and bloom,
With sunshine sweet, and breezes bland,
Has smiled away the Winter's gloom,
And spread her gladness o'er the land.
But the poor land, the fated land!
How many a field, now budding fair,
Shall feel the stain of brothers' blood,
And smoke in battle's hateful glare!
How many and many an aching heart,
Through all its borders, near and far,
Is yearning for the loved and brave,
Who dare the awful chance of war!

For the Liberator.
"THE TRUE SOUL SEEKS NO REST,"
BY MISS L. M. TENNEY.
Preach never of rest to the truth-seeking spirit,
Nor prate of a height where its wings cannot bear it;-
Are not earth and heaven its own to inherit,
And God the great source of its constant unrest?
Still far in the distance its vision is prying,
Away through the mists where the fair plains are lying-
Still, still for the perfect its deep voice is crying,
Nor can its demand be denied or represt.
No rest hath the tree when the wind anthem ringeth,
When, swayed by the tempest, its graceful form swingeth;
Still, raindrops and sunshine a crown on it flingeth,
And birds 'mong its branches their joyful notes pour;
But prone doth it lie, when its proud trunk is riven,
No more in its boughs chant the loud winds of heaven,
The peace of decay to its green leaves is given,
And sweet birds will sing in its branches no more.
How fierce the unrest of the glorious Ocean!-
Yet its grandeur awakens the deepest devotion:
Though peace wakes no chord in its ceaseless commotion,
As, booming its deep base, it breaks on the sand;-
But sure is the rest where the dead sea reposes,
And peacefully o'er its pollution it closes,
While ashen the apples, and scentless the roses,
That spring from the soil of its pestilent strand.
The soul may have peace that is only inaction;
Composure that's born of a blank stupefaction,
Which views darkest wrong with a calm satisfaction,
Nor evil can see which it cannot endure-
But true souls rest never 'neath earthly disaster,
They measure their might by the ills they would master,
And face every wrong with a Right that is vaster,
A spirit unconquered, a faith that is sure.

From The World We Live In.
SONG OF KING COTTON.
THEN!
King Cotton sat on his net-work of bales,
With his sceptre, a terrible whip, in hand,
And sang as he spread his flag to the gales-
"I was born a prince; 'tis mine to command.
“My kingdom is the world,
I rule o'er land and sea;
For my banners are unfurled
On the wave, the hill, the lea;
And before my golden altars
All peoples bend the knee.
"Slaves have I by the million:
Ah! let the Northman rave!
So long as he worships cotton,
I shall safely hold my slave.
Yes, let the Northman bluster,
A dollar his tongue will still;
I can "call the roll" of my lackeys
At the foot of Bunker Hill.
"O, little care I for the pleading
Of the liberty-prating priest:
I shall go with my slaves at pleasure
From West to farthest East:
And the Northman, all obedient,
Shall bend the supple knee;
He shall catch my runaway negroes,
And send them back to me!
"He may shake his head and bluster,
And prate of his' Higher Law';
I will crack the whip of'Secession,'
And his conscience overawe.
He may shake his head and bluster,
Of his heart keep the key-
It is Cotton vs. Conscience,
And Cotton is KING, you see!"
Time, the healer of wounds,
Time, the righter of wrongs,
Time, the avenger of crimes,
Time, the writer of songs,
Rolls on the wheels of destiny,
Singing another song to me!

NOW!
King Cotton sits on his throne of bales,
In desperate, hopeless, and sorrowful plight;
His chivalrous heart with terror quails,
His sceptre has gone-he has lost his might.
His heart is filled with pain
At the Fates' unfriendly blow;
He sings in a dolorous strain,
In a mournful voice and low,
With bravado strangely mingled,
His song of wrath and woe-
Alas! alas for the Northman!
He was once my slave, but now
He spurns my yoke from his shoulders,
At another shrine to bow;
He is kneeling at Freedom's altar,
My deadliest earthly foe,
And my power, at length, is broken
In the land of the 'men of dough.'
"I have cracked my whip, 'Secession,'
Till they laugh in my very face;
And the threat that was once so potent
Has wrought my own disgrace.
But why should I lose dominion
Over these beggarly worms?
I will keep my royal cotton,
And starve them into terms!"
Hingham, Mass. P. S. BOYD.

SUMMER'S COMING.
BY GEORGE W. REED.
Summer's coming!
O'er the long imprisoned earth
Hues of Elysium are peeping
Where the red buds late were sleeping;
Young birds feel their feathered birth;
Honey-bees are softly humming:
"Summer's coming-summer's coming!"
Summer's coming,
On tie lazy-pacing clouds;
Swallows, in the soft-air sailing,
Twitter to the light wind's wailing;
Butterflies forsake their shrouds;
Tardy beetles thus are drumming:
"Summer's coming-summer's coming!"
Summer's coming,
Where the ocean heaves its head;
Sunny snakes, from broad savannahs,
Seek the lily's opening banners,
Rising from the river's bed; Earth and sky say through the gloaming:
"Summer's coming-summer's coming!"
<c02>
The Liberator.
"THE SABLE CLOUD."
[THIRD ARTICLE.]
Dr. Adams complains that anti-slavery men often speak disparagingly of the slave's religion, which, he says, "is full as good at that of converts in our foreign missionary fields."
This testimony, coming from a member of the Prudential Committee of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, is a very important one. I have reason to think that it is perfectly true. But I have also reason to think that this resemblance between the converts of the slave-holding parsons in the South and the converts of the American Board among the heathen, rightly understood, will operate much more to the discredit of the latter than to the credit of the former.
To be sure, Dr. Adams's veracity is not such that an improbable statement should for a moment be received on the authority of his word. But his deceits, direct and indirect, are accustomed to be used for the reputation and advantage of the American Board; never for its discredit. It may safely be assumed, that, if this deliberately stated parallel shall be found to bear hard upon the converts (and of course upon the missionaries) of the Board, it will be from no purpose of Dr. Adams that his two-edged blade should cut in this direction. He spoke, no doubt, as loving, not the Board less, but slavery more.
The religion of the slaves, says Dr. Adams, "is full as good as that of converts in our foreign missionary fields"! If so, the foreign missionary fields are hardly worth a thousand dollars a day, and more, which the Prudential Committee expend upon them; for abundant testimony of Southern clergymen proves that church-membership makes a very imperfect restraint upon the slaves in the particulars of lying, stealing, drunkenness, fornication and adultery.
Suppose it be granted that the slave-members of Southern churches are "full as good" as the members of the American Board's mission-church at Stockbridge, in the Choctaw nation, were in January, 1859, when, on holding "a big meeting" for the communion, they took no notice of the well-known fact, that on the first Sunday of that month one of their members, a slave, had been burned alive at the instigation of another member, her mistress. Such equality in character is not a great recommendation. This does not say wry much for the Christianity of the slaves. However it may be with the "brethren," the bond between "sisters in the church" does not seem, there, to be a very tender one; neither do "the poor" in that church seem to be very well cared for.
Or, to take a much milder case, a case where we will look no deeper than the testimony of the missionaries themselves as to the quantity and quality of the ordinary fruits of piety, let us glance at the evidence given, for a few years past, in the Annual Reports of the Board, respecting the spiritual state of the Cherokee churches. It will well repay our careful attention.
The Annual Report for 1857 says-
"The history of the churches under the care of this mission for several years, has been singularly uniform. The total membership of the churches remains very nearly as it was in 1851. The interest in the Cherokee churches in the services of the sanctuary does not seem to have deepened. At some of the stations, the number of worshippers on the Sabbath has slightly increased; but, on the whole, no certain improvement in this particular can be reported."-p. 149.
The Annual Report for 1858 says-
"The brethren of this mission, with one exception, are unable to report any religious interest which can properly be called a revival. Mr. Ranney has admitted four persons to the church at Lee's Creek A few additions have also been made to the church at Honey Creek. But the reports from Park Hill and Fairfield are less cheering. The past year, Mr. Worcester writes, has unhappily been one of sad apathy in regard to the most interesting of all concerns. My preaching thus far, Mr. Torrey says, has been attended with but little apparent profit. I have some reason to believe that two or three persons have been led to indulge a hope in Christ through my word. Whether their hope is well founded or not, remains to be! seen The grace of liberality is not largely bestowed upon the Cherokees."-pp. 128, 9.
The Report for 1859 says-
"The past year cannot be regarded as one of special prosperity. The additions to the number of communicants are only 7; so that, taking into account the annual loss by death or otherwise, the churches have received no accession to their strength."-p. 147.
"The amount contributed for benevolent purposes cannot be reported with accuracy. It is presumed, however, that there has been no advance upon the liberality of former years."-p. 148.
"In speaking of this church, one year ago, Mr. Torrey stated that, of twelve colored members, none resided within eight miles of him; and that, of thirty-one Indian members, only fourteen lived within six miles of him; the rest being entirely, or almost entirely, beyond his reach. The average attendance of communicants at Fairfield is only four or five. It was not till a few weeks since that he could report the first direct, tangible, satisfactory case of conversion connected with his labors. As there is no reason whatever to call in question the fidelity and earnestness of this brother, the Committee are not clear that, in the present state of the world, the Board should prolong its efforts at this station."-p. 149.
The suggestion made in the sentence last quoted was carried into execution, and the Annual Report of 1860 announced that the Prudential Committee had closed their work among the Cherokees. In doing this, the Committee make an explicit statement, first, of what is not the reason, and then of what is the reason, as follows:-
"The Committee have arrived at the conclusion that it is time for the Board to discontinue its mission among the Cherokees. To prevent all misapprehension, it should be stated at the outse'-First, that this is not owing to the relations of our work among these Indians to the system of slavery."-p. 137.
What the Prudential Committee allege is the reason for discontinuing the mission is told, in italic letters, on the next page, thus:-
"The Cherokees are a Christian people."-p.138.
And, further on, the idea is more minutely expressed, as follows:-
"The mission is not abandoned, but our appropriate work is done. The Cherokee people have been Christianized, through the divine favor, and what remains for building up and sustaining the institutions of the Gospel-which is everywhere a work never brought to a close-must be left to others; for the reason that our appropriate work is no longer there."-p. 145.
"We have seen that Dr. Adams and his colleagues on the Prudential Committee have taken the responsibility of asserting, with the added emphasis of italic letters, that "The Cherokees are a Christian people." But, if we read the section of details following this emphatic head, in which the missionaries express their opinions, we find a reserve, a qualification, a guarded-ness of expression, which not only fails to establish the confident heading, but reminds the reader of the column of "Telegraphic News" in an "Extra" political paper, where the headings, in Large and varied capitals, which are to induce the public to buy, are found not to be entirely supported by the details in the small type below. Here are some of the details, under the Prudential Committee's sensation heading, above recorded:-
"However low may be the standard of their Christianity, it is their only religion. The Cherokee people are supposed, to number about 21,000. Our three missionary brethren, residing among them, concur in the opinion that they reckon themselves, and are to be acknowledged, a Christian people. Mr. Torrey says-" Christianity is recognized among them, as much as in any portion of the United States. Mr. Ranney says-"The nation, as such, I presume, would claim to be called a Christian nation. Mr. Willey says-The Cherokees, as a nation, may justly be railed a nominally Christian nation."-pp. 138-9.
The reserve of these missionaries (which I have designated by the italics above) is fully borne out by some details, given by the Prudential Committee in a different place, Trader the heading-" Difficulties in the way of further operations by the Board."
<c03>
"They [the missionaries among the Cherokees] are laboring under a complication of disadvantages; at a great expense; [estimated, p. 138, at five or six thousand dollars annually;]. with no active native preachers; with small congregations; with very few young persons connected with their churches; with a membership which has not materially increased for any years, and with scarcely any promise of future accessions. The proportion of the people now reached by our ministrations is comparatively small. The audience at Park Hill is not far from forty; that at Fairfield (a monthly meeting) is sixty; at Dwight, it is from sixty to one hundred; and at Lee's Creek, seventy-five. Moreover, all the missionaries preach through interpreters. If it were possible, as it is not, to procure native pastors for the small churches at each of these places, the people could not be induced to support them."-pp. 140-1.
The quality of the Christianity possessed by the Cherokees seems not of a very high order. Of its quantity, we get some further details on pages 143-4, from which 1 find that the number of Cherokee church-members in all the mission-churches of the American Board in that nation is only 136; and that the average attendance in all the schools is about 80, this attendance being irregular.
When we remember that the Prudential Committee admit the Cherokee people to number "about 21,000," and that their missionary operations there have lasted forty-two years, the attainment of 136 such church-members cannot be reckoned a brilliant success. The Prudential Committee, however, now take the responsibility of declaring-"The Cherokees are a Christian people"! And Dr. South-Side Adams, who, having been long a member of this Prudential Committee, knows just how Christian these Cherokees are, now declares the slave church-members in our Southern States to be "full as good"! No doubt of it! But is that saying very much for them? Is it saying very much for the southern ministers was <illegible> an "oral" Gospel to them? Is it saying very much for the system, which flogs them if they learn to read the Bible, and which refuses to hear their testimony in the church as well as in the civil courts, against a "brother in the church" who would be proved a ravisher, an adulterer, or a murderer, if their testimony were admitted?
Of the attempts of Dr. Adams to represent the Bible as favoring slavery, it is not necessary to speak minutely, since they resemble those of the whole crowd of slaveholding parsons at the South.
A distinguished philanthropist once told me that he had never read the whole of the "South-Side View of Slavery." He had repeatedly tried to read it, but it invariably made him sick, and he was obliged to relinquish the attempt. The elaborate mendacity of both these books, mingled as it is with a sanctimonious impiety which constantly "takes in vain" the name of God, and attempts to pervert His attributes, His purposes, and His Gospel to the defence of the worst of crimes, is indeed sickening! But what a revelation does it make of the character of the Northern clergy-even of those who, acting politically with the Republicans, and religiously with the Boston Tract Society, miscall themselves "anti-slavery"-that they bestow upon this man. by speech and writing, look and action, and various public manifestations of deference and respect, unabated recognition as a Christian, and as a "minister of the Gospel."
Dr. Adams defends slavery, declares it a matter of God's appointment, and recommends its continuance and extension. Holding an office of trust and responsibility in the "American Board," he takes the money which the churches have given for the support of Christian missionaries, and hires with it, for years, another pro-slavery minister, Rev. Cyrus Byington, to preach to the Choctaws. Mr. Byington not only upholds slavery there, as his employer does here, but allows one of his church-members to burn another alive, without cither instituting church-discipline upon the murderer, or informing his employers of this state of things in the Choctaw churches. Then, again, Dr. Adams uses the state of enormous depravity to which the Choctaw churches have been brought under the ministrations of Mr. Byington, for the advantage of slavery, boasting that the slave converts are "full as good" as the Choctaw converts. And all this time, Dr. Kirk and Dr. Stone are acknowledging both Adams and Byington as Christian ministers and worthy "brethren," and thus helping the continuance of their recognition as such by the churches, though they would instantly lift up their voices like trumpets in rebuke of those men, if they should become Universalists or Unitarians. Is it any injustice to call this brotherhood "a brotherhood of thieves"? Does not even this strong expression fail to include the fulness of their guilt?-C. K. W.

LETTER FROM HAYTI.
Obstacles in the way of Haytien Improvement-President Geffrard-Emigration, etc.
SAINT MARC, (Hayti,) April 2, 1861.
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR: I send you a few items concerning this country and this people, presuming they may interest those of your readers not already familiar with the facts.
In order to do justice to the Haytien people in any comparison we may draw between their condition and that of other countries, we must bear in mind the disadvantages under which they have always labored. In their revolution, they were not like the Americans, educated, armed, and in possession of their personal! liberty, and enjoying the sympathy and aid of powerful foreign friends. Thousands of them had been freshly imported from Africa, and all of them were unarmed, and reduced to that ignorance and brutishness to which slavery alone can degrade men. Oppressed by the French, English and Spanish, they bravely gained their personal and political rights, and established a republican form of government. Since the revolution, there have been various changes in the Haytien form of government; some of them were changes for the worse. Under Souloque, the last emperor, the government was, if possible, nearly as corrupt as our own has been under Buchanan.
Since the election of the now ruling President, Fabre Geffrard, a new era has dawned on the Republic. Education and agriculture, both of which were discouraged by the late Emperor, are now receiving all possible encouragement from the Government. Geffrard is without doubt the greatest statesman in Hayti; he is highly educated, a polished gentleman, a true patriot, and a Christian. All these good qualities of head and heart he brings with the utmost zeal to the elevation and progress of his people.
The inhabitants of Hayti number about two-thirds of a million; they are the descendants of various African tribes. In the cities and large towns, a large proportion are Creole, or of mixed blood, African with European. I made diligent inquiry as to the health of the mixed race, of first, second and third generations; and in every instance I found it as good as in the pure black or white. The statement that the mixed races are not as hardy and prolific is without doubt a pro-slavery falsehood.
The religion of the country is nominally Roman Catholic; but really, among the intelligent, it is French Infidelity; and, to a considerable extent among the lower class, the Vaudoo superstition prevails. Protestantism is allowed, but has as yet made but little progress. The Americans have been particularly unfortunate in their attempts in this direction. First, a Baptist missionary became a convert to the Seventh Day dogma, and of course was recalled; the next one sent out was charged with Sodomy, and turned off. The English succeeded better. A Wesleyan Methodist church and a school are established at Port au Prince, under the direction of Rev. Messrs. Bishop and Bird. Both have been well attended. No doubt the outlay of the same amount of money and labor for the establishment of schools, the introduction of agricultural implements and machinery, would civilize, and even Christianize the people of any country faster than all the tracts, sermons and churches. The introduction of the plow into general use among the farmers of Hayti would make more Christiana in a year than a weekly sectarian sermon through, the year to the same farmers, without plows, as at present
<c04>
The greatest obstacle in the way of Haytien progress is the low state of morals in the country. Licentiousness is fully up to the Parisian standard, and the greatest stickler for "free love" could ask for nothing more than he finds here. This is one of the <illegible> entailed by slavery, in which condition there is <illegible> marriage, and virtue is not' allowed to exist. The some thing is true of our own four millions of slaves in the South. This evil is gradually decreasing here, and marriage is becoming more common. While slavery existed here, every birth was illegitimate, but now a large proportion occur in married life.
Saint Marc, where I now am, was destroyed by fire during the Revolution, and has never been wholly rebuilt. The present town contains about three thousand inhabitants. It is pleasantly situated on the bay of the same name, and is a port of entry. The ruins constitute the main feature of the place; these are old stone walls of former houses, one and two stories high,-the large arched doorways and windows, also the partitions between the rooms, in many instances, remain. Inside these walls are growing acacia and other trees; and, as I walked around in those old forsaken rooms, once the homes of wealthy slaveholders, but now only the abode of reptiles, I said to myself: such will one day be the condition of New Orleans, Charleston, Richmond, and all the large towns of our pirate States; and I expect to live and to walk among their ruins.
An excellent road leads along near the coast of Port au Prince, a distance of about ninety miles. Another good road extends to Les Verettes, a town in the Artibonite valley, thirty miles in the interior. Nearly the whole distance, the road is as level as a railroad track. I was constantly reminded of our <illegible> The luxuriant growth of cotton sugar cane, bananas, and other crops, is almost bewildering to the senses of a New Englander. On this road I overtook a number of ox teams loaded with logwood and tafia, (a kind of rum,) for the market at Saint Marc. The Artibonite river comes within about ten miles of this place. In this valley, some six miles from here, are to be located the American emigrants. The government, besides paying the steerage passage of all emigrants of African or Indian origin, gives every man fifteen acres of choice land, and erects on it a comfortable house. In a few years, the present forests of candle cactus, acacia and logwood, will be cut away, and in their stead will bloom the fields of cotton, and well-stocked gardens, and groves of fruit trees, the sure reward of industry. But I, for one, am opposed to this emigration, particularly at this state of American affairs. I should much prefer that every free colored man would wait to see what service he can be to his brothers in bonds. We naturally look for more sympathy for the slave in the colored, than in the white man. Besides, this is not wholly a one-sided question to the emigrants themselves; the side which they mostly look at is that on which they see free homes in a nation of their own color and race; a recognition of all their rights as men and women; a climate more congenial to <illegible> nature; where no winter comes to waste half the year; and a soil equal to any in the world, which will yield abundantly of all the most valuable productions of the temperate and torrid zones. On the other side, they should consider that they leave in enlightened community for one that is scarcely civilized; they take their children from well-organized schools into neighborhoods where schools have yet to be formed; they go from a people among whom industry and morality are the rule, to where the practice of those virtues is the exception; they go where the rural police regulations are no yet good, and though all the rights of property are acknowledged, they are not well secured. The migrant should inquire which is more probable, that his example will tend to benefit the natives, or whether the influence of climate and bad example will bring him down to their level. "Let every me be persuaded in his own mind." The same lack of industry and thrift prevails here that is so appoint in our Southern States, and in nearly all hot <illegible>. Probably not more than one-third of proper working time is occupied by working people in productive labor. The people arc kind-hearted and hospitable toward strangers; more so than in main-parts of New England I have visited. The pure blacks are all intelligent looking; I did not see a single instance of stupid looking men and women, which are so common on Southern plantations.
Respectfully,
J. M. HAWKS.

NATIONAL GUILT AND THE WAR.
JOHNSTOWN, Licking Co., (Ohio,) April 29.
MR. GARRISON,-In your article on Secession, in the Liberator of the 19th inst., you say-"As God lives, it is impossible that they (the abolitionists) can fail to be otherwise than honored by posterity." I think this cannot be questioned by those who understand the character of the Anti-Slavery movement. Until everlasting truth and impartial justice shall be annihilated, their advocates will in due time be rewarded and honored. But the Anti-Slavery cause is unquestionably a stone of stumbling and rock of offence in this day and generation, as really as the preaching of the kingdom of God, by Jesus Christ and his disciples, was in their day: it is set for the fall, and rising again, of many, and by it many will be ground to powder.
We have been told of our sins and warned of approaching judgments; yet refusing to repent, until the day of vengeance is upon us. God's wrath against our unrighteousness is revealed in the shouts for war and the shedding of blood. But faith surveys the gathering storm, and in the midst of its thunders hears the Divine voice behind and above the clouds, speaking, "When ye see these things, look up-lift up your heads-your redemption draweth nigh." Parties, hitherto at variance, now agree to lay aside all differences, forget all past animosities, make common cause in defence of their liberties. But do they not forget that God remembers our past misdeeds, our oppressing, and robbing, and spoiling the poor and needy? that he has told us that when he makes inquisition for blood, he will remember, and "visit for these things"? Let them understand; forgetfulness is not repentance. It is marvellous how our sin of oppression is now forgotten in the strife to resist despotism towards ourselves!
As the trees in the wood are moved by a great wind, so the people seem moved by the war spirit, ready to bathe their sword in their brother's blood. In this hour of the Prince of darkness, where are the friends of the Prince of Peace, the Christian Non-Resistants-those who have studied the philosophy of that question, and are competent to instruct others?
Now that Judas has betrayed him, thinking he "has no rights to be respected," and Peter denied him in the "irrepressible conflict"-now that he is brought before the government, surrounded by armed soldiers-have those other disciples also forsaken him, and fled? Have they found the sword of the Spirit insufficient for the present hour, and therefore taken to the carnal sword? Well, he must be crucified; so it must now be, so it has ever been; the Lamb has always been slain from the foundation of the world. But those women, standing by the cross, witnessing the crucifixion-they will prepare spices, embalm the body, follow it to the sepulcher, see it carefully entombed, and witness the resurrection on the third day. Thank God, that woman still lives, and walks this earth to fulfil her services to the Crucified One! Wait patiently, ye faithful ones, who have been with him in his temptations, ministering to him, and toiling from the beginning of this conflict; for you will see the angel roll away the stone from the sepulchre, and the present order of things give place to a more glorious dispensation. But, O ye friends of Peace! followers of him who never shed blood, except his own-who, always by dying, conquers-have you no word to utter now? Having had your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, are you not now called upon to instruct and exhort others to do so too; and, haying put on their
<c05>
sandals, to stand in this evil day? It may sometimes cost something to adopt and carry out peace principles between individuals simply, and towards government in times of peace; but how much more so, to understand and apply them in governmental relations, when our peace and safety are endangered, as now, and government, resorts to war! How shall we do now? Who will instruct us?
C. G. O.

A CRY FROM LONDON.
Address from the Peace Society of London to the People of the United States.
FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CHRISTIANS:-It is in no presuming or dictatorial spirit that we venture to address to you these few words of earnest sympathy and respectful expostulation, in reference to the perilous crisis in your national history through which you are now passing. But having been long laboring, in our humble measure, in promoting peace on earth upon the broad principles of our common Christianity, we cannot but feel how deeply that cause to which we are devoted is implicated in the result of the experiment now being enacted in your country.
We do not feel ourselves either competent, or entitled, to offer any suggestion as to the best method of solving those internal difficulties, which now agitate your great commonwealth. But we venture confidently to state that the worst of all solutions that can be attempted is a fratricidal war, which must, however long and fiercely it may be waged, leave the merits of the question in dispute wholly untouched, while it cannot fail to exasperate into ten-fold malignity the feelings of alienation which already exist? War, under any circumstances, and between any sections of the human race, is an evil which reason, religion and humanity cannot bewail too bitterly. But a civil war in a nation like your own, one of the very foremost among the nations of the earth in intelligence, civilization, and Christian enlightenment-a war among men of the same race, language and religion-a war which would involve neighbors, friends, brothers-members of the same Christian communions, children, it may be, of the same family, in mad and murderous conflict with each other, would be a spectacle at which all mankind would stand aghast in horror and dismay, a spectacle which, more than any event that has occurred for ages, would smite with discouragement, and all but despair, the friends of human progress throughout the world. For a long time past, thoughtful and philanthropic men, witnessing with sorrow the distracted and divided condition of the old world. and the ferocious and sanguinary wars to which these national antipathies have led, have fondly cherished the hope that the time might come when the several States of Europe might be so far federated together, as to be brought under the jurisdiction of a cannon tribunal, which, should decide their differences without having recourse to the irrational arbtrament of the sword. In support of the practicability of such a measure, they have, been hitherto wont to appeal triumphantly to the admirable example and illustration of such a system presented in your country. But the effect will be disheartening and disastrous to the last degree, if it be now found that you, Christian brethren, who had the immense advantage of growing up side by side into free communities, exempt from those hereditary prejudices which have struck their roots so deep into the soil of Europe, can find no better means of adjusting your differences than by having recourse to the old expedient of barbarism and blood, of which even Europe is beginning to be ashamed, for its combined folly and brutality.
Permit us also respectfully to remind you that the evils of war,-as we know to our bitter cost in the old world,-do not end with itself. On the contrary, it bequeaths to posterity a sinister legacy of hatreds, jealousies, and rivalries, which poison the blood of nations for ages, and entail upon them burdens hardly less crushing than those of actual war. The enormous military establishments that are now sitting like an incubus on the heart of Europe, all but suffocating its life, are the penalties we have to pay for the conflicts into which our ancestors plunged, often in reference to questions, which all men now can see might have been easily adjusted without a blow, if passion had not been permitted to usurp the place of reason. But the rankling recollections and mutual distrust which those quarrels engendered are still the source whence arises the alleged necessity for the ruinous rivalry in armaments, which is hurrying us onward on a path that, if pursued much longer, can only lead to general bankruptcy. Hay Heaven in its mercy deliver America from a policy which would entangle it in the coils of such a system as this!
We implore you, then, Friends and Fellow-Christians, to avoid the fatal mistake of imagining that you can decide questions of disputed right by conflicts of brute force.
We appeal to American patriots to save the land they love from the dishonor of appearing before the world in an attitude which can only excite the sorrow and pity of all good men.
we appeal to American philanthropists to interpose their influence to ward off a catastrophe which will not only become a source of unutterable suffering and demoralization to their own country, but which will exercise a malign influence over the destinies of the whole human race.
Above all, we appeal to Christian Churches of all denominations, and emphatically to the ministers of the Prince of Peace, to stand between the living and the dead, that the plague be stayed: by their example, by their persuasions, by their prayers, to arrest an evil which will not only paralyze their own efforts, and desolate God's inheritance by a flood of passion and crime, but which will be a scandal and a reproach to our common Christianity.
JOSEPH PEASE, President.
HENRY RICHARDS, Secretary.

WENDELL PHILLIPS ON THE WAR.
Nothing shows better the general feeling in favor of the war, than a few addresses made the last two Sundays-such, for instance, as that of Rev. Dr. Nehemiah ("South-side") Adams, who has always taken part with the South heretofore, and that of Wendell Phillips, who has never been sparing of complaint at the insincerity and lack of earnestness of the North in standing up for freedom. Both these gentlemen came out in favor of sustaining the Administration and the war, and the latter, in especial, showed his hearty concurrence in the policy which has been pursued by President Lincoln.
Our Boston newspapers are wont to boast of their enterprise and independence, but no more humiliating instance of the lack of both these qualities could be shown, than in their concerted arrangement to suppress what Mr. Phillips might have to say on the war, on Sunday week. One of them had completed arrangements to have it reported verbatim, but after the report was made, it declined to publish it, and would not allow the phonographer to send his copy to New York for the use of the Tribune. Not one of them published a word of the discourse, save the Advertiser, and this only by accident, the intention of the editors not coming to the cars of the foreman! Such a premium upon ignorance-such forgetfulness of the sphere of journalism-was unworthy of Boston. The reason alleged was, that it was feared Mr. Phillips's advocacy of the war would render it unpopular elsewhere! And yet Nehemiah Adams's utterances were hailed with delight-a man who, his whole life through, had eaten Southern dirt! Five thousand people listened with delight to Mr. Phillips's eloquent defence of the war on high philosophic and humanitarian grounds-not mere buncombe about the "stars and stripes"-and yet the press combined to suppress his noble words, at the suggestion of one or two timid old women politicians, who are accorded by the humiliated editors far more influence over the body politic than they ever possessed in their best estate. I mean such grannies as George Morey, the residuary legatee of the Whig party in this city, who seems to have taken all its cowardice, with the small fragment of excellence remaining, into his especial custody. It is some satisfaction to know, however, that the Liberator published the address in an extra, and sold nearly 20,000 copies by news-boys in the streets.-Boston Correspondence of the Bath Sentinel.
COLORED CONFERENCE PROHIBITED IN BALTIMORE. For some few years past, the African M. E. Conference has held its annual meetings in Baltimore in the mouth of April The Sun says:-
"The Board of Police deems such an assemblage unlawful, as it infracts a provision of the Code which prohibits the assembling in this State of non-resident colored people, and have, therefore, given instructions to forbid the meeting."
<c06>
OIL WELL EXPLOSION AND CONFLAGRATION!
A terrible oil well explosion recently took place in the Pennsylvania oil region, by which eighteen persons lost their lives. A well at Tideout, belonging to Messrs. Hawley & Merrick, had been drilled to a depth of three hundred feet, when, on the evening of the 17th ult., a sudden rush of oil threw out the drill, and gushed out in the air forty feet above the surface of the ground. The account continues:-
"At the least computation, it was throwing out 70 to 100 barrels an hour. Above this mass of oil, the gas or benzine rose in a cloud, for fifty or sixty feet. As soon as the oil commenced gushing forth, all the fires of engines in the neighborhood were immediately extinguished. At about half-past seven, as a large number of men and boys were around the well engaged in saving the oil, the gas from the well, which had spread in every direction, took fire from the engine of a well over 400 rods distant, when in a second the whole air was in a flame, with a crash and a roar like discharges from a park of artillery.
As soon as the gas took fire, the head of the jet of oil was in a furious blaze, and falling like water from a fountain over a space one hundred feet in diameter; each drop of oil came down a blazing globe of boiling oil. Instantly the ground was a flame, constantly increased and augmented by the falling oil. At once a scene of indescribable horror took place. Scores were thrown flat, and for a distance of twenty feet, and numbers horribly burned; others rushing blazing from the spot, shrieking and screaming in their anguish.
Just within the circle of the flames could be seen four bodies boiling in the seething oil, and one man who had been digging at a ditch to convey away the oil to a lower part of the ground was killed as he dug, and could be seen as he fell over the handle of the spade, roasting in the fierce element. Mr. H. R Rouse, of the firm of Rouse. Mitchell & Brown, of the village of Enterprise. Warren Co., a gentleman largely interested in wells in this locality, and whose income from them amounted to $1000 a day, was standing near the pit, and was blown twenty feet by the explosion. He got up and ran about ten or fifteen feet further, and we dragged out by two men, and conveyed to a shanty some distance from the well. When he arrived, not a vestige of clothing was left upon him, except his stocking and boots. His hair was burned off, as well as his finger nails, his ears and his eyelids, while the balls of his eyes were crisped to nothingness. In this condition, he lived nine hours-made his will, leaving $100,000 to the poor of Warren Co. He died, however, without signing the will. Some thirty-four were seriously injured, besides others slightly. At the time of the explosion, everything in the neighborhood-sixty or seventy rods-took fire, and shanties, derricks, engine houses, dwellings, were at one involved in flames; The boiler of Dobbs's well, eighty rods from the original fire, blew up with a tremendous explosion, killing instantly the engineer, Wesley Skinner, adding another intensity to the evening's horrors. At this time, the whole air was on fire. The jet of oil, rushing up forty feet, was almost a pillar of livid flame, while the gas above it, to the distance of a hundred feet, was flashing, exploding, dashing toward the heavens, and apparently licking the clouds with its furious tongues of heat. All this time, during this tremendous combustion, the sounds of the explosions and burnings were so tremendous and continuous, that they could be compared to nothing but the rushing of a hurricane or a tornado through the forest. The heat of the fire was so intense that no one could approach within one hundred and fifty feet without scorching their skin or garments. It was the most frightful, and yet-the grandest, pyrotechnic display ever vouchsafed to a human being. On Friday morning the oil was still rushing up, on fire, with the same regularity and speed, throwing, it was calculated, at least one hundred barrels an hour, covering an immense space with flaming oil. No human power can extinguish the flames, and the oil must burn on until the well is exhausted. No pen can describe its fierceness-no tongue describe the magnitude of its horrors.
THE OIL WELL DISASTER. The oil well conflagration at Tideout, Pa., has been extinguished by heaping dirt upon the well from which the extraordinary current of gas and oil proceeded. Oil still flows from the well in extraordinary quantities. Sixteen persons in all had died, up to Wednesday last, from the effects of the accident. Several others are lying in a critical condition, and are not expected to live.

COLORED MEN AND THE WAR.
To the Editors of the Daily Atlas and Bee:
I am of that class not dominant in the land against whom a prejudice exists; and therefore I feel that there is more than the common necessity for being discreet, but withal, manly and honest. In the exercise of that discretion, I have told those colored persons with whom I have any influence, to avoid a too immediate active identity with the movements now directed against the slaveholders of the South,-that the blindness, the madness of slaveholders as to the best policy for them to have pursued to the end of enjoying all possible security under the circumstances for slavery, is illustrative of the expression: "Those whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad"; which madness would, in time, call us into the field.
Though the colored American has bad but little inducement, so far as the policy of the national government is concerned, to be patriotic, he is nevertheless, patriotic; he loves his native land; be feels for "the glory and the shame" of his county his blood, as in revolutionary times-in the times of old Sam Adams, and of Crispus Attucks the black-boils, ready to flow in its defence; not as a black man, but as an American-he will fight for his country's defence, for her honor, and asks only for his rights as an equal fellow-countryman. This Massachusetts has given him-he will stand by her-she has but to make her demands.
Colored men calculate upon being yet in the midst of the fight as soldiers. We feel that our services will be needed: they will be forthcoming; but we must be discreet. They will be forthcoming when most needed. The colored man will fight,-not as a tool, but as an American patriot. He will fight most desperately, because he will be fighting against his enemy, slavery, and because he feels that among the leading claims he has to your feelings as fellow-countrymen, is, that in the page of facts connected with the battles for liberty which his country has fought, his valor-the valor of black men-challenges comparison; and because he feels that those facts have weight in causing his countrymen to award to him all his rights as an American citizen.
The colored man will go where duty shall call him, though not because he is colored. He will stand by the side of his white brave fellow-countrymen. They will together, if needs be, make "a great sacrifice of life"; they will together occupy if needs be, "the yellow fever posts in the enemy's country, during the summer months." Yes, all this for freedom, their common country, and the right This he will do without price; but he would have his rights.
Boston, April 19, 1861.
COLORED MILITARY CORPS. Last evening, a meeting of the colored citizens of Cleveland was held for the purpose of organizing a military corps. The meeting was addressed by Messrs. Green, Patterson and others, and the following preamble and resolutions were passed:-
"Whereas, the affairs of our Government are approaching an important and serious crisis, regarding its future Prosperity and perpetuity; and whereas, at this time, every man, without distinction of party, is called upon to show his hand and define his position in this important crisis of the Government,-
Resolved, That we, as colored citizens of Cleveland, desiring to prove our loyalty to the Government, feel that we should adopt measures to put ourselves in a position to defend the Government of which we claim protection.
Resolved, That to-day, as in the time of'76, and the days of 1812, we are ready to go forth and do battle in the common cause of the country."
We understand they have made application to Gen. Carrington for enlistment.-Anti-Slavery Bugle.
"COLUMBUS, April 21, 1861.
C. H. Langston and others Cleveland, Ohio: DEAR SIRS,-Your patriotic letter of the 20th inst is received, and in reply would say, the Constitution wilt not permit me to issue the order. See Ohio State Report.
Yours, respectfully,
H. B. CARRINGTON,
per Military Sec'y."
