THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
- AT -
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F.WARLLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDWARD JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
MARCH 4th, 1865.
AIR-"When Johnny comes marching home."
Next Fourth of March, in sixty-five,
Hurrah ! hurrah ! 
Old Abe shall from the White House drive,
Hurrah ! hurrah! ,
And clear the track for Little Mac;
And all the Abolition pack
Will show their heels 
When Old Abe marches home.
II.
McClellan is the people's choice-
Their choice, their choice ; 
And all the country will rejoice-
Rejoice, rejoice,
When Abe the joker leaves the place
He's filled so long to his disgrace,
And once more splits rails
As he goes marching home.
III.
Our Little Mac's a Patriot-
True blue, true blue!
Secesh and Abolition he'll
Put through, put through!
Until they both shall leave the land,
And then our noble, gallant band
Of soldiers brave
Can all go marching home.
-Boston Post.
"ABE" LINCOLN.
BY C.H. WALKER.
Who, in our prosperous days, was he
That claimed our nation's unity
Could not exist half slave, half free?
ABE LINCOLN.
Who breaks his faith with friend and foe?
Who gives us war with all its woe?
Who yields the doctrine of Monroe?
ABE LINCOLN.
Who sets the laws and rights at naught
Our noble sires so dearly bought,
And spurns the precepts that they taught?
ABE LINCOLN.
who unto bastiles has access,
Lays shackles on our speech and press,
His cherished schemes to give success?
ABE LINCOLN.
Who vainly strives with envious aim
To rob McClellan of his fame,
And blot that noble patriot's name?
ABE LINCOLN.
Who untold millions daily spends,
Unites his foes divides his friends,
And comfort to Jeff. Davis lends? (!!!)
ABE LINCOLN.
Who now puts forth the traitorous creed
That till the Southern blacks are freed,
Our gallant sons must fight and bleed?
ABE LINCOLN.
Whom, in November, will we "swap"
(Thought swift the stream, the “hoss" we'll drop.)
His bloody course that we may stop?
ABE LINCOLN.
Waterboro' Centre, Me.
Boston Post.
A PIOUS COPPERHEAD GRIEVED.
At a meeting of the McClellan Club, in Ward 11, last week, Colonel Greene, editor of the Boston Post, relieved his mind by uttering the following pious denunciations of such of the clergy as sustain the Government against Southern traitors.
Colonel Greene said he wished to address the Club but for a few minutes upon a single topic, and proceeded to remark that one of the most unfortunate features of the present condition of political parities is the course adopted by many clergymen-those who abandoned their high calling as missionaries of love, peace, forgiveness, to advocate slaughter, and gloat over the madness of human passion in its destruction of human life; who encourage and aggravate cruelty and aggression to a degree appalling to the dullest sensibility. To behold such false guides enter the holy sanctuary as the disciples of the blessed Savior who gave his life to promote good will among men, and there invoke devastation and death upon the children of that Heavenly Parent who created and cares for all, is to witness an insult offered to a benign Deity under the guise of <illegible> an outrage upon common decency and propriety, meriting the rebuke of all who regard the Holy Scriptures as the Laws of God. Such conduct seems offensive both to heaven and earth; it can afford satisfaction only to those dark spirits who rejoice in man's misery and abasement. The during sacrilege, too, of such expounders of the gospel of revenge must be revolting to any mind imbued with reverence for pure Christianity, while their audacious profanity challenges the anger of the Great Master whose name unworthy servants take in vain, and whose attributes they strive to sink to the level of their own wicked deeds. Ordinary parochial duties are often disregarded-words of instruction and consolation withheld-affliction left without spiritual comfort-the dying without prayers: and I should not be surprised if even the ceremonies of the grave were abbreviated that the officiating clergyman might answer an engagement to harangue a political caucus! And such sacerdotal <illegible> stand up in their surplices, and assume to pronounce the will of God as within their own knowledge, thus defaming the Great Creator and Governor of the Universe by representing Him as having pleasure in the wrath of man-in the deadly strife of father against son, brother against brother, and in the violation of the very precepts He has given to ensure salvation. Such is the office of Political Priest craft! Should it not stand condemned before men and angels? I have been led to reflect upon this aspect of the present canvass by reading the remarks reported to have been made by a clergyman before a Republican meeting on Saturday evening, who declared his own mission to be that of "a minister of the gospel of peace," and exemplified his fitness for his vocation by breathing war-"nothing but war, war, war," as Senator Wilson said-and illustrating his claim to belief by misrepresenting the actions, motives and declarations of those who differ from him in opinion.
At the same meeting, Hon. George S. Hillard spoke in the following strain:-
The question before the people was not whether slavery was right or wrong, not whether the Southerners were right or wrong. Men were very much alike as far as that was concerned. The question was what was to be done in view of the crisis be
<c02>
fore the people of the country. The Confederates had been for three years and a half under a Government de facto, which had supplied them with all the government they wanted, other than the government of the States. It had been a confederacy which had maintained itself for three years and a half, and certainly had been sustained by the preponderance of public sentiment, and was at the present time sustained by 250.000 of the bravest troops that had ever been marshalled by any General under the sun. The question was, what are the people of the country to do about it ?. He could unpack his heart with curses if it would do any good, but he had never heard that a cannon packed with adjectives ever harmed anything. There must either be separation-and certainly nobody desired that-or the States must come back under such rights as they had before, or they must be subjugated; and the restoration could only be accomplished under the Constitution, without the least taint of ignominy, or humiliation, or disgrace. A subjugation must be as complete as that of Poland by Russia. The question must, then, be considered how long it would take to do it, how much money, and how many men it would take to do it; and it must then be considered what would be our own condition at the end of that contest. The re-election of President Lincoln would compel a choice between separation and subjugation, and a subjugation must be sustained for at least a generation. The election of Gen. McClellan would make possible, if not probable, a restoration on terms honorable to both parties. That was the reason why he intended to vote for him. He could say no more at the present meeting; but at some future time, it those present should desire to hear more from him, he should take great pleasure in playing a few variations upon the same theme.
REVERDY JOHNSON.
Hon. Reverdy Johnson, of Maryland, whose loyalty since the rebellion broke out has been of the most equivocal character, in a recent letter to a Copperhead gathering, makes the following patriotic (?) impeachment of President Lincoln :-
In the early days of Mr. Lincoln's administration, I lost almost all hope of a successful termination of the rebellion, whilst he was at the head of the Government, and this, the merest hope, is now wholly extinguished. His infirmity of purpose-his unsteadiness in any policy-his once expressed dislike to radicalism-his subsequent adoption of its worst features-his ignorant and mischievous interference with our military campaigns-his appointment, often against advice, of high military officers of notorious in competency-his frequent and nearly fatal change of commanders-his abandonment of the, before, uniform practice of his predecessors of cabinet consultations-his permission of dishonorable dissensions among its members, displaying itself constantly, to his knowledge, before others, and often, as it is known, in his presence, in personal abuse of each other-his obstinate and reckless disregard of the wishes of his political friends, communicated to him on one occasion in the solemn form of a committee, representing, as he was aware, nine-tenths if not every friend he had in Congress; and again, and recently, expressed in terms not to be mistaken, in one of the resolutions of the Convention which nominated him for re-election ; his permitting military interference with elections, virtually subjecting the ballot to the control of the bayonet; his justifying arrests without specifications of charges, though over and over again demanded, and long continued imprisonment, and, after release, without trial or explanation ; his tolerating trial, by military commission, of offences made cognizable exclusively by acts of Congress passed since the rebellion, and by the civil courts; and the virtual confiscation of private property, without even a resort to any mode of trial, and other matters of like illegality and outrage, too many to detail in a letter, whilst they demonstrate his utter unfit ness for the Presidency, give no promise of a successful result of the contest whilst he is commander-in-chief of the army and navy, and intrusted, by the power he wields, with the shaping of our peace and war policy. This must be arrested, or, in my opinion, the country will be ruined.
SPEECH OF HON. JAMES GUTHRIE.
Extract from a factious speech recently delivered at New Albany, Indiana, by Hon. James Guthrie, of Kentucky:-
 This is the first time since Abraham Lincoln was elected-the first time since he violated the Chicago platform of 1860-since he violated the laws of Congress-since he violated the Constitution, that the Democratic party have had a chance to speak. And now it will speak until it saves this great republic-this precious Constitution. It will speak at :-the ballot-box, the great and sacred forum from which every citizen may speak with power.
I have a right, as a Democrat, to speak of Jeff Davis and Abraham Lincoln. They were both born in Kentucky, and both have disgraced that noble commonwealth, and her principle of equal rights and just laws. Both of them take men against their wills to fight their battles. Lincoln is doing this now-forcing men to fight for the abolition of slavery, not the restoration of the Union-sending men into your houses with bayonets to hold in awe peaceable loyal citizens. He has to-day scattered throughout the loyal States of the North to dominate over a free people, soldiers enough to subjugate Jeff Davis's confederation.
I am for peace-for a peace that will give us back the old Union under the Constitution. I was a member of the Peace Congress in 1861. In this Congress I was for peace, concession, and renewed guarantees to all the States. I believed then, as now, that the great waste of precious blood which has taken place would not restore the Union. I asked that the seven border free and the seven border slave States might propose a basis for the settlement of all difficulties. They would have proposed such a basis as would have been a full, final, honorable, and satisfactory settlement. But the radicals in that Congress would not consent to it. Neither the Abolitionists of the North nor the Secessionists of the South would consent to it. They would have nothing but blood. Well, have we not had-blood to the heart's content of the nation ? Even preachers have preached war, and desolation, and blood ; the temples of the meek and lowly Jesus have been made the temples from which war, and rapine, and blood have been preached, by ministers with hands dripping in blood. This must be ended. We will hold out the olive branch like a great, and magnanimous, and powerful people. We will offer to the South their rights in the Union under the Constitution. We will guarantee these rights, and dispose of conflicting and vexatious questions, so that never again will the tocsin of war be sounded which shall arm father against son, and brother against brother.
<c03>
UNION AND PEACE.
The South are for Peace. Offer them Peace on this basis, (the Union and Constitution,) and they will take it-yes, take it with joy, and return to their allegiance.- [JAMES GUTHRIE.
There are reports that Georgia is tendering allegiance to the Union, and it is certain that in North Carolina there is a strong undercurrent of Union feeling. James Guthrie is not a man of the impulsive class, or of the shallow set of the Abolition brood, but is one of the comprehensive order of minds, grasping a subject in its entirety, having a statesman's vision and a patriot's instinct; and while he tramples with elephantine tread on the centralization and despotic principles of the Abolitionists, now, alas, headed by Mr. Lincoln, he gives the country the great assurance that it is practicable to reach PEACE under the CONSTITUTION ! He says there can be peace with a recognition of the ancient rights of each State. Behind this assurance is character; a man of sterling integrity, public and private; an honest man whose word is as good as his bond. Can this nation afford not to heed the conclusions such patriots reach ?
His conclusion is that the Union can be restored ! A love of this-the Union of co-equal States under a Constitution formed for common purposes-still abides in all the States, still lives in the States that are in rebellion in a minority who aro not and never have been in rebellion ; and have not and cannot be put in rebellion by the whole of the Secession ordinances, so called. They are loyal Unionists. They are better loyalists than the tribe of Northern Garrison Abolitionists, for they are for the Constitution -for the local government in its legitimate local sphere, and for the entire maintenance of the supreme law in its legitimate national sphere. This is genuine LOYALTY. This is a support of the laws and the Government of this land. Those who, North or South, violate the national sphere, are in secession ; and those who support the local and general departments, as parted off in the Constitution, are in harmony with the vital principles that made this Republic. 
There is literally no party south of Mason and Dixon's line for the Abolition policy that the Garrison set have wrung from President Lincoln. This is subjugation by sixteen States of fifteen. States, and rule over them which is repugnant to our polity. The great party under McClellan-leaving slavery to the mercy of events-is for tendering the Union under the Constitution to the South; the Union that had its foundation in mutual recognition of the rights of the States; in the admiration felt for the people of one State for the virtues and patriotism of the people of other States; in the hatred of factionists and tyranny and arbitrary power everywhere ; in the love of a republican maxim of a Government of LAWS and not of MEN. In proportion as these feelings are mutual will the old Union come back. 
While President Lincoln, in his ukase, addressed " To whom it may concern," and his party stand, as it were, with a club, saying to Georgia, " pass under our caudine forks, re-arrange your local polity, abandon slavery, and we will let you be of the Union ;" General McClellan and his party say, with the word of conciliation, "come back to your allegiance in the Union, and your ancient right of fashioning your local polity shall be sacred, and there shall be peace."-Boston Post.
SELECTIONS.
SPEECH OF GEN. GARFIELD.
An immense Union Mass Meeting came off in Cincinnati, the 10th inst.-the largest ever held in that city. Gen. Garfield made the speech of the occasion, which was enthusiastically applauded. We give one or two extracts:-
DEMOCRATIC SYMPATHY FOR THE SOLDIERS.
 Another proposition of their platform relates to the soldiers-the noble, glorious men in the field, thousands of whom have died in the defence of our common country. That great convention at Chicago did not dare to close its labors without some reference to the soldiers. What did it say ? "Resolved"-what? That we thank the soldiers? Not a word of it. The Democratic party has no thanks for soldiers of the Union army. " Resolved that we sympathize with the soldiers of the Union." That is, we pity them. It is not the sympathy you feel for a good man in a good cause; no, but it is the pity you feel for a poor man who has the small-pox or the seven-year itch ! [Laughter and cheers.] We pity the soldiers in the field; that is the idea, and if ever there were given in one sentence words that conveyed a more damning insult to any living being than is conveyed in that resolution in regard to soldiers, I do not know what that sentence is, or could be. Publish it at the head of your papers; write it in your letters to the soldiers; tell them that the Democratic party at Chicago pities them, sympathizes with them. 
The resolution goes on to say : " If we come into power, we will extend our care and protection to these soldiers." The Democratic party give protection to the soldiers of the Union ! Protection for what ? If the words mean any thing, they mean, you poor, deluded fellows, who went down there, and have been killing good Democrats, if you will only quit it and come back, we will forgive you, we will protect you, and won't let anybody hurt you. [Cheers] We will forgive you for slaughtering innocent Democrats in the South, who are only engaged in the pleasant pastime of tearing the Union to pieces. Just come back, and we will forgive you, and see that you are not hurt. In that resolution there is not a word that expresses thanks for what the soldiers have done, or approval of the work in which they have engaged. What did one of these Democrats say in Congress? He mentioned the names of Shiloh, Chickamauga, Stone River, Gettysburg, and said they would go down to history as the bitterest words ever uttered. That explains why Democrats look upon your soldiers with pity. Are those glorious names cursed words with the fathers and mothers who lost sons in the performance of that noblest duty of man, the defence of his country from the assaults of those who would destroy it ? No, they are words of glorious memory, that will strengthen Union hearts while there is a hope of the nation left. They will be as immortal as the name of Bunker Hill or Yorktown.
WHEN IS THE WAR TO END?
But when shall we see the end of this war ? We look down along the lines, and, having studied this question, I will tell you what I think. There is just one difficulty, which, if settled to-night, and the South knew it, the war would end before snow falls. They see our boys in front of them, and see no hope there, for those boys are for the Union to the last man. But they look over behind the boys with muskets to Chicago, where they see men that sym-
<c04>
pathize with them and their cause; men who reach across Niagara River, and shake hands with them ; men who in their secret organizations and otherwise are doing all they can to help them. And they say, if we can only keep our ranks together a little longer, we shall see these Union people in the North broken down, and our Democratic friends there in power, who will manage the Government as we shall dictate. [Voices," Never, never."] But if they should see to-day, and know that this great Northern people were united in the determined purpose to put down the rebellion, through seas of blood, if necessary, it would wind up their last hope. Their armies would be demoralized and broken up, and it rests with you to tell them that there is no hope for them over here. Send the word down our lines, and let our boys shout it out, that Ohio has spoken. New York has spoken, and New England has spoken, and they give you no hope. Let your armies shout that, and it will be better than a broadside, better than a bayonet charge, better than Atlanta, better than the fall of Richmond, for it will be the fall of the rebellion forever. 
I received a letter, a few days ago, from one of our noble men who fought under General Rosecrans. He says to me, " We are very sorry that you left the army, for some reasons ; but we tell you are engaged in a fight of more consequence than any on the field. We expect to take Atlanta in a few days; " and they have done it; but, says he, " Atlanta is nothing compared with the ballot-box in November. If you settle the question there in our favor, we won't have much more blood to spill. We will hold on until you speak in November. If you speak right, and well, we will only have to go forward, and take the crown of victory."
What will you do for the boys who tell you this ? This great meeting here to-night is half an answer to the question. This crowded square tells what Cincinnati will do; and what Cincinnati does, Ohio will do. You will close the war, and give the country lasting peace. [Great applause.]
WHAT THE SOLDIERS THINK
ON THE WELDON RAILROAD, Va., Sept. 24, 1864.
The questions, are every day asked: How will the soldiers vote?" "Are they not anxious for peace ? " " Do they not recognize in McClellan, their favorite general, the means of bringing the war to a speedy close; and therefore will they not give him their unanimous support ? " I wish I was able to answer satisfactorily all these questions, and express faithfully the deep interest felt in the army in the present political campaign. In the first place, the soldiers who served under McClellan, and used to be so clamorous for his reappointment to the army of the Potomac, have long ere this ceased to call for " Little Mac." Though perhaps the present army is not so expressive in its love for Grant, yet no general was ever honored by a command which felt such perfect confidence in their leader's power and ability as is our brave Lieut-General to-day. In the commencement of the Summer's campaign, the "boys" were doubtful. So many had tried and failed that they looked again for the same result. But we had not been beyond the Rapidan two weeks before all were convinced that the right man had been found at last; and every move since then has made them stronger and more confident in this belief. McClellan's name will never be forgotten, it is true, but the superiority of Gen. Grant and his generalship will always be recognized. 
The soldiers have no fault to find with the present administration. Abraham Lincoln has always been the soldiers' true friend. Their welfare and interests have always been his first thoughts. He is no respecter of rank. I have seen him extend his hand to greet the private soldier as cordially and heartily as he would if the man's shoulders had been honored by  stars " or " bars." They are his boys! -and no father could be more tender or loving. When on duty in Washington, we had an opportunity to notice much of his private life. Several times a day he would pass from the White House to the War Department. A private walk through the yard of the Presidential Mansion connects the two, and a sentinel was then posted at the gate and door of the Department. The President as he walked along, looking upon the pavement, was always in a deep study, pondering, perhaps, over some scheme or plan ; and frequently meeting some high civil or military officer of the Government, he would pass him unnoticed, or looking up, pay him hardly a nod or look of recognition; but when he came to the sentinels, dressed in Uncle Sam's blue, he would lift his hat and smile-as only a kind-hearted man can smile-in answer to their salute. In his mind the soldiers, who had answered his call for aid to sustain the Government, were the most worthy of notice How many little acts of kindness to disabled soldiers or to their families are recorded of him ! We will not repeat them now. There is not a soldier in the field who has it in his heart to find one word of fault with one who has on so many occasions proved himself their generous benefactor.
As to " peace on any terms!" Does any one think for a moment that the soldiers, who have been the real sufferers, whose blood has been freely shed on the numerous hard fought fields, which will ever be conspicuous in history, whose hundreds of comrades have fallen and are now sleeping beneath the soil of the ill-fated confederacy, are so blind, so lost to every feeling of pride and patriotism, that they are willing to give up, to declare the war a failure, and sue for a disgraceful peace, just at the moment too when they have their enemy at an advantage, and the long looked for reward is just before them, because they are tired of the war and fear to prosecute it farther ? Oh, shame ! Have you no better opinion of those who are striving their utmost to uphold the integrity of our once glorious nation ? No! The cry for peace, upon anything but honorable terms, never came from the army ; and the soldiers will never support a man who stands on a platform which advocates a compromise with traitors. It is the traitorous enemy at the North the base copperheads who are striving to help their more honorable brothers of the South, that raise the cry of peace and cessation of hostilities; the cowards who have the fear of a draft and heavy taxes before them. They care not for the honor of the nation and its defenders, but look only for their own safety and selfish ends. Better far for the soldier to fight it out to the bitter end, to leave their bones to bleach on the fields of battle, than to return home in disgrace, with nothing to repay them for all they have suffered ; through all future years, while life lasts, to be pointed at as those who fought in " Abe Lincoln's useless war,"-degraded, dishonored, avoided by all
But no such shameless result is in store for us. The political campaign will result in the re-election of the present Chief Magistrate. And what soldiers are allowed to vote will swell the popular ticket. The New England regiments, as far as I am able to judge, are almost unanimous for Lincoln. Perhaps those of New York and Pennsylvania will
<c05>
be more equally divided. In a vote taken in Co. A, of this regiment, fourteen ballots were thrown for Lincoln, four for McClellan; and this no doubt, is the proportion throughout the regiment, and every other from the old Bay State. But we are doing more by our victories in the field to support our favorite than we could at the ballot-box. Already the news from Sherman and Sheridan and Farragut have had their influence to dishearten the rebels both North and South. Their last hopes are concentrated in the defeat of Lincoln. At the North you must fight the battle at the polls; and may we here in the South, with our leaden votes, achieve a victory as complete! Together we can soon have a peace, on our own terms, honorable, lasting, and glorious. Support us, and give what aid lies in the power of every citizen, and the grasp General Grant now has on the throat of the rebellion will tighten, and its death struggle will soon be apparent. And, who then will be more honored, more loved, than he who has stood so bravely at the helm through all the terrible storm which threatened to engulf Abraham Lincoln? H.
The Boston Courier makes the inquiry," How will the soldiers vote ? " 
As an answer to the query of the Courier, we are permitted to take the following extract from a printed letter sent home by a Haverhill soldier, previous to the war a rigid old line Democrat, and now serving out his third year in Warren's corps, on the Weldon railroad, before Petersburg :
" As to your query, who will be the next President, Old ' Abe Lincoln;" and if I had a million of votes, he should have them. If I was obliged to vote otherwise, I should vote for Jeff. Davis, before voting for his lickspittle of the Chicago Convention. Master before servant. If the army were to vote, the 'Little Mac' vote would be small among the men that are at the front. The sneaks that have skulked around the capital and invalid corps for a year or eight months, officers-that are or ought to have been cashiered for cowardice, almost unanimously vote for him. That is my experience in the army of the Potomac. 
It is a joke with us, that when we see a man drunk, throwing his hat and coat into the mud, and wanting to lick everybody, and calling everybody sons of bitches, that there is another man for ' Little Mac,' and it is almost invariably so."
The writer of the letter from which the above extract is taken was born and bred in Haverhill, and is well-known to many of our citizens as a Democrat of the "straitest sect." The letter was so addressed that he could not have had the remotest idea of its publication. 
Will the Courier please copy ?-Haverhill Gazelle.
SPEECH OF GEORGE SENNOTT. ESQ.
Institute Hall was crowded on Tuesday, to listen to an address from George Sennott, Esq., on " The Political Issues " of the day. Hon. James Ritchie presided, and opened the meeting with a few well chosen remarks. 
Gen. John L. Swift, of Louisiana, being fortunately on a visit to his late home, was present at the meeting, and made a brief preliminary address to the audience.
Mr. Sennott (Democrat) was then introduced. We give an extract or two from his telling speech. 
Speaking of the tactics of the Chicago Convention, Mr. Sennott says:
What splendid party-management this is, to be sure ! First, at Chicago they place the yparty so that a Union victory in the field appears to be a Democratic loss ! Then they nominate a man who, inside of the party, rejects the platform, and outside of the party is everlastingly obliged to keep explaining why he failed!
And he continues in the following effective strain :
They are as blind to the situation of their country as they are to the position of their party. They tell us that the war is a failure-that it ought to stop now-and the whine does not die away before it is drowned in the shouts of victory round Atlanta! They say that our success is only a delusion, and that it will mislead us as heretofore into a useless waste of blood and of money. The reply to that rings from the guns in the Shenandoah ! They say the cause of the “failure " lies in the imbecility of the administration. It is vigor, I suppose, to shoot drafting officers-to binder enlistments-to rob orphan asylums, and roast negroes in the streets of New York! It is vigor to keep twenty thousand troops from the front for a month, looking after Mr. Seymour's " friends." It is vigor to invite the British Ambassador to meddle in the internal affairs of this country. It is vigor to lay the plans of a great American convention before the agent of the London Times. It is vigor to run up the price of coal, of flour, and of meat, on mechanics and laborers, for the profit of a German Jew-and then to charge the rise to American contractors, so that Mr. Wood-bury and Judge Abbott may be fooled into repeating Belmont's electioneering lie ! These things are vigor ! And it is imbecility to raise a million and a half of men, to expend two thousand millions of dollars, to blockade three thousand miles of coast in the face of hostile England ; to force the British rebel pirates into lying in wait for merchants and robbing the schooners of fishermen ; to set free one million five hundred thousand slaves, and to reduce the rebellious States trom fifteen to three and a half! If so, it is the imbecility not only of the administration, but of Grant, of Sherman, of Sheridan, and of Farragut! And I prefer it to the " vigor " of Gov. Seymour, and even to the energy of Judge Abbott himself.
The conclusion of the address told with thrilling effect upon the audience. We give it in full below :-
Slavery is the only thing that stands between us and Union and peace. Send it home to hell out of our way! 
When the youth in the Arabian story trade the cavern of evil in search of the lost treasure, after baffling the lions and the giants, he approached the mighty gate behind which lay the prize. And he looked-and, lo! the figure and the venerable face of his mother stood before him, and the well-known accents wildly bade him back on peril of his soul. But the chosen of Heaven said to himself, " Verily it resembleth a woman of the Holy-but what doeth the servant of God on the side of sin ? " And he piously struck at he figure in the name of God-and, lo! it was a devil, which fled howling, leaving the treasure under the sword. 
So it is with you. You have trodden the cavern of evil up to the gate of the treasure. You have fought the good fight, and are ready to receive your reward. And now stands before us the awful figure of the Constitution-but it is only a figure, and under it a Devil! Strike it in the name of God ! For it is not the Constitution, but Slavery you strike, and Liberty is the prize of the blow !-Roxbury Journal
<c06>
WHO BEGAN THE WAR?
The eloquent German orator, Frederick Hassaurek, answers this question as follows, in a late speech delivered at Cincinnati, Ohio:
In the Convention which framed our present Constitution, Slavery demanded guarantees. She demanded the extension of the African slave trade to a certain time, a provision for the surrender of fugitive slaves, and an unjust advantage with regard to representation. She got just what she had asked for, and had her own way again. Was she satisfied ? 
She demanded a Fugitive Slave Law under the Constitution ; it was given her. 
She demanded more slave States; they were admitted. She forced in Missouri as a slave State, under a solemn promise to leave certain other Territory forever free, and had her own way. But was she satisfied ?
 She threatened to nullify the laws of Congress, and was not compelled to obey them. She threatened, and the North yielded and compromised. But was she satisfied ? 
She wanted a war with Mexico, and a war was declared. She wanted more Territory, and she got it. She asked for Cuba, and the Government in her service opened negotiations for its acquisition. 
Her politicians wanted to rule, and rule they did. They wanted to control the Government, and they controlled it. 
The South wanted a more effective Fugitive Slave Law, and she got it at the price of violating the fundamental rights of habeas corpus and trial by jury. She got it, and those who now declaim that our constitutional rights are assailed, defended it to the bitter end. But was Slavery satisfied ?
 She asked for a breach of plighted faith by a repeal of the Missouri Compromise, and she got it. But was she satisfied ? 
She demanded the right to control the national mails, and to violate the secrecy of private correspondence. It was conceded to her. But was she satisfied ? 
She threatened when her demands were not immediately complied with. Her threats were respected, but when did she declare herself satisfied ? 
She wanted to be nationalized by a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, and that decision was given. She claimed the right of extending herself into the new Territories. This was decided against her by the election of 1860; but, nevertheless, new Territories were organized without a provision in their organic acts prohibiting Slavery, and the Fugitive Slave Law was faithfully carried out by a Republican Administration. But was the South satisfied ? 
Endless were the declarations of the North, that Slavery should not be interfered with in the States where it existed. These assurances were solemnly reiterated in the Inaugural of President Lincoln. But was the South satisfied ? 
At last she attempted the disruption of the American Union ; and now, I ask you, is she to have that too?
ROBERT J. BRECKINRIDGE ON TREASON.
There are more than one Kentucky Breckinridge. John C. is a rebel, and plotted his infernal treason while holding the office of Democratic Vice President of the United States. The opinions of another-Rev. Robert J. Breckinridge-may be gathered from the following extracts from a brilliant and convincing speech, made by him recently in Cincinnati:
My excellent friend speaks of the South as " his erring brethren." But I do not permit men to be my Southern brethren who have tried their very best to cut my throat. [Applause.] I have a brave young son, twenty-one years of age, who has been fighting from the beginning of this war on our side. He was captured, and they have him now under the fire of the batteries at Charleston. Well, I would cheerfully go there and take his place, but, as God is my judge, I would not agree to bring him home by making peace on the terms which these men propose. [Great applause.] 
I am free to say, that if ever you make this peace that some of you are proposing, there are people in Kentucky that  under no circumstances submit to it. [Great cheers.] You may set us apart by treaty. 
There are thousands of men in Western Virginia, Missouri, Maryland, Tennessee, &c., who will stand by us in our determination to fight to the last for this great cause of ours. [Loud cheers.] You may talk of peace as long as you please, we don't intend to belong to the Southern Confederacy, [cheers and laughter,] and we shall call on you to help us to keep from going to the Confederacy.
I am afraid of nothing but of  We are  afraid of the rebels, and are afraid of the copper-heads We are not afraid of anything that they can do; but we are afraid of a revolution in the North, by which the North will desert us, and leave us to  crush out the Rebellion. [Many  voices" No, never."] 
If you give way in times like these, you will bring upon yourselves and your children the responsibility of doing what you fail to do. If you are altogether unworthy of the mission that God has sent to you, and tail in this straggle, you will go down to the grave, and your children will stand over you and weep, and do that part which you ought to have done yourselves. 
I want to say to you one word about this  if when of the negro. All I have to say on this question is this: Whatever  American people intend to do they ought to do it boldly, manfully, and effectually, and take the responsibility. [Cheers.] As for slavery being destroyed by the progress of   but I don't believe it. The way for you to do is this: War or peace, come what  take it perfectly legal, and work the thing out, root and branch, forever and forever. [Vociferous and repeated applause.]
SOUND DEMOCRACY.
Hon. D. S. Coddington, a leading democrat in New York, wrote the following letter  reply to an invitation to address the Great Union meeting in New York, on Tuesday evening last:
NEW YORK, Tuesday, Sept 27, 1864. 
Gentlemen:-Your invitation to speak to-night is received. A severe cold will prevent me. 
But neither cold nor heat can freeze or melt out of this country the belief that the Chicago Convention has left a democrat no choice between  Davis, with all his crimes, and Abraham Lincoln, with all his faults. 
The Vallandigham platform  merely an attempt of the Richmond authorities to  the blockade of northern ballot-boxes, Montgomery Constitution in hand. Tree, the Union flag floats from the first section ; so it does from the Florida and Tallahassee, until you get near enough for them to hoist the Con-

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants, thereof."
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST, and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive  of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY,HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE . that the slaveholding  CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the  IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with  It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR ; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institution swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded -J.Q.ADAMS.
 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
federate rag and scuttle the Union ship, while we, robbed of our compasses and stripped of our national consistency, are to be landed upon some bleak dogma of egotistical State Rights and universal anarchy!
Call Abraham Lincoln a joker! Why, the Chicago party are trying to make this war the ghastliest joke of the continent or the century. Have we gone to school to a million of bayonets, and learned nothing? Have we marched a million of men a thousand miles to stand still? Are we spending four millions a day merely to buy back the old wrangle about slavery? to buy back another Brooks' murderous cane; another Buchanan's Lecompton crime, greater than all the Lincoln lapsus constitutions? The Crittenden Amendment was very well to prevent war; but are we to be fought four years, despoiled of our means, called foreigners, hunted on every sea and shore, and bury five hundred thousand brothers, to give them all they asked in the past, and no security for all they will demand, on that very account, in the future? They will say: “We plunged you vital deep in debt, we helped you to innumerable funerals; but we never buried a single demand. While your armies have advanced, your principles have retreated; and, so long as your victories only mean concessions to us, war has no terrors and peace no shame in Dixie." Will the red crisis stand this-will greenbacks support it? Every five twenty bond is a stump speech for Lincoln; every dollar green back a campaign tract distributed among a warned and consuming community, cautioning them how they trifle with the dead and the debt of this war.
Hoping that the ballot-box will prove the sentry-box of the national honor,
I am, very respectfully, yours,
DAVID S. CODDINGTON .
Messrs. W. A. DARLING, &c, Committee.

THE CRY OF” PEACE, PEACE, WHEN THERE IS NO PEACE."
The last New York Independent contains a stirring discourse by Prof. R. D.Hitchcock, of the Union Theological Seminary in New York, preached in Brooklyn on the recent Thanksgiving Sunday.
We have room only for the last division of this sermon, having reference particularly to our existing struggle with the demons of the South:
III. And now let me say a few words about our own war.
We are tired of hearing it called gigantic; that word has been used so much. And yet the fact remains of a great war; the greatest, perhaps, in history. I need not tell you how great it is: great in the length and breadth of its theatre; great in its hosts of armed men upon the land; great in its fleets upon the sea; great in its cost of treasure; great in its cost of blood. So great is it, that had its dimensions been foreseen, the heart of the nation would have failed it. So great is it, that the hearts of many men have failed them as it is. So great is it, that only the most vivid sense of the still greater issues at stake in it will suffice to bear us through.
Cries of peace are on the wind. We heard them at the start. We have heard them all along. We hear them now louder than ever. But cries of peace from whom, and to whom? Some are the prayers of all the saints ascending since the war began, that God will be pleased, in his own good time, to send us peace by righteousness, that so it may be a lasting peace. But no cry is heard as yet from the rebels in arms, who might have peace tomorrow by simply throwing down their weapons and striking their flag. No cry as yet from our own brave boys, their blue-jackets fragrant with the smell of victories. No cry from the bloody graves of fallen heroes, who would as gladly fight and die again for the old flag. No cry even from widows and orphans, who have lost all they had to lose, and now only pray it may not have been in vain. Nowhere any cry do we hear but from the lips of rebels not in arms, or who if not rebels, are the dupes and tools of rebels, doing the work of rebels, and doing it better now and here than though they had followed their hearts down over the lines. These are men who now cry for peace at any price, peace on the instant by the grounding of our arms, when they know, some of them, better even than we, for they have learned it from Richmond, that the rebellion is on the verge of grounding its arms.
Peace, they cry, as over a drawn battle, when they know the battle is nearly finished in victory. Peace, they cry, when they know that peace now, without another blow, would be substantially the triumph of our foes. Some of these men who cry for peace are bold, bad men; as bold and as bad as Cataline. Others are only sensual and sordid, not willing to pay blood and gold for truth, freedom, and righteousness. Others are only timid, shrinking from further trial. Others, tired but not timid, are only mistaken, honestly thinking the war can be ended in no other way. Others, again, are only the rank and file of old political organizations, who know no other voice than that of their old shepherds. Taking them all together, their name is Legion. They are found in all portions of the loyal States, and in numbers are probably about as strong, relatively, as the Tories of the Revolution; perhaps a little stronger. They are now, by the confession of the rebels themselves, the forlorn hope of the Confederacy. Foreign intervention was abandoned long ago as an idle dream. The rebellion is standing literally on its last legs; it has conscripted everything it could lay its bands on that could be of any use to it between the cradle and the grave. The recruiting drum-beat would not be more out of place in the churchyards than in the streets of most of the Southern towns. A few thousands of men more on our side, and the thing is ended. Peace would then come, not by an armistice, which would lead to no peace that could last, but by victories so overwhelming and conclusive that no man anywhere would dare to challenge the result. So says the Lieutenant-General of our armies, God bless him for his sublime tenacity of purpose, for his steadfast faith, for his many victories! So say all our best generals. So say all our best soldiers. And the rebels know it to be true. Only one hope now sustains them, and that is their hope of seeing yet, at the eleventh hour, a divided and palsied North.
Shall they see it? Tell me, Christian friends and neighbors, tell me, my fellow-countrymen, shall they see it? This is now the grand question before us. And it is the only question. The question of slavery, in its relations to our politics, our industry, our religion even, is just now supremely impertinent: impertinent, I say, not because slavery can be cleared of the guilt of this rebellion, or can be thought compatible with the revived prosperity and permanent peace of the Republic, or can be looked upon with moral indifference by moral men; but simply because, by its own act, it now lies at the mercy of events, which must have their course. Of the four millions of Southern bondmen at the beginning of this rebellion, more than one million- Mr. Davis has said nearly two millions-have been freed already. Others yet will snatch their freedom as our armies advance. And they would have snatched it all the same had there been no Proclamation of 1863. That military edict is, therefore, but a poor apology for turning against the Government now. Beyond all controversy, it has weakened the rebellion, and strengthened the Government; weakened the rebellion by making emancipation not merely a military incident, but a well-advised and avowed purpose, in order to the quicker and surer triumph of our arms; strengthened the Government by all the thousands of colored troops now in its service, by arraying on our side the sympathies of the best men in Europe, securing for ourselves the inspiration, not of patriotism alone, but also of philanthropy and the fear of God. To reenslave these freedmen would be not merely infamous, it would be insane. these, then, are wholly out of the problem. The eagles are uncaged, and gone. What shall be done with such as may not have been actually liberated along the paths of armies, what shall be done with the institution of slavery itself-these are questions of the future, questions to be taken up and disposed of after the war is ended, and the Union, which, according to the loyal theory of the war, has never been dissolved, shall have been in fact restored. For the future, the immediate future, to which they belong, they are questions of the gravest moment. Perhaps we shall all soon feel them to be the crucial questions of our destiny. Perhaps the hour is nearer than some of us suppose, when the whole nation shall be standing in awe of Him whose office it is to say- In as much as ye have done it, or have not done it, unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it, or have not done it, unto me. But just at this most critical conjuncture of our affairs-just emerging, as we are, from the lowest depths of our despondency, the national brain oppressed, the national pulse feverish, and the spirits of mischief busy as never before-these questions are not in time, The only question now, if we are wise, is the question of war
<c02>
or armistice. This is the question offered us. Let us accept it, and hold its apostles to it, and hold ourselves to it, and hold each other to it, and hold the nation to it. If Ajax fails of victory for want of light, be it no fault of ours.
Armistice is the watchword. But what is armistice? Not peace; only hostility suspended in order to peace, they tell us. Be not deceived, my countrymen! Peace will never come in this way. The rebellion is still in arms, engineered and dominated by able and desperate men, who have sworn, with an oath as stern as that of the famous Delenda esiest Carthage, that the old Union shall never be re-established. This explains the recent remark of Mr. Davis that they “are not fighting for slavery, and care very little about it”. He did not mean that they are sick of the institution, and ready to give it up. He only meant, although of course too shrewd to own it, that with their independence established, and an open sea between themselves and the dusky Continent, they will know how to make good the losses of the war. They are inflexibly resolved upon an independent Confederacy; and if, with their armies so well in hand, they can hold the Southern masses to that programme to-day, with those armies refreshed and resupplied, they will be able to hold these same masses to that same programme to-morrow. The armistice will end, as it began, in an unqualified and stubborn demand for independence. They say they want nothing else, and will think of nothing else. If their demand be refused-as refused it must be, for I have read in a recent document that "the Union must be preserved at all hazards "-then it will be war again, only worse, and less likely by a thousand fold to end propitiously than now. If the demand be conceded, there may, indeed, be peace for a time, but war again after a season, and war forever, till either our descendants learn the wisdom now offered to us, or the continent is black with ruins. What man in his senses can imagine, for a moment, the possibility of permanent amity, or any thing like it, between two such governments as would take the place of the one government now battling for its life? What man who wishes to plant, or spin, or trade, or study, would be willing to stay amidst such uncertainties as would then be chronic? What mother would be willing to nurse her babe amidst such alarms as then would be nearly constant? Or is it supposed that there is still at the South a latent majority in favor of the old Union, who need only to be conciliated, who ask for a suspension of hostilities only that they may rid themselves of their present rulers, and resume their place under the old flag? If there be any such latent majority, from what I know of human nature, I do not believe, for one, that they will either respect or like us any the less for having cut the rebellion root and branch; a rebellion, with respect to which the chief question is and ever will be, whether its rank is highest among the great historic blunders or among the great historic crimes.
THE LAURELS OF McCLELLAN.
1st. McClellan planned and ordered the advance upon Ball’s Bluff, and was the cause of that slaughter.
2d. McClellan wasted a month in besieging York-town, defended by a garrison of only 8,000 men, while he had 155,000.
3d. McClellan suffered his army to be surprised, with heavy loss, at Fair Oaks. 
4th. McClellan, by neglecting to fortify his flanks and rears, allowed his whole position before Richmond to be taken in reverse, and ordered a disastrous retreat before a single corps of the enemy. 
5th. McClellan ordered a retreat from Malvern Hill without cause or justification, after our men had achieved a glorious victory there. 
6th. McClellan, by that retreat, prevented Pope from coming to his aid by the way of Lynchburg, and thus precipitated upon Pope's small force the whole of Lee's army.
7th. McClellan neglected for three weeks to obey an order to move his army northward to effect a junction with Pope, and that time Lee used to move his own army against Pope.
8th. McClellan withheld reinforcements and supplies from Pope, which would have enabled the latter to beat back Lee successfully.
9th. McClellan opposed all the military and naval expeditions against the rebel seaboard, which he knew were essential to render the blockade perfect.
10th. McClellan opposed the division of the Army of the Potomac into corps, and only did divide it when peremptorily ordered to do so by Secretary Stanton, although he must have known that no army of that size could be managed without such division.
11th. McClellan neglected or refused to take the field at the head of the Army of the Potomac, and commence a campaign, until compelled to do so by the orders of the President and War Department.
12th. McClellan suffered the Potomac to be blockaded by the enemy for months, when he could have prevented it.
13th. McClellan did not participate in the battles fought by his army, but was in every case distant from the battle, leaving his subordinates to manage for themselves.
14th. McClellan delayed his part of the operations in West Virginia until the enemy, whose retreat from Rich Mountain he was to stop, had been beaten by Rosecrans, and escaped.
15th. McClellan magnified the Quaker guns and scattered pickets of the rebels at Munson's Hill into a formidable fortification, defended by a strong garrison, and began a careful campaign against it until an adventurous Union man went up to the place, and discovered the cheat. 
16th. McClellan suffered himself to be deluded in like manner at Manassas, and was undeceived in precisely the same way. 
17th. McClellan never seemed to have any accurate knowledge of the rebel forces, as he regularly magnified their strength on the authority of pretended spies. 
18th. McClellan allowed Buell to keep an army of 120,000 men idle, at bay before a rebel force of less than 50,000, while Halleck's forces under Grant were doing the very work confided to Buell. 
19th. McClellan kept the whole immense Army of the Potomac lying idle, through a long winter, without ordering the construction of winter quarters to shelter the men from the inclement weather; the only apparent reason for this course being a desire to conceal his intention not to move the army. 
20th. McClellan sacrificed 12,000 men at Harper's Ferry by withholding Franklin's corps either from succoring them, or reinforcing Burnside at Antitam. 
21st McClellan caused the slaughter of the Corn Exchange regiment by the foolish crossing at Shepard town, Maryland, in precisely the same manner as at Ball's Bluff. 
22d. McClellan refused to move his army against Lee after Antietam, on various pretexts that it could not be moved, although upon being superseded by Pope the latter moved the army with the greatest celerity.

USING THE SLAVES.
After all the invectives heaped on the administration, and all the bitter complaints put forth by peace men and copperheads at the North; after the government has been assailed time and again for taking the negroes, and making soldiers of them, and a constitutional whine has gone up from every copper-bead kennel in the land to the throne of rebellion, because the barriers to the onward march of freedom have been overturned; after all this, the rebels begin to think of employing negroes to aid in destroying the government, by raising a black army of 250,000. What will Jeff’s Northern allies say to this? Will they drag out their old hobby-horse, and ride against him in this new arena? Far from it. They care not what the South may do to destroy the Union, but can see no step taken for its preservation. We must believe the rebels could not take a step which would redound more to their benefit than to free, arm and drill negroes for their armies. Had they done so at the start, Europe would, with one accord, have applauded the act. We should learn even from our enemies. We have increased our army two hundred thousand by negro troops. How they will fight, let Fort Wagner and Olustee answer. We should free still more-free them all. When that prop falls from under the Confederacy, its doom is sealed.-Haverhill Gazatte.
The Louisville Journal says McClellan has fallen under the political ban of Abolitionists. He may fall under a ban, but he certainly never will under a banner.
<c03>
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1864.
SPECIAL THANKS. We are greatly indebted, and much relieved, by the quick and ample response of such of our subscribers as were able to return to us their copies of the Liberator of the 30th ultimo-our edition of that number having mysteriously fallen short a hundred copies. Such kind and considerate compliance with our request is truly gratifying, and calls for our special thanks, which we offer to each and all who have taken upon them this trouble. No more need be returned.

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The second lecture of the course now in progress under the auspices of the Parker Fraternity was given on Tuesday evening last, by Rev. O. B. Frothingham of New York. His subject was "The Conservative Tendencies of the War."
Americans, he said, have been called a nation of radicals, but they might as truly be called a nation of conservatives. Conservatism is a fact of human nature, and human nature has in it a large element of lethargy, of staying as it is. In the progress of things, Providence necessarily gives frequent disturbances to this element, and then the nation complains, and worries, and wishes Providence would let it alone. It curses the critic, and persecutes the reformer, and hangs its redeemer on a gallows.
On the other hand, the radical also is a conservative, planting himself on the side of the law of nature. He would avoid change by establishing the unchangeable.
Our United States democrats are precisely the persons who do not believe in a government of the people, by the people, and for the people.
Jefferson Davis is now the chief representative of conservatism in America. He goes for slavery, for the owning of labor by capital, for the complete suppression of democratic institutions.
Who are the supporters of Jefferson Davis? The ruffians, the outlaws, first of all. The common breakers of law. Just such persons as, here in Boston, turned out to enforce the return of Anthony Burns to slavery. It would not do, they thought, to have these abolitionists breaking up the foundations of society!
What explains the cordial feeling here evinced between absolutists and anarchists? Perhaps the sympathy which exists between one class of destructives, of plunderers, and another. Mitchell the anarchist, in becoming a slaveholder, did not desert his party; he only rose one step in the same scale.
Mankind respect conservatism; but the conservative form is antagonistic to the conservative principle, and hence seeming anomalies and inconsistencies appear.
War, in one view of it, is only destructive. But war is also conservative, and represents a vital principle. Our war was begun by destructives, who, failing of success, now find it more to their advantage to assume the position of conservatives. For us the war means safety, reform, peace. Peace was formerly spelt with five letters-p.e.a.c.e; now it is spelt with three letters-w-a-r. All disorderly persons denounce the war; all those praise it who understand by democracy a man's doing as he ought.
Jefferson Davis has been pronounced by Gen. McClellan "a perfect gentleman." Referring to the qualities properly comprised in this epithet, the lecturer drew a vivid contrast between these two  'gentlemen'' on one side, and Abraham Lincoln and General Sherman on the other, vindicating the assertion of the two latter that peace must come by the submission of the destructive principle to the conservative principle.
The war has forwarded yet other conservative tendencies. Through it a common humanity is confessed and a common burden borne. A spurious democracy was perfecting the system of caste, a separation of man from man. The war has produced the Sanitary Commission, Soldiers' Fairs, the free-will offerings of men or the battle-field and women for the hospital. The war has made self-sacrifice a custom of our people.
Still another conservative influence has been advanced by the war. Slavery was our great evil. The white man had set his heel on the black man's neck, and the struggles of the latter shook the continent. The former wars in Mexico, in Kansas, in Congress, had sprung from the oppression of the black man. The present war has established cordial relations between the best class of white Americans and the most oppressed and injured descendants of Africa.
Mr. Frothingham here gave some exceedingly interesting statistics of the aid afforded to Southern freedmen by an Association for their benefit in New York, of which he is Corresponding Secretary. They teach the common arts of civilized life and the rudiments of education to the lowest and rudest population of the South. Even the old negro-prisons, in some cases, are used as school-houses. In such mangers as these the new Redeemer of the African race is born. Already some far-seeing Eastern sages (five Parsee merchants resident in London) have sent liberal gifts in aid of this enterprise, the education and elevation of the Southern freedmen.
The black man himself in our country now reveals the active agency of a vast conservative force. Under this head, the lecturer presented instructive details of the industrial activities of the ex-slaves-the profits some of them have already made on their newly acquired land-their filing of pre-emption claims for more lands-their building of houses for themselves, all the time providing suitably for the maintenance of their families, &.c., &c.
Industry, economy, thrift, providence-if these are conservative, the freedmen are conservatives. Certainly, the love of education which they manifest looks like the best kind of conservatism.
The just and manly demand, quietly persisted in until yielded, of payment of the full wages of soldier ship, and the continued refusal to take less than their due, is in the highest degree creditable to the black regiments of Massachusetts. It was a demand, not of equal pay merely for the soldier's sake, but of a recognition of manhood for the man's sake.
Industry, ambition, aspiration towards proprietor ship and citizenship, self-respect, honor, heroism-if we contrast these conspicuously manifested characteristics of the freedmen with the contented ignorance and brutality of the " mean whites " of the South, it will appear that ebony holds the image of God after the soft Virginia pine has lost it.
When Sherman, returning to Georgia, was asked how many negroes came with his army, he answered, ten miles of them. They had been stripped of every thing, but, as soon as the power of locomotion was given them, they sought freedom and civilization, and pressed towards the farm, the school-room, and the artisan's work-shop.
The sword does not understand its work, but it means Union and Peace, and universal Liberty, protected by law.
The Music Hall was well filled, and the just sentiments and keen criticisms of the lecturer called forth frequent applause.
The President of the Fraternity announced that Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, would give the lecture next Tuesday evening, and that her subject would be " Chicago, the last ditch." To hear her an overflowing house may be expected.-C. K. W.

A MOST VALUABLE AND TIMELY HISTORICAL WORK. We call the special attention of all the friends of freedom to the new work just published by Walker, Wise & Co. of this city, (see their advertisement in another column,) entitled " History of the Anti -Slavery Measures of the 37th and 38th Congresses," by Hon. Henry Wilson. It has been prepared with great labor, accuracy and impartiality, and deserves a wide sale and a careful perusal.
<c04>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XVIII
NEW YORK, Oct. 6, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The official attitude of this city is akin to that desired by Mayor Wood three years ago-annexation to the Confederacy. For Mayor Gunther, who believes in peace and McClellan, will not illuminate the public buildings in honor of those successes which have made Chicago stock a laughing-stock. Nor will he, from a proper sympathy for those who are in a like case with himself, recommend a spontaneous illumination by the citizens at large, lest tallow should suddenly become a test of loyalty. Brilliant as is this strategy, it fails to repress that more trustworthy badge of patriotism, a sunny countenance, which is habitually worn in these days only by such as read peace in the capture of Richmond instead of the surrender of Washington. No veto from the City Hall is potent enough to extinguish the light of the general rejoicing, nor, of a truth, should tax-payers grumble at being saved a very proper yet quite unnecessary outlay. Let every man who would have contributed one candle now, devote two to the celebration of that day (not distant, haply) which will free the nation from slavery and war, and our democratic system from those infamous demagogues whose public life, like the hero's in the fable, expires with the smouldering brand of the rebellion.
That which every sensible man foresaw from the beginning-that the people of the North, comprehending the issue upon which the war has been waged, and being anxious to decide upon it, would not suffer themselves to be distracted or weakened by a multiplicity of parties-has been exemplified unmistakably since I last wrote to you. And not only have Fremont and Cochrane vacated the field in favor of Mr. Lincoln, to the perfect indifference of most loyal men, but the latter is stumping for Mr. Lincoln as vigorously as if the Cleveland nomination had not implied implacable opposition to the President. Senator Wade and Winter Davis appear in the campaign with the late Postmaster-General as a co-worker, though assuredly little love is lost between them and him. Mr. Blair stands better with the community than he did before his removal. He courted or met his fate man-fashion, and personal resentment, if he entertained any, has given way to his solicitude not to thwart the triumph of the cause of human freedom. His speech at the Cooper Institute on the evening of the 27th ultimo was not, rhetorically considered, effective, but it was proof of his unequivocal committal to the Baltimore programme and its candidates; and, for aught I can see, if Mr. Carpenter were to paint his Cabinet picture again, he might withdraw Mr. Blair from the background, unless the historical accuracy of that famous representation would be impaired thereby. 
The present canvass, like others which have preceded it, is productive of some curious revelations. Such are those made by Judge Kelley, of Philadelphia, denied by Gen. Naglee, and fastened upon him so that they will stick, by that able representative of the Key-stone State: to the effect that the Peninsular campaign was not devised by McClellan, but by two Congressmen in his behalf, and forced upon the Administration by a fraud. Such, also, is the statement of Mr. Blair in the speech alluded to: that " the President held Gen. McClellan to be patriotic, and had concerted with Gen. Grant to bring him again into the field as his adjunct, if he turned his back on the proposals of the peace junto at Chicago." The public will be grateful to the junto at least for rescuing them from so grave a peril Revelations of the spirit which animates the self-styled Peace party, though not needed, have been liberally afforded. The bloody menaces of banners, newspapers and orators are daily executed, and are thoroughly sincere. No large assembly or procession of Union men can take place in this city, or your own, or in Philadelphia, without some more or less formidable assault from the supporters of McClellan. Smaller towns partake of the vicious example, and a kind of Border-ruffianism is in training for the day when the polls, if preserved from molestation, will bestow a second incumbency on President Lincoln The last hope of the rebel leaders is in their Democratic allies at the North; their last hope, in turn, is in carrying the fall elections; and this cannot be accomplished except by violence or illegal balloting. No one doubts that the desperation of the Copperheads is equal to any endeavor for victory, and it behooves the country to be prepared for a second attack upon the right of the majority to rule. 
A friend was reminding me, a few days ago, of that feature in our political gatherings which was introduced by the Republican party within easy memory-the presence of women. How this came about is known to those who remember the epoch when women first sat on public platforms with men, at lectures and other sorts of entertainment, and that earlier epoch when the anti slavery body was divided never to reunite, because a woman was appointed upon a committee with those of the opposite sex. This is but one of the many valuable legacies of the anti-slavery agitation to the present generation; and the admission of woman into politics simply as a spectator has added immense moral force to the party which opened its doors to her. The Evening Post has recently been urging the women of the country to vote for President as they can-by exhortations, arguments, appeals to those who exercise suffrage. I am led to reflect that mere political sagacity would dictate to a liberal party, which claims (and I think justly) to possess the sympathy of its country women, the extension of the elective franchise to them. But I am not aware that experience has shown much difference in the reception of women's rights petitions by Republican and Democratic legislatures; at all events, party lines cease to appear as rigidly upon this as upon other questions. In rejecting the aid of that humanity which we commonly attribute to the female sex, we imitate our treatment of the negro in relation to our polity. We need,-never more than now,-for regenerating the South, a population which shall  be loyal to the core and democratic in the blood: the freedmen will be all that, and we have not yet allowed them a ballot. So in the present emergency, when we are grappling with a monstrous iniquity, and in every effort at purification hereafter, we require all of justice, truth, clemency, that we can muster; yet woman is, and seems likely to remain, a stranger to our ranks. We are fighting to assert the dignity and the freedom of labor, yet to one half of our citizens the principle is an abstraction. Mr. Sabine, in his " American Loyalists," proves conclusively that the fundamental cause of the first Revolution was the restriction of labor in the colonies. We, indeed, pass no laws debarring women from any occupation which is not prejudicial to society, but we do quite as effectually shut them out from a vast number of avocations which they are entirely competent to pursue. Representation would serve them as a representative form of government did our fathers: it would regulate their taxation, and would secure them all the privileges which are associated with that burden. Suppose the Constitution to be remodelled on the return of peace: will sex as well as color be obliterated from that instrument? or must each State be won by a slow process, till a new amendment becomes necessary? It is well to remember that the future is now, and that, for States as for individuals, to postpone till to-morrow what ought to be done to-day, is poor economy and worse morality. 
M. DU PAYS.
Our attentive New York correspondent sent this letter with his usual punctuality, in ample season for the Liberator of last week, for which it was designed; but it somehow got mislaid, and was forgotten. Nothing of its interest, however, will be affected by the delay, though we regret to have broken the continuity of the series-[Ed. Lib.
DEATH OF CAPT. DANIEL FOSTER. Among the killed at the recent battle at Chapin's Bluff was Capt. (formerly Chaplain) Daniel Foster, of this State. He was a most radical abolitionist, and a truly brave and devoted man. We are unable to give any particulars.
<c05>
UNIVERSALISTS ON THE WAR.
At the National Convention of the Universalists, held in Concord, N. H., Rev. Mr. Goodrich, of Pawtucket, R. I., in behalf of a committee, presented a series of resolutions on the state of the country. They were unanimously adopted, and are as follows: 
Whereas, The fearful war with which our nation has been scourged for years still continues, and makes additional demands on our courage, energy, patience and faith; therefore, 
Resolved, That we recognize in it the punishment of our people for their persistent arrogance and oppression. We cannot, therefore, hope for the return of peace through efforts to rivet anew the chains of the bondman, or to perpetuate the former glaring inconsistencies between our professions of love for liberty and the support of slavery. 
Resolved, That while we deplore the bloodshed, costliness and agonies of war, and earnestly pray for peace, we yet deem a cessation of hostilities which leaves it unsettled whether treason is to be rebuked or petted and fondled, a delusion and a snare. If followed by attempts to bribe traitors to return to a nominal allegiance by the promise of surrendering to their vengeance two hundred thousand colored men, who are now bravely battling in our armies for Union and order, it would show such dastardly perfidy in our government as would call down on our nation the stern displeasure of a righteous God, and condemnation from all good men. Such attempts would sound the knell of our Union, the shipwreck of our country. 
Resolved, That while we-gratefully accord the meed of praise to Grant, Sherman, and their brave associates on the land, and to Farragut, Stringham, Porter, and other noble commanders on the sea,for their valor and skill; we desire to place on record our admiration for and gratitude to the common soldiers and sailors, who, with little hope of distinction and fame, have cheerfully periled their lives for country and humanity. While so many are found ready to serve, as well as to be served, to follow as well as to lead, we will not despair of the republic. 
Resolved, That while we recollect that it was not alone by the sword of Joshua, but also by the uplifted arm of Moses, that Israel prevailed over Amalek of old, we still recognize the power of earnest, trustful prayer. Most reverently, therefore, will we continue to supplicate the God of Sabbaoth, that justice and equity may be done in our land; that anarchy and misrule may be checked; that righteousness may triumph, and peace speedily return; and that the Lord God may lift his face upon us and bless us.

S. W. GERMAN CONFERENCE OF THE M. E. 
CHURCH. 
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE STATE OF 
THE COUNTRY.
Your committee beg leave to submit the following report: 
If any period, the present moment is the time when every man, and especially every Christian and patriot, should take a decided stand point in regard to the condition of our afflicted country; and it behooves, therefore, the Southwestern German Conference of the M. E. Church to speak out their opinions, and to declare their purpose as a body, while assembled for their first session in a city and State which just now seem to be more afflicted by the horrors and hardships of war than at any period before. And while we hear the tread of military bodies marching and preparing for the defence of their homes and firesides, threatened by merciless invaders and wild rebel hosts, who are filling the country with bloodshed and murder, we declare hereby the following resolutions as the sentiments of this body, wishing not only to express them in words, but intending, as far as our calling as messengers of Christ allows it, to carry them out in deed and action: 
Resolved, 
1. That the awful war now raging in our country is not a justifiable revolution against unlawful oppression, but an inexcusable rebellion against the best government on earth; caused by a set of unprincipled and heartless traitors, who are enemies of the cause of liberty and humanity everywhere. 
2. That it is our firm conviction, that in this struggle there can be no neutral ground for any one; but that, in the language of a distinguished statesman, there are but two parties, patriots and traitors; and that, therefore, we hold it a matter of easy determination for every religious man to decide on which of the two sides it is his duty to stand in the present struggle. 
3. That as a body of Christian ministers, we desire peace as much as any person in the country; but we reject any but an honorable peace, attained, not by disunion, or the preservation and strengthening of the institution of slavery, but by the thorough suppression of the rebellion by the victorious arms of our brave soldiers; or the laying down of arms by every rebel in the land, and their acknowledgment of the authority of the constitutional Government, and the lawfully elected President of the United States.
4. That to attain this end, viz.: the preservation of the Union, and the abolishing of the system of slavery as the cause of the war, we consider all sacrifices proper that may be necessary for the overthrow of the rebellion, holding neither property nor life too dear for this purpose. 
5. That we ask our membership, and all persons within our influence, to sustain the Government and the cause of our country, either by enlisting, or, where taking place, by cheerfully submitting to the draft, as well as by contributing cordially and liberally to the Sanitary and Christian Commissions, destined to relieve the sufferings and wants of our sick and wounded soldiers on the battle-field, or in the hospital, and also to the Apologist fund of our esteemed brother, R. Bruehl, so nobly laboring for the best interests of the German, soldiers in our armies. 
9. That we ask such of our members as are entitled to vote, not to allow themselves to be misled by deceitful statements of mere partizans or rebel sympathizers, but to cast their votes at the approaching State and Presidential elections for the sustaining of our glorious Union and the cause of liberty throughout the land.
7. That we send a copy of these resolutions to the President of the United States, assuring him of our prayers in behalf of his own person, as well as his counsellors, his Generals and our brave armies. 
8. That this report be published in the columns of the Missouri Democrat, the Central Christian Advocate, and the Christian Apologist.
K. KOCH, Chairman. 
GEORGE ANDRE, Secretary. 
St. Louis, Mo., Oct. 1,1864.
HARPER'S MONTHLY, for November, appears with its uniform punctuality, presenting the following table of contents:- 
1. A Tour through Arizona. By J. Ross Browne. [Illustrations.] 2. At Home. 3. A Cruise on the Sassacus. [Illustrations.]. 3. On the Way to the Diamond Mines. 4. My Soldier. 5. Exploring the Magal-loway. 6. The Real Cost. 7. The Decline of Tragedy. 8. Lost. 9. An Unfortunate Princess. 10. My Refugees. 11. The Crow-Child. 12. Woman's Profession Dishonored. 13. Cousin Alice's Grave. 14. My Silver Spoon. 15. Ups and Downs. 16. Autumn Time. 17. Among the Sheaves. 18. Our Mutual Friend, by Charles Dickens. 19. Monthly Record of Current Events. 20. Literary Notices. 21. Editor's Easy Chair and Drawer. 22. Angels of the Household. [Illustrated.] Fashions for November. 
A. Williams &c., 100 Washington Street, Boston. 

SANITARY FAIR OF COLORED LADIES. The fair of the colored ladies of this city, for the benefit of the sick and wounded soldiers of Massachusetts, opened on Tuesday forenoon at Mercantile Hall in Summer street. The hall has been beautifully decorated, and the tables are well filled with useful and ornamental articles, grab boxes, guessing cakes, a post office, &c. &c. There is a fine piano made by Chickering, one of Mason & Hamlin's Cabinet Organs, and a portrait of the lamented Col. Shaw, valued at two hundred dollars, executed by the young colored artist Edward M. Bannister, to be disposed of by a raffle. Addresses were made in the evening by Hon. Henry Wilson, Rev. Dr. Neale and Col. Lucius B. Marsh. The fair was well patronized yesterday, and will continue open through the week.
DEATH OF CHIEF JUSTICE TANEY. The intelligence of the decease of the historically infamous author of the Dred Scott Decision, which took place at Washington on the 12th inst., after a short illness, is received by the entire loyal, liberty loving portion of the country with perfect resignation. It was a mockery of all law,and a disgrace to the nation, to have such a man at the head of the Supreme Court; besides, he was unfitted for his station by his extreme age-88 years. His successor will, in all probability, be Ex Secretary Salmon P. Chase, of Ohio; for such is the general wish. The cause of impartial liberty will gain immensely by the change.
The communication of "E. H. H." was not received in season for our present number. It shall be given next week.
<c06>
LETTER FROM GERRIT SMITH.
Just as we were going to press,(says the American Baptist,) we received the following from our honored friend Gerrit Smith, which we have much pleasure in giving to our readers:-
PETERBORO', Sept 8, 1864.
I always read your editorials, and for the good reason that I always find them worth reading. I have read “A Dangerous Position" in your last number. To the general propositions that slavery is worse than rebellion, I heartily assent Rebellion is not always a crime, but slavery is always the greatest of crimes. Murder itself is not so great. Every right-minded parent would rather his child were murdered than enslaved. Your criticism was intended to be on words in my letter to Messrs. Wade and Davis, but it does not apply to them. I spoke of the rebellion. But in your quotation, "the" is omitted. Moreover, the very next sentence in my letter shows that the rebellion I was speaking of included slavery. Indeed, my most common definition of the rebellion, as my speeches and writings show, is-"Slavery in arms." The only difference between slavery as it was and the rebellion is the difference between slavery in peace and slavery in war. In other words, it is but the difference in the means which the monster employs. It had hitherto sought its ends by political, ecclesiastical, commercial, social agencies. These failing, it took up arms, and became the horrid rebellion, which, God helping us, we will crush. 
Your friend, GERRIT SMITH.

ROUGH SKETCH OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Senator Sherman of Ohio, in a late speech at Sandusky, drew this rough but accurate outline of the President's character:
"I know old Abe, and I tell you there is hot at this hour a more patriotic or a truer man living than that man, Abraham Lincoln. Some say he is an imbecile; but he not only held his own in his debates with Douglas, whose power is admitted, and whom I considered the ablest intellect in the United States Senate, but got a little the better of him. He has been deliberate and slow, but when he puts his foot down, it is with the determination and certainty with which our generals take their steps, and, like them, when he takes a city he never gives it up. This firm old man is noble and kind-hearted, he is a child of the people. Go to him with a story of wo, and he will weep like a child. This man, so condemned, works more hours than any other President that ever occupied the chair. His solicitude for the public welfare is never-ceasing. I differed from him at first myself, but at last felt and believed that he was right, and shall vote for this brave, true, patriotic, kind-hearted man. All his faults and mistakes you have seen. All his virtues you never can know. His patience in labor is wonderful. He works far harder than any man in Erie county. At the head of this great nation, look at it! he has all the bills to sign passed by Congress; no one can be appointed to any office without his approval; no one can be punished without the judgment receives his signature, and no one pardoned without his hand. This man, always right, always just, we propose to re-elect now to the Presidency. To swap off such a man as this, my countrymen, for McClellan, idle, incompetent and unwilling, would, in my opinion, be a very poor trade."

THE SOLDIERS' VOTES.
The Boston Journal has a letter from Memphis which says:
I canvassed the hospitals in this city. The inmates in these hospitals belong to nearly all the States, and represent all the regiments in the army west of Washington:
Adams U.S.General Hospital-Total number of votes received, 331; Lincoln received 262; McClellan, 661; Lincoln majority, 196.
Jefferson Hospital-Whole number cast,306; Lincoln,249; McClellan, 57; Lincoln majority,492.
Gayisor Hospital-Whole number, 428; Lincoln, 497; McClellan, 41: Lincoln majority, 346.
Officers' Hospital-Whole number cast, 212; Lincoln, 137; McClellan, 65; Lincoln majority, 62.
Colored Hospital-Lincoln, 509.
Webster Hospital-Whole number cast, 297; Lincoln, 248; McClellan, 49; Lincoln majority, 199.
Eighth Regiment Iowa Veterans-Votes cast, 621; Lincoln, 605; McClellan, 16: Lincoln majority, 589. 
Sixth Tennessee Cavalry, composed of Tennessee and Mississippi men-Votes cast, 741; Lincoln, 738; McClellan, 3: Lincoln majority, 735.
Part of various regiments on picket duty or in camp, taken as near as possible-416; Lincoln, 347; McClellan, 69: Lincoln majority, 278.
Could you, Mr. Editor, have passed with us among these brave men, some at the point of death, and others at the post of danger, and seen their faces light up when they said, “Give us one for Abe and Andy,” you could not but believe that the army is truly loyal, as well as brave.
These votes foot up: Lincoln, 3,482; McClellan, 376; total vote, 3,858; Lincoln's majority, 3,106.That shows well enough how the Western armies will vote.
Another correspondent writes:
"I send the following as the result of a vote for President, recently reported by the 1st sergeants of the 49th Massachusetts regiment; Lincoln,174; McClellan, 30. This was a strongly Democratic regiment, and the result of the vote is very gratifying. It only shows the feeling of the whole army, which fails to see how it can consistently vote for a candidate for whom the rebels in arms now in our front cheer and swing their hats." C. E. W.
In the face of such facts as these, is it wonderful that the Copperheads have always been against allowing the soldiers to vote?
THE POLITICAL FEELING IN YALE COLLEGE. An informal vote of the students in Yale College, for the Presidential candidates, stood as follows
No. votes cast. Lincoln. McClellan. 
Seniors, 100 88 12
Juniors, 126 99 27
Sophomores, 131 95 36
Freshmen, 123 109 24
Total, 490 301 99
A vote was taken on the train that conveyed Gov. Seymour and staff, Gen. Wool, and the 24th New York regiment, to Gen. Russell's funeral, the other day, although it was in rather bad taste perhaps. The vote counted:-Lincoln, 211; McClellan, 60. Gen. Wool voted for Lincoln, and Gov. Seymour did not vote at all.
THE FEELING OF THE ARMY:-About three hundred and fifty officers, now under medical treatment at Annapolis, held a meeting in the Naval School Grounds, on the 29th ult., and passed resolutions congratulating their brave comrades in arms upon the recent glorious successes achieved in the field, and their confidence in the speedy crushing of the rebellion, according to the plans of Messrs. Grant, Sherman, Sheridan & Co. The meeting closed by giving respectively three rousing cheers for "The Old Flag," "The Army in the field," "The Navy," "Abraham Lincoln," and three groans for the Chicago platform. Nearly every State in the Union was represented at this gathering of officers.
A vote was taken in the 1921 Pennsylvania Volunteers for President, with the following result:
Lincoln, 357; McClellan, 36.
THE SOLDIERS' VOTE. From returns already received, it appears that from eighty-five to ninety in one hundred of the soldiers have voted in favor of the Union tickets.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ARMY VOTING. WASHINGTON, Oct. 4. The following general order has just been issued from the Adjutant General's office:-
In order to secure a fair distribution of tickets among soldiers in the field, who, by the laws of their respective States, are entitled to vote at the approaching elections, the following rules and regulations are prescribed: 
1st. One agent for each army corps may be designated by the State Executive, or by a State committee of each political party, who, on presenting his credentials from the State Executive or chairman of said committee, shall receive from the department a pass to the headquarters of the corps for which he is designated, with tickets or proxies, when required by the State laws, which may be placed by him in the hands of such person or persons as he may select, for distribution among officers and soldiers.
2d. Civilian inspectors of each political party; not to exceed one for each brigade, may in like manner be designated, who shall receive passes on application to the Adjutant General, to be present on the day of the election, to see that the election is fairly conducted.
3d. No political speeches, harangues or canvassing among the troops will be permitted.
4th. Commanding officers are enjoined to take such measures as may be essential to secure freedom and fairness in elections, and that they may be conducted with due regard to good order and military discipline.
5th. Any officer or private who may wantonly destroy tickets or prevent their distribution among legal voters, interfere with the freedom of elections, or make any false or fraudulent return, will be deemed guilty of an offence against good order and military discipline and be punished by summary dismissal or court martial.
"Out of the mouths of babes and suckling” is true as in the days of the Psalmist. Do readers remember Rebecca, the little white slave-girl from the South? There was a whole column of argument in her answer, when she was asked if she would vote for McClellan. "If I were a rebel, I would!"
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A COPPERHEAD VICTORY.
The evening before the assembling of the colored Convention in this city, several of its members had arrived, and the Rev. H. H. Garnet, and two or three others had taken quarters at the St. Charles Hotel. In the fore part of the evening, a train came in, and Mr. Garnet stepped into the depot to see if any of his friends had arrived. On his return, just before entering the door of the Hotel, he was set upon by three or four rowdies, and one of them who is well known struck him a violent blow on the side of his face, and knocked him down; not a word having been spoken or the slightest provocation given for the assault. Mr. Garnet is a cripple, and walks with difficulty. Some years ago, he was presented with a valuable gold headed cane by his fellow-citizens of New York, on which his name and the occasion of its presentation were engraved. They stole his cane from him, and took from his hat papers prepared to present to the Convention. The papers were afterwards found <illegible>in the Canal, and recovered. The cane was kept as a trophy of victory of three or four <illegible> rowdies over one poor lame “nigger.” A night or two after this, another colored man who came to attend the Convention was violently assaulted by another copperhead rowdy, but we did not learn that be captured any trophy to show his master as an evidence of his prowess. Both of these cases are in the hands of our police, and before they get through with the criminal prosecutions and others in the Supreme Court, we trust they will find that assaulting colored men in Syracuse is not a very profitable business.
These assaults, particularly the one on Mr. Garnet on Monday evening, produced considerable excitement among the delegates that had arrived in our city, and a proposition to go to some other place to hold their convention was urged by Mr. Garnet and others, notwithstanding the assurances given them by our efficient Mayor and chief of police that they should be protected in their persons and in all their rights the same as other men. An adjournment to any other place, under these circumstances, would have been an injury to the character of the city, not deserved by it, and the worst policy possible for them to pursue as colored men; as it would virtually invite such treatment in other places. But better counsels prevailed, and their convention was held with no further demonstrations of violence or disturbance other than an occasional satanic scowl as colored men passed about the streets.-Syracuse State League

DEMOCRATS, READ THIS. 
The Charleston Courier-always one of the most dignified and deservedly influential journals of the South-says:
“All of us perceive the intimate connection existing between the armies of the Confederacy and the peace men in the United States. These constitute two immense
forces that are working together for the procurement of peace. The party whose nomination and platform we are considering are altogether dependent for success on the courage and resolution of our fighting men. If their generalship, sagacity, valor and vigilance are unable to obtain victories, and to arrest the progress of invading hordes, the existing Administration will laugh to scorn all the efforts of the opposition, and, in spite of the most powerful combination, will continue to hold the places they occupy.
Our success in battle insures the success of McClellan. Our failure will inevitable lead to his defeat. It is the victories that have crowned our arms since this year began that have given existence, strength and harmony to that organization, which has arrayed itself with firm, defiant front against the despot and his minions. It is our long, unbroken series of splendid successes that has emboldened the few men of sense and honesty in Yankeedom to raise their voices in denunciation of the unconditional, base, foolish measures adopted and enforced by their Government, and they have gathered around the banner of their exceptional men so large a number as that they have good hope of being able to make head against the oppressor and tyrant.”
Congressman B. H. Hill, of Georgia, has made a speech at Macon, in which he dropped the following crumbs of comfort for doubting and desponding rebels:-
“Go to General Lee’s army, and you will find its spirit truly animating. Every brigade in it thinks it can whip Grant. Why, then, indulge in despondency? It can do no good.
Georgians! do not despond. In the midst of disaster, be strong. I do not doubt. Sherman, in Atlanta, must be destroyed. I said twelve months ago, that if the enemy ever got to Atlanta he would be destroyed. It is true, I would have preferred his being defeated before he got there. But now we can and will crush the enemy, and that very soon.
If Lincoln is defeated, and McClellan elected in the coming election, we may have peace. But there is no peace party in the North, if we are willing to be subjugated. All will subjugate us if they can. Peace can only come by the defeat of the enemy. McClellan will never be elected, unless Sherman is defeated. The preservation of our honor, the preservation of our State, the election of McClellan, and the securing of an honorable peace, all depend upon the defeat of Sherman. Every good to freemen depends upon his defeat.”
Mr. Vallandigham, who helped to make the Chicago platform, and who now supports Gen. McClellan, in his speech at Sydney, Ohio, said:
“I claim, as the member from Ohio of the Committee on Resolutions in that Convention, to have official personal knowledge that he (Gen. McClellan) is mistaken. The two principal points in that letter of acceptance to which I object were brought before the Committee. The one containing the threat of future war was unanimously rejected. The other to the effect that, until the States and people of the South had returned to the Union, we would not exhaust these ‘arts of statesmanship,’ as they are called, received but three votes in that Committee, though presented almost in the very words of the letter itself.” The following extract from the Richmond <illegible> explain the views of the Southern supporters of the Chicago platform. They fully recognize their identity of interest with the McClellan men, and urge the necessity of military success on their side, not only for its direct effect, but for the aid and comfort which it would furnish to the peace ticket in the North. The Enquirer says:
“That, if elected, he will be compelled, from the very nature of the case, whatever his own individual desires may be, to seek negotiation with us, and suspend military operations, is to many minds very clear. But we must still remember that to give him a chance of being elected at all, the invading armies must gain no further successes within the next month. It is the Confederate army which has created a peace party at the North. Johnston and Beauregard planted it; Lee watered it; and we must give it increase; we must nurse it, and cherish it, by the same methods as hitherto-that is, with the bullet and bayonet. Should the military situation be unfavorable to us next month, McClellan would not be elected, and if he were his election could do us no good. At present, he and his party promise neither peace nor war; intend neither peace nor war. Janus himself did not face both ways more steadily than the Democracy; and in their hands the door of the Temple of Janus would neither be shut nor open; it would be ajar; and it is only we who could either fling the door wide, or close and lock and seal it for generations.”

MCCLELLAN’S SUPPORTERS IN MARYLAND. The Cecil (Md.) Whig says that every rebel in Cecil county means to vote for General McClellan. The Secessionists have always been very numerous in that county, and it would not be surprising, therefore, if McClellan obtained the most votes in it, although the State is sure for Lincoln by a large majority.
The people of the United States paid the expenses of McClellan’s education, sent him to Europe at the public cost, and have given him for many years a large salary as an army officer. As the result of all this outlay, he has proved himself to be an incapable General. He now asks his countrymen to pay him, during the next four years, a hundred thousand dollars more, in order that he may prove himself to be an incapable President. The people don’t see it.
The Copperhead papers are always prating of “Lincoln’s hirelings,” but their candidate still persists in holding the position of one of Lincoln’s hirelings, at a large salary.
The Richmond Dispatch of the 23d says of Sheridan’s victory: “This battle will secure the election of Lincoln, of which, indeed, there was no doubt before.” How pleasant it is to be able to agree with those Richmond gentlemen on one point!

ABOLITIONIZED. The Boston Post the other day complained that Gen. Grant had become “abolitionized” in his politics. And now “Fighting Joe Hooker” has suffered a similar lapse. At the Union League Club of New York, on Thursday, Sept. 22, he said: “It is folly to talk of negotiating till we have whipped out our enemies, and swept away the cause of the rebellion.” If any man in the country knows what he is talking about, it is “Fighting Joe.” He has fought the rebellion in Virginia and in the very heart of <illegible>—in the valley and above the clouds-and he well knows what it is made of. He says emphatically that slavery must be wiped out forever before we can hope for peace. Good for Fighting Joe, and true as the gospel! We suppose we shall now hear a groan
 from the Copperheads that Phil. Sheridan, by his rough treatment of the elite of the rebel army under Early, has proved that he, too, is “abolitionized.” What are we coming to? The earth still spins through space, and has not rushed from its orbit.
<c02>
ATLANTA. [From the Mobile Register, Sept. 6.]
This Georgia city is in the hands of the enemy. Sherman, the great flanker, has successfully made another of his favorite moves, and has got the place. What will he do with his “elephant”? He came not to take Atlanta, but to do his abolition master’s will in the conquest of Georgia, and the subjugation of the South. He is no nearer the accomplishment of his object since he took the “Gate City” than he was before. He will not be while Hood’s army stands an intact power to resist his scheme of subjugation.
General Sherman has accomplished what has been considered by military men almost an impossible feat. While we detest the diabolical Abolition spirit of the man, and hate him as the bitterest and most dangerous enemy of our people and country, we cannot deny to him the claim of a highly successful military leader. His laurels throw into the shade the fame of McClellan and Grant. He has proved himself the best and most daring of the Federal Generals.

ETHERIDGE A REBEL. The following gem occurs in the late Philadelphia speech of Mr. Etheridge, of Tennessee, before a gang of howling, drunken ruffians at a McClellan meeting: “Why, sirs, a broad acre of men are here before me to-night, resolved, with strong arms and willing hearts, to save the Constitution of the country. [Enthusiastic cheers.] On Saturday, I heard from the Tenth Legion. They send a greeting to the effect that they intend to keep the ballot-boxes open for a week. [Laughter and cheers.] And there was a message, too, from Northumberland, God bless her! to the men of Philadelphia, telling them that they would keep the ballot-boxes open until they get men enough. [Great cheering,] Fellow-citizens, all that I thus tell you is the truth.”

THE FINANCIAL SUCCESS OF THE GOVERNMENT. The Washington correspondent of the New York Times takes the following cheering views of the facts of the financial position:-
The new six per cent, gold interest-bearing loan, amounting to forty million of dollars, just offered by Secretary Fessenden, is attracting considerable attention, and will be taken up with great eagerness at a considerable premium. It is attracting much competition. Receipts for par subscriptions to the ten-forty and seven-thirty loans continue constant, ranging from half a million to one million per day. These loans, with the proceeds of the internal revenue averaging three-quarters of a million per day, will enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay the expenses of the Government without any further inflation of the currency by the issue of legal tenders, except six per cent, compound interest notes, which are now issued at the rate of a quarter of a million per day, and being immediately absorbed as an investment, cannot in any way be considered as swelling the volume of the currency.
Last June an attempt was made in the night to burn the bridge over the river connecting Augusta with Hamburg, and was in part successful. On the following day, three negroes employed in one of the workshops, who had a day or two previous been flogged for alleged misconduct, were arrested on suspicion of being the incendiaries, and after a sort of drum-head court-martial, composed of drunken officers, were convicted, and sentenced to death by being ducked in a vat of molten iron! The sentence was about being executed when the Mayor, hearing of the affair, interfered, and induced the court to commute the punishment to hanging, and the wretched creatures were immediately jerked up by their necks in the foundry yard.
About a month later a private in the 7th Georgia regiment, a company of which was stationed at Augusta, murdered one of his Lieutenants, and after trial was sentenced to death. At the place of execution, he confessed not only the murder, but that he and another, whose name he refused to disclose, were the parties who had endeavored to destroy the bridge, for which the poor negroes had suffered death. Had it transpired that three white men, Southerners, had been executed for a crime of which they were innocent, what a hue and cry the press of Atlanta and the whole South would have made over it! But the victims were only negroes-free negroes at that-and of no account or value to any one but themselves and families-and their brutal murder elicited no more attention from the citizens or press than the hanging of so many dogs.

THE FREEDMEN IN VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA.
Col. Kinsman, General Superintendent of colored men in Gen. Butler’s department, reports that 112 abandoned farms have been taken for the benefit of the treed negroes, and are now cultivated by them. There have been established 39 schools, with 99 teachers, and an average attendance of 5,930 scholars. Last season the colored men raised 10,000 bushels of corn on abandoned lands in the vicinity of Norfolk. There are 17,419 colored people within our lines in North Carolina, the number of males and females being nearly equal. Of these 11,636 are employed, and 5,783 to be supported by government; new settlements are being established for the unemployed.

A COLORED PATRIOT. Mr. W. Page, a gentleman well known to a number of our readers, enlisted in the United States Army last week. Mr. Page being past the prime of life, with quite a number of gray hairs in his beard and hair, feared that if he presented himself with his “wrinkled front” and gray hairs, he would be rejected. He therefore, in order to facilitate matters, had the whiskers shaved cleanly from his face, and the gray hairs pulled out of his head. With his somewhat youthful appearance, he made his way to a recruiting office, and, after a rigid examination, was sworn into the army. On being asked by his wife, who knew nothing of his intentions until he saw him attired in the habiliments of a soldier, why he was so anxious to go to war, he made this answer: “Uncle Sam has done too much for my people for me to remain longer out of his service.” Mr. Page leaves a situation which paid him from eighteen to twenty dollars a week.-San Francisco Pacific Appeal.
About one hundred and forty colored soldiers from Camp Dennison, en route for Nashville, arrived in our city on Thursday, and quartered in the Fifth St. Barracks for about three hours. During their stay a large number of men and women visited them. The men were in fine spirits. About two- thirds of them are Cincinnati boys. They call themselves “Uncle Sam’s Iron-clad Peace Commissioners.”- Ibid.

REBEL TREATMENT OF COLORED SOLDIERS. New York, Oct. 15. Gen. Butler becoming convinced that our negro soldiers are put at work in rebel entrenchments, has notified the rebel authorities that he has also put rebel officers and soldiers at work on Dutch Gap canal. He has also proposed an exchange of all naval prisoners, and transmitted statements of our officers that colored troops had been murdered after capture by rebel regiments in front of the Army of the James.
The following extract (says the Philadelphia Press) is from a letter just received in this city from one of the most prominent men-once a large slaveholder-in the interior of Missouri. It speaks for itself:-
“I am yet, thank God, alive and well, and as active as ever in the Government cause. I am for Lincoln and Johnson as the only hope for law and government in the United States. I honestly believe that the Democratic party will agree to a peace recognizing the South, and bringing disgrace on our Government, and that their success gives us perpetual war, anarchy, bloodshed and ruin. I accept Mr. Lincoln as the only representative candidate of the Union men. Our country is full of bushwhackers. No Union man-that is, no Lincoln man-is safe out of a garrison.”

THE FAMILY OF OLD JOHN BROWN ESCORTED BY SOLDIERS ACROSS THE PLAINS TO CALIFORNIA. The Camp Douglas (U. T.) Union Vidette of 17th August gives the following interesting item:
By a letter from Camp Connor, near Soda Springs, Idaho Territory, we learn that Lieut. Shoemaker, of Company H, stationed there, with 5 men of the command, has been sent out as an escort to the family of John Brown, of Harper’s Ferry notoriety. The family consists of the widow of Brown-his two daughters and one son-the only one who has not been killed, and is now emigrating to California. They were under the impression that the son was in danger of assassination at the hands of certain parties who were on his track, and requested the escort at the hands of Capt. Black, who commands Camp Connor.

EFFECT OF THE “NEW RULE” IN BALTIMORE. A correspondent from Baltimore communicates to the Northwestern the following:-
“The cause of freedom in Church and State moves gloriously onward in this section. It was thought by many that the passage of the new rule on Slavery would precipitate a large secession from the Methodist Episcopal Church. In some cases ‘the wish was father to the thought,’ in others it was the result of unfounded fear. It is true, that desperate efforts were made in some quarters by a few individuals, immediately after the adjournment of General Conference, to ‘bully’ off a class of members over whom they had exercised a great influence in the church; but they found the attachment of these persons to their old associations too strong to be severed by no better argument than that the church had expressed her anti-slaveryism in a more reasonable and religious manner than formerly. I have not heard of six persons in this city, or fifty in the State, who have left our church for passing the new rule.”
<c03>
TESTIMONIAL TO DR. HEBBARD. During the intermission of Dr. Hebbard's concluding lecture at Tremont Temple, Wednesday evening, the audience-the Doctor having retired-organized by the choice of Rev. Mr. Stowe as chairman. A committee, of which Dr. J. L. Hunnewell was chairman, was appointed to retire, and prepare a series of resolutions. The following were subsequently reported, which were adopted with great enthusiasm:
Whereas, We the citizens of Boston and vicinity, having attended the lectures of Dr. W. W. Hebbard, on “Physical Education,” and earnestly desiring that our fellow-citizens generally should enjoy the same opportunities, do therefore deem it but an act of justice due to him, and also to the public, that we should make this declaration of the estimate we place upon these lectures:
Resolved, As the sense of this meeting, that Dr. Hebbard's qualifications as a Physician and Surgeon, his competency as a lecturer, his manner and method of illustrating his subjects with ample apparatus of skeletons, manikins, models, paintings, diagrams, &c.; his faithful protests against bad habits; his earnest appeals to parents and children, to husbands and wives in behalf of Nature's violated laws: his unanswerable arguments against quacks and drugs, thus making his lectures intensely interesting, place him in the front rank of Reformers.
Resolved, That Dr. Hebbard be and he is hereby requested to prolong his visit among us, until by one or more courses of lectures the multitudes in Boston and vicinity who have not enjoyed them may have an opportunity of hearing him, and by so doing be instructed and benefitted as they could be in no other way. Resolved, That these resolutions be presented to the Newspaper Press of Boston for publication.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON. We have no words to fittingly describe the lecture of this talented young female orator, delivered at Ilion on Tuesday evening. For nearly two hours and a half she held a crowded audience in almost breathless attention. Her treatment of the Chicago Convention and of its nominees-especially her vivid historical sketch of McClellan's military career-was most bitterly sarcastic, and many portions of it most beautifully sublime. She has a power over the feelings and hearts of the people which few can resist; and it is a satisfaction to know that it is exercised ever in the cause of Justice and the Rights of Humanity.-Little Falls Journal.

ATTEMPT TO DESTROY EIGHT HUNDRED SOLDIERS. The Paris (Illinois) Blade says that on Wednesday night last, the timbers of a bridge on the Terre Haute, Alton and St. Louis railroad were sawed nearly through, with the expectation that the next train, which contained about eight hundred soldiers, would break through, and a wholesale slaughter be the consequence. The train containing the soldiers, however, passed over safely, but the next, which was a freight, broke through, killing the engineer and badly scalding the firemen.
Thirty-four veterans who were returning home from Atlanta were shot in cold blood at Centralia. Mo., and the bodies horribly mutilated. Mr. Rolland, the express agent, was also murdered, and three citizens on the train were wounded and left to burn up on the train, which was fired and started off at full speed. About one hour after the guerillas left. Major Johnson with about 150 militia arrived at Centralia, and started in pursuit. They were ambushed when about three miles out, and 96 of their number, including Major Johnson, were killed. The militia were all raw, and badly armed. The rebels were commanded by the notorious Bill Anderson. This is the most atrocious affair since the massacre at Lawrence.

TERRIBLE RAILROAD ACCIDENT. On Saturday last, a terrible accident occurred to an extra train on the Shore Line between New Haven and New London. There were nine passenger cars, having on board 275 sick and wounded New England soldiers, in transfer from Knight Hospital, New Haven, to the U. S. General Hospital at Readville. The men were in care of Lieut. Stearns of the Veteran Reserve Corps, and Acting Assistant Surgeon T. H. Bishop, U. S. A., medical officer in charge. Surgeon Bishop's wife was with him, and was the only lady passenger on the train. In running a sharp curve at “Four Mile Run” or “Four Mile Ledge,” so called, eight miles beyond New London, and about nine miles this side of Lyme, Ct., where the road passes through a deep cutting in a solid ledge of rock, the train proceeding at a high rate of speed, the first passenger car went off the track, followed by four others. The engine and tender remained upon the rails, the coupling being broken by the shock, and the cars piled up one upon another in a fearful heap of ruins, beneath which lay the dead and dying and shockingly mangled bodies of nearly a hundred poor fellows. The accident took place at precisely half-past 11 o'clock A. M.
The scene is described by those who witnessed it as being a fearful one, and affected the soldiers far more than the horrors of the battle-field. The men who came on say that they would rather take their chances before the enemy's rifle pits than encounter such a catastrophe. Two of the cars were broken entirely into fragments not larger than the hand. Another was forced up the ledge some twenty-five feet, and turned half round so that it lay like a bridge from one side of the cutting to the other. Of another, only the roof and one side were left. Another was a mass of human bodies, broken wood and iron rods and chains. As one by one the poor fellows were taken out and laid upon the ground above the ledge, the scene became more distressing. Here a mutilated trunk, still breathing, without legs, arms broken and features undiscernible; there a poor mangled fellow moaning, “Oh, my dear mother, my dear mother, what will she say?” The dead were lying in every posture; some calmly sleeping, as it were; others with staring eyes. One man had been caught between the end of the car that lay across the cutting and the solid rock, and life had been crushed out of him. The body was not extricated until night. 
Thirteen were killed outright, and two died immediately on being taken from the ruins. The whole number injured is estimated at about forty. It is thought that a third of the number cannot survive.

DEATH OF MAJOR GEN. D. B. BIRNEY. Gen. Birney, who of late had been so brilliantly distinguished as commander of the 18th corps, and who had been a most meritorious officer, from the time of his entering the service, died on Tuesday night, in Philadelphia. He was a native of Alabama, a son of the well-known James G. Birney, the leader of the Liberty Party in the early days of the anti-slavery movement, and entered the army on-the 3d of February, 1862, being appointed from Pennsylvania. He had a noble record, as well a citizen as a soldier, and through his death we lose the services of an accomplished military leader, whose place it will not be easy to fill.-Boston Traveller.

A BRAVE OFFICER GONE. The. painful intelligence reached Boston on Monday that Col. George D. Wells, of the Massachusetts 34th regiment, had been killed in battle. A despatch from Gen. Stevenson states that he was killed in an engagement at Cedar Creek on the 13th inst. A brave officer and noble man has fallen, leaving many here in Massachusetts to mourn his loss. 
Col. Wells was a native of Greenfield, and a son of Judge Wells, formerly Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas in this State. He repeatedly represented the town of Greenfield in the Legislature, but subsequently removed to Boston, where he received the appointment of Justice of the Police Court.

THE MISSING STEAMER ROANOKE. It is now considered pretty certain that the steamer Roanoke has been captured by the rebels in the same manner as the Chesapeake was taken. It seems that thirty-five of her passengers were persons in the rebel service, and that they were commanded by an officer in Jeff. Davis's navy. The band rendezvoused at Bermuda, and proceeded thence to Havana in a sailing vessel. The work of overcoming the crew of the Roanoke by such a force as is stated, well armed and directed by an experienced commander, would be comparatively easy. We shall doubtless hear of the missing steamer ere long as another rebel privateer, dealing destruction to our coasting commerce.
Pennsylvania is still in doubt upon the home vote. Both sides claim it. We have certainly gained one member of Congress, and perhaps more, and in all probability have carried the State by 3,000 majority. The soldiers' vote will add 3,000 to our majority; we consider the State sure.
Indiana, the only doubtful State besides New Jersey, gives a Union majority of from 20,000 to 30,000, and a gain of six members of Congress. The soldiers do not vote in this State. Ohio rolls up a Union majority of 40,000 on the popular vote, and Pugh, (in Pendleton's District.) Cox and Long are defeated by overwhelming majorities.
The London Morning Star thus truthfully, characterizes the peace manoeuvres of Vallandigham and his school:
“The word 'peace' in the mouths of these men only means, ‘Let us go down on our knees before slavery; let us make the free North a hunting ground for the man-stealer; let us tread out free thought, free speech, and free political action, and elevate slavery as the banner of the republic, the fettered negro as the corner stone of our civil polity. It is to promote the designs of these bitter foes of all true and lasting peace, that Mr. Lindsay and his friends desire to use the influence of this great empire of freedom."
<c04>
TESTIMONIAL TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN. Count Sandor, of Austria, has sent to President Lincoln an elegant album, with fifty pictures of adventures in the Count's early life, as a token of his high regard for the Chief Magistrate of the republic. Colonel Julian Allen, recently returned from Europe, is the bearer of the gift.
The death of Judge Taney at once brings up the question as to his successor. The general feeling of the country, and the intelligent judgment of the loyal profession, both point to one man, Salmon P. Chase, as the fittest person to be Chief Justice of the United States; and we have strong reason to believe that Mr. Lincoln agrees both with the public and the professional opinion.
General Saxton has established a savings bank for the benefit of the freedmen at Beaufort, which will receive their earning on deposit, paying interest on the same. Regulations have also been adopted to prevent the freedmen from being defrauded of their cotton by speculators.
Mr. Conway, Superintendent of Free Labor in Louisiana, reports that the number of Freedmen's Schools had increased from eight at the beginning of the present year to sixty, in which there are now 8,000 scholars and over 100 teachers.
The number of colored persons within the Union lines in North Carolina is 17,417, of which 14,744 were slaves three years ago.
“Secession was not the event of a day,” said Rhett of South Carolina; “it has been a matter nursed for thirty years.” And the bantling was sent North to Chicago, for adoption via Nassau and Halifax, and is now at dry nurse in McClellan's bosom.
A great political meeting in Springfield, Ill., was gladdened and amused by a banner, borne by wounded soldiers, representing a globe, which Lincoln was prying up with a rail, while Andy Johnson was sitting cross-legged on the North American part of it, tailor fashion, sewing up a huge rent. “Old Abe” says to him, “A few more stitches, Andy, and the dear old Union will be mended!”
Mrs. Rose Greenhow's death is confirmed. She had been to Europe to publish a book giving some of her personal experiences of the war, and was drowned on the coast while trying to run the blockade into Wilmington.
The McClellan journals make a great ado about the enormous losses of General Grant during the present campaign. The National Intelligencer states them at 58,200. But the official reports of General McClellan and others show that he lost in the Peninsular campaign, 70,835 men, 2535 more than Grant, even according to Copperhead figuring. While McClellan's sacrifice of life did no good, Grant has broken Lee's army, and placed us within grasp of Richmond.
The McClellan papers generally follow the advice of the Richmond Enquirer, and call their opponents Abolitionists. The word does not frighten any one now.
As tweedle-dum is to tweedle-dee, so is a secessionist to a “cessationist.”
The Springfield Republican says: “Gen. Early's name is Jubal, and the day of Jubal.
E. has come."
A correspondent of the Philadelphia Press proposes the following conundrum as a modest celebration for our victories:
“Why are all the rebels in the dumps at this date?
'Tis because Jubal Early can no more jubilate!”
BADLY WOUNDED IN SHERIDAN'S LATE BATTLES. Major-Gen. Geo. B. McClellan.
MILITARY INTERFERENCE WITH ELECTIONS. Gen. Sheridan's operations in the Shenandoah Valley.
A female soldier is said to have been discovered at Readville, a short time since. She claimed to have been to the war, having enlisted at Philadelphia, and on being discharged, obtained a situation at Readville as an attendant. 
Ten thousand white troops and fifteen thousand colored soldiers have been enlisted in Louisiana.
The yellow fever still prevailed extensively at Newbern at last accounts, the deaths being over, forty per day, and nearly all the inhabitants who could have left the place.
The Boston Journal says that at the present time there are one hundred and sixty-six entries on the docket of the Supreme Judicial Court of suits, for divorce by parties residing in Suffolk county. In a majority of these cases, the wife sues for divorce from the husband, and the causes alleged are cruelty, desertion and criminality.
There are several good reasons for believing that the rebel authorities will soon tacitly and indirectly agree to include colored soldiers in their acceptance of our proposition to exchange man for man. It is understood that Gen. Lee has long been willing to do so, but the political leaders objected.
The shoe business at Haverhill, Mass., is at a stand-still. Orders are being countermanded, and the manufactories have stopped work.
The new Long Bridge over the Potomac has been completed. It is 4946 feet in length, and cost $150,000.
Clement Webster, long editor of the Providence Post, died in that city of paralysis last Sunday. He was born at Kennebunk, Me., in 1817, served part of his time as a printer in Saco, and up to the period of his death has been connected with the newspaper press as proprietor and editor.
Lieut. Col. Chas. W. Tolles, late of the Newark Advertiser, and a contributor to the Atlantic, Continental and other magazines, died on Wednesday from the effects of a wound received in the Shenandoah Valley.
All but two of the Ohio Representatives elected to Congress, on the 11th, are Republicans, the Democrats getting but two. This is a change! From seven to seventeen is indeed a change that even the possessor of Aladdin's lamp and ring might be proud of making. Traveller 
The Clarion, speaking of the stoppage of the Skowhegan Farmer, says that, unless the price of paper materially falls, more than half of the country papers will also have to stop, as they cannot go forward much longer at the loss they have been subjected to for the last six months.
THANKSGIVING. Thursday, November 24, will be observed as Thanksgiving Day in Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
The New York Tribune says that the democrats have a majority of 751 on the home vote of Pennsylvania, but claims that the soldiers' vote will make that State Republican by 10,000 majority.
Both branches of the new Legislature of Pennsylvania are Republican, the Senate by three majority, and the House of Representatives by twenty.
THE DAY OF EXECUTION. We understand that the Governor and Council have appointed Friday, the 13th day of January next, as the day for the execution of Edward W. Green, the murderer of young Frank Converse in the Maiden Bank. The execution will take place in the jail yard at East Cambridge. The murder was committed about noon on Tuesday, the 15th day of December, 1863.
NEW YORK, Oct. 13th. The World's correspondent with Sheridan says the victory over Rosser's cavalry was one of the most complete ever won. Among the guns captured was the famous Baltimore battery, with its gunners. The prisoners captured were mostly of the first class of the rebel army. One of our cavalry men made a great mistake. He rushed at a couple of officers, aiming for the best dressed, and captured him. He proved to be a captain, while his comrade, much poorer dressed, who escaped, was Gen. Lomax.
AUGUSTA, Oct. 8. An official despatch confirms the recapture of Rome, Ga., with three thousand negroes. A number of white officers were also taken. The Yankees destroyed all their commissary stores, and two squares of the business portion of the town were burned.
THE MARYLAND CONSTITUTION ADOPTED. BAL TIMORE, Oct. 17. The returns are all in. The home vote foots up 12,820 against the new Constitution and 11,246 for it, showing a deficiency on the home vote of 1574 votes to secure its adoption; but the soldiers' vote thus far received amounts to 2463, making the majority for the constitution 889, which will be in creased, it is thought, by not less than 500 vote more. Thus the new constitution is clearly adopted, and Maryland will henceforth rank as a free State.
INCENDIARY THREATENINGS OF THE REBELS. The Richmond- Whig advises, in retaliation for the destruction in the Shenandoah Valley, the burning of Boston, Philadelphia, New York or Cincinnati. It says “Twenty men, with plans all preconcerted, selecting some dry, windy night, might fire Boston in a hundred places, and wrap it in flames from centre to suburb. The men to execute the plan are already there. The latter remark applies to the other cities mentioned."
JOHN BRIGHT UPON THE PRESIDENTIAL CONTEST John Bright, the great English liberal, in a recent letter upon the Presidential contest in this country, says:
I believe that the effect of Mr. Lincoln's re-election in England and in Europe, and indeed throughout the world, will be this: it will convince all men that the integrity of your great country will be preserved, and it will show that Republican Institutions, with an instructed and patriotic people, can bear a nation safely and steadily through the most desperate perils.
<c05>
OBITUARY.
Died, at his residence in Warren, (Ohio,) on the 25th of March, 1864, after a severe illness of several weeks' duration, LEVI SUTLIFF, Esq., aged 58 years, 8 months and 13 days.
Azrael has again passed over this community, and his fatal darts have this time found a victim in one of the veteran pioneers of the county. Levi Sutliff has fallen as that victim! The death of a citizen of mature age, born, reared, and always a resident of the county, and for fourteen years a resident of Warren, would seem to require more than a passing notice. Justice to his memory and proper respect for his family and friends demand some mention of his life and character.
Mr. Sutliff was born in Vernon, Trumbull county, Ohio, on the 12th day of July, 1805, and at his death was nearly fifty-nine years of age.
His father, Deacon Samuel Sutliff, immigrated from Massachusetts but a short time before the birth of the subject of this notice, and settled in Vernon, where he lived during his residence in Ohio. His mother was a Granger, a niece of the late Gideon Granger, once Postmaster General. Deacon Sutliff was a pioneer; one of that class whom the Connecticut Land Company induced to settle on some of their lands with a view of bringing out their value; and he was of course subjected to many of the hardships of the early settlers of the Reserve-a settlement so remote from the settlements in the east as to be almost inaccessible, because immured in so vast a wilderness.
The subject of this notice was the third son in a family of six, all of whom, save two, have passed on. The survivors are, Hon. Milton Sutliff, late Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of Ohio, a resident of Warren; and Allen C. Sutliff, a resident of Iowa.
Among the brothers were Flavel Futliff, Esq., a very promising and rising lawyer, who died young; and Calvin G. Sutliff, Esq., also a lawyer, who died in Warren about twelve years ago.
The Sutliff family has been one of marked character. Deacon Samuel Sutliff was a descendant of the Puritan stock of New England, and had much of the austerity of that character. Mrs. Sutliff was a descendant of a family alike distinguished for the talents and patriotism of its members, having long occupied public station, and assisted to form the institutions of the country, and to carry forward the government through several administrations. She was a woman of remarkable intellect and varied acquirements; and what was remarkable in her case, she was self-taught. She particularly excelled in history. It was remarked of her by Judge King, who knew her, that she was the strongest-minded woman he ever knew. She died in 1844. She was also very pious. Deacon Sutliff, who died in 1840, had been Deacon of a church in Vernon 37 years. He assisted the Rev. Mr. Badger, the pioneer minister of the Reserve, to form and organize many Presbyterian Churches of the Reserve. He was a man of great decision of character, stern integrity, and never-yielding perseverance, and endowed with wonderful endurance. These faculties enabled him to go through the trials of pioneer life without a murmur. The character and talents of such parents seem to have been very fully impressed upon the children. All of them have been more or less marked in their characteristics; have been fully endowed by nature to impress themselves forcibly upon the communities in which they have severally resided.
Levi Sutliff was born at a time when life was a severe struggle among the early settlers; and being one of the oldest children, was required to assist in the labor of clearing off the heavy timber from the land, and thus reduce the wild, inhospitable region to a condition suited to become the habitations of men. He experienced many of the trials and hardships of the Western Reserve pioneer life. It was a rough, hard life, and could not fail to have an important influence upon his character. How much of self-reliance such a school teaches!
The advantages of education were limited in the wilderness in the boyhood days of Mr. Sutliff. His early education was therefore meagre, but being of strong mind, and early taught to rely upon himself, he was enabled to remedy the defect, measurably, by persevering application to books through a long course of self-improvement. In later years of his life, he appeared to be a man of fair culture and extensive reading. He also knew men and things well, having studied them thoroughly.
He turned his attention to the law in middle life. He was frequently called upon to assist his neighbors in their difficulties before magistrates' courts. After a time, and in the year 1840, he was admitted to practice in all the courts of the State. In 1850 he removed to Warren, and formed a partnership with Judge Birchard, with whom he practiced for two or three years, but his own private business, and his large and growing landed and other property required so much of his time, that it compelled his retirement from the active duties of his profession, although he still rendered assistance to his friends when called upon.
Mr. Sutliff was one of the earliest Anti-Slavery men of the county. In 1832 he became a convert to the then Anti-Slavery sentiments of Garrison as proclaimed in his Liberator, and from that time forward to his death he has been a consistent Anti-Slavery man. He made it the religion of his life, so to speak. He contributed largely of his means to promote the interests of the cause, and always was ready to speak a true and strong word to advance Anti-Slavery sentiments among the people. In 1833 he furnished most of the means to support his brother Milton in a lecturing tour of the Reserve, to disseminate Anti-Slavery ideas. This was one of the first attempts to present the cause of the slave in this community. Judge Sutliff had but lately before that graduated at the Western Reserve College, and it was about the time of the breaking up of the Faculty of that institution by reason of Anti-Slavery entering into the college as an element of discussion. President Storrs, Prof. Beriah Green, Elizur Wright, and perhaps some of the Tutors, (the names do not now occur to me,) were compelled to retire because of their Anti-Slavery sentiments. About this time, he went as a delegate to an Anti-Slavery Convention at Philadelphia, where he assisted to form the first National Anti-Slavery Society, and was one of the signers of the famous “DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS.”
The slave always found in Mr. Sutliff a true and steadfast friend. Many a wandering fugitive has had cause to breathe blessings upon him in his flight to Canada and
Liberty.
He assisted, too, in the formation of the first Anti-Slavery Society in Trumbull County. This was as early as in 1832 or 1833. He also assisted to form the Liberty party in 1839, and the next year voted for James G. Birney for President, in preference to Gen. Harrison or Martin Van Buren. Through all the early struggles of the Liberty party for political existence-struggles which were severe, with a pathway rugged and steep ascent, standing as it did between two great parties with no ideas except to get and keep office and distribute spoils-a position very similar to the crucifixion-he was one of its foremost and most zealous supporters and constant friends. His faithfulness to this small, insignificant party, because of the ideas it represented, was very beautiful-nay, it was sublime. Neither the scoffs, the frowns nor the scorn, the threats nor abuse of the leaders of the other parties could move him from his purpose. He has been gloriously rewarded, too, for that faithfulness, and has lived to see the complete triumph of that idea in becoming the mainspring and central idea of all parties, and lived almost long enough to see slavery wiped out, and the stain removed from our otherwise fair escutcheon.
He was a co-laborer in this early anti-slavery work with Judge King, Ephraim Brown, Deacon Smith, and a her of other good and true men, some of whom have gone to their reward, while others of them are permitted to abide with us yet awhile-all of whom were among the builder up of that party, and laboring to make anti-slavery ruling element in our politics.
In 1838, the labors of the brothers Milton, Levi and Calvin G. Sutliff, in Trumbull county, secured the nomination of Hon. J. R. Giddings on anti-slavery grounds, which was one of the greater political events in the history of the anti-slavery warfare.
Mr. Sutliff was twice married. His first wife was Mis. Mary Plumb of Vernon, to whom he was married on the 17th day of September, 1834. This marriage was of <illegible> short duration-Mrs. Sutliff dying in about eighteen month after the marriage. No children survived the first Mrs. Sutliff.
Sutliff. Mr. Sutliff married for his second wife Phebe L. Marvin of Bazetta, on the 1st day of October, <illegible> Mrs. Sutliff has been to him a tender and affectionate wife, and now survives him to mourn as the wife only can, the loss of husband whom she loved. The fruit of this marriage has been eight children-five of whom survived to mourn the
<c06>
loss of a father. He was particularly <illegible> and affectionate in his relations with his family. He was full of quaint humor, and, in his <illegible> with society, was sociable, pleasant and <illegible>. While he will be missed in society as neighbor, friend and citizen, it will be in the home circle where his loss will be more severely felt. There his loss will be <illegible>
On his death being known, the Trumbell County Bar assembled to take such measures as the occasion demanded; and a series of resolutions were passed, expressive of the feelings of the members of the Bar on the and occasion.
A large concourse of people testified their respect to his memory by following his remains to the <illegible>. The mourning circle was large. The members of the Bar walked as mourners, wearing the usual badge.
A citizen of ripe years, of varied experience, having lived a long life in the community; one whose growth and history have been the growth and history of the country; one who has left foot-prints and an impress a upon the times, and the people among whom he lived, which will live after him, has fallen and been gathered to his fathers. Let t the passing stranger speak lightly of his faults, and remember his virtues, while the wife, the children, the relatives and friends drop plentiful tears over his grave. JAY.
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES- <illegible>
SEVENTH SERIES.
AT MUSIC HALL.
On TUESDAY EVENING, October 25, 1864,
ADDRESS BY
ANNA E. DICKINSON.
To be followed on successive Tuesday Evenings by 
Nov. 1-Prof. GOLDWIN SMITH, of England.
Nov. 15-DAVID A. WASSON 
Nov. 22-OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Nov. 29-CHARLES G. AMES.
Dec. 6-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Dec. 13-JACOB M. MANNING.
Dec. 20-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
ORGAN CONCERT each Evening at 7 o'clock. 
W. EUGENE THAYER, Organist.
Tickets admitting the bearer and Lady to the Course, at $3 each.
Tickets admitting one person to the Course, at $2 each.
Checks for SEATS RESERVED TILL. 7 1-2 O'CLOCK, $1 50 additional for each seat.
For sale at Oliver Ditson & Co's, 277 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co's, 33 Court street, John S. Rogers's, 1071 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Cummington, Sunday, Nov. 6.
MARRIED-In Friends' Meeting-House in Pembroke, on the 13th inst., JABEZ WOOD of Acushnet, to ELIZABETH, daughter of Samuel Brown of Pembroke. No cards.
[The Printer of the Liberator acknowledges the receipt of a generous, appropriate and sweet remembrance; and would reciprocate by invoking the fullest fruition of happiness upon “the twain made one” by the hallowed tie thus described by the poet:
"Hail, wedded love! By thee,
Founded in reason, loyal, just and pure,
Relations dear, and all the charities
Of father, son and brother first were known;
Perpetual fountain of domestic sweets.”]

FARM FOR SALE.
WILL BE SOLD AT PUBLIC AUCTION, on THURSDAY, the 10th day of November next, unless previously disposed of at private sale, the valuable Farm belonging to the undersigned, situated in WEST GLOUCESTER. Said farm contains
SEVEN ACRES OF WOODLAND,
very thrifty hard wood, suitable for ship timber, anchor stocks, or cord wood; also, TWO OR MORE ACRES OF CLEARED LAND, with
A TWO-STORY HOUSE, TWO-STORY SHOE-SHOP, and a good-sized Stable thereon;-A FINE ORCHARD, containing the choicest apple, pear, peach and cherry trees; also, grapes, currants and other small fruit. Said farm is known as the HOVEY FARM, and is bordered by four town and county roads, called Essex, Lincoln, Sumner and Haskell streets. A small creek runs through the farm, where salt water ebbs and flows. A stage coach, driven by the accommodating driver, <illegible>, to and from Gloucester Harbor, daily, passes by the premises. It is within speaking distance of the Haskell Saw-Mill, where the timber can be sawed in any shape desired, by the skillful sawyer, JONATHAN RIGGS; and is within three minutes' walk of the Bre Rock on Mrs. RIGGS'S farm, and the Rocky Mountain, (so called,) from which can be seen Essex River, Ipswich Bay, and the island where RUFUS CHOATE was born. It is in a neighborhood of kind, industrious and hospitable farmers, who mind their own business, and let other people's alone.
For terms, apply to the subscriber, who may be found at the farm. ANSEL H. HARLOW.
Gloucester, Oct. 20.

SENATOR WILSON'S BOOK, 
SHOWING what the present Administration has <illegible> for freedom. Being a History of the Anti-Slavery Measures of the 37th and 38th Congresses.
CONTENTS.
Slaves used for Insurrectionary purposes made Free.
Fugitive Slaves not to be returned by Persons in the Army.
The Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia.
President's Proposition to Aid States in the Abolishment of. Slavery.
Prohibition of Slavery in the Territories.
Certain Slaves to be made Free.
Hayti and Liberia.
Education of Colored Youth in the District of Columbia.
The African Slave-Trade.
Additional Act to Abolish Slavery in the District of Columbia.
Colored Soldiers.
Aid to the States to Emancipate their Slaves.
Amendment of the Constitution.
Confinement of Colored Persons in the Washington Jail.
Negro Testimony.
The Coastwise Slave-Trade.
Color no Disqualification for Carrying the Mails.
No Exclusion from the Cars on Account of Color.
12 No-EXTRA CLOTH-$2.
ALSO NOW READY:
THE YOUNG CRUSOE: OR, ADVENTURES OF A SHIPWRECKED BOY. By Dr. Harley. 12mo., with six full page and a profusion of smaller illustrations, in ANDREW'S best style. $1.50. Boys will find this one of the most entertaining and attractive books produced for their delight this year.
JUST PUBLISHED:
PHILOSOPHY AS ABSOLUTE SCIENCE.
By E. L. & A. L. Frothingham. 1 vol. <illegible> elegant. $3.50.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
245 Washington Street, BOSTON.
Oct. 21. 2w
BY THE EARNEST REQUEST
Of a large audience of the citizens of Boston, (<illegible> published resolutions,)
DR. HEBBARD
WILL GIVE. A
SECOND COURSE
OF TEN ILLUSTRATED LECTURES
ON
PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
AT
TREMONT TEMPLE,
COMMENCING ON’
MONDAY EVENING, Oct. 24,
At 7-30 o’clock.
Admission Tickets, 25 cents. Course Tickets, $2.
To be had at Ditson's, Burnhams, Lorings, and at the
 door.
Dr. HEBBARD may be consulted any day from 10 to 12, and from 2 to 4 o'clock, at his rooms at the Temple.
Oct. 21.
The Friend of Progress.
A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE, loyal and responsible to all true educational, <illegible> and religious movements. The Publishers invite the co-operation of all who love their fellow men. $2 per year. Single numbers 20 cents. No. 1 now ready.
C. M. PLUMB & CO., Publishers,
Oct. 21. 274 Canal street, New York.
E. M. BANNISTER, 
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
ROOM 85. STUDIO BUILDING,
TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
BABY LOOKING OUT FOR ME.
BY ETHEL LYNN.
Two little busy hands patting on the window,
Two laughing bright eyes looking out at me;
Two rosy-red cheeks dented with a dimple;
Mother-bird is coming; baby, do you see?
Down by the lilac-bush, something white and assure
Saw I in the window as I passed the tree; 
Well I knew the apron and shoulder-knots of ribbon,
All belonged to baby looking out for me.
Talking low and tenderly 
To myself, as mothers will,
Space I softly, “God in heaven,
Keep my darling free from ill.
Worldly gear and worldly honors
Ask me not for her from Thee;
But from want and sin and sorrow
Keep her ever pure and free.”

Two little waxen hands,
Folded soft and silently;
Two little curtained eyes
Looking out no more for me;
Two little snowy cheeks,
Dimple-dented nevermore;
Two little trodden shoes,
That will never touch the floor;
Shoulder-ribbon softly twisted,
Apron folded, clean and white;
These are left me-and these only
Of the childish presence bright.
Thus He sent an answer to my earnest praying,
Thus he keeps my darling free from earthly stain,
Thus He folds the pet lamb safe from earthly straying,
But I miss her sadly by the window pane,
Till I look above it; then, with purer vision,
Sad, I weep no longer the lilac-bush to pass,
For I see her angel, pure and white and sinless,
Walking with the harpers by the Sea of Glass.
Two little snowy wings softly flutter to and fro,
Two tiny childish hands
Beckon still to me below;
Two tender angel eyes
Watch me ever earnestly
Through the loop-holes of the stars;
Baby’s looking out for me.
-N. Y. Ledger.

BABY IDA.
Little baby, just beginning
Life's old problem, sad and sweet,
You do n't know the hearts you're winning
With your tiny hands and feet,
With your little mouth and chin,
And your dainty rose-leaf skin,
And your wondrous violet eyes,
When their dreamy lids up upraise;
All your tender helplessness
Waking Love's most sweet excess.
Happy little one! To be
Nestled close to hearts that loves you;
And I wonder if you see
Your young mother's eyes above you!
While each day new life is bringing,
Do you hear her sweet voice singing?
Do you know her hand's fond touch?
Oh, so fond, she loves so much!
Do you look up in her face?
And instinctive feel its grace?
Almost four weeks old, they say-
Ah, dear baby! Life is long;
You'll not know, for many a day,
How hearts sadden growing strong.
Baby's feet are soft and white,
And they need not travel yet;
Baby's eyes are blue and bright,
Seeing nothing to regret.
As the flowers get sun and dew,
So your life shall come to you:
Trust on; sleep on, without fear,
Angels guard you, baby dear!
ACGUSTA BELL.

HEAVEN.
BY MISS NANCY A. W. PRIEST.
Beyond these chilly winds and gloomy skies,
Beyond death's cloudy portal,
There is a land where beauty never dies,
And love becomes immortal-
A land where light is never dimmed by shade,
Whose fields are ever vernal?
Where nothing beautiful can ever fade,
But blooms for aye eternal.
We may not know how sweet it’s balmy air,
How bright and fair its flowers;
We may not hear the songs that echo there
Through those enchanted bowers.
The city's shining towers we may not see
With our dim earthly vision;
For death, the silent warder, keeps the key
That opens the gates Elysian.
But sometimes, when adown the western sky
The fiery sunset lingers,
Its golden gates swing inward noiselessly,
Unlocked by silent fingers;
And while they stand a moment half ajar,
Gleams from the inner glory
Stream brightly through the azure vault afar,
And half reveal the story.
O land unknown! O land of love divine!
Father, all-wise, eternal,
Guide, guide these wandering, way-worn feet of mine
Into those pastures vernal!
-Springfield Republican.

"BLESSED TO GIVE."
The kingly sun gives forth his rays;
Asks no return; demands no praise;
But wraps us in strong arms of life,
And says distinct through human strife,
"If thou wouldst truly, nobly live,
Give-ever give."
The rustic flower, up springing bright,
And answering back that regal light,
Fills all the air with fragrant breath,
And writes in myriad hues beneath,
"If thou wouldst gaily, gladly live, 
Give-ever give."
The merchant rain, which carries on 
Rich commerce ‘twixt the earth and sun; 
The autumn mist; the springtide shower; 
All whisper soft to seed and flower, 
"We know no other life to live 
But this-we give."
Suggestive warnings crowd the earth; 
Glad sounds of labor, songs of mirth, 
From creatures both of field and air; 
Who, whilst they take their rightful share, 
Still truly chant, “We chiefly live 
To give-to give.”
Oh man, the gem and crown of all, 
Take thou this lesson:-Heed the call 
Of these less-gifted creatures near; 
The rather-that Christ's voice most dear 
Once said, whilst here He deigned to live, 
"Blessed to give." 
London Good Wards. R. F. WILSON.
 
Thomas L. Harris, in a poem entitled “An Epic of the Starry Heavens," published in 1854, has the following prediction:-
"Oh Earth, there doth even now for thee wait 
A fierce, red conflagration that shall sweep 
All forms of wrong like spark into the deep. 
Thy robber Titans, Earth, who build on high 
The impious Babylon of Slavery, 
Seeking to ‘<illegible> the approaching flood, shall be 
Scattered:  their very foot-prints none shall see. 
The flowers of love and liberty shall bloom.
On their forgotten tomb."
<c02>
Selections.

HOW TO DEAL WITH EVIL 
BY O. B. FROTHINGHAM. 
They who ridicule the idea of overcoming evil with good have no conception of the terribly searching power that goodness is. Most people seem to think that goodness is rose-water. They describe it as a pale, pretty, pensive lady, with a soft voice and melting eye, who minces about with money in her pocket and flowers in her hand, distributing calico aprons and evangelical tracts, reading chapters from the Psalms, and murmuring little charities in the places where want is rotting and sin blasphemes. Goodness is painted as a divinity student, with a white neck-cloth and a clean shirt, and smooth hair falling over his bloodless cheeks. No wonder men doubt its ability to go into the fight with lions. Goodness must needs be a rather tremendous thing to perform the duty assigned to it in the earth. It must not be afraid of a tear or a shriek; it must not turn pale at a fainting-fit, or sicken at sight of blood; it must be able to use the lancet and the scalpel, and even to apply the moa, if the moral diseases of men can be cured in no other fashion, saving men as by fire. It must honor men too much to leave them their painted idolatries, and must love them too much to spare their toy shops. Tender it must be, but tender of that which is most precious, the life, not the raiment or the meat-he inner life of character, not the outer life of flesh. The Infinite Father sends his children to a stern school, where the scourge is still in fashion, and the lessons are hard, and the bottom of the class is for the idle scholar; and if the dear souls do wrong, the great Benefactor makes them feel it. He lashes them unmercifully with pain and want and poverty and sickness; he thrusts them into the dark closet of conscience; he stretches them on the rack of remorse; he makes them walk over the hot iron of shame; not adopting the system of model prisons, which leaves out the punishment, but leaves out also the love! Better the punishment, with the love that makes it medicine, than the flat good-nature which is too squeamish to inflict pain, and, too imbecile to effect cure. “Providence is no sentimentalist. It has a wild, rough, incalculable road to its end." But its end is the conquest of evil, and if evil is a rhinoceros, it is of no use to let fly at him a bird bolt. Give us a little of the goodness that the Perfect Goodness uses towards those it would bring to heaven, and we should not doubt that evil would be overcome. 
One, the representative of a very large class, of a very large and powerful party, in fact-party that carries a white banner with the beauty of the lilies on it spotless ground-was speaking the other day of the behavior which the free and loyal States of the North should pursue towards their revolted sisters of the South. We must not be vindictive, he said; we must not return evil for evil; we must temper our wrath with forbearance, and sweeten our justice with mercy; we must treat them magnanimously, and concede to them every possible grace. All wise and good and Christian; perhaps we have been too bloodthirsty; perhaps we are too vindictive; perhaps we do talk too coolly about dealing blows which can have no effect but that of beating our enemies to a mass of bloody bruises; perhaps we do entertain thoughts which the Christian breast should refuse to harbor. But when this speaker, by way of giving point to his exhortation to mercy, and specifying the way in which good was to overcome evil, went on to say, “We must respect their social institutions; we must not touch their customs; we must not take from them their property," it seemed to me that he showed this same imperfect apprehension of what goodness signifies and demands. 
Respect their social institutions! But have not their social institutions been killing them? Are not their social institutions their disease? Does goodness require the surgeon to respect the cancer in the patient's side, or the priest to respect the darling habit or the bosom sin of the penitent at the confessional? The worst harm we could do them, judging by experience, would be to respect their social institutions... Were we their bitterest enemies, we could not visit on them a more terrible curse than the restoration, the re-establishment, the strengthening of their social institutions. If we wished to consign them to the hell on earth, we should do just that thing. “We must not take away from them their property." But what if their property be an adder that they are cherishing in their bosom? What if it be their property that makes them poor, their lands valueless, their soil unproductive, their climate unhealthy, their population sparse, their laboring classes degraded, their wealth undistributed, their social condition insecure, their laws cruel, their usages and customs behind the time, their industry backward, their intelligence low, their morals loose? Is it kindness to leave them their property? Pray, then, what is unkindness? What is cruelty? What is vindictiveness in its most terrific form? Overcome evil by perpetuating the very evil that is to be overcome! Overcome evil by taking off your hat to it, and saying, “Your very humble servant!” Ah, no; if we did really care for our Southern neighbors, we should never dream for an instant of compromising with them in regard to their institutions or their property; we should press our mercy on them till their institutions were completely abolished; we should wage our pity till their pride of unholy property was taken clean away; we should love them till we had loved their unrighteousness and inhumanity all out of them-till our tears had washed the very dust from their very feet. Yes, if we had ever loved them, if we had ever been disposed to show goodness to them, if we had ever cherished a noble desire for their well-being, long ere this the evil that is in them might have been overcome, the frightful outbreak of disease and demonism would have been avoided, and there would have been no occasion whatever for administering the bitter medicine of the sword. 

INTERFERENCE OF POLITICS WITH RELIGION. 
A writer in the Christian Intelligencer, some weeks since, turned the tables on the politicians with effect. He says: 
"But I have a counter-charge to make to-day of the interference of politics with religion. The measure of the interference of religion with politics to the end of purifying it is as nothing compared with the interference of politics with religion. It is time that those who have the best right to complain should exercise that right. The politics of the day has interfered with religion rudely, persistently, and very far beyond the limits of its right. There is not a denomination in the land it has not either distracted or disturbed. There is not a Christian institution in which it has not intruded itself, and ruled it, as if possessed with a very devil. In its unhallowed fanaticism it has entered the pulpit, and virtually forbid certain portions of the Scriptures from being taught. It has denied the ministry the right of free speech, even from the oracles of God. It has withheld from their support, because they have followed the holy teachings of the word, 'to ‘pray for those in authority.' It has sought to sub serve to its own purposes both the Scriptures and the pulpit. It has entered churches, and bred ill-will and divisions, and fired up hostility among brethren. It has led even Christians to the use of words of insult and wrath, making them' ‘hateful and hating to one another.' It has led them to disobey the plain precept of the gospel, that ‘prayer, supplications, and intercessions be made for all that are in authority.' It has led them to place their politics above their religion. It has distracted the minds of the evil and the good, and caused a declension of religious interest. It has tempted Christian men to sacrifice their professed principles to their parties and their passions, and to make their devotion to their country turn on party conditions or personal opinions. It has even dried up the fountains of Christian compassion in their breasts, when the sick and suffering soldier has appealed by all the ties of humanity, religion, and patriotism to them, still refusing to give him aid. It has justified the. Persecution and murder of, and kindled an inhuman prejudice against the black man of the North, and denied the poor helpless slave and freedman, the sport of circumstances which they cannot control, the ministry of even the Christian teacher. It has made a proposition in our Legislature of New Jersey, relating to the colored man, so inhuman and iniquitous, that if it had become a law would have doomed that body to a disgrace, whose black blot would never have been wiped out. It has, with deep shame, excited a scorn and contempt for them who, though differing from us in color, yet sit in this house at the Lord's Table with us. 
<c03>
It has thus shown you the follower of Christ so frozen by prejudices, that he has refused to act the Good Samaritan. It has withered piety. It has repressed Christian real. It has kept many from the kingdom of God. These are solemn charges. On these I arraign the politics of my country, and the plea of ‘guilty’ must be answered. Let no man deny this! The sad witnesses are here to confront us! Melancholy facts declare ‘an enemy has done this!’”

CAPTAIN SPEKE'S ADVENTURE WITH A BOA CONSTRIOTOR.
At the earliest possible moment after our camp had been pitched, a hunt was set afoot, and Captain Grant, I and some attendants were soon making our way to “the path.” There were no animals there when we arrived, except a few hippopotami, and we were obliged to wait the coming of some more palatable game. Our patience, however, was severely taxed; and after a long delay, we were about to “bag” a hippopotamus, when one of our attendants, perched in a tree about half a mile distant, began waving his blanket. This was a signal that game was approaching. We immediately drew into cover and awaited the coming up of the latter.
We were not delayed long, for presently a long column of animals, from the elephant to the hoodoo, appeared in view, trotting at a good pace to the river. Their flank was soon presented to us, and each selecting his object fired. McCall shot a fine young buffalo cow, whilst Capt. Grant was equally successful with a hoodoo; and several spears, cast by our attendants, stopped the career of one or two different animals of the herd. 
At this juncture, however, occurred an unexpected adventure, that finished our sport, at least for that day. I had sprung forward, immediately after firing, in order to obtain a fair shot at a huge elephant that I wanted to bring down on account of his immense tusks. I got the desired aim, and pulled the trigger of the second barrel. At the moment of my doing so, a wild cry of alarm, uttered by one of the blacks, called my attention. Glancing around, my eye chanced to range up into the foliage of the tree beneath which Capt. Grant and I had lain for several hours previous. 
My feelings may possibly be imagined, as I beheld an enormous boa constrictor, whose hideous head and neck projected some distance into view, showing that he was about to make a fatal spring. His direction was certainly toward me; and as he dashed from his position like a thunderbolt, I gave myself up, for ere aid could reach me, fold after fold of the monster would have crushed my strong frame into a quivering pulp. I fell, seemingly caught in a whirlwind of dust, and a strange, indescribable scuffle ensued. In the midst of this terrible strife, I suddenly became conscious of the presence of a second victim; and even after the time that has elapsed since then; I still recollect with what vividness the thought shot across my mind that this second victim was Captain Grant, my noble companion. 
At last, after being thus whirled about for several seconds, each second seeming to be interminable, there ensued a lull, a stillness as of death, and I opened my eyes, expecting to look upon those unexplored landscapes which are seen only in the country beyond the tomb. Instead of that, I saw Captain Grant leveling his rifle toward me, while standing beside him and behind him were the blacks, in every conceivable attitude of the most intense suspense. 
In a moment I comprehended all. The huge serpent had struck a young buffalo cow, between which and him I had unluckily placed myself at the moment of firing upon the elephant. A most singular good fortune had attended me, however, for instead of being crushed into a mangled mass with the unfortunate cow, my left forearm only had been caught in between the buffalo's body and a single fold of the constrictor. The limb laid just in front of the shoulder at the root of the neck, and thus had a soft bed of flesh, into which it was jammed, as it were, by the immense pressure of the. Serpent’s body, that was like iron in hardness. As I saw Grant was about to shoot, a terror took possession of me; for if he refrained, I might possibly escape, after the boa released his folds from the dead cow. But should he fire and strike the reptile, it would in its convulsions crush or drag me to pieces. Even as the idea came to me, I beheld Grant pause. He appeared to fully comprehend all. He could see how I was situated, that I was still living, and that my delivery depended on the will of the constrictor. We could see every line on each other's face, so close were we, and I would have shouted or spoken, or even whispered at him, had 1 dared. But the boa's head was reared within a few inches of mine, and the wink of an eyelid would perhaps settle my doom; so I stared, stared like a dead man at Grant and at the blacks. 
Presently the serpent began very gradually to relax his folds, and retightening them several times as the crushed buffalo quivered, he unwound one fold entirely. Then he paused. The next iron-like band was the one which held me a prisoner; and as I felt it little by little unclasping, my heart stood still with hope and fear. Perhaps upon being freed, the benumbed arm, uncontrolled by my will, might fall from the cushion-like bed in which it lay. And such a mishap might bring the spare fold around my neck or chest, and then farewell to the sources of the Nile! Oh, how hardly, how desperately I struggled to command myself! I glanced at Grant, and saw him handling his rifle anxiously. I glanced at the Negroes, and saw them still gazing, as though petrified with astonishment. I glanced at the serpent's loathsome head, and saw its bright, deadly eyes, watching for the least sign of life in its prey. Now the reptile loosened its fold on my arm a hair's breadth, and now a little more until half an inch of space separated my arm and its mottled skin. I could have whipped out my hand, but dared not take the risk. Atoms of time dragged themselves into ages, and a minute seemed eternity itself! The second fold was removed entirely, and the next one was easing. Should I dash away now, or wait a more favorable movement? I decided upon the former; and with lightning speed I bounded away toward Grant, the crack of whose piece I heard at the same instant. For the first in my life I was thoroughly overcome; and sinking down, I remained in a semi-conscious state for several minutes. 
When I fully recovered, Grant and the overjoyed Negroes held me up, and pointed out the boa that was still writhing in his death agonies. I shuddered as I looked upon the effects of his tremendous dying strength. For yards around where he lay, grass and bushes and saplings, and in fact everything except the more fully grown trees, were cut clean off, as though they had been trimmed with an immense scythe. This monster, when measured, was fifty-one feet two inches and a half in extreme length, while round the thickest portion of its body the girth was nearly three feet, thus proving, I believe, to be the largest serpent that was ever authentically heard of. 

THE FREEDMEN IN VIRGINIA AND NORTH
CAROLINA. 
Lieutenant Kinsman, General Superintendent of Negro Affairs in General Butler's department, has made an interesting report on the condition of the freedmen, from which we take the following: 

THE DISTRICTS IN VIRGINIA. 
The First district comprises the counties of Elizabeth City, York and Warwick, north of the James River, and is in charge of Captain Charles B. Wilder. The Second district comprises the counties of Norfolk, Princess Anne and Nanosecond, south of the James River, in charge of Captain Orlando Brown. The Third district takes up all the territory of North Carolina in, our possession, and is in charge of Captain Horace James. The counties of St. Mary's, in Maryland, Northampton and Accomack, on the eastern shore of Virginia, annexed to your Department since the issuing of Order No. 46 is known as the Fourth district, in charge of Dr. Caleb S. Henry. 

FARMS AND SCHOOLS. 
One hundred and twelve abandoned farms have been taken for their benefit, and are now being cultivated. Many of these farms have been abandoned for so long a time, or their cultivation having been so much neglected, they cannot be expected to produce as large crops this year as new or well-tilled lands; yet I feel confident that we shall be well compensated for the labor performed. 
Thirty-nine schools have been established, over which there are ninety-nine teachers, with an attendance averaging five thousand nine hundred and thirty. This experiment has been truly successful. The energy, industry, and perseverance of these people in learning to read and write, and their ca-
<c04>
Paucity to learn is far greater than has been claimed for them by their most enthusiastic friends. 

NORFOLK-THE BAXTER FARM.
Buildings and the necessary accompaniments are now ready in the vicinity of Norfolk city, to receive, at a moment's notice, two thousand people. An extensive abandoned ropewalk is divided into rooms, each large enough to accommodate a family comfortably. From the ropewalk buildings they are distributed upon farms, or placed in other positions for self-maintenance, as they may elect. The “Baxter” farm of fifteen hundred acres, and Major Taylor's, of seventeen hundred acres, near Sewell’s Point, are the largest cultivated. Ninety log houses, fifteen by eighteen feet, (with the interstices filled with clay, and board-roofed,) are erected upon these farms, for the accommodation of soldiers' families, to each of whom there is apportioned one and a half acres of ground for garden purposes. A saw mill is in course of completion, and the abundance of timber in this location gives ready employment to all able to work. The requirements of government for laborers here, as in other sections of the department, have absorbed all the able-bodied men; yet, with the remainder, and the well-disposed men, under the guidance of experienced farming overseers, the crops are looking prosperous. In this work, and otherwise employed, are two hundred and fourteen horses, forty-six mules and thirty-one oxen, with the necessary carts, ploughs, &c. 
On abandoned lands in the vicinity of Norfolk, rented to the Negroes last season, ten thousand bushels of corn were produced, and disposed of on government account by auction, at prices varying from eighty-five cents to one dollar and twenty cents per bushel, and the money accounted for according to the terms of their contracts. 

NORTH CAROLINA. 
The third district embraces all of North Carolina within our military lines, and comprises the following towns and places: Beaufort, Newbern, Hawkins Island, Morehead City, Roanoke Island, Washington and Plymouth (the two latter recently abandoned.) The census gives a Negro population in this district of seventeen thousand four hundred and nineteen persons; eight thousand five hundred and twenty-two are males, and eight thousand eight hundred and ninety-seven females. Fourteen thousand six hundred and forty-five were slaves in April, 1861, and two thousand seven hundred and seventy-four were free at that date. Eleven thousand six hundred and thirty-six of these are employed, leaving five thousand seven hundred and eighty-three to be supported by government. Fifteen thousand one hundred and eighty-eight are found unable to read, and the remaining two thousand two hundred and thirty-one are able to read. More than one-half of these Negroes are refugees, having come within our limits since the military occupation of the territory. They are provided for at temporary camps or settlements, in the vicinity of the towns, out of all danger from the enemy. 
A new settlement has lately been laid out within our entrenchments, on the plan of allowing each family a lot of land measuring fifty feet by sixty feet; this consolidation, at the present crisis of affairs, proves a safe and economical arrangement. In December, 1863, in three camps, the government fed nearly two thousand Negroes. In this consolidated camp, containing almost as many as were collected in the three separate camps, less than five hundred are supported. Similar settlements are now being established, though upon a smaller scale, in the vicinity of Beaufort and other places. 

REPORT OF THE BUREAU OF FREE LABOR TO MAJOR GEN. BANKS. 
BUREAU OF FREE LABOR, 
DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, 
NEW ORLEANS, September 9th, 1864. 
Major General N. P. Banks, Commanding Department of the Gulf: 
GENERAL-I beg leave, very respectfully, in compliance with your request, to report the present condition of the FREEDMEN of this Department, and that of the Colored Population generally, so far as the labors of this office extend. 
It is necessary, in order fairly to understand what has been accomplished, to revert to what was 

THEIR CONDITION LAST YEAR. 
When I recall the state of affairs which existed when thousands upon thousands of them were raised from slavery to freedom, along the line of march of the Army of the Gulf at that time; when suddenly, and in a state of fright and confusion, vast numbers of families left the places where they were subjected to the lash, the stocks, and to all the horrors of their condition as slaves, and set out upon a long, wearisome, and dangerous march to places of security, where, for the first time, they could look upon. our flag and say that beneath its folds they were free; when the old and the young, the able, and the infirm, all came in one vast exodus, bearing with them loads of furniture and other property which they thought would be of use to them; when men and women of a hundred years of age, under the strength imparted by the sweet prospect of liberty, marched with almost the alacrity of persons of half their age, and endured hardships that would ordinarily be considered beyond the capacities of human nature; when the bayous and rivers were filled with boats and steamers of every description, loaded with the. anxious creatures, who from exposure, fright, and abuse, were, in alarming numbers, dying beneath the weight of their sorrows; when on every road crowds of them could be seen, at all hours, day and night, seeking a place of asylum and refuge; when I recall all these things, and then consider that, with a few months' exertion, and with the enforcement of regulations suited to a condition of things so serious and alarming, these people have been greatly improved, and kept from idleness and persecution, as well as from being an enormous tax upon the Government, I think there is just ground for gratitude to God, and hope for this race. It is certain that those who are now within our lines can never, under any possible state of affairs, return to such misery, degradation, and utter hopelessness, as that from which we delivered them. 
The advance of the army, under your command, at that time, was the signal for the commencement of an exodus which continues to this day. “The achievements of that army furnished liberty to FIFTY thousand men, women and children, and the number seeking its enjoyment are still irresistibly increasing." That precious boon was had through much suffering on the part of those who are now enjoying it. To be sure, it cost the Government largely to provide for their temporary wants, but the outlay will be returned through the benefits which the Government will derive from their labor and industry this present year. 
The condition of things as regards these people was one which, at that time, required the utmost practical wisdom to furnish an appropriate remedy. Idleness would have resulted in their ruin; and to furnish employment at wages calculated to reward the laborer for his work, and at the same time encourage the employer to engage the labor, was a most important matter to regulate. The changes and commotions in society, during the whole of the past year, rendered it next to impossible to carry into effect any general system of protection for the laborers, and, as a consequence, much suffering was endured by them at the hands of those who employed them. Yet the evils growing out of the injustice and heartlessness of some employers, and the wrongs perpetrated by many others, (some at the hands of officers of the Government even,) have not been so disastrous to the freedmen as would have been those following a state of idleness. To have allowed them that kind of liberty, which in reality is license and not liberty, would have resulted in making the change in their condition one of injury and not of benefit; and, therefore, it became necessary to manage them, and devise such means of protection and encouragement as were adapted to their condition and circumstances. The experience of the past year furnished an excellent conception of the disposition of those who must employ them, namely, for the planters, there were but few others to offer employment. These experiences furnished an idea of what the planters would do, if they were permitted. They demonstrated clearly enough, if there were any possible means of escaping the payment of wages, it would have been just what would have suited them. They would have been pleased with the chance of having all their old habits regarding the slaves revived, and applied to men whom they are now forced to employ as men and not as slaves. Of course, to this rule there are bright and honorable exceptions. Strict military regulations became a necessity, not only in order that the work be undertaken by the employer, but in order that the laborer be willing to perform it.
<c05>
In order, therefore, to employ the Freedmen, and to protect them when employed; and in order to govern the planter, protect property, promote industry, supply the markets, and lay the ground work of prosperity under the new and more exalted state of things which we have brought here, the Labor Regulations in General Order No. 23 were absolutely required; and I will show from results that they have succeeded in the objects intended by them. 

TO PLANTERS AND LABORERS. 
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE 
GULF, New Orleans, Sept. 22, 1864. 
SEED CANE.
I. Owners, lessees and managers of plantations in this Department are hereby ordered to reserve upon their several estates, as Seed Cane, one-fourth of the Sugar Cane, the product of this year. In the event of a transfer of plantations, this reservation will be accounted for to its owner according to its market value at the time of transfer.

WAGES OF LABOR. 
II. All persons are notified that the product of the plantations within the Department of the Gulf will be held, wherever it is found, subject to the lien for wages on the part of the laborers who have been engaged in the cultivation of the crop, in accordance with the provisions of General Orders heretofore published. 
Purchasers are notified that no transfer of products will be regarded as a transfer of title, except it is based upon the full satisfaction of the just claims of laborers for wages, in the currency of the United States. 
Provost marshals are hereby directed to notify owners, lessees and managers, that property will not be moved to market except in compliance with the above conditions. 
The Provost Marshal General and the Superintendent Bureau of Free Labor are directed, in concurrence, to provide for the full execution of this and previous orders relating to the subject. 
By command of Major General Banks. 
GEORGE B. DRAKE, 
Assistant Adjutant General.
HISTORICAL COINCIDENCE.
In the Whig National Convention which met in 1840, Gen. William Henry Harrison, a citizen of a Free State, was nominated for the Presidency, with the understanding that John Tyler, of Virginia, should be the nominee for Vice President. Both candidates were elected; and Gen. Harrison, dying within one short month after his inauguration, left the Presidency in the hands of a most despicable traitor, who only had the merit of devotion to the interests of his own family first, and slavery second, to recommend him. There was always a mystery about the sudden taking off of “Old Tippecanoe,” and there were not wanting those who thought he had been the victim of foul play, and who refused to believe that an old soldier and politician could be bored to death by politicians (as was asserted) in the short space of one month. 
General Taylor was the next Whig President; and although he was a Southern man, he refused to lend himself to the scheme of taking the South out of the Union in the event of the admission of California with slavery prohibited in its constitution. It is a matter of history that when the old hero was approached upon the subject, he declared that if the treasonable experiment was tried; he would himself head an army to enforce obedience to Federal laws. “Old Rough and Ready” did not long survive this threat, and after a sickness of a few days, he died, leaving his successor a Northern man who was pledged to the support of the Fugitive Slave Law. Gen. Taylor's death was attributed to dysentery induced by eating raw blackberries, a fruit that is frequently eaten as a remedy for the disease named. At all events. Gen. Taylor died, and the country got Mr. Fillmore and the Fugitive Slave Law. 
Gen. Pierce of New Hampshire, and W. R. King of Alabama, came next in order after Taylor and Fillmore. Mr. King died of consumption one month after the inauguration of his colleague, and before he had been enabled to assume the duties of the Vice Presidency, leaving “Poor Pierce” in the hands of his Secretary of War, Mr. Jefferson Davis. How well the renegade New Englander served his Southern keepers, Kansas and Nebraska will bear testimony. He was too valuable a President for the South to lose, so he escaped being bored to death by office-seekers, or being killed by dysentery produced by eating blackberries. 
James Buchanan and John C. Breckinridge followed in regular succession, and “Old Buck” came very near being one of the victims of the wholesale poisoning at the National Hotel at Washington. Mr. Buchanan was an inmate of the hotel at the time of the “rat soup” affair; but. By hook or by crook, he escaped the honors of martyrdom. Had he perished along with the numerous Northern victims, John C. Breckinridge would have been President of the United States for four years, and the sort of a President he would have made, the history of the past few years abundantly demonstrates. We do not charge the South with intending to poison Mr. Buchanan at the National Hotel; but it is at least extraordinary that of the many persons who were affected by the poison, there were no Southerners, although there were numerous natives of Dixie who were guests in the house at the time. 
Mr. Lincoln was the successor of Mr. Buchanan in the Presidential chair, and the perils he escaped on his road to Washington, before his inauguration, are matters of notoriety. 
It may be urged, in answer to these implied charges of foul play which we have heard made against Southern political wire-workers, and which we have repeated, that they are not assassins, and that they are not capable of such vile treachery. This fine sentiment might have had weight four years ago; but now it is as light as a feather in the scale of argument. The Southern rebels have been guilty of worse crimes than are imputed to them by those who believe that Harrison and Taylor were the victims, and that good fortune alone saved Buchanan and Lincoln from martyrdom. The original treason of Davis, Floyd and Breckinridge was a far greater crime; and every devastated town, every Union victim of a secession gallows, every slaughtered garrison of defenseless prisoners, every merchantman trapped and burned, and every starved tenant of Libby or Belle Isle, is so much heaped upon the great original wrong. It may be fairly argued that men guilty of these great crimes may be capable of the lesser offences that are hinted at. 
Now for the application. It is a matter of notoriety that undisguised sympathizers with Southern secession and rebellion, if not agents of Southern secessionists, were prominent actors in the Chicago Convention. They virtually sacrificed their “peace on any terms" principle, when they consented to run an avowed war candidate for the Presidency. But they took care to secure a rabid peace man, and a most inveterate Copperhead, as the candidate for the Vice Presidency, with the hope that with a non-committal platform, the war principles, and the supposed personal popularity of the one candidate, would secure the success of the entire ticket. If by any mischance, this fine plan should be found to work successfully, it would at least be a most remarkable coincidence if General McClellan should be promptly bored to death by office-seekers, take an over dose of rat-soup by accident, or conveniently die of dysentery, induced by eating raw blackberries. In that event, the road to peace would be single and easy for the South, as Mr. Pendleton would not be the man to throw any untoward obstacles in the way, even though peace meant the destruction of our nationality and the possible subjugation of the North to Southern traitors. We give the hint for what it is worth. It is at least worth thinking about, between now and November, as accident might work the same results as design, and General McClellan does not enjoy any immunity from the chances of life and death. 
CLARKSVILLE, Tenn., Oct. 12. Lieut. Col. Weaver with 90 colored troops was attacked yesterday morning, five miles below Fort Nelson, by 200 rebels under Lieut. Lowry. The rebels were whipped, with the loss of Lieut. Lowry and Capt. Gundy killed, and 25 men killed and wounded. The Federal loss was one lieutenant and three men killed, and nine men wounded. 
The Herald's correspondent with the 15th corps, writing under date of the 4th, says: “The rebels are busy attempting to strengthen their works, and appear to be in a great hurry. A number of the soldiers of a North Carolina regiment crept down yesterday to bag the pickets of the 2d colored cavalry. The tables were turned on them, and they themselves were bagged. The number of rebel flags captured by this corps has already reached nine." 
<c06>
HUMBLE PETITION.
TO JEFF. DAVIS.
"The Union is the one condition of peace-WE ASK NO MORE."
Only Union-nothing more;
All our rights we cast aside;
Come and govern as before;
We submit-this is our pride!
We'll give up the Union men
In the Border States to you;
Pray you treat them tenderly-
Your guerillas always do!
We will pay your public debt,
We will render back your slaves;
They are in our army now,
But we'll send them-to their graves!
All those States which once held slaves,
All our Territories wide,
Freely we will yield them all,
Freely yield to Slavery's tide.
Is there aught else we can give?
Yes-our manhood, take that too;
We shall have no need of it,
When we thus unite with you!
Only let us live with you
In a Union as of yore;
This we beg for, this we claim;
Only this-"WE ASK NO MORE.”
Boston Journal
WOOD & CO.

Mr. Gooch-Were you on board the gunboat during any part of that day?
Gen. McClellan-I don't remember.
[Report of Committee on the Conduct of the War.
Were there two, or was there one boat!
Did you seek, or did you shun boat!
Did Georgia hide upon that gunboat?
I DON'T REMEMBER!
Is your platform Peace, or War?
Hate you Slavery, or adore!
Tell us what you're really for.
I don't remember.
Pendleton! Do you and him
In you politics agree?
Which of you will master be!
I don't remember!
Are you for the artifice?
Of a Reba! Armistice?
What's your plan, if that should miss?
I don't remember.
Name the royal men and true,
Who are advocating you?
Call us off at least a few.
I don't remember.
THE INCENDIARY FIRES IN RUSSIA. The Moscow Guzette publishes a long list of fires which have taken place in different parts of Russia since April last, and it adds that the account of the principal disasters is not complete. The work of incendiaries commenced at the end of April in the government of Kalong by the destruction of fifty-four houses; next at <illegible> two hundred and four houses were burnt. The fires continued in succession at Carpool; at Sedro’s, where four-fifths of the town were destroyed; at Moser, one-half of the houses; at Malaga, more than two hundred; and at the fair of Ninja-Novgorod, fifteen hundred booths and one hundred and forty-eight houses. At Patois there were as many as six fires in the month of June alone, and entire quarters of the town were consumed. The powder magazines of Kaman and that of Ochoa, near St. Petersburg, were blown up; at Riga two fires occurred one after the other; the same at Tuning, where the finest quarters of the town were entirely destroyed. At Oren burg six hundred houses were burnt, and Bake is now only a heap of ruins. During the same space of time, four conflagrations took place at St. Petersburg; six at Smirks, a town which, as well as Yugoslavia, is now ruins, and one at Serponkhoff, where seventeen houses were consumed. Previously to April, two imperial cannon foundries were laid waste in the same manner. The Moscow Gazette apprehends fresh disasters of the same kind, and calls on the Russian govenment to adopt prompt and rigorous measures.
THE BEECHERS. In a letter addressed by Catharine Beecher to her brother Edward, she sets forth what a set of heretics the family is, though she says that for many years the father and mother were in an agony to establish them in their faith. The following is an extract:
"My brother, we are before the public, under solemn and painful responsibilities. Our father's biography is now before the world, in which he appears as a prominent defender of the New England system of theology, and of the Puritan Church based on that system. And he earnestly trained all his children in that system. And now you, his first educated son, even before his death, have issued two volumes to prove that this system is contrary to ‘the principles of honor and right,' unless the theory of infant preexistence is added to it-a theory which he and all other theologians, after reading your arguments, have rejected. Next, his oldest child has published two volumes to prove that all systems of theology based on the theory of infant depravity are contrary both to common sense and to the Bible. Then our younger brother, both as minister and editor, has rejected the theory of infant depravity, and the whole system based on it. Still another brother has issued a volume repudiating the New England theory of the atonement held by our father, and also maintaining infant preexistence as indispensable to sustain the theology of most of the Protestant world."
It is the intention of some of Gen. McClellan's friends to solicit him to sit for a double portrait of Peace and War. The distinguished General, in imitation of Death and the Lady, will be duly divided. One half of him will appear in the sanguinary costume of a Major General rampant, and the other in the simple and subdued bottomless dress of Minicab Sleek, bearing an olive-branch.
When knights enter the lists to tilt, they display the mottoes on their shields. Pendleton's motto is “I object"-McClellan's “I do not remember.”
The blockade runner Lynx was run on shore and destroyed by fire, on the 25th cult. The Washington, N. C., Journal says she had on board 600 bales of cotton, and $50,000 in gold. On the 29th cult. the steamer Night Hawk was destroyed by the gunboat Nippon, and the rebel captain, officers and part of the crew perished.

ENGLISH PEACE ADDRESS. The London correspondent of the Philadelphia Enquirer says it has been proved that the wonderful Peace Address to be sent to the United States is to be signed, to a great extent, by young boys. Agents are employed to sit with a table at the corner of the streets, and stop all the boys as they pass by, and those who can write their names are coaxed into doing so.
A Copperhead orator at Peoria (III), recently gave as a reason why his party could not rejoice over Union victories, that a victory was an “infraction of the constitutional rights of the South, and that we (the Copperheads) can never consent to rejoice over such a violation of the Constitution." Tender consciences and amazing ingenuity have these Copperheads, wherever any service to their “Southern brethren" is concerned.
Vallandigham made an important speech at Sidney, Ohio, recently. He declared that the Chicago Convention and platform meant peace, unconditional and immediate, and that McClellan's letter was a mere expression of personal opinion. He would be bound in administrative policy by the action of the Convention and its resolutions, as construed by those who made them.
REBEL BARBARITY. A correspondent from Grant's army telegraph says:-“In passing over the ground where the 2d division, 9th corps, met with a reverse Saturday, our dead were found entirely stripped of their clothing. Two or three bodies were horribly mutilated. Several men had evidently been murdered after they were wounded. One body presented a spectacle even too horrible to describe."
Eight thousand Federal soldiers are said to have died at Andersonville, Ga., in the months of July and August. Of six thousand removed to Charleston, S. C., nineteen hundred are incapable of taking care of themselves, and most of them are insame.
A rebel Petersburg correspondent, after detailing the manner in which the dead Union soldiers were robbed and stripped, “as a matter of course," says: “Our boys cannot be condemned for robbing dead Yanks, for they need all they can get."
The rebel paper at Atlanta says-"As a soldier was walking with a sack of corn on his back, a shell entered his back and exploded, without injury to the man"-but it went against the grain-dreadful.
At the recent trial of the Ames rifle gun, at Bridgeport, a shell, weighing 107 lbs., with a charge of 25 pounds of powder, went a distance of 7 1-4 miles in 30 seconds.
The Union League procession on Saturday night in Philadelphia was an immense affair. It extended fourteen miles, and midnight arrived before the left of the line reached the point from which the right had started. Many of the delegates had to march home without going over any part of the assigned route.

