THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance. 
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but arc not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 51. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1860. WHOLE NO. 1565.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
EBULLITION OF PATRIOTIC SENTIMENT.
The townsmen of philosophers Redpath, Phillips, and others, did not appreciate their generous feelings for wicked and ugly old Osawatomie Brown. To be plain, the people of Boston are quite satisfied that fanatic performed not a great act, but perpetrated a terrible crime; and he has been justly hanged for it in an ignominious manner; and that in place of honor, he deserves reprobation. And alive with this correct view of the whole case, they spiritedly proceeded to the Temple the day of the meeting, and effectually hindered the rabid abolition firebrands from manufacturing laurels for the contemptible hero of Harper's Ferry.
We art proud of this. It is true, the interruption has given the meeting some notoriety, which is to be regretted; but as the same meeting was intended by its authors to express the highest appreciation of the people of Boston for John Brown, the interruption, though a violation of the freedom of speech, cannot be well objected to. It is now clear to the country, that in Boston, John Brown is a very wretched individual-that in it, there is no irrational desire to interfere with the property of the South. Our city has been often grossly misrepresented on this point. Mr. Phillips and others of his class have too frequently saddled their own extreme views on their fellow-citizens. The ice is now broken. It is not likely that the furious abolitionists amongst us will ever again attempt to make themselves the exponents of the public feeling. If they do, they are almost certain to gain nothing but failure by the enterprise. While we cannot largely commend-for reasons already given -the interruption of this meeting; yet there are some thanks due to its spirited authors. Their act was violative of one of the highest American privileges -freedom of speech-but it was against a set of dangerous men they exercised it, and it has saved a great city from vile misrepresentation. Violence is often just.
It would be superfluous to reason with Mr. Redpath and his friends on the irrationality of their career. Enthusiasm for negroes has so large a possession of their faculties, that no argument can reach them. Their principle, that illustrious men should be splendidly commemorated, is essentially good. Hut their application of it in the case of Brown shows them to be unable to distinguish between noble and ignoble acts; and the interruption they encountered in his apotheosis in their own city, should convince them that the same metropolis holds both him and them in utter contempt. This is the proper fate of criminals and their abettors. It is particularly gratifying to find Boston speaking thus out, at the present time. The fact cannot but have a good effect on the enthusiastic people of the South, whose secession movement may be justly attributed to the Abolitionists of the Northern cities. If our city had acted in this manner before, it is quite certain that the country would not be so agitated as it now unfortunately is. But better late than not at all; and the present ebullition of true patriotic sentiment mar be followed by a great many.-Boston (Catholic) Pilot.
The calling of such a meeting at this time, to say the least, was poor policy and worse taste; but there are some men who never consult anything but their own feelings and passions, regardless of consequences. Such men do but little good in the world, and are of little use, except to keep the elements from stagnation, and to give the people something to talk about. If they occasionally meet with a rebuff, as in the present instance, they only receive what every one must expect who goes ahead of public sentiment. It is pretty evident that the resolutions adopted at the meeting referred to, express the sentiments of Bostonians, as well as a majority of the people of the State, quite as nearly as any that would have been passed by Fred. Douglass and his associates. Whether that was the proper time and place for the expression of those sentiments, is a question for wiser heads to decide. What we need now is cool and calm judgment, and not frothy speeches and boisterous declamation. Windy demagogues and sensation speakers have ruled long enough, both North and South, and it is time reason and common sense resumed their sway.-Lynn Reporter.
We cannot too earnestly express the hope that if any meeting should be called by the fanatics who assembled in the Tremont Temple last week, all good citizens will keep away from it. Such a meeting would be an insignificant and contemptible affair if attended only by those who sympathize with its object. It would be elevated into undue importance by an attempt to interrupt its proceedings. The fellows who got up that meeting love to be persecuted,' and nothing would please them better than to be the martyrs of a riot. Garrison's fame, of which many of them are emulous, dates from his fight before a Boston mob, some quarter of a century ago.
It there are any citizens who papoose that a free speech meeting is necessary at the present time, let them bear in mind that among those who favor the utmost freedom of speech, there is a great difference of opinion as to the proceedings in Tremont Temple. The meeting was called-not as a meeting of the sympathizers with John Brown-but as a People's Convention,' and under that call, all who chose had a right to attend the meeting, and take part in its proceedings. The majority in attendance, under such a call, had a right to organize the meeting, and pass such resolutions as they pleased. Under this view of the case, which is certainly a reasonable one, the proceedings in Tremont Temple did not violate the right of free speech, however impolitic they may have been. Freedom of speech was fully vindicated in the Joy street meeting in the evening, where the crazy heads poured out their wrath and bitterness against the very authorities who were protecting them in the exercise of their right of free speech, or rather of free vituperation.-Boston Journal.

A GOOD INDICATION.
From a telegram, we learn that James Redpath's John Brown meeting, which was called at Boston, on Monday last, was disposed of in a very summary and appropriate manner. It was monopolized by the anti-John Brown citizens of the place, who chose Richard S. Fay, Chairman, and passed resolutions denouncing Brown, justifying his execution and lauding Virginia. The Abolitionists vainly endeavored to get a hearing. Finally, the police were called, and, amid much confusion, the hall was cleared, and closed up or order of the Mayor. The scene of the next 'wake' will probably be North Elba, where unlimited freedom will perhaps be given these pitiful beings to howl forth their dismal ditties. At all events, we are gratified to see that the people of Boston are beginning to look upon these demonstration in their true character-a public nuisance-a stench in the nostrils of every good citizen, -Topeka (Kansas) Tribune-Border Ruffian Democrat.
<c02>
SELECTIONS.
From the National Anti-Slavery Standard.
THE TWO BOSTONS.
Our readers have all of them read before now the details of the farcical attempt of the Boston Brokers to break up the John Brown Meeting in the Tremont Temple on the 3d inst. We say facial, for though their good will was bloody enough, they had not the pluck to reduce it to act. They would have been very glad, no doubt, if some of their Irish accessories had assassinated Mr. Phillips on his way home from the evening meeting, but they had too much regard for their own necks to make a binding contract with any of them so as to secure the performance of the deed. In fact, it appears that the leaders of the mob prudently hid themselves, when the police were arrayed against them instead of on their side, and after they had received timely warning that there were men, not unused to fighting and well accustomed to the use of arms, who were determined 'to make an example,' in the words of John Brown the Younger, of some of the rioters, should the police prove false or insufficient to keep them outside the door. However tragic their plot, the denouement of their drama was simply farce of the broadest kind.
The purpose of these heroes of the kerb-stone was doubtless to assure the slaveholders that Boston was still true to her traditions of kidnapping, as illustrated in the cases of Sims and Burns, and that she might be trusted, as in 1835, to 'snake out' and discomfit the disturbers of their peace and dignity. Had the history of the 3d of December ended with the clearing of the Tremont Temple by orders of the Mayor, by the expulsion of its lawful occupants on the demand of riotous intruders, there might have been what John Adams called 'a plausible appearance of a probability' of the truth of this gloss. But, unluckily for them, the meeting refused to be so suppressed, and adjourned to another place for the evening session. A demand being made upon the City authorities for protection, the Mayor and Aldermen had the sense to see that it was a thing they could not refuse, without exposing themselves to wrath and indignation of much more consequence to them than that of the State-street note-shavers. Twenty- five years have wrought a mighty change, even in Boston; and the Boston of 1860 is a very different Boston from that of 1835. Then, the mob was openly instigated by men of the first social position and the greatest weight of character. Now, the leaders were men of no consideration or importance whatever-their claim to be gentlemen, which the Anti-Slavery papers even have conceded to them, resting solely, as we are credibly informed, upon their coats being whole at the elbows and their shirts not noticeably dirty. But neither peculiarly nor politically were they of any significance whatever. In 1835, there was no part of the population, excepting the hunted Abolitionists themselves, that had a word to say against the Garrison Mob. The mob party was in possession of the State, and even Governor Everett was emboldened to hint at potential penalties for free speech.
Now, the situation of affairs is entirely changed. In Boston itself, there is a large minority which have been educated by the Anti-Slavery agitation of a quarter of a century into the apprehension of the truth that mobs are not to put down meetings, and that mayors are not appointed to be their instruments And the State is entirely in the hands of this promising class of political pupils who have been brought up by the Abolition schoolmaster to understand that free speech is the essential element of their own life and growth. The examples of New York and Baltimore, from whose incompetent or corrupt municipalities the State has in-interposed to take the protection of the persons and properties of the citizens to whom it is due, from the sovereign authority, no doubt were of main weight with the Boston authorities. Plain intimations which had been given, that Governor Andrew would Lave the appointment of the police of Boston the next year, struck terror into the hearts of the men, and dismay into the souls of their masters. At any rate, sufficient measures were taken, by the detailing of a large body of the police and the holding in readiness of an adequate military force, to enable the John Brownists, as the newspapers called them, to carry on their meeting in the evening to a prosperous issue. Accordingly, the report which will go down to the South, of Boston, will be, that the municipal authorities, with force and arms, sustained the right of the admirers of Capt. Brown to hold their meeting, and deliver their minds on any points they pleased, to the fullest extent they liked. So that the whole beneficial result of this bill-brokers' coup d' that of December, if any, will be to recommend the individual heroes of the moving attack to the favor of the slaveholders having business in Boston. An advantage which, in the present, state of affairs, we apprehend, will not command a premium at the Brokers' Board.
If these ridiculous persons, who undertook to carry on a war of which they had not counted the cost, had any motive for their absurd conduct, excepting to curry favor with the slaveholders or their advisers, (if there really were prompters of any consequence behind the scenes,) it was undoubtedly that of intimidating the Republican majority of the Massachusetts Legislature into repealing the Personal Liberty Bill, or performing such other acts of degradation as may make the beaten party forgive the successful one. If so, nothing could be more intensely asinine than this means directed to such an end. It is bad enough to be asked to revoke the deliberately and repeatedly defined policy of the State under menace of South Carolina, without being expected to cower before the puny fists of the petty Shylocks of their own capital city. It is a kind of 'pitchfork-enticing' which we rather think the members from the rural districts of the Bay State will not think inviting enough to yield to their seductions. If there is one truth in the future which it needs no prophet to foretell, and which the wayfaring man, though a fool, cannot mistake, it is that any man in Massachusetts who yields an inch or bates a hair of the position she now occupies, in the presence of the threats of the South, will be disgraced and dishonored in her eyes, and forever discharged from her service. And so we believe it will be as to all the other free States which have ever undertaken to perform the very first duty of civil government -the protection of the weakest members of the Commonwealth. If, in the several States, or in Congress, there be any truckling on the part of men charged with the interests and the honor of the North, before the menaces of the South, woe be unto the men who consent to the dishonor of the mother States that bore them! And, not merely the men, but the party that shall consent to the disgrace of the section, and the denial of the principles that raised them to power, will perish, like Jonah's gourd, before the hot indignation of the people. The leaders of the Republican party are under great temptation to abase themselves, in the hope of a quiet reign for Abraham Lincoln
<c03>
and a peaceable enjoyment of the paradise of office for themselves; but they may be assured that they are in much more danger of political ruin through the disruption of their party than through the disruption of the Union.
And before leaving this subject, we think it no more than right by all parties, to correct an error which obtains extensively as to the quality of the men who called the Boston Meeting of the 3d of December. The Tribune, in its editorial comments on the affair, and even its own correspondent in his excellent narrative of its details, speaks of them as 'the Garrisonians' or the 'Garrisonian part.' Nothing can be less justly descriptive of those excellent persons than such a characterization. We rather think that they would be much more justly described as 'the Republicans,' or the 'Republican party,' as we incline to believe that every man especially interested in that meeting voted for Abraham Lincoln. We do not think that there was a Garrisonian, meaning thereby an Abolitionist of the stamp of the American Anti-Slavery Society, among them. They are always careful to distinguish themselves from us when they come into our meetings, as we are to make clear the specific differences which separate us from them when we go into their assembly. They believe insurrection to be the chief means by which abolition is to be brought about. We do not. We hold that black men have the same natural right that white men have to rise and vindicate their liberties by force of arms, whenever there is a rational chance of success. We do not think it wise or humane, either towards the slaves or the masters, to stimulate and incite insurrectionary movements. We believe that the application of truth to the minds of the people of the free States, and, as far as possible, to those of the slave States, to which we owe the present hopeful condition of affairs, is still the true method of preparing the way for the peaceful deliverance of the slaves. We are ready to discuss these differences of method in our meetings or in theirs; but we think the gravity of those differences should be remembered by all who recount this passage of our history.

Correspondence of the Worcester Daily Spy.
LETTER FROM BOSTON.
BOSTON, Dec. 5th, 1860.
In spite of the financial and political anxieties now prevailing in this city, the late riot at the Tremont Temple furnishes the chief subject of conversation among all classes. Everybody compares it to the famous Garrison mob of twenty-five years ago. But the astonishing difference is seen in this, that whereas it then took ten years to produce a wholesome reaction, it has now taken but twenty-four hours. It is now difficult to hear of any man in any party, who justifies the affair, outside of the small knot of fast merchants, sporting men and custom house bullies, with whom it originated. I heard a prominent Bell and Everett merchant say this morning, -'It was an act of stupid folly. It was worse than a crime, it was a blunder.'
It is conceded by all, that the meeting, if left alone, would have been a failure. Its numbers were very email, and many of the speakers announced were not present. If the intruders had simply voted to adjourn it, as they might have done, it would have been dishonorable, but not riotous. But they pushed their blackguardism so ridiculously far, in passing those preposterous resolutions; and the Boston Courier showed such inconceivable folly, in its threat that the next persons silenced should be Sumner and Wilson, that everybody awoke instantly to the discovery that the city was under mob law. What appeared at first merely ridiculous, began to look dangerous.
The police indeed claim to have done their duty in the evening, but that was beginning rather late. Moreover, the African chapel was an easy place to defend, being small and situated at the bottom of a court, which could easily be kept clear. Even then, Wendell Phillips had to be taken out the back way, with a very strong guard of friends, around whom the mob pressed with fierce cries and missiles. Colored men were pursued by organized bands, and severely beaten; in one case, a horse car was forcibly stopped, and searched for colored men; this I hear from one who was in it. Windows were broken in all the colored quarter of the town. Indeed, the evening mob was much worse than the morning one; that consisted merely of the aristocratic portion of those who defeated Burlingame; in the evening they brought in their degraded North street supporters also. Not one half the outrages committed have yet got into the newspapers.
The rioters had not the sense to obtain the shadow of propriety that might have come from getting regular control of the meeting-they being the majority. After Mr. Martin had been called to the chair regularly, taken his place, and appointed a committee, a man in the body of the hall rose, and nominated Mr. Fay for chairman, put the question himself, and declared Mr. Fay elected, who there-upon took possession of the chair. Of course, the Massachusetts legislature might at any time be broken up by an armed mob with equal plausibility. 
So plain is this inference, that the proposal for a metropolitan police system, similar to that of New York, is meeting with great favor in influential quarters. The ground is taken that as Boston is the seat of the Legislature and the metropolis of the State, it is absurd to leave the enforcement of State laws to the whims, prejudices, or fears of a mere city official, be he Mayor, or Chief of Police, but that the State authorities should control the city police. Such a measure will no doubt touch keenly the pride of Bostonians, who have heretofore delighted in contrasting their city with New York, -but the days are gone by when Boston ruled Massachusetts.
At any rate, this riot will furnish a fruitful subject for comment in our new Legislature. The Personal Liberty Bill will not undergo much alteration for the worse, you may be sure: 'if it is touched, it will now be to make it more stringent,' as a very conservative Republican politician said to me just now.
I have not seen in the papers what I heard from an intimate personal friend of Governor Banks, that he was exceedingly indignant at the occurrences of Monday morning, and was personally present among the crowd at the evening meeting, prepared to take the command of the military, if necessary. Two companies were under arms during a portion of the night, if not the whole.
The timid tone of the Advertiser and the Journal, the day after the outrage, elicited much contemptuous remark; but the extravagance of the Courier proved an admirable tonic to the Journal afterwards. The Atlas and the Transcript were much more manly. There is a strong desire felt for an indignation meeting, among persons who had no share in the original convention; and it will be held, unless the reaction is so complete as to make it seem better to treat the whole brutal business with contempt. The Superintendent of the Temple, Mr. Hayes, is very indignant against the timidity of the Mayor, in ordering the hall to be cleared, and stands read to let it at any time, to any respectable parties, blade or white, and will call on the police to protect them in the use of it.
<c04>
One thing I must not omit to say. It was reported in advance that the Southern law students from Cambridge were to have a hand in the riot. I am informed, however, that the only Southern man present took the side of the friends of order. He was also the only one on that side who drew a weapon; several had them, but were persuaded by Sanborn and others to keep them out of the way. This man, however, kept his hand on his bowie knife, with the pithy remark, 'I was driven out of Charleston for free speech, but I'm d-d if they drive me out of Boston.' The State street gentlemen were observed to give him a wide berth, reserving their energies for small or elderly colored men.
FREE SPEECH.

THE BOSTON RIOTERS.
When Captain Isaiah Rynders essays to break up an anti-slavery meeting in this city, it is well understood that he acts for political effect, and with a view to political reward. His Marshalship under Mr. Buchanan was well earned. The broadcloth rioters at Tremont Temple and Music Hall in Boston were avowedly actuated by political motives,- to pacify the South and save the Union,-though they themselves would be mobbed at the South, as Professor Mitchell was threatened, if they should there declaim in behalf of the Union.
As Mr. Buchanan is about to retire from office, and the Southern dynasty at Washington is drawing to an end, it is difficult to see what political reward the Boston rioters can hope for, unless it shall be the meager consulships that the Southern Confederacy may seek to establish in Northern ports. Perhaps, however, a continued interest in Southern trade would be as satisfactory to these rioters and their backers as any political promotion. It is a pity that they should work without pay; and that they may not fail of some reward, we give them the gratuitous benefit of a conspicuous advertisement. 
The leading rioter at Tremont Temple, the Rynders of the day, was RICHARD S. FAY who hails from Lynn, but is said also to have a house on Beacon street, Boston. It was no more respectable, and no less contemptible, for Richard S. Fay to usurp the direction of a meeting called by others, and to insult Mr. Frederick Douglass, than it was for Isaiah Rynders to do precisely the same thing at the old Tabernacle in this city, a few years ago. 
The chief ally of Richard S. Fay, was JAMES MURRAY HOWE, of Brookline. All the reports of the riot at the Temple agree in making this Fay and Howe the ringleaders of the rioters. Henceforth let them be recognized and remembered as such. But as the names of Fay and Howe are borne also by gentlemen of respectability and character in Massachusetts, these two rioters should be carefully identified by their Christian names and their places of residence. The Boston correspondent of the Tribune adds quite a list of secondary names; but as the reward of the rioters may be too small for subdivision, the credit of the affair should go in the first instance to Richard S. Fay, of Lynn, and James Murray Howe, of Brookline. With such competitors, Rynders must look well to his standing with the South. The kidnapping of John Thomas was hardly so illustrious a deed, as the forcible ejection of Mr. Frederick Douglass from a hall hired and paid for by his personal friends. When the 'Union Men of Boston' undertake the violent suppression of free speech, the old Empire Club of this city must look well to its laurels.-New York Independent.

THE REIGN OF TERROR. It has heretofore been the fashion for the hotheaded Southern desperadoes to monopolize all the honors which may arise from the employment of brute force in lieu of argument, when an adversary undertakes to exercise his constitutional rights, in that benighted land of blood and crime,-but it appears from recent developments in the city of Boston, that this delectable privilege is to be no longer exclusively confined to the chivalry of the slaveholding States. 
Preston S. Brooks stands no longer alone as an embodiment of ruffianism, for a worthy compeer has been found in the person of Richard S. Fay, a merchant of Boston, whilom a Director of the B. & S. Glass Co., whose conduct as a prominent leader of a gang of 'respectable' rowdies, who, on Monday last, assailed and broke up a peaceable meeting of people assembled under a call issued for a gathering of persons to consider the most feasible method to abolish the 'sum of all villanies,' American slavery, entitles him to the condemnation of every one who possesses a spark of true manliness or love of justice. We do not remember to have read of a more dastardly outrage-a more despicable attempt to put down free discussion and establish the reign of terror than this foray of Richard S. Fay and his band of 'respectable' scoundrels. We trust that petitions will be immediately circulated throughout the Commonwealth, for the signatures of every lover of Free Speech in Massachusetts, praying our Legislature to pass a Metropolitan Police Law; so that the citizens of Boston may be protected hereafter in their right to assemble whenever and wherever they please, to discuss any and every question they please, unmolested by 'respectable' or any other ruffians; and also that the laws of the Commonwealth affixing proper penalties for disturbances of the public peace be rigorously enforced. If the city of Boston is powerless to protect her citizens, let it be understood that the State authorities, uninfluenced by the greed of gain, and the pressure of mind power, will attend to their Constitutional duties, in such cases, and perhaps Mr. Richard S. Fay may learn a lesson which will tend to allay his zeal in behalf of slavery, and make him hereafter a more peaceable member of the community.-Sandwich Advocate.

FREEDOM OF SPEECH VIOLATED IN BOSTON.
The telegraph brought news of the breaking up of a meeting of John Brown sympathizers, who had gathered in Boston to celebrate the anniversary of his death. We are told that those who were foremost in breaking up the meeting were of the highest respectability'-men of wealth and standing. And many Northern journals countenance their acts, and stigmatize the meeting as one of 'dangerous fanatics.' But what of that? What if the movers in the meeting were Abolitionists and Garrisonites? Have not they a right to freedom of speech? And who is to be the arbiter? who is to decide whether or not a man is too fanatical to be allowed to hold to his own views, and promulgate them too, if he can influence others to become his followers? These things are done in the South, and we all cry out against it as a wrong arid a tyranny; in how much do the motive and the principle differ, when put into practice in the North? Suppose a meeting was called in Cleveland, of all whose sympathies were with the secessionists of the South, is there a decent Republican journal that would advise or countenance any body of men, however 'respectable,' in breaking up that meeting by force? And if freedom of speech is to be allowed to one, why not to all? Whether the
<c05>
meeting in unwise or not, affects not the principle of free speech. We care not whether the intruding party upon the meeting at Boston was composed of millionaires or beggars; it was a mob, and as such, deserving the execration of the whole North.-Cleveland Leader.

VINDICATION OF MOBOCRACY.
The Patriot thinks we should hardly dare to say to the face of the men who broke up the Tremont Temple meeting last week, that they were a 'mob.' Why should we not? Does the Patriot mean to intimate that toe, too, should he treated to mob argument, in such a case? We don't know how such a proposition strikes others, but to our mind it savors strongly of Austrian despotism and the law of the bludgeon; and yet this is a fair inference, from the Patriot's article. As to our having sympathy with the Temple Meeting, that is a slander and a calumny. We have no desire to canonize John Brown or any of his gang; but the means employed to break up that meeting were disgraceful to the actors, and if any man of Cape Cod origin was engaged in it, we are very sorry to learn the fact. They were not obliged to go to the meeting; but when they were there, they had no right to outrage free speech by such proceedings as those which we have commented upon. The Patriot ought to be ashamed of itself for countenancing or defending such miserable business.- Yarmouth Register.

NO COMPROMISE WITH OPPRESSION.
That long-tried and untiring friend of the oppressed, Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, N. Y. delivered a timely, earnest and faithful Discourse from his pulpit on Thanksgiving Day, on the condition of the country -concluding in the following emphatic strain:-
The spirit of oppression is insatiable. Tyrants must needs be full of fears-jealous of their power, and incessantly seeking new securities. The Slaveholders are peremptory in demanding that their system of labor, though it has operated like an intellectual and moral blight upon their States, shall yet be extended into any and all of our National Territories, in order that their ascendancy in the National Legislature and Federal Government shall be perpetuated forever-by the addition, from time to time, of new Slave States to our Union. In order to supply this increased demand for laborers, they would have us re-open the African Slave Trade,-roll back the civilization of our country more than a half a century. Nor would all this satisfy them. They have more than intimated that our own laboring population ought to be reduced to the condition of theirs! So that, if we would let the South Carolinians have their way, not a man among us who guides the plow, or digs the soil, or plies any of the tools of the mechanic, would any longer be free-certainly he would not be admitted to the elective franchise.
Nothing, then, is to be gained by concession and compromises! but everything may be lost. It is the downward way, which ends only in perdition.
Well has the greatest of our statesmen said, ‘The day of Compromises has passed.' Let, then, the vantage ground, which has been fairly won by the friends of Liberty and Humanity, be generously but firmly maintained. It is the reward of unwearied labors, long continued.
Thirty years ago, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON came forth from his obscurity, and raised the cry of impartial liberty-freedom for the colored not less than for the white inhabitants of our country. 
'Truths would you teach, to save a sinking land, 
All fear, few aid you, and none understand.' 
Such was his experience. Although the principles which he announced were as intelligible and obviously true as the leading doctrines of our Declaration of Independence, or the first precepts of Christian morality, yet were they misapprehended by many, and misrepresented by more. To this day, his seminal proposition, that immediate emancipation is the right of the Slave, and the duty of the Master,' is accepted by only a few.
Nevertheless, the announcement of that truth, and the inquiries and discussions to which it has given rise, have disseminated an anti-slavery sentiment throughout our country which will be mighty, through God, to the overthrow of our republican despotisms. The passionate, violent opposition it has called out, is as sure an evidence of its vitality as is the assent of all who have embraced and dared to advocate it. As did the preaching of the Gospel in Judea, so has this promulgation of deliverance to the captives in our country brought not peace, but contention. It has divided families, sundered churches, broken in pieces ecclesiastical bodies and political parties; and now threatens even to dissolve our Federal Union. But, dearly beloved, 'let not your hearts be troubled; ye believe in God,' believe also in the might of the right! The Lord reigns! let the earth rejoice! Be not dismayed, though the heavens fall. Nothing shall harm you, if you be found on the Lord's side, which is the side of Justice and Humanity. All is not yet accomplished: many a weary year may roll over us before it shall be. But rejoice and give thanks, that so much has been done. A new political party has come into power, which is pledged, at least, to withstand the further extension of slavery. That is a good, for which, if it be effected, we cannot be too thankful. It is, too, the precursor of something better. When the monster iniquity shall be pent up within its present limits, it will prey upon itself. It can live but by stretching out into new regions, and feeding upon their virgin soils.
Of course, the Slaveholders understand all this; and they are alarmed, that the beginning of the end of their 'peculiar institution' is at hand. You must not wonder at their excitement, nor be dismayed by their fury. They may do some damage, though not, I trust, so much as they threaten. The greatest harm they can do is to frighten or persuade us to make some new compromise, or to restore the old Missouri one, and to pay for the fugitives that we may shelter, or help to escape. Already has the suggestion come from near the headquarters of Republicanism in this State, that such concessions would be reasonable. Far otherwise. They would be craven-base in themselves, and suicidal to that party, if it should consent to them. There is a power behind the Republican party, which will throw it down, if it shall be thus recreant to its high duty, its avowed principles. The spirit of the Almighty Father prompts us to the entire extirpation of slavery; and there are tens of thousands in our free States, who are animated to labor untiringly to that end. The spirit of our day-the spirit that has called the Republican party into being, and borne it up to political ascendency -has declared that the evil of slavery shall be extended no further; that man, therefore, is a traitor to the party, and a stumbling-block on the highway of the Lord-the way of progress-who suggests or would consent to such, concessions. The Missouri Compromise was annulled by the slaveholders themselves, though the people of the free States bad strictly complied with it. Let us then hold fast what we ought never to have given up,
<c06>
and keep forever what they, in their blinded eagerness for universal empire, passionately threw back into our hands. Let us be as zealous for liberty as they were for slavery, and keep, the door, as they have thrown it, open, that we may avert the curse of domestic servitude from the territories South, as well as those North of the Missouri line.
As to the other proposal in the Albany Evening Journal- that we should pay for the fugitives we may harbor or shield from recapture-the people would not do it, if their legislators should agree to require it of them. It would be base so to do; it would be recognizing the right of property in men; it would be paying for obeying the golden rule, paying for yielding to the impulses of our humanity; for refusing to be the brutes, the bloodhounds that the Fugitive Slave Act would make us.
O, let me entreat you to make no further concessions to the oppressors of mankind! The dissolution of our Union would indeed be a great calamity; but a far greater evil would it be to perpetuate our Union by agreeing to perpetuate, uphold, or extend the system of slavery. If we are calm, indulgent, allowing the Slave States to go out of the Union if they choose, they will soon find out their sad mistake-a mistake far more mischievous to them than to us. For what can they gain by the dissolution of their Union with us? Nothing but a temporary gratification of their passionateness. They will be equally near to the Free States, which will then be to the fugitives from slavery what Canada now is. They will be equally near to the dreaded abolitionists, who recognize no geographical boundary, or political restrictions to their sympathies with the oppressed, and their exertions for the deliverance of the enslaved. They will be equally near to the north star, that will guide the flying bondmen as unerringly to the land of freedom then as now. They will be equally near to, or rather, I should say, equally far from God and Christ, and the common sentiment of humanity. These all are working together to effect the subversion of that system of all unrighteousness, which slaveholders are endeavoring to uphold. Unless, therefore, slaveholders are mightier than the true and the right, mightier that God, Christ, and the better part of man's nature, they must be discomfited in the unequal conflict.
The abolition of slavery is but a question of time and manner. Come it must, 'come it will,' said Mr. Jefferson,' if not by the generous energy of our own minds, it will come by the awful processes of St. Domingo'-servile and civil war. Would to God the men of his day had heeded his counsels, his warnings! We must listen to them, and follow them now.
Unless it can be shown that negroes are not men-that they have not hands, affections, passions -that if you wound them, they will not bleed, and if you wrong them, they will not revenge; unless this can be made certain, we may be sure that our nation, in deferring the day of emancipation, is treasuring up for itself such a measure of wrath as never yet was meted out to any people. Nay, more: it must be shown that the blood of Africans, mingled with that of any other people, in the smallest measure, despoils it of all its humanity, and reduces the offspring to brutes; aye, that the blood of the 'First Families in Virginia,' the blood even of the haughtiest Anglo-Saxon aristocrats of South Carolina, mingled with a drop that has flowed in the veins of a slave mother, is deprived of all the temper and spirit of the sire;-we must have all this proved beyond a doubt, or we shall have nothing less to look for in the day of the Lord, than some leader more terrible than Toussaint L'Ouverture; yes, as irresistible as Moses armed with the powers of the Almighty, who shall arise from the midst of our bondmen, and avenge them as wronged, blighted, peeled, outraged human beings have never yet been avenged upon their oppressors.
Now is the accepted time; now is the day of our national salvation!' The best time to begin to do right is the present time. The only way to rid ourselves of the consequences of sin, is to sin no more. 'Cease to do evil, learn to do well,' is the divine counsel. The blessed results of immediate emancipation in the British. West Indies illustrate the way in which we should henceforth persevere. Let not the lying prophets in our land any longer deceive us on this point. 'The right way is the safe way.'
Much has been done by the anti-slavery laborers in our country, the last thirty years. Much more remains to be done. We are upon the threshold of success. We must not recede. Let us hold fast what we have gained, and press forward.
We of the North are but little less guilty than our Southern brethren, in respect to the enslaved. Let us show ourselves ready to share with them, as much as we may, in the expenses, as well as the toils, that must be incurred in the work of raising up millions of ignorant, imbruted slaves to the condition of intelligent, virtuous freemen, and, in due time, citizens. We cannot, indeed, pay for their liberation from slavery, for that would be to acknowledge the right of their oppressors to hold them in bondage, until they shaft have been paid to let them go. It would be to recognize and sanction the assumption of property in man,' which is the essential wrong of 'the peculiar institution.'
So far as emancipation is concerned, it is not a question between us and our Southern brethren. It is a question before the impartial Father of all men, between the oppressors and the oppressed, the slaveholders and the enslaved. The slaves have a perfect, inalienable right to their liberty this moment, whether we are or are not able, or willing, to pay for their liberation. And they cannot be held in bondage a moment longer, without added sin. We of the North cannot pay the slaveholders, for they demand more than we can give. We ought not to pay them, for they would be, in due time, enriched tenfold, if they would convert their slaves into a free laboring population. The experience and the enlightened sentiment of Great Britain admonish us, that the compensation should be given to the slaves rather than to their masters. Banish, then, at once from your minds all thought of paying the slaveholders for the liberty of their slaves.
But so soon as they shall come to see the unparalleled iniquity of their system, and in the spirit of true repentance shall set about to rid themselves of the wrong, let us of the North, in the same spirit, as partners in the great iniquity, let us proffer them all the aid we can render. Let our wealth and the wealth of the nation be put in requisition to relieve their pecuniary embarrassments, if any should arise; to furnish the freed men with such comforts and conveniences as they will need; and to establish such educational and religions institutions as will be indispensable everywhere to enable them, and yet more, their children and their children's Children, to become what the free people, the citizens of self-governing States ought to be. On this grand consummation, let us fix one eyes, and press on to it with increased and increasing diligence. 
*See a pamphlet by Mrs. L. M. Child with this title: 'The Right Way is the Safe Way.'

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution, is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hall.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than, they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States attending.' -WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS 
BOSTON, DECEMBER 21, 1860.
EXTRAORDINARY SCENES FOR A NEW ENGLAND SABBATH,
THE POLICE ON DUTY AT A PLACE OF WORSHIP.
Wendell Phillips speaks at Music Hall on 'Mobs and Education'-He is Mobbed In the Street, but protected by the Police Authorities.
On Sunday forenoon, the Twenty-Eight Congregational Society (Theodore Parker's  Fraternity) held their usual Sunday meeting in Music Hall. It having been rumored for several days previous, that Mr. Phillips was likely to be mobbed and assaulted, a large detachment of police was in attendance at the hall, at an early hour. Before the services commenced, large numbers of the police were stationed in two small rooms adjoining the platform. Others were stationed in various parts of the hall and building. Members of the detective police force were also present. The audience was truly immense. 
The regular religious exercises of the day were commenced in the usual manner. Mr. John R. Manley read the hymn commencing-
'O true reformers, not in vain 
Your trust in human kind;
The good which bloodshed could not gain, 
Your peaceful zeal shall find.'
Mr. Phillips then read the following selections from Scripture:-
'Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?
The kings of the earth set themselevs, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord, and against his Anointed, saying, 
Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us.
He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have them in derision. 
Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure. 
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the rulers, and elders and scribes, 
And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem. 
And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power or by what name have ye done this?
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and elders of Israel, 
If we this day be examined of the good deed done the impotent man, by what means he is made whole; 
Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. 
This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, which is become the head of the corner. 
Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. 
Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.
And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. 
But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves,
Saying, What shall we do to these? for that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. 
But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name. 
And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. 
But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to harken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.'
The following prophetic hymn, written by the late Henry Ware, Jr. was next impressively read by Mr. Philips, and sung by the choir:-
'Oppression shall not always reign; 
There comes a brighter day, 
When freedom, burst from every chain, 
Shall have triumphant way. 
Then right shall over might prevail, 
And truth, like hero armed in mail, 
The hosts of tyrant wrong assail, 
And hold eternal sway.
What foes shall bid the progress stay 
Of truth's victorious car?
What arm arrest the growing day, 
Or quench the solar star?
What reckless soul, though stout and strong, 
Shall dare bring back the ancient wrong, 
Oppression's guilty night prolong, 
And Freedom's morning bar?'
ADDRESS OF MR. PHILLIPS. 
I was present here last Sunday, and noticed that some of the friends of the speaker expressed their sympathy with his sentiments, by applause. You will allow me to request that to-day, at least, we preserve the usual decorum of this place, and this hour, and listen,- -even if you should like anything particularly,-in silence.
About a fortnight ago,-on the third of this month,-certain men, supported by the Mayor, broke up an Anti-Slavery meeting. I propose to consider that morning, as illustrating American education. Some of you may think that everybody talks, now, of slavery, free speech, and the negro. That is true; and I am not certain that the longest liver of you all will ever see the day when it will not be so. The negro, for fifty, or thirty, years has been the basis of our commerce, the root of our politics, the pivot of our pulpit, the inspiration of almost all that is destined to live in our literature. For a hundred years, at least, our history will probably be a record of the struggles of a proud and selfish race, to do justice to one that circumstances have thrown into its power. The effects of slavery will not vanish in one generation, or even in two. It were a very slight evil, if they could be done away with more quickly. 
Frederika Bremer said, the fate of the negro is the romance of our history. It will probably be a long while, a very long while, before the needle of our politics will float free from this disturbance, before trade will cease to feel the shock of this agitation, before the pulpit can throw off vassalage to this prejudice and property, before letters take heart and dare to speak the truth. A bitter prejudice must be soothed, a bloody code repealed, a huckstering Constitution amended or made way with, social and industrial life re-arranged, and ministers allowed to take the Bible, instead of the Stock List, as the basis of their sermons. Meanwhile, you must expect that every shock and oscillation of the stormy elements will stir up the dregs of society, lewd fellows of the baser sort, to deeds of anger and outrage; and meanwhile every honest and earnest man will speak, and every such man will be glad to hear, as occasion calls, of this the great duty that Providence has placed in our hands.
I bate no jot of trust that this noble trial of self-government will succeed. Heirs of a glorious past, we have manhood enough to be the benefactors of the future, and to hand down this hard-earned fabric, freed from its greatest, perhaps its only, danger. 
The panting of these States always amazed the casual observer, and has been a subject of the deepest interest to thoughtful men. 'The wildest theories of the human reason were reduced to practice by a community so I umble that no statesman condescended to notice it, and a legislation without precedent was produced off-hand by the instincts of the people.' The profoundest scholar of that day said, 'No man is wiser for his learning,' a sentiment which Edmund Burke almost echoed; and it seems as if our comparatively unlettered fathers proved it. They framed a government which, after two hundred years, is still
<c02>
the wonder and the study of statesmen. It was only another proof that governments are not made, they grow, that the heart is the best logician, that character, which is but cousin to instinct, is a better guide than philosophy. Wordsworth said, of a similar awakening,-
'A few strong instincts, and a few plain rules, 
Among the herdsmen of the Alps, have wrought 
More for mankind, at this unhappy day, 
Than all the pride of intellect and thought.'
That sunrise has colored the whole morning of our history. It is the cardinal principal of our national life, that God has given every man sense enough to manage his own affairs. Out of that, by a short process, come universal suffrage and the eligibility of every man to office. The majority rules, and law rests on numbers, not on intellect or virtue. A sound rule, and if not the only one consistent with freedom and progress, at least, the one that best serves these.' But the harm is, that while theoretically holding that no vote of the majority can authorize injustice, practically, we consider public opinion the real test of what is true and what is false; and hence, as a result, the fact which DeTocqueville has noticed, that, practically, our institutions protect, not the interests of the whole community, but the interests of the majority. Every man knows best how to manage his own affairs. Simple statement; perfectly sound; but we mix it up, somehow, with that other rule, that every man is eligible to office, and then we hurry on to the habit of considering every man competent for every thing. Does a man achieve success in some particular point, we hail him a universal Crichton, and endow him with a genius for all work. A mechanic invents a new stitch in a carpet-web; straightway he is named for Congress. Does a man edit a respectable daily to bankruptcy, we put him on a commission to choose for us water not fit to drink, or let him carry a railroad half-way to ruin, by paying dividends that were never earned. That militia Colonel survived a Western brawl-call it a battle and a victory, and choose him President at once. This man is a brilliant historian-send him Ambassador to England. Another has argued ably an india-rubber case-send him to fade out in the Senate. Does a man fail utterly-a bankrupt poet or office-seeker,- he edits a newspaper. We lack, entirely, discrimination. Because a man is entitled to draw upon us for fifty dollars, we put a thousand to his credit. That a man edits the Tribune so as to pay-no very high order of talent-is no proof that he knows better than other men who should be President of the United States. Bayard Taylor may be a genius and a traveller, without the least trace of patriotism or the least spark of a gentleman. A hundred years ago, you must have served an apprenticeship of seven years to make a shoe; now talk seven months on the right side, you may be Governor of a State.
I said that, in spite of the heedlessness and good nature of this mistake, the rule that every man should be eligible to office is the best rule you can have. Our large measure of national success, inspite of this heedlessness, shows how truly the Swede spoke when he said, 'Quantula sapientia regitur mundus,'-how little wit it takes to hold office! But, though life be long and sunny, one fit of severe illness is a great evil. It is quite true, that routine incapacity stumbles along very well at common times, but there come hours when we need a pilot, and then we suffer. Such an hour we have just passed through. 
Certain men, who seem utterly ignorant of the principle that only by letting each man speak exactly what he sees fit, at the time he chooses, can the progress of truth be secured, attempted to put down certain othermen, assembled to discuss the abolition of slavery. I want to look at that event as illustrating the ignorance of the actors, the ignorance of the press, and the incapacity of the City Government. And I take this subject specially because it enables me to lay before you a correct account of the course of events that morning, which no journal of the city has bestirred itself to procure. And I seize this, the first opportunity given me, to do justice to both parties, the assailants and the assailed. 
Look first at the press. With the exception of the Atlas and Bee, no one of the daily papers has uttered one word of hearty, fitting rebuke of the mob. They have all serious objections to mobs in the abstract, but none at all to mobs in the street, none to this particular mob. This was not a case of virtuous men refusing to obey a bad law, of whom it has been well said-'they do not dispute the right of the majority to command, they only appeal from the sovereignty of the nation to the sovereignty of mankind.' But this was a case of the right of free speech, a right which no sane man in our age and land denies. Yet you have still to read the first word of fitting, fearless, hearty rebuke from the daily press of Boston, of a mob, well dressed, met to crush free speech. I have known Boston for thirty years. I have seen many mobs. With one exception, I have yet to see the first word of honest rebuke, from the daily press, of a well dressed mob met to crush honest men; and that exception was the Boston Daily Advocate of Mr. Hallett, in 1835 and 1837. (Let me say, in passing, that it is a singular result of our institutions, that we have never had, in Boston, any but well dressed mobs. Still, they are dangerous precedents-well dressed men hire hungry mechanics to mob free speech. Beware! such men may 'better the instruction.' The 'flour mobs' followed close on the pro-slavery mobs in New York.) But such a press-what a tool, what a despicable tool!
The press will think me unjustifiable, perhaps, for they affect to have discovered that there was no mob, only the majority taking rightful possession of a public meeting. We will consider that bye-and-bye. 
The press says the mob was composed of 'Boston gentlemen.' A very natural mistake for a press that does not know a mob when it sees it. But can we let that description stand? Broadcloth and fine linen do not make a gentleman? III manners and ignorance do not make one. Earning a right to twelve months in the House of Correction does not make one. (Laughter.) Resisting the laws, to help the Stock Market, does not Running, before you are sent, with volunteer haste, to do the dirty work of base men, does not make one. And yet these are the only colors by which men before unseen made themselves visible, that day, on the surface of affairs. One must be born again into the Kingdom of Mammon, before he thinks such men gentlemen. And as the ringleaders were not born in Boston, let us save the dear old town from the disgrace of having them called Boston gentlemen. The gossip of the street says they were excusable on account of pecuniary losses-they were men out of employ. The ringleader said he came there to save his property. Let us examine of what material the mob was really made. We have a right to inquire,-it is important we should know, who make up this Chamber of Inquisitors, this new Star Chamber, that undertakes to tell us, as Archbishop Laud and Charles Stuart told our fathers, what creed we shall hold, and what public meetings we shall attend. Who were they?
Weak sons of moderate fathers, dandled into effeminacy, of course wholly unfit for business. But over flowering trade sometimes laps up such, as it does all obtainable instruments. Instead of fire engines, we take pails and dippers, in times of sore need. But such the first frost nips into idleness. Narrow men, ambitious of office, fancying that the inheritance of a million entitles them to political advancement. Bloated distillers, some rich, some without wit enough to keep the money they stole. Old families run to seed in respectable dullness,-consumers nati,-born only to eat. Trading families, in the third generation, playing at stock-jobbing to lose in State street what their fathers made by smuggling in India. Sweep in a hundred young rogues, the grief of mothers and the disgrace of their names, good as noughts to
<c03>
fill up a place in what is called 'society,' and entitled as such to shrink from notice-but the motes we do not usually see, get looked at when they trouble our eyes. Snobbish sons of fathers lately rich, anxious to show themselves rotten before they are ripe. [Hitherto, there had been no demonstrations from the hearers, except occasional suppressed laughter at the speaker's sarcasms. The laughter here was received with hisses by a portion of the audience.] These, taking courage from the presence of bolder rogues, some from jail and others whom technical skill saved therefrom; the whole led by a third-rate lawyer broken down to a cotton-clerk, (hisses,) borrowing consequence from married wealth,-not one who ever added a dollar, much less an idea, to the wealth of the city, not one able to give a reason or an excuse for the prejudice that is in him,-these are the men, this is the House of Nobles, whose leave we are to ask before we speak and hold meetings. These are the men who tell us, the children of the Pilgrims, the representatives of Endicott and Winthrop, of Sewall and Quincy, of Hancock, and Adams, and Otis, what opinions we shall express, and what meetings we shall hold! These are the men who, the press tells us, being a majority, took rightful possession of the meeting of the 3d of December, (applause and cries of 'Good,') and 'without violating the right of free speech,' organized it, and spoke the sober sense of Boston! 
I propose to examine the events of that morning in order to see what idea our enlightened press entertain of the way in which 'gentlemen' take possession of a meeting, and the fitness of those 'gentlemen' to take possession of a meeting. 
On the 3d of December, certain gentlemen,-Rev. J. Sella Martin, James Redpath, Mr. Eldridge, Mr. O'Connor,-hired the Tremont Temple for a convention to assemble at their request. The circular which they issued a month before, in November, invites the 'leaders and representatives of all the Anti-Slavery bodies, and those who have done honor to their own souls by the advocacy of human freedom,' to meet them in convention. Certainly the fops and the clerks of Boston could not come under that description. The notice published the day before, proclaimed that the convention 'was not met for debate, that each speaker should confine himself to giving, briefly, his views on the question,-"How shall American Slavery be abolished?"' Does Mr. Fay, or any one of his associates, dare to say in the presence of the citizens of Boston, that he entered that hall to join, in good faith, in any such investigation? The temper and quality of the meeting was shown by the statement of that notice, that it chose the anniversary of the 'martyrdom' of John Brown as the day for its meeting, and mentioning his death as 'too glorious to need defence or eulogy.' If any one of Mr. Fay's associates entered that hall with written resolutions in their pockets, denouncing John Brown and expressing 'horror for his piratical, bloody and nefarious attempt,' by what claim, as gentlemen, do they justify their presence there? 
But waive that, and grant that they were rightfully present. When a convention assembles at the call of a committee of gentlemen, it is a well-recognized and settled right and custom of the callers to recognize that convention through a committee, or otherwise to appoint officers for the body. If the committee report a list, it is sometimes put to vote, and sometimes not. When a vote is taken, it is mere form; for all well-disposed men, if they contest a convention, uniformly leave it the right to organize itself, and meet it, if anywhere, on the passage of its resolutions. In conformity with this custom,., the Rev. J.  Sella Martin took the floor as temporary Chairman. He appointed a Committee to appoint officers. That Committee reported a list, with Mr. Sanborn of Concord as Chairman. Mr. Martin announced him, as he had an entire, well-recognized right to do, as the Chairman of that meeting. 
But, suppose the Convention chose to insist its strict right, and to organize itself without regard to its callers. Then it was perfectly in order for any member to address the temporary Chair, and make a motion to that effect. Did any one do it? No. On the contrary, one person, who seems to shrink from having his name known, nominated Mr. Richard S. Fay as Chairman, ['Good!' cheers and hisses,] and put the motion. This anonymous skulker does not seem to know parliamentary law enough to remember that he should address the Chair, or that he should wait to have his motion seconded; but without that, and without any call for the nays, Mr. Fay assumes to be Chairman. There having been, then, in the eye of strict parliamentary law, no motion-for all the books lay it down that 'no motion can be made without addressing the Chair'-there having been no motion, no seconding, no call for the nays, there being no announcement of the vote, either by the Chairman or by Mr. Anonymous, when Mr. Richard S. Fay walked to that platform and assumed to be Chairman, he announced himself the ringleader of a mob, (applause, and one cry of 'No!') in the strictest letter of parliamentary law. Journals that undertake to know, style him the rightful Chairman. And when Mr. Douglass, in common courtesy, handed him a glass of water, Mr. Fay says, 'This acknowledges me as Chairman!' Profound logician, this Mr. Fay! A glass of water is his title to office, and Mr. Frederick Douglass is authorized to confer it.
And then commences an exhibition of his wonderful powers as a presiding officer. The moment a Chairman takes his seat, the first duty is the call for the appointment of Secretary and other officers. This wonderful meeting had no officer, except its equally wonderful Chairman. Unburdening himself of his coat, he was not self-possessed enough to find in his pocket the scroll of resolutions which every one saw protruding from it-whereupon he said, 'I thought I had got among honest men.' Some by-standers thought this insolence. I am rather inclined to believe it possible that, having escaped from the mob to our platform, he was congratulating himself upon having gotten once more among honest men. [Much laughter.] He then undertakes to read the resolutions, and offer them to the Convention, ignorant again-ignorant again,-that there was just one man in that meeting, and only one, who had no right to offer a resolution, and that was himself, on his own theory; for every boy knows, except this young cotton-clerk, that no presiding officer is entitled to offer a resolution. 
Following, then, the example of Mr. Anonymous, who nominated him, he does not wait to have the resolutions seconded, he does not call for the nays, but he declares them carried. This could not have been fright, for although he was observed to tremble and grow pale when hundreds cried out 'Shame!' at the reading of his third and fourth resolves, yet, some one saying, 'Don't be frightened, we won't hurt you,' had considerably reassured him. [Laughter.] Then somebody makes a motion to adjourn. Mr. Fay puts it. While he is doing so, Mr. Frederick Douglass addresses him. He turns, introduces Mr. Douglass to the audience, and gives him the floor, ignorant again-ignorant again,-that a motion to adjourn is not debatable. Some one in the audience, while Mr. Douglass is speaking, reminds him there is a motion before the house. This vigilant Chairman waves the speaker aside, puts the motion to adjourn, declares it carried, and then introduces Mr. Douglass again to this adjourned Convention and bids him remember the rule of the call, to speak briefly, and to the point! [Great laughter.] And then this adjourned Chairman of a dead Convention sits and listens half an hour to a speech from Mr. Douglass. Whereafter, another man makes a motion to adjourn; he puts it, declares it carried, and then,-on Pope's principle,' twice he slew the slain'-recognizing, I suppose, that even his mob, twice adjourned, is done with, takes his hat and vanishes-this orderly chairman!
<c04>
Common Chairmen, before quitting their conventions, appoint a committee of finance, to see that the expenses are paid; but the opulent and magnanimous, Union-loving Chairman, [cheers, and some hisses,] having announced that he came to the hall to save his property, does it by leaving his victims to pay the expenses. [Laughter.] And when Mr. Hayes reminded him, during the pendency of the motion to adjourn, that he must not do so until he had arranged for the payment for the hall, this representative of State street defied Mr. Hayes to compel him to pay for the hall that he had used. I blush, even for State street, under such a fact. And the gallant men that followed him-O, shame even to Boston dandies!-were heard encouraging each other with cries of 'The Police are with us-the other side pay for them, and we use them!' 
Some men assert that Mr. Fay really came to that hall to put down free speech by violence. As it was said that no man was ever so wise as Lord Thurlow looked, so these citizens think no honest man was ever so ignorant as Mr. Fay appeared. But I am inclined to believe that he came there designing to crush that Convention in a parliamentary way, but did not know how to do it. Like the captain of the Maine schooner caught in our harbor narrows (here a youth in the gallery raised the cry of ' All up,' which failed, however, to produce any sensation) who, when some one asked, ' Who captains this schooner?' called back, 'I undertook to captain her, but find it rather too much for me.' So Mr. Fay undertook to captain a parliamentary mob, but found it rather too much for him. Being fully determined, however, to crush the Convention, and finding the quiet and trained friends of it able to outwit and out-general him, he took refuge in violence. He challenged his opponent to a duel, then knocked him over the head with the butt of his pistol while his back was turned. Lord George Bentinck leapt from the sporting field and the race-course to the leadership of the House of Commons. Perhaps Mr. Fay thought he could do as much. 
After the kid-gloved mobocrat had left the hall, Mr. Sanborn quietly requesting the real friends of order to remain seated while the mob followed its leader, showed them that all their labor had been in vain. Then Mr. J. Murray Howe, without any flimsy veil of parliamentary pretext, a bully girdled by bullies, failing to excite any violent resistance, urged or incited the police to arrest all whom his followers struck, on the ground of removing the cause of the disturbance. And the shameless Mayor closed the scene (hisses)-the plot unmasked by the quiet discipline of the friends of order was disclosed, and the City Government succored its defeated accomplices by clearing the hall in the prostituted names and order. (Loud cheers and some hisses.)
I have named only the leaders of this mob, and described the pitiful quality of their followers. You will ask me, how did such a mass influence the Mayor? I am sorry to say that among that crowd were men influential by wealth and position, men seldom seen in an anti-slavery meeting, whose presence there, at that unusual hour-ten o'clock in the morning-sitting in silence, was an encouragement to their personal friends, the mob. You may see, still looking down on Washington street, the gilded names of Lawrence and Dickinson, and, side by side, the proud motto-'The Union, the Constitution, the Enforcement of the Laws.' (Cheers.) One of those names, which the city has hitherto loved to honor, was present in that crowd, in a class of meetings where he is seldom seen-never at ten o'clock in the morning-while his personal friends resisted, with the encouragement of his unusual presence, the enforcement of the most sacred of all laws, that of free speech. Need I explain any otherwise the servility of the Mayor? 
Some men say that free speech was really crushed out, on that occasion. O no! that same day, that same meeting held a session, addressed by the most hated of its speakers, expressing their opinions on slavery and the scene of the morning. The exact, literal truth is, that Mr. Richard S. Fay stole the Tremont Temple from those who had hired it. Let us hope he will pay his debts without going through court. Those men whom he fought can say they were never sued, yet, for any hall they had used; he cannot say as much, to-day. Doubtless, they intended to crush free speech; but do not let us dignify Jack Sheppard and Dickens' Fagin into Cromwells and Bonapartes. These mobocrats intended to be Cromwells. So did the two tailors who undertook to tear down the throne of George the Third, and issued the famous proclamation-'We, the People of England.' History does not record that they succeeded: neither did their imitators on the third of December. Still, these angry and misguided men incurred very grave responsibility. Stealing a hall is not very bad in men who hardly know what they are about. Violating the rights of your neighbors may be forgiven, when the parties offending will soon repent, and those rights are no more affected than the sun by the cloud that passes over him. But when Mr. Fay had housed himself in luxury and quiet, at night, that lawless and coward spirit which he had stirred up and let loose, broke into the houses of our hated and friendless colored people, pursued any one of them it dared follow, finding him alone, cruelly beat, almost to death, several, and ill treated many of them. If any one of those mangled men had died of his wounds, Richard S. Fay, in the sight of God and all honest men, if not of the law also, had been a murderer. The atonement he owes to our city which he has disgraced, is a public acknowledgment of his crime. The compensation he owes to those men pillaged and beaten by his followers, is that, so far as gold can, he sees that their sufferings are alleviated. Let us hope that the wealth and the influence which countenanced his wrong will move to aid him in his repentance. 
The picture is one of men undertaking work for which their education never fitted them-a common mistake of American life. There are thousands among us, engaged in mechanical routine, whose souls have large grasp, and take in the universe, Critical hours unveil the lustre of such spirits. Our self-made men are the glory of our institutions. But this is a case of men undertaking to join in public debate and preside over public meetings whose souls are actually absorbed in pricing calico and adding up columns of figures. It is a singular sight. White men, having enjoyed the best book education-to see them struggling with two colored men, whose only education was oppression and the anti-slavery enterprise! But in that contest of parliamentary skill, the two colored men never made a mistake, while every step of their opponents was folly upon folly. Of course, upon the great question of moral right, there is no comparison. History gives us no closer parallel than the French Convention of Lafayette and Mirabeau assailed by the fish women of the streets. 
Let us turn now to the part of the City Government. Every man eligible to office-but with a race like ours, fired with the love of material wealth, with a continent given us by God to subdue and crowd it with cities, to unite the oceans with rails-in such an age and with such a race, trade must absorb all the keenest energies of each generation. The consequence is, that politics takes up with small men, men with not grasp enough for large business, with leisure, therefore, on their hands, men popular because they have no positive opinions-these are the men of politics. The consequence is, as De Tocqueville has hinted, that our magistrates never have more education than we give to the mass, that they have no personal experience of their own. Such men do very well for ordinary occasions, when there is nothing to do. But common times only try common men. In a calm sea all boats alike show mastership in floating. On the third day of the month, we might have supposed that any man knew that a meeting was to be protected
<c05>
against a mob, that the duty of the police was not to settle disputed questions and motions, but only to see that they were argued out without violence-that they were there to arrest any man who committed an assault. The absurdity of turning the convention out of doors to quiet its tumult, is the method of a quack who stabs his patient in order to cure the disease.
But our Mayor, poor as he is, did know all this. He was awed out of his duty by the social position of the mobocrats. The individual policemen were respectable and orderly, evidently disposed to enforce order had they been allowed. No complaint can be made of them. But we know neither them nor the their Chief. For us, the Mayor represents the City Government I hold him, single and alone, responsible for the success of the mob. (Slight hissing.) Abolitionists are the best judges; they have been through many such a scene. They assert that if they could have been left alone, they could have quelled that mob, unaided. (Derisive laughter.) Mr. Hayes, of the Temple, the most competent witness in the city, offered the Mayor, on the spot, to keep order within 'the building if he could be allowed six men; and he has publicly avowed his belief, that had the Chief simply announced, from the platform, his purpose to keep order impartially, order would have reigned; but the mob knew the police, in spite of their individual feelings, must obey orders, and were therefore, of course, on the mob side. The rioters were constantly boasting, 'The police are all right,' 'They are with us,' 'Three cheers for the police'! (Cheers and hisses.)
To the courtesy and forbearance of the abolitionists, the Chief of Police has borne public witness. They were the only persons assaulted, yet they were the only persons arrested. They were the only persons knocked down, and they were the only persons carried from the hall by the police. The Chief says that individual abolitionists were removed by mistake. Singular that this mistake should never have occurred to those who were using their canes and their fists, and should have taken place only in regard to persons conspicuous for their courtesy and forbearance!
The friends of the Mayor urge that the mob was too strong for the whole force of the government. Let him show that he spoke one word, that he lifted one finger, that he remonstrated with one rioter, and we will grant him that excuse. But the pilot who says the storm is too strong for him, must show that he put his hand once, at least, upon the helm, to see whether it would obey the hold. 
Our present Mayor is not singular; he does not singular; he does not stand alone. We have not had a decent Mayor for ten years (Sensation, and vehement hisses.) Vassals of the greg-shop, and mortgaged to State street, what could you expect from them? Of course Smith <illegible> are beneath notice-mere hounds of the slave hunt a hand's-breadth ahead of the pack. But <Illegible> degenerate magistrates find here and there a predecessor to keep them in countenance; indeed, all the mayors on the Atlantic coast are their models, with one or two noble exceptions. That mob which Messrs. Fay and Howe inaugurated, spent the night among our colored citizens' dwellings, beating, kicking and stabbing all whom they met. The police were on special duty in those streets in the night. The morning opened, the courts assembled, the magistrate took his seat. The only person arrested for; that night's disorder is one black boy, fourteen years old, who had defended himself against bullies"!
I do not remember, preciously, the mob against the Irish in Broad street, but I am told that the same is true of that riot, that none but those assaulted were, arrested. I have known three cases of magistrates quelling mobs. One was Neal Dow, in Portland-not necessary, I think-done merely to show his courage. Any man who steps one step out of his path to prove his courage is of course a coward. But let us grant Portland her fame-she has quelled a mob. Providence, also, under a magistrate whose name I wish I could remember, (Governor Arnold, I am told,) quelled her mob with bullets; and last year, Mayor Henry, of Philadelphia,-a name that ought to be written in letters of gold,-taught purse-proud ignorance and brutality to obey the laws. The wealth of Philadelphia petitioned him not to allow Mr. Curtis to lecture. One of the petitioners waited him and said, 'Sir, do you know the treasonable sentiments of Mr. Curtis?' No, sir,' was the answer; "I know only that it is my duty to protect him.' 'Do you know, sir, that the wealthiest houses! have petitioned you to stop the meeting?'  'Yes, sir.' 'What shall you do if they appear, and put a stop to the lecture?' 'Send them to the watch house.' (Applause.) Mr. Curtis lectured, and Mayor Henry was re-elected. While such men live, I am opposed to rotation in office. (Laughter.)
It is a long while since we have had such a Mayor. Your magistrates have always needed twenty-four hours, and close tings with indignant citizens, before they learned their duties. In 1835, Mayor Lyman-a lawyer, a scholar, a gentleman-instead of protecting Mr. Garrison, or dying in front of him, spent the critical hour of the mob's existence in vain intercessions with his personal friends, in pitiful appeals to drunken broadcloth, (slight hissing,) and went home to realize the noble opportunity he had lost of endearing his memory to law, liberty, and the good name of the city, to realize the grave duty he had failed to meet, and to spend his after life in bitter and unavailing regret over that disgraceful and wicked hour of his magistracy. But he lived-he lived to repent; and later services did endear his name to the Commonwealth. There is no evidence that our more recent Mayors know even enough to be ashamed.
The men of that day lived to beg pardon of the very persons they had mobbed. All Boston glorified them, that month; they walked State street in pride. But you would think me cruel, to-day, if I gibbeted their names. The hour is near, it knocks at yonder door, when whoever reminds an audience that Richard S. Fay and Mayor Lincoln broke up an anti-slavery meeting, will be considered, even by State street and the Courier, bitter and uncharitable, (hisses,) as eminently unchristian, in reminding the disgraced and the forgotten of their sins. 
What was the meeting thus assailed? It was a meeting met to discuss slavery,-a topic which makes the Republic tremble, the settlement of which is identical with the surviving of our government; a topic upon which every press, every legislature, every magistrate, south of Mason and Dixon's line, flings defiance at the Union, amid the plaudits of Mr. Fay and his friends, What day was it? The anniversary of the martyrdom of the only man whose name stirs the pulses of Europe in this generation, (Derisive laughter.) English statesmen confess never to have read a line of Webster. You may name Seward in Munich and Vienna, in Pesth or in Naples, and vacant eyes will ask you-'Who is he?' But all Europe, the leaders and the masses, spoke by the lips of Victor Hugo, when he said-'The death of Brown is more than Cain killing Abel; it is Washington slaying Spartacus.' (Laughter from some parts of the hall, and from others applause.)
What was the time of this meeting? An hour when our Senators and Representatives were vindicating the free speech of Massachusetts in Washington, in the face of armed men. Are we to surrender it in the streets at home, to the hucksters and fops of the Exchange? This day on which I speak, a year ago, those brave young hearts that held up John Brown's hands, faced death without a murmur, for the slave's sake. In the light of their example, God forbid we should give up free speech!
Whom is it proposed to silence? Men who for thirty years, from the Ocean to Kansas, sacrificing reputation, wealth, position, seeing their houses pillaged, their friends mobbed in the streets, have forced this question on reluctant Senates and statesmen, until, at last, all other issues driven out of the
<c06>
arena, God chains this age to the redemption of the slave. Victors in such a fight after such a field, after having taught this nation, at such woful cost, the sacredness of free discussion, who are these traders that weigh their gold against our rights? Who is this boaster who parades his two hundred thousand dollars, and tells us he will spend every one of them to 'put down this agitation? That attempt was announced before, from the steps of the Revers House. The unhappy statesman, defeated, heartbroken, sleeps by the solemn waves of the Atlantic. 'Catalincc gladios contempsi, non tuos pertimesoem.' The half omnipotence of Webster we defind;-who heeds this pedlar's empty wind?
How shall we prevent such insolent attempts for the future? Educate the future Fays more thoroughly. Teach them the distinction between duties and dollars. Plant deep in the heart of the masses the conviction of the utter sacredness of the right of free speech. Our fathers made their sons hate the Pope so thoroughly, that hatred of Popery is no longer an intellectual conviction, but has become a constituent element of Yankee blood and bone. Put the sacredness of free speech into the same condition. Carve in letters of gold in every school-house this letter of our loved Governor elect-the best word a Massachusetts Governor has said since the first Winthrop gave his fine definition of civil liberty. Mr. Andrew says:-
'"The right to think, to know and to utter,' to John Milton said, is the dearest of all liberties. Without this right, there can be no liberty to say people; with it, there can be no slavery.'
And Mr. Andrew goes on:-
'I care not for the truth or error of the opinions held or uttered, nor for the wisdom of the words of time of their attempted expression, when I consider this great question of fundamental significance, this great right which must first be secure before free society can be said to stand on any foundation, but only on temporary or capricious props.
'Rich or poor, white or black, great or small, wise or foolish, in season or out of season, in the right or in the wrong, whosoever will speak, let him speak, and whosoever will hear, let him hear. And let no one pretend to the prerogative of judging another man's liberty. In this respect there is, and there can be, no superiority of persons or privileges, nor the slightest pretext for any.'
Thank God for such a Governor to come! (Applause.) Make that Massachusetts, and then we may stop a boy in the streets and make him Mayor, sure that, without need of thought or consultation, be will gird himself to protect unpopular free speech, and put down fashionable riot, instead <illegible> protecting fashionable riot, and putting down <illegible> free speech.
I have used strong words. But I was born in Boston, and the good name of the old town is bound up with every fibre of my heart. I dare not trust myself to describe the insolence of men who undertake to dictate to you and me what we shall say in these grand old streets. But who can adequately tell the sacredness and the value of free speech? Who can fitly describe the enormity of the crime of its violation? Free speech, at once the instrument and the guaranty and the bright consummate flower of all liberty. Free speech in these streets, once trod by Henry Vane, its apostle and champion. Free speech, in that language which holds the dying words of Algernon Sydney, its martyr. As Everett said, near forty years ago:
'I seem to hear a voice from the tombs of departed ages, from the sepulchres of nations that died before the sight. They exhort us, they adjure us, to be faithful to our trust. They implore us, by the long trials of struggling humanity, by the awful secrets of the prison-house where the sons of Freedom have been immured, by the noble heads which have been brought to the block, by the eloquent ruins of nations, they conjure us not to quench the light that is rising on the world. Greece cries to us by the convulsed lips of her poisoned, dying Demosthenes, and Rome pleads with us in the mute persuasion of her mangled Tully.'
Let us listen to the grave and weighty words of the nephew of Charles James Fox, Lord Holland, in his protest, when British Tories tried to stop the discussion of Catholic Emancipation-words of which Macaulay says: 'They state a chief article of the political creed of the Whigs with singular clearness, brevity and force':-
'We are,' Lord Holland says, 'well aware that the privileges of the people, the rights of free discussion, and the spirit and letter of our popular institutions, must render-and they are intended to render-the continuance of an extensive grievance, and of the dissatisfaction consequent thereupon, dangerous to the tranquillity of the country, and ultimately subversive of the authority of the State. Experience and theory alike forbid us to deny that effect of a free Constitution: a sense of justice and a love of liberty equally deter us from lamenting it. But we have always been taught to look for the remedy of such disorders in the redress of the grievances which justify them, and in the removal of the dissatisfaction from which they flow; not in restraints on ancient privileges, not in inroads on the right of public discussion, nor in violations of the principles of a Free Government.'
Governments exist to protect the rights of minorities. The loved and the rich need no protection- they have many friends and few enemies. We have praised our Union for seventy years. This is the first time it is tested. Has it educated men who know their rights, and dare to maintain them? Can it bear the discussion of a great national sin, anchored deep in the prejudices and interests of millions? If so, it deserves to live. If not, the sooner it vanishes out of the way, the better.
The time to assert rights is when they are denied; the men to assert them are those to whom they are denied. The community which dares not protect its humblest and most hated member in the free utterance of his opinions, no matter how false or hateful, is only a gang of slaves.
At the conclusion of the exercises, Mr. Phillips's friends flocked upon the platform to congratulate him. After a while, Mr. Phillips left the platform, accompanied by several friends, who were joined, in the lower entry, by some twenty in number. As the party emerged from the building to the avenue leading from the Hall to Winter street, a large crowd was found collected there, who set up various cries, such as 'There he is!'-'Crush him out!' 'Down with the Abolitionist!' 'Bite his head off!' 'All up!' &c., and surged toward Mr. Phillips, with the manifest purpose of preventing his egress. In this, however, they were balked by the resolute front of his friends and the energy of the police, who forced the crowd to give way.
On entering Winter street, the mob, which almost blockaded the street, yelled and hissed and gave vent to their impotent rage by such cries as those gives above; but the party proceeded down the street, and up Washington street, surrounded by a strong detachement of police, and followed by an immense throng of people, many of them, however, friends of Mr. Phillips, and determined to protect him from injury. NO demonstrations of violence, happily, were made. The singular procession excited the attention of people living on the route largely, and the windows looking on the street were crowded with faces expressing wonder and curiosity. Arrived at his house in Essex street, Mr. Phillips entered, with a few of his friends, when three cheers were given by some of those present, which were answered by hisses from the other side. Deputy-Chief Ham then requested the crowd to disperse, which they did though somewhat slowly, and with manifest reluctance. So ended the disgraceful scene.
It cannot be concealed, that there is cherished towards Mr. Phillips, by the Fay and Howe rioters, for his sublime moral heroism and triumphant vindication of free speech, a spirit as insane and murderous as it is dastardly and unprovoked-for they were undeniably the aggressors. But let them beware! The violence they are threatening, if attempted, will fearfully recoil upon themselves. GOD STILL REIGNS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ANOTHER BELL-EVERETT MOB. 
It was known in the early part of last week that Wendell Phillips was to address the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of Boston on Sunday, Dec. 16th, at the Music Hall. Even before the subject of his discourse was announced, rumor spread round the city that the rioters who had broken up the John Brown meeting at the Tremont Temple a fortnight before, and who had been foiled in their attempt to disturb the adjourned meeting on the evening of that day, would repeat their effort to put down free speech in Boston, even on Sunday, and even by attacking the regular service of a religious meeting, On Saturday, these rumors had gained such currency, and were virtually so encouraged by the gross delinquency of the daily press, (which, in almost every case, alluded to the past and prospective outrages in question merely as items of news, without either earnest vindication of the right of free speech, or earnest reprobation of the assaults upon it.) that the proprietors of the Music Hall applied to the Mayor for the protection of their building, and the rights of the Society which had hired it for religious worship. The acting Mayor, Alderman Clapp,-fortunately, Mayor Lincoln was absent from the city,- made prompt and thorough arrangements to that effect, ensuring their execution by his own presence on the platform during the services on Sunday morning; doing, in short, just what Mr. Lincoln ought to have done at the Tremont Temple.
Not only were the 2750 seats of the Music Hall occupied, but the spaces around the platform and on the sides of the Hall were all filled with persons standing, so that there must have been 3300 people present.
The subject of Mr. Phillips's discourse was-'Mobs, and Education.' The selections from Scripture which he read, among the preliminary exercises, were significant and appropriate; the first being David's psalm-'Why do the heathen rage,' &c.-and the second, that passage from the Acts of the Apostles which describes a combination of conservatives against free speech in their time; ending,ï¿½ Whether it be the right in the sight of God to hearken unto you, more than unto God, judge ye.'
Before commencing his discourse, Mr. Phillips remarked that, having been there on the previous Sunday, he had noticed that the friends of the speaker (Mr. Frederick Douglass) responded to some of his remarks by applause. On this occasion, he begged that his friends would observe the customary decorum of the time and place, and would abstain from applauding, even if they should hear something that particularly pleased them. It is important to note this request, for two reasons. The pro-slavery papers , ('religious' and other) have been accustomed so wantonly to lie respecting the usages of Mr. Parker and his congregation, that many people suppose the clapping of hands to be of frequent occurrence there. And those who wished to disturb the meeting on this occasion might be supposed to use this false impression to explain away their own disorder, especially since one of the Tremont Temple rioters had the impudence to say, when a bystander remonstrated against the outrageous noise he was making-'We have a right to applaud.'
During the progress of this discourse, one of the most admirable that even Mr. Phillips ever delivered, clamors and hisses from time to time interrupted the speaker, his friends, meanwhile, keeping silence, as he had requested, save when, by a low sh, they protested against these unseemly interruptions. The clamors evidently proceeded from hundreds of voices, almost all in the rear of the Hall, and the extreme parts of the upper balcony. If other well-dressed ruffians, as is likely enough, had intended to aid the tumult in portions of the Hall nearer to the speaker, they were overawed by the great assembly, one of the noblest that ever appeared there, of friends of Mr. Phillips and of freedom of speech. On two different occasions, these rioters repeated their howls whenever the speaker recommenced, after waiting for silence, showing a purpose to stop his discourse by drowning his voice. But the sounds soon died away, and the laugh, that some of the disturbers once or twice attempted, sounded mournfully hollow and factitious.
At the close of the discourse, the mob, seeing that they were outnumbered in the Hall, arranged themselves partly in Winter street and partly in the passage leading from it to the Music Hall, to attack Mr. Phillips as he came out. As soon as he appeared, they raised the Bell-Everett cry,ï¿½ All up,' and around rushed towards him. His friends kept a firm circle around him, and the police encircled and assisted them; and they thus proceeded to his house, the baffled mob yelling and cursing around them all the way home.
A policeman, who was one of the party, told me that two hundred of the police assisted in guarding this friend of humanity from brutal assault, on his way through Washington street on Sunday noon. Wishing to get his opinion, I asked-Was it necessary to have so many? And he answered-'Without them, he never would have got home alive! They would have trampled him down in the street!' 
I asked a ï¿½reporter,' who had seen the whole transaction-ï¿½Were there any of the roughs there?' He answered-'No, they were merchants' clerks'; adding, by way of explanation-'They have to do it! It's their living!' The brutal ferocity of this mob of well-dressed young men, like that of its predecessor in the Tremont Temple, was incited and directed by the cotton interest.
Such is another of the spasmodic efforts of the evil spirit of slavery. When its casting out is seen to be inevitable, it tears and rends the patient. When Satan comes down,ï¿½ in great wrath,' it isï¿½ because he knoweth that he hath but a short time.'-C. K. W.
NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
The following petition is now in the hands of reliable friends of freedom, in all parts of the Commonwealth, for immediate circulation. It is precisely the same which, for the two preceding years, has been signed by thousands of the most virtuous and humane portion of the people, and which ought to be subscribed by every man and woman in Massachusetts. Those to whom it has been sent are earnestly urged to be up and doing, for the time is short between the present and the period for the assembling of the Legislature. Let every family, and every person, be tested by its presentation; let it be (as it will) a revelation of character and of purpose; and let the world know how many there are among us whoï¿½ remember those in bonds as bound with them,' and are therefore for protecting the fugitive, or, on the other hand, how many are still for allowing slave-hunters to seize their prey with impunity on the Puritan and Revolutionary soil of the old Bay State, and to act as heir accomplices in kidnapping.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person, who has been held as a Slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owesï¿½ service or labor' to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union.
We have on hand at least fifty columns of important matter, pertaining to the Southern secession movement, and the state of the country generally, and not less than a score of communications on file, but we are constantly driven to the closest quarters for lack of space. Correspondents must exercise patience, especially when they we that we habitually occupy less room for their greater accommodation.
<c02>
FREEDOM OF SPEECH VINDICATED.
Our readers will recollect that among those who manfully endeavored to vindicate the right of free speech at the Tremont Temple meeting on the 3d inst. (which was riotously broken up by Richard S. Fay, J. Murray Howe, and their lawless supporters,) was Rev. Dr. Eddy, Pastor of the Baptist Church in Harrison Avenue in this city, and formerly Speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives. On the Sunday following, (9th inst.,) he promptly came forward in his pulpit to rebuke the riotous outbreak, and to maintain the sacredness of free speech. That portion of his discourse which related to that subject will be found below. The time is coming when the disclaimers contained in it, relating to John Brown and the Abolitionists, will be deemed unjust and absurd. 
When a great nation is withinï¿½ thirty days of cruel war,' it becomes men to consider what they do, to walk carefully and act discreetly. With dissolution staring us in the face to-day, on the verge of rupture and bloodshed, it would be a crime in any man to trifle with the elements which are now working around us. No man knows what is before us; for a time like this has never been seen in the history of our nation a moment so pregnant with great events has never been witnessed, since the days of the Revolution. It is a time for calm, deliberate utterance, and for earnest appeal to God. Angry contention, harsh denunciation, and mob violence were never more out of place, and never possessed of more fatal power than now. At such a time as this, it becomes every Christian man to take his stand on the right, and planting himself there, stand firmly and kindly at his post of duty. But it is not to national affairs that I wish to call your attention, not to a political question that I wish to refer; for you will all bear me witness that this pulpit has never yet, on any Sabbath day during the present ministry, had political themes introduced into it. But a great outrage has been committed during the past week, not on a political party, but on the moral sense of the Christian community: the privileges of freemen have been assailed, and free speech has been stricken down in the city of Boston-the Athens of America. The pulpit would not be true to itself, if it should be silent under such an out-rage. It would deserve all the taunts and reproaches that infidels and fanatics cast upon it; it would be worthy of the scathing rebukes, the bitter invective of skeptic tongues and pens, if it did not demand for all men the sacred right of speech;-for if the pulpit does not plead for freedom of speech, and rebuke every sin, it is as useless as a wooden box filled with cobwebs.
In a country like ours, where all are sovereigns, and where mutual forbearance must be constantly exercised, any invasion of the right of speech should be promptly and decidedly rebuked. If one class in the community say what another class should talk about; if a mob attempts to restrict one sect or party in its utterances, the government is at an end, law is abolished, and society dissolved. Every man has a right to speak freely. The Roman Catholic has the same right to present his views as the Protestant, and should receive the same protection. The pro-slavery man has the same right to utter his sentiments as the anti-slavery man. If the infidel wishes to celebrate the birthday of Thomas Paine, he has the same right, under our laws, to do so, that you have to come to church, and celebrate the birthday of the Redeemer. If any company of men wish to commemorate the birthday of Benedict Arnold, they should be allowed to make their speeches unmolested. If the followers of that poor, wronged, misguided fanatic, John Brown, wish to commemorate his death-day, they have the same right to do so that we have to meet here this morning. And if for a moment we allow the idea that a mob can control this principle, or say who shall speak and who shall not, society is dissolved. You say that a Benedict Arnold meeting or a John Brown meeting is a nuisance. Well, there are not a few who will say that an Orthodox church is a nuisance, and ought to be abolished; that a Baptist church is a nuisance, and should be abated. One morning, in the year 1680, the members of the First Baptist Church in this city went to the house of God, and they found its doors nailed up, and a placard on the wall forbidding any person to enter. A Baptist church was a nuisance to be abated. The Baptists of Boston at that time fought out the battle of free speech, and gained a victory, and they should be the last set of men on earth to trample down the freeman's sacred right.
Free speech cost too much to be surrendered without a struggle. As a denomination, we have ever been the advocates of free discussion. It has been our mission to fight out this question. It was for free speech that Roger Williams fled from his comfortable home in Salem, and in mid-winter tracked his way to Providence-then a wilderness-to build up, among savages, a commonwealth where speech should be free. For this great right, President Dunster gave up his presidency of Harvard College, choosing to leave the station of so much honor, rather than stifle the truthful utterances of his lips. For free speech, Obediah Holmes was beaten until his breath was almost exhausted, and he was taken down from the whipping-post with the flesh hanging in gory welts. For free speech, our fathers suffered proscription, privation and death. To purchase this right, they gave up all. No principle was dearer to the men of the Revolution. And in the memorable struggles for independence, in the conflicts with tyranny in England, in all the contests for Italian independence and unity, free speech never has been lost sight of, never has been forgotten. The price of this freedom has been paid in agonies and blood.
It is also worth too much to us to be surrendered without a struggle. The pride of New England has long been, its freedom of speech. When in the South free discussion has been crushed out, we have said to our Southern friends,ï¿½ Massachusetts is a place where all may speak.' Faneuil Hall, Music Hall and Tremont Temple, are open alike to Senator Toombs, Mr. Yancey, or Jefferson Davis. We have said to men of all calls,ï¿½ We will protect you in free speech.' Nothing has added more to the glory of New England than this. If men did not wish to hear this or that doctrine discussed, they remained at home, and toleration of all opinions has been allowed. And if for a moment we yield the right of speech, where are we? The mob breaks up a meeting of one kind in Tremont Temple to-day: to-morrow, it breaks up a meeting of another kind. By-and-by, this same mob will turn upon the pulpit and say,ï¿½ you must be silent.' If we preach on slavery, the mob will cry,ï¿½ stop.' If we preach on intemperance, the mob will forbid it; and every minister will be obliged to ask a mob what he shall say in the pulpit. You see at once that there will be no safety anywhere, if the principle of free speech is given up; and it is the duty of every man to rally to its support. When a mob strikes down the right of the humblest citizen of this Commonwealth, it strikes down you and me, and all of us. The only principle we can establish is toleration of all opinions. Other men have the same right to express their views as we have ours. They have the same right to discuss our principles as we have theirs. The moment free speech is given up, we are at the mercy of a mob.
Now let us look at a few facts. A few days ago, a public meeting was called in this, city, to be held on the anniversary of the death of unfortunate John Brown. The call for the meeting, which was published in all the papers for a week, stated expressly that the object of the gathering was not to eulogize John Brown, but to consider the great question of our age,ï¿½ How can American Slavery be Abolished?' Among those announced to speak were clergymen of four or five different persuasions. It was deemed unfortunate by many that the meeting should be called at this time, in the midst of unparalleled excitement 
<c03>
in the nation. Most of those men who usually go to such meetings had wisely resolved to stay away, and the papers had agreed to take no notice of the proceedings. Now, as to the abstract right of those people to have that meeting, there can be no question whatever. Deny that right, and our landmarks are gone at once. Had the meeting been held peaceably, it would have been attended by few persons, and at night would have been committed to oblivion. But what was done? One or two hundred men, led by prominent merchants, were at Tremont Temple an hour before the time to commence, and when those who had engaged the hall appeared to exercise their just rights, they were met with storms of abuse, driven or dragged from the platform, and the meeting controlled by a mob of Boston gentlemen! This city has never seen a spectacle so disgraceful as that, since William Lloyd Garrison was led through these streets with a rope round his body, and freedom in his person received a wound which has yet scarcely healed. No anti-slavery man was allowed to speak. Insults were heaped upon the humble persons who had called the meeting, and a disgraceful riot raged from ten o'clock until one. The Chief of Police came with a posse of men, and could have restored order in a few minutes. The officers under him were ready and anxious to do their work; but the inefficiency of the Chief-who is evidently no more fit for his position than a child, and who only made a bad matter worse-prevented the restoration of order, or the maintenance of peace. And the Mayor, it is said, sent word from his cosy room in the City Hall that he could not protect the meeting, in the just exercise of its rights. He had police enough to keep a million people in order when the Prince of Wales was here; but not enough to check a mob of a hundred Boston gentlemen. And out the tidings have gone, North, South, East and West-that a mob has broken up an anti-slavery meeting in Boston. O, what disgrace! O, what shame! It is to be told at Five Points in New York; it is to be told in the streets of Charleston; it is to be repeated in distant Texas-that free speech has been trampled under foot in the New England metropolis. What comfort it will give to the mobbers and the lynchers in the South, where some of you have creditors, but where none of you dare go to collect your bills! They will feel glad that they have some in the North ready to do their work-infamous work it is, quashing discussion, trampling on free speech. When men inquire who the rioters were-whether they came from North Street or Commercial Street, the answer will be-'No, they were Boston gentlemen'! O shame! shame!! These men have blotted the fair name of Boston, put a stain on the history of the city which all the waters of Massachusetts bay cannot wash off. How it will sound in the West, in the South, in England! How the cheek of the American abroad will tinge with shame, when he reads it-a peaceable meeting broken up in Boston by a mob! And such a mob! I saw in it men of wealth! I saw church members! I saw a grey-haired deacon of a Christian church! The Sunday before, he carried the body and blood of Christ to the disciples. Ah, when he was bearing about that cup, he was thinking of Monday, of how loudly he would yell-Crucify him! crucify him!! And there, too, was a man for whom twenty thousand people, voted to put him in the highest office of the Commonwealth. Of course, as they were there, they are willing that we should say so.
Well, then, this mob of gentlemen passed some resolutions-the thing you see was premeditated. The resolutions were all prepared, and one of them read as follows:-
4. That the people of this city have submitted too long in allowing irresponsible persons and political demagogues of every description to hold public meetings to disturb the public peace and misrepresent us abroad; they have become a nuisance, which, in self-defence, we are determined shall henceforward be summarily abated.
What does that mean? Surely, that all persons who print or in public speeches utter language unpalatable to theï¿½ mob of gentlemen,' shall be disposed of, the meeting broken up, the rights of the speakers trampled under foot, and the city disgraced by mob violence. I say here, and now, that Francis II. of Naples, of Francis Joseph of Austria, never issued an edict more diabolical than that. A mob of Boston gentlemen resolve that free speech shall be no longer tolerated in the metropolis of New England! And what interpretation does the Boston Courier put upon it? On Tuesday morning, it said this:-
'No such assembly for that or any similar purpose is very likely to be held in any conspicuous place in Boston again. Nor do we believe that our people will listen hereafter, as they have hitherto done, to the fierce tirades of Phillips and his crew, to the empty platitudes of Sumner, or the insolent bravado of Wilson.'
It is, then, resolved by a mob in Boston, that the most eloquent of all theï¿½ fanatics' of our times, and even our honorable Senators in Congress, shall no more be heard in this city-that free speech shall be reserved for Yancy and Toombs when they come, but denied to Bostonians!
On what times have we fallen? and whither are we drifting? Do men who have grown rich on the proceeds of slave labor, who have been fattening on the blood of the poor creatures who toil in bondage, think that they can stop free speech in Boston? Do they think they can prevent the pulpit from telling the world that slavery is an accursed thing? Do they think they can stop the lips of the advocates of reform? The thing is a monstrous impossibility. I tell you, that that question will be discussed in that same hall, by lips that no insult can silence.
The meeting to which I have referred as being held at the Temple would have had few sympathizers, if let alone, but a mobbed meeting, a persecuted band will find a multitude of friends. With the men who had control of that assembly, we as Christians have little in common. With the anti-church, anti-Union views of Messrs. Garrison and Phillips, we can have no sympathy. With those who glorify John Brown, we have no part or lot. With those who at this time would inflame and agitate without end or aim, we must not join. But when men are mobbed, we are a libel on manhood if we do not speak for freedom of speech. That is too sacred a thing to be trampled down, even when the majority (and the majority is often nothing but a tyrant,) decide that it is abused and perverted to vile or wicked purposes. I have no sympathy with disunion, or unjust aggressions upon North or South, but I have sympathy with persecuted people; and if ever my heart fails to go out towards the oppressed, I will disown it as a worthless heart, a false heart.
But perhaps some one says that the subject of slavery is so terribly exciting, that it must not be discussed; that to prevent the magazine from exploding, free speech must be trampled under foot. Strange argument in an age of reason! Suppose a man has a store house which he stocks with powder, and then in great alarm runs up and down the city, saying to the people,ï¿½ You must put all your fires out, lest the sparks should ignite my powder; the foundries must stop, the steam mills must suspend, the fires must be all put out.' What would you say to him? Why, of course, you would say,ï¿½ Sir, you must remove your powder; our fires shall burn.'
So, if you have a curse that will not stand free discussion, that will not bear free speech, we say to you,ï¿½ Move your curse! Take your magazine of powder out of the way; the sparks of thought shall not be quenched.' You may be sure that a cause which will not allow of free speech is very weak, and very bad. Truth has nothing to fear from freedom of utterance-nothing to fear. It is error-black, deformed, misshapen error-that howls when free speech is enthroned; and if the time ever comes in this land when freedom of utterance is denied, then the world will gaze upon a continent of darkness.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
MARY AND FLORENCE; or, Grave and Gay. From the Tenth London Edition, pp. 265.
MARY AND FLORENCE AT SIXTEEN. From the Fifth London Edition, with Illustrations, pp. 323.
LEILA; or, The Island, pp. 232.
LEILA IN ENGLAND. A Continuation of Leila; or, The Island, pp. 312.
LEILA AT HOME. A Continuation of Leila in England, pp. 283. Boston: Published by Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co. 1861.
These five volumes, beautifully illustrated, are printed and bound in uniform style. They are by ANN FRASER TYTLER, and have attained a wide circulation in England, and will doubtless find many purchasers here. The authoress evinces excellent conversational and descriptive talent, and keeps up an unbroken interest from the beginning to the end of each volume. The incidents are numerous, and the moral lessons inculcated excellent; but much of the theological teaching is distasteful to us, though it will prove highly acceptable to the orthodoxy of the age. In the preface to MARY AND FLORENCE, the writer says it has often been remarked with regret by her,ï¿½ that in books written for the purpose of conveying religious instruction to children, the scheme of Redemption and the doctrine of the Atonement have been generally explained in language too vague and obscure to meet the comprehension of a child'-and she therefore offers this little story asï¿½ a very feeble attempt, when touching on these most solemn points, to simplify to the youthful reader what has been so much more ably done by others, in works addressed to those of maturer years.' We agree with her that it isï¿½ a very feeble attempt'-throwing, as it does, no light upon the subject, and dealing in pious commonplaces, to which no definite meaning can be attached. There is no end to the religious cant in Christendom about these doctrines; and, as usually presented, they are snares rather than helps to a true life. At least, such is our belief; and to this extent we are willing to be considered heretical. Aside from this incidental portion of these volumes, they will be found very pleasant and entertaining reading for the long winter evenings. Those who are seeking for suitable gifts for the season will find every variety at the establishment of Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co.
THE LAND OF THE SUN; or, What Kate and Willie Saw There. By Cornelia H. Jenks. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co. 1861.
This is a real child's book, with a score of pictures, narrating in a simple and agreeable manner the incidents of a voyage to Cuba, and giving lively descriptions of scenery, cities, towns, plantations, public buildings, festivals, manners and customs, &c. It will make a very acceptable Christmas or New Year's present. Although the most prominent thing to be seen in Cuba, especially in connection with the plantations, is slavery in all its deformity, the writer makes no allusion whatever to the system. Could any but an American woman make such an omission? Does it imply insensibility on her part, or the fear of giving offence, and thus curtailing the sale of the work?
OPTIMISM THE LESSON OF AGES. A Compendium of Democratic Theology, designed to illustrate Necessities whereby all things are as they are, and to reconcile the Discontents of Men with the perfect Love and Power of ever-present God. Written by BENJAMIN BLOOD. Boston: Published by Bela Marsh, 14 Bromfield Street. 
A cursory perusal of this neatly printed volume of 132 pages satisfies us of its original strength, manly directness, and power of thought and expression. But it instantly challenges a slow and thoughtful examination by all thinkers, and we must take time to read it more carefully. It treats upon Democratic and Autocratic Theology; the Authority of Reason; the Motives of Theorists; the Unity of God; the Will and Free Agency; Social Relations; Our Evils-&c., &c. We have no acquaintance with the author, but his blood appears to be vital, and its circulation vigorous. It is commended by Ralph Waldo Emerson asï¿½ a work to be prized by the most thoughtful people;' and by Wendell Phillips-justly styled asï¿½ unexceptionable in matters of taste, if not of politics,-a chivalrous, scholarly, and undoubted gentleman,'-asï¿½ terse, fresh, original, (as far as any thing may be now-a-days,) mainly true, and, as a whole, masterly.' Read, and see if it be not so. 
GLENELVAN; or, The Morning Draweth Nigh. By Annie Maria Minster. New York: A. B. Burdick, Publisher, 145 Nassau Street. 1861. 
This volume isï¿½ most affectionately dedicated to Samuel Longfellow, the friend of genius, the inspired thinker, the saint in the man.' It is well written, and, aside from its literary merits, deserves special commendation for its humane and reformatory spirit, aiding as it does the cause of emancipation and of the rights of woman, in the culmination of the purpose of the heroine of the story. 
THE ILLUSTRATED SELF-INSTRUCTOR IN PHRENOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY; with over One Hundred Engravings; together with a Phrenological Chart of Character. By O. S. and L. N. Fowler, Practical Phrenologists. New York: Fowler & Wells, Publishers, 308 Broadway. 
We can most heartily commend this compendium of phrenological and physiological science to all classes. It embodies a large amount of valuable and common sense matter, pertaining to the development and regulation of the various mental faculties and bodily functions; and its illustrations are to the point, and of a thoroughly demonstrative character.ï¿½ Phrenology,' it is candidly admitted,ï¿½ is yet in its infancy. Though it is perfect in itself, yet our KNOWLEDGE of it is not yet perfected. As every successive generation makes advances upon the preceding one in astronomy, chemistry, and other departments of science, so Gall and Spurzheim have discovered only the landmarks of this science, and have left much to be filled up by others.' 
A PRACTICAL ILLUSTRATION OF'WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR': or, A Letter from Marie Zakrzewska, M. D., late of Berlin, Prussia. Edited by Caroline H. Dall, author ofï¿½Woman's Right to Labor,' ï¿½Historical Pictures Retouched.' &o. Boston: Published by Walker, Wise & Co. 1860. pp. 167. 
This book, which reads like a novel, and yet is as fertile in wise practical suggestions as a sermon-should be, is an auto-biographical letter, written to a friend by Dr. Marie E. Zakrzewska, and afterwards granted for public use to the urgent solicitations of Mrs. Dall, who has well performed the task of editorship. The authentic history it contains, of a young girl who had an active mind, a desire to use her powers in some manner practically beneficial to herself and those around her, ingenuity to devise means of accomplishing this good purpose, and independence enough to employ them, persistently pressing forward to the highly honorable and useful position she now holds, is fitted to do immense service among the young women of this country. Great numbers of New England girls spend their years uselessly in the ruts of routine, stifling not only vague aspirations for something better, but a consciousness of fitness for some particular useful employment, which yet they do not venture to undertake, because the public opinion of their little world does not recognize it as work appropriate for women. The reading of this book might stimulate many, now content to live and die mere females, to aspire to and attain the rank of intelligent and useful human beings. Mrs. Dall deserves the thanks of all true men and women, for drawing this record of a true life from its obscurity. It should be placed in every library, public and private.-C. K. W. 
<c05>
EXCITEMENT IN BROOKLYN, N. Y.-THE SPIRIT OF VIOLENCE SPREADING. 
Correspondence of the Boston Traveller. 
NEW YORK, December 17, 1860. 
We-and when I say we, I mean the respectable and civilized members of this community-are combatting here, as you are in Boston, the enemies of Free Speech. The Herald advocates in the most insidious manner the uprising of discharged workmen, their mobbing of obnoxious political leaders, and the interruption of the services at places of public worship. 
We had a few faint attempts, yesterday, on the part of some of our city roughs in that line, which, however, did not prove successful. Henry Ward Beecher, who seems particularly offensive to the Herald, was informed on Saturday that a mob would attack his church on the Sabbath, and gut his house at night. He paid no particular attention to the matter, but the Trustees of Plymouth Church felt it to be their duty to have their pastor and church protected. So they sent for a couple of hundred Metropolitan policemen, who at night were gathered at the Lecture Room and in the Church. The jam of people was fairly terrific, and all expected a row.
Nothing, however, occurred to mar the services, with the exception of the crashing of one window, caused by the throwing of a stone. When the crash came, the audience were a good deal startled, and manifested signs of great uneasiness, but Mr. Beecher quietly ignored the interruption, and went on to the end.
'Be patient with all men' was the text; and the sermon will cause a sensation when it is published. The latter part of it was particularly fine, and referred more specifically to the troubles of the present day.
After church, a great crowd accompanied Mr. Beecher to his residence, from the steps of which he made a characteristic address, which, as it is short and to the point, I enclose:-
'My friends, I thank you for this quiet manifestation of your devotion to the cause of free speech, and of your love for me. I do not think there was any occasion for alarm, nor do I imagine that I really needed any protection. If, however, there had been trouble, and I had fallen, it would be the very best thing that could happen for the cause in which I am working-but nothing will happen to me or my family or my house-I have not lived in this city thirteen years for nothing. (Voice-"That's so.")
You all know full well that though laboring earnestly, I labor in love. ("We won't give you up-we'll stand by you," &c.) I have no doubt of it. You always have done so, and I trust we shall always yet be found working together in the cause of freedom-the cause of freedom for all men, of all opinions-and, above all, for free speech and the cause of God. Good night!'
Heartyï¿½ Good nights,' ï¿½You're all right,' and an occasionalï¿½ God bless you,' from the crowd, saluted Mr. Beecher's retreating form, and ended theï¿½ mobbing of Plymouth Church,' and the' lynching of its pastor.'
In some remarks upon his course, Mr. Beecher said:-
'Some people ask me-Why don't you go down South, and say these things? Why don't you go to Charleston? Because I prefer that Charleston should come to me. Why don't you go to Mobile, and preach these doctrines? Because I have no disposition to run into danger. Because they would hang me. I have observed that pulpits are not very long-lived in Mobile that preach such things. I have no desire to be killed. Not that I fear death-I do not fear it. But I do love to work, and I have no mind to have my work cut short if I can help it.
I do not mean to run my head into the halter that is dangling there, because they want to hang me. I have no desire to die vertically. (Laughter.) My Master has commanded me, sayingï¿½" If they persecute you in one city, flee to another." And a man is a fool who would not get out of a certain danger if he could, and escape to where he could fight again. (Laughter.) So much for going down South-I mean to stay in Brooklyn, and preach-yes, and preach just what we think.'
UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, made in January last, or previously, are now payable, and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest practicable day. Donations in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause will be faithfully consecrated to the redemption of the millions of the suffering and the dumb' of our land. All payments should be made to EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer, or E. H. HEYWOOD, General Agent pro tem., 221 Washington street.
'WOMAN'S RIGHTS UNDER THE LAW.'
MRS. DALL'S LECTURES, 16 SUMMER STREET.
Mrs. DALL will deliver a course of Lectures on three successive Wednesday afternoons, at the Room of the Young Men's Christian Union, No. 16 Summer street, to commence
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 9th, at 3 o'clock, P. M.
Jan. 9. French and English Law.
Oriental basis for the Law's estimate of woman. Common proverbs. Roman Law not pertinent. The estimate of the French Law shown in the rights of property, marriage and franchise. Women in the public employ never promoted. The estimate of the Law regulates the price of Labor. The Lawe's Resolution.' English Common Law. Divorce for hopeless insanity not allowed. Results. Anecdote of a London Court Room. Sir Charles Morgan's Aunt, and her opinion of the Law. 
Jan. 16. The English Common Law-continued.
Equity. The Law's estimate of a woman's truthfulness. Divorce by Act of Parliament. The Hon. Mrs. Norton. Hungarian Law contrasted with the English. Practical immorality of the Law, which makes virtue in the wife depend on vigilance in the husband. Suffrage. Objections met. The Art Critic and Rosa Bonheur. Suffrage a death-blow to three kinds of Law. Harris v. Butler. Delicate discussions in Parliament. Divorce Bill. Duke of York's Trial. John Stuart Mill on Suffrage. Women of Upsal.'Dames de la Halle.' Black wood in 1854. Abbesses in Parliament. Buckle's Lecture. Changes in Canada. Pitcairn's Island. 
Jan. 23. The U. S. Laws and the Secret of Success. 
The despotism of a Republic. Kent. The man's notion. Poynter on Consistency. The Laws of nineteen States changed in ten years. Graham's decision. Mrs. Dorr's claim. New York Bill. Complication of legislation. Mrs. John Adams and Mrs. Hannah Cobbold.ï¿½ Human rights.' Patient thoroughness the title to respect. Through Labor to Suffrage. Mean men. Woman's right to man as counsellor and friend. The historical development of the question. The practical question. Mahomet and the Venetian Catechism. 
These lectures are given in the afternoon in order to permit persons from the neighboring towns to attend. The subject is very little understood by women, and this course of lectures concludes the twelve Mrs. Dall originally projected. 
Doors open at 2, P. M. Admittance to each lecture, 25 cts.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at
Hubbardston, Friday, Dec. 21.
Barre, Sunday, Dec. 23.
Rutland, Monday, Dec. 24.
North Oxford, Friday, Dec. 28.
Leicester, Sunday, Dec. 30.
Oakdale, Monday, Dec. 31.
West Boylston, Tuesday, Jan. 1.
Princeton, Wednesday, Jan. 2.
Holden, Thursday, Jan. 3.
Clinton, Sunday, Jan. 6.
Lancaster, Tuesday, Jan. 8.
Harvard, Wednesday, Jan. 9.
Groton, Thursday, Jan. 10.
Pepperell, Sunday, Jan. 13.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture at Bethel, Vt., in Bullard's Hall, Sunday, December 23. 
He will attend a Free Convention in same place, to commence on Tuesday, Dec. 25, and to continue three or four days, as shall be deemed best by the Convention. 

SIXTEENTH COURSE. 
The Fourth Lecture before the Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society will be given by F. B. SANBORN, of Concord, (Mass.) on Sunday evening, Dec. 23d, in Lyceum Hall, at 7 o'clock. Admittance five cents. 
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. Sec. 
MRS. MALINDA NOLL gratefully returns her thanks to the kind friends who have assisted her in efforts to purchase her sons, and takes this opportunity to announce that, after having bought her first-born, who is now free, she has succeeded, also, in procuring enough to liberate her second boy, who is yet in slavery in Missouri. She has still a mother in bondage, whom she desires to liberate, but she will do so by the profits on anti-slavery books which she proposes to sell; as she does not desire to tax further the liberality which has already been shown to her, but to permit others, situated as she once was, to enjoy it. 
Boston, Dec. 18, 1860. 
Anglo-Saxon and Anti-Slavery Standard please copy, and send bill to Mrs. Bell, New York. 
<c06>
SPEECH OF JOHN BROWN, JR., delivered at the Joy Street Baptist Church, on the Anniversary of the death of his father. Capt. John Brown, appears in the Weekly Anglo-Saxon of Dec. 22d, copies of which will be sent to any address on the receipt of five cents. Address 
THOS. HAMILTON,
48 Beekman street, New York. 
P. O. Box, 1212. 
ESSEX CO. ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-The next meeting of this Society will be held at Lawrence, Sunday, Jan. 30th, day and evening. CHAS. L. REMOND and A. T. Foss and others will speak. The public are invited. 
CHARLES L. REMOND, President. 
LYDIA M. TENNEY, Sec'y. 
A. T. Foss's collection at Hyannis, acknowledged last week, should have been $6 60, instead of $3 60. 
SITUATION WANTED.-A lady who has had large experience in matters of house-keeping, and who is eminently qualified satisfactorily to discharge the duties connected therewith, desires a situation either as house-keeper, or matron of some establishment, in this city or vicinity. The best of references given. Address X., Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street. 
LITTLE CHILDREN can be furnished with board and kindly cared for at No. 1 Newland (out of Dedham) street, Boston, by Mrs. J. M. SPEAR. 
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., 
No. 34 AUBURN STREET, BOSTON. 
Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases. 
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov. 23. 3m. 
FREE DISPENSARY, 
For Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock. 
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock. 
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge. 
Dr. BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, Physician for December. 
DIED-In this city, December 15th, Mr. ROBERT ROBERTS, (colored.) aged 80. He was probably the oldest stevedore in this city, and always commanded the respect and confidence of his various employers. By untiring industry and frugality he acquired a handsome property. From the commencement of the Anti-Slavery struggle to the close of life, he took a lively interest in its welfare, and in the darkest hours and most troublous times always evinced a hopeful spirit, fully believing that liberty is yet to be proclaimedï¿½ throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof.' Though dying without the sight, the fulfilment of his trust is certain in the order of events.

NEW SERIES OF TRACTS.
PUBLISHED BT THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY,
AND TO BE OBTAINED AT THE
Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman Street, New York;
107 Fifth Street, Philadelphia; 15 Steuben Street, Albany; and 221
Washington Street, Boston. 
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. pp. 28. 5 cents. 
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, viz.. De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. pp. 24. 5 cents. 
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. pp. 36. 5 cents. 
No. 4. The New Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1859-60. pp. 144. 10 cents. 
No. 5. Daniel O' Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies, pp. 48. 5 cents. 
No. 6. The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and else-where. By L. MARIA CHILD. pp. 95. 10 cts. 
No. 7. Testimonies of Capt. John Brown at Harper's Ferry, with his Address to the Court, pp. 16. 3 cents. 
No. 8. The Philosophy of the Abolition Movement. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. pp. 47. 5 cents. 
No. 9. The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Act: An Appeal to the Legislature of Massachusetts. By L. MARIA CHILD. pp. 36. 5 cents. 
No. 10. The Infidelity of Abolitionism. By WM. LLOYD GARRISON. pp. 12. 3 cents. 
No. 11. Speech of John Hossack, convicted of a Violation of the Fugitive Slave Act at Chicago, Ill. pp. 12. 3 cents. 
No. 12. The Patriarchal Institution, as described by Members of its Own Family. Compiled by LYDIA MARIA CHILD. pp. 55. 5 cents. 
No. 13. No Slave-Hunting in the Old Bay State: An Appeal to the People and Legislature of Massachusetts. pp. 24. 5 cents. 
A deduction of fifty per cent, from the above price will be made where a dozen or more copies are taken. Gratuitous copies will be sent by mail, for examination, on receiving the postage charge. 
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS. 
MIDDLESEX, ss. To the Heirs at Law, Creditors, and all other persons interested in the last Will of JOHN CABOT, late of Newton, in said county, deceased, testate: 
WHEREAS, application has been made to me to appoint GEORGE JACKSON, of Boston, Trustee under the Will of said deceased, in the place of FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston, in the county of Suffolk, resigned-you are hereby cited to appear at a Probate Court, to be held at Cambridge, in said county of Middlesex, on the second Tuesday of January next, at nine o'clock before noon, to show cause, if any you have, against granting the same. 
And the said George Jackson is hereby directed to give public notice thereof, by publishing this citation once a week, for three successive weeks, in the newspaper called the Liberator, printed at Boston-the last publication to be three days, at least, before said Court. 
Witness my hand, this 27th day of November, in the year eighteen hundred and sixty. 
WILLIAM A. RICHARDSON,
Judge of the Probate Court.
A true copy: attest, J. H. TYLER, Register

IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP.
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS.
THREE-FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces.
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause or derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not taken into the circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, however, from a deterioration or bad state of the blood. 
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description, Tendency to Consumption, Weakness of the Sexual Organs, Prolapsus Uteri, and diseases of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness or prostration of physical and mental energy. In all these cases, THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astonishing cures, and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable ingredient, Iron in the Blood.
 The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will, at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured. 
EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself or herself of this invaluable remedy.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER, 
No. 39 Summer Street, Boston. 
For sale by all Druggists. 
Oct. 26, 6w. 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
THE PINE TREE.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Lift again the stately emblem on the Bay State's rusted shield,
Give to Northern winds the Pine Tree on our banner's tattered field!
Sons of men who sat in council with their Bibles round the board,
Answering England's royal missive with a firm, ’THUS SAITH THE LORD!
Rise again for home and freedom!-set the battle in array!-
What the fathers did of old time, we their sons must do to-day.
Tell us not of banks and tariffs-cease your paltry pedlar cries- 
Shall the good State sink her honor that your gambling stocks may rise?
Would ye barter men for cotton?-That your gains may be the same,
Must we kiss the feet of Moloch, pass our children through the flame?
Is the dollar only real?-God and truth and right a dream?
Weighed against your lying ledgers must our manhood kick the beam? 
Oh, my God!-for that free spirit, which of old in Boston town 
Smote the Province House with terror, struck the crest of Andros down!-
For another strong-voiced Adams in the city's streets to cry:
‘Up for God and Massachusetts!-Set your feet on Mammon's lie! 
Perish banks and perish traffic-spin your cotton's latest pound-
But, in Heaven's name, keep your honor-keep the heart o’ the Bay State sound!’
Where's the MAN for Massachusetts? Where's the voice to speak her free? 
Where's the hand to light up bonfires from her mountains to the sea?
Beats her Pilgrim pulse no longer? Sits she dumb in her despair? 
Has she none to break the silence? Has she none to do and dare? 
Oh, my God! for one right worthy to lift up her rusted shield,
And to plant again the Pine Tree in her banner's tattered field! 

SILENCE IS CRIME
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Now, by our fathers’ ashes! where's the spirit 
Of the true-hearted and th’ unshackled gone?
Sons of old freemen, do we but inherit
Their names alone?
Is the old Pilgrim spirit quenched within us?
Stoops the proud manhood of our souls so low 
That Mammon's lure or party wile can win us 
To silence now?
No! When our land to ruin's brink is verging,
In God's name, let us speak while there is time!
Now, when the padlocks for our lips are forging, 
SILENCE IS CRIME!
What! shall we henceforth humbly ask, as favors, 
Rights all our own? In madness shall we barter, 
For treacherous peace, the FREEDOM Nature gave us, 
God and our charter?
Here shall the statesman seek the free to fetter?
Here Lynch law light its horrid fires on high?
And, in the Church, their proud and skilled abettor 
Make truth a lie?
Torture the pages of the hallow'd Bible, 
To sanction crime, and robbery, and blood; 
And, in Oppression's hateful service, libel 
Both man and God?
Shall our New England stand erect no longer, 
But stoop in chains upon her downward way, 
Thicker to gather on her limbs, and stronger, 
Day after day?
O no! methinks from all her wild, green mountains-
From valleys where her slumbering fathers lie-
From her blue rivers and her welling fountains,
And clear, cold sky-
From her rough coast, and isles, which hungry Ocean 
Gnaws with his surges-from the fisher's skiff,
With white sail swaying to the billow's motion
Round rock and cliff-
From the free fire-side of her unbought farmer—
From her free laborer at his loom and wheel-
From the brown smith-shop, where, beneath the hammer,
Rings the red steel-
From each and all, if God hath not forsaken 
Our land, and left as to an evil choice, 
Loud as the summer thunderbolt shall waken 
A PEOPLE'S VOICE!
Startling and stern! the Northern winds shall bear it 
Over Potomac's to St. Mary's wave; 
And buried Freedom shall awake to hear it 
Within her grave.
O, let that voice go forth! The bondman sighing 
By Santee’s wave, in Mississippi's cane, 
Shall feel the hope, within his bosom dying, 
Revive again. 
Let it go forth! The millions who are gazing 
Sadly upon us from afar shall smile,
And unto God devout thanksgiving raising,
Bless us the while!
O, for your ancient freedom, pure and holy; 
For the deliverance of a groaning earth; 
For the wrong'd captive, bleeding, crush'd and lowly, 
Let it go forth!
Sons of the best of fathers! will ye falter
With all they left ye perilled and at stake?
Ho! once again on Freedom's holy altar 
The fire awake!
Prayer-strengthened for the trial, come together,
Put on the harness for the moral fight,
And, with the blessing of your heavenly Father, 
MAINTAIN THE RIGHT!

SONG OF THE FREE.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
‘Living, I shall assert the right of FREE DISCUSSION; dying, I shall assert it: and, should I leave no other inheritance to my children, by the blessing of God I will leave them the inheritance of FREE PRINCIPLES, and the example of a manly and independent defence of them.'- Daniel Webster.
Pride of New England!
Soul of our fathers!
Shrink we all craven-like,
When the storm gathers?
What though the tempest be
Over us lowering,
Where's the New Englander
Shamefully cowering?
Graves green and holy
Around as are lying.-
Free were the sleepers all,
Living and dying!
Back with the Southerner's 
Padlocks and scourges!
Go-let him fetter down 
Ocean's free surges! 
Go-let him silence 
Winds, clouds, and waters-
Never New England's own
Free sons and daughters!
<c02>
Free as our rivers are
Ocean-ward going-
Free as the breezes are
Over us blowing.
Up to our altars, then, 
Haste we, and summon 
Courage and loveliness. 
Manhood and woman! 
Deep let our pledges be: 
Freedom forever!
Truce with oppression, 
Never, oh! never! 
By our own birthright gift,
Granted of Heaven-
Freedom for heart and lip, 
Be the pledge given!
If we have whispered truth,
Whisper no longer;
Speak as the tempest does,
Sterner and stronger;
Still be the tones of truth
Louder and firmer,
Startling the haughty South
With the deep murmur:
God and our charter's right,
Freedom for ever!
Truce with oppression,
Never, oh! never! 

THE LIBERATOR.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE ANTICHRIST OF NEW ENGLAND. A Sermon preached at the opening of the Essex North Conference, Haverhill, Mass. Sept. 9, 1860. By Charles Beecher, Georgetown, Mass. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co. pp. 35.
This pamphlet shows all the eccentricity, but less than the strength, that one expects of a Beecher.
Commencing with the declaration that the Bible is, ’unquestionably, the strongest, the most successful work ever published, ’it assumes, in addition to this, the hypothesis constantly assumed by the Orthodox clergy as a fact-namely, that that collection of books is infallibly inspired of God-and it then takes the further position of denying ’that the Bible contains a single doctrine contrary to common sense, or that cannot be defended as honorable and right.’
What is 'the Antichrist of New England ’referred to in this pamphlet, remains somewhat obscure, in spite of the thirty-five pages that are occupied with describing, satirizing and opposing it. It seems to be, however, a ‘School,’ a ’system,’ a ’criticism,’ which either denies the clerical hypothesis above mentioned, or demands sufficient evidence before admitting it. 
It is stated on p. 7 that the ’criticism’ in question ’tells us we do not know certainly the authorship of a single book of the Bible'; and further, that ’the apostles’ of this 'school’ allege that 'None of the writers of the Bible claim to have written by divine inspiration, and therefore it is a gratuitous thing to assume that they did.’ As I do not happen to know any persons who hold the two positions last mentioned, I should have been left quite in the dark as to who Mr. Beecher meant by ‘the apostles’ of the ’school’ that he declares to teach them, but that in other parts of his pamphlet he names Theodore Parker and Mr. Garrison as the persons he is opposing, and calls their system (p. 28)’a moral sans culottism, a gospel of the guillotine.’ This malicious statement ignores the material opposing facts that Mr. Garrison is a teacher of Peace no less than of Anti-Slavery, and that, in this and some other respects, his ideas are materially different from those of Mr. Parker. But these are only specimens of a disingenuousness, an unfairness of statement, (to select the mildest of the appropriate terms,) which characterize the whole work. If the sophistry should be abstracted from Mr. Beecher's defence of his own theories, and the error from his statements and insinuations respecting other men, and their ideas, little bulk, and less weight, would remain to the pamphlet in question. 
To give an example of the sophistry of which I speak-a sophistry by no means peculiar to Mr. Beecher, but freely used by all clergymen of his class when defending their professional hypothesis in regard to the Bible-he constantly seeks to represent 'The Bible’ as a unitary work; a work describing and inculcating one system, instead of two; a work, the several portions of whose two great, and sixty-six small divisions, are in perfect harmony with each other; a work in which the dignity, authority, influence and weight of character of each writer goes to support every statement and every idea of every other writer in the two collections of Hebrew and Christian Scriptures. 
Here is a specimen of these assumptions, pp. 8, 9:
'Does not the Bible claim that God called Abraham (Gen. 12: 1, Acts 7: 2,) and entered into a special covenant with him and his seed after him? (Gen.15.) Does it not claim that that covenant was renewed to Isaac (Gen. 26: 2-5) and Jacob? (Gen. 28: 11-22;) that, in pursuance of it, (Ex. 3:) God brought Israel out of Egypt with signs and wonders and an outstretched arm, entering into a covenant with them at Sinai? (Ex. 24.) Does not the Bible claim that the whole national economy, in its three permanent parts, prophetic, sacrificial, and civil, was then and there directly instituted by God himself, through Moses? (Ex. 19: 5. 6; Deut. 4: 1-8.) Does it not claim that the prophetic office was then made permanent and paramount? (Deut. 18: 15-20.) Does it not claim that God established the nation in Canaan by miracles, raised them up judges, sent them prophets, and finally gave them his son, Messiah? Does not the Bible distinctly claim that the nation in all this is the unique and special organ of divine communications for the race? (Rom. 9: 4, 5; 3: 2. Ex.4: 22;) and that no such thing had ever been seen or heard of before? (Deut. 4: 32-37.) Does it not claim that Christ came as the express fulfilment of that covenant? (Gal. 3: 16; Rom. 10: 3, 4.) Does it not claim for Christ absolute jurisdiction over human belief and affection, saying, ’He that believeth not on the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him'? (John 3: 36.1 John 5: 9-12.) Does it not claim that he ordained twelve apostles, and gave them the keys of the kingdom of heaven, with power to bind and loose on earth and in heaven. (Matth. 16: 19; 18: 18.)’
The true answer to these questions is-No! the Bible does not claim any one of these things. The references which Mr. Beecher has appended to these passages, to try to make his questions teem to require an affirmative answer, do not show this, but they show something very different, namely; that in some of these cases, not in all, the thing claimed by Mr. Beecher was really claimed by one or two individuals among the writers of the thirty-nine books which were afterwards collected by somebody, (we know not whom,) to form the Old Testament; or else by one or two individuals among the writers of the twenty-seven books which were afterwards collected by somebody, (we know not whom,) to form the New Testament. And the force of each of these claims depends upon the evidence we can find of the integrity, intelligence and good judgment of the particular writer in question. Each of these writers, and his book, must stand or fall by the evidence respecting himself and itself.
But Mr. Beecher's unfairness is not confined to sophistical assumptions like the above. He misrepresents the scope and meaning of the individual writers of particular passages of Scripture. Thus he asks, (p.9,)
'Does not Paul, at a time when the Old Testament canon was regarded with almost idolatrous reverence, say—"All Scripture is God-inspired"?’(2 Tim. 3: 16.)
I answer-It is by no means certain that he says this.
Again Mr. Beecher asks, (p. 11,)
‘What does the objector say then to the specific claim, e.g., of Paul, 'All Scripture is God-inspired'?
<c03>
He answers, 'That does not make it so! ‘But is it a claim?’
I answer-It is by no means certain that it is a claim, even, of what Mr. Beecher represents; for the Greek of the ambiguous passage in question (spoken after the specification of one particular excellence in the Hebrew Scriptures) requires this rendering rather than the one given it in King James's version- 
'All God-inspired Scripture is also profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness.'
A still worse specimen of Mr. Beecher's habit of misusing passages of Scripture is where he tries to make it appear (pp. 10, 11,) that the threat which closes the account of John's visions in the isle of Patmos is designed to cover the two collections of Jewish and Christian Scriptures, instead of the single book, called ‘Revelation,’ in which it occurs. There is not the slightest reason to suppose that the writer of that book for a moment imagined a binding up of his work with other works to form the New Testament, still less an attempt to represent it as appropriately connected with the Old Testament also.
Another sophistical assumption, used by Mr. Beecher as by his clerical brethren, is the use of the term ’Word of God’ as synonymous with the Bible. He should first show that such a term is applicable to that book.
Such enormously deceptive claims, assumptions and implications are made by writers of Mr. Beecher's class, that it is worth while to quote another passage from him, to show his method of ’argument,’ and his way of bringing an argument to a point:-
‘Let us, then, to bring the argument to a point, look a moment at the Pentateuch. Why, we ask, is it not reasonably certain that Moses wrote these books?
O, because the last chapter contains his obituary; and if you give that up, yon are all afloat." 
That is, an obituary notice, by an unknown hand, appended to an ancient author's work, is sufficient to destroy its genuineness, however well attested. Does that seem reasonable?
"But there are interpolations, here and there." 
None, we reply, of any consequence. But are we to adopt the principle that interpolations in an ancient work are fatal to its genuineness as a whole? Would it not be suspicious if, in so very ancient a document, there were not some interpolations?
But how can we tell which is which?”
The presumption is, that all is genuine which is not proved spurious. The burden of proof is therefore on the negative.’ pp. 4, 5.
Mark the crafty implication, that the account of the death and burial of Moses, which forms a continuous part of the narrative of the book of Deuteronomy, was ’appended’ to that book!
Mark the entirely groundless assumption, that the authorship of the Pentateuch by Moses, apart from the objections cursorily noticed here, is ’well attested’!
Mark the deceptive manner in which the objector is made to concede that certain passages scattered through these books, which show a knowledge, on the part of the writer, of events in Jewish history long after the time of Moses, are ’interpolations,’ instead of parts of the original document! 
It is worth while briefly to describe here the force of the argument which Mr. Beecher attempts to evade by the crafty use of the word ’interpolations.’
If a writer on the early history of the Pilgrim Fathers of New England spoke incidentally, in the course of his remarks, of the Missouri Compromise and the Dred Scott decision, we should be perfectly assured (should we not?) that his work must have been written after the occurrence of those two events, because he could not else have known of their existence. 
Now, the book of Genesis contains this passage; (12: 6, 7.) I designate the significant part by italics: 
'And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Siehem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land. And the Lord appeared unto Abram, and said-Unto thy seed will I give this land.’
The middle one of these three sentences refers to a time as past, which was not past until the latter part of Joshua's reign, many years after Moses. It is plain, then, that the document, of which this sentence forms a continuous part, must have been written by some one who lived as late as the expulsion of the Canaanites; therefore not by Moses.
Again, the book of Genesis contains this passage, the commencement of a genealogy of Edomite rulers: (36: 31.)
And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom before there reigned any king over the children of Israel. And Bela, the son of Beor, reigned in Edom,’ &c., &c. 
It is plain that the document of which this forms a continuous part must have been written by some one who lived at least as late in the Hebrew history as the time of Saul, the first king; therefore not by Moses. 
If Mr. Beecher wishes to have these constituent parts of the book of Genesis regarded as ’interpolations,’ let him prove that they are such. But to prove is no part of his purpose; for, with unspeakable hardihood, he goes on to tell us that his theory respecting the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch is to be presumed to be certainly correct! These are his words, at the close of the passage above quoted:
‘The presumption is, that all is genuine that is not proved spurious. The burden of proof is, therefore, on the negative.’
I ask the author of this astonishing sentence- Why should we entertain such a presumptuous 'presumption’?
If another book, or another system, contained instances of direct and irreconcilable contradiction so numerous as those of the Bible, the claim of plenary: inspiration for it would be simply ridiculous and absurd. But in the case of the Bible, these very contradictions (which Mr. Beecher guardedly calls 'differences,’ strengthen his belief. Here is his language: (p. 15.)
‘And what shall we say of the differences fundamental to the salvation of science, if not of the soul? Do they cast suspicion on the plenary inspiration of the Bible? Methinks it would be far more philosophical to say that, properly considered, they strengthen it; for it is not likely bodies so widely oppugnant would continue loyal to the same book, unless it had a divine strength.’
To assume ‘a divine strength, ’inhering equally in every part of the multifarious collection of writings which form the Bible, is one of Mr. Beecher's ingenious little manoeuvres for explaining its reception among men as a highly valuable book, honored, cherished and complimented, however imperfectly obeyed: but he remembers to forget to speak of the very weighty influence operating to the same end, of forty thousand clergymen, scattered through the whole mass of the population of this country, and possessed of their confidence and respect, who twice a week vehemently urge upon them that it is their duty and interest so to cherish the Bible. If we add this influence to the influence of so much of the Bible itself as is true and highly valuable, the problem will be solved without the hypothesis of ’plenary inspiration.’
Let me say here, since this pamphlet assails Mr. Parker and Mr. Garrison for their statements respecting the Bible, that these eminent benefactors of their age have not only never denied the high value and excellence of that book, but they have constantly asserted it; none more than they have diligently studied its meaning, echoed its truths, and called on the people to obey them.
It needs to be said also, (since Mr. Beecher and his clerical brethren are constantly trying to represent the recognition of errors in the Bible, and of contradictions between its different parts, as an injurious imputation against the Bible itself,) that the existence of errors and contradictions in that book, however fatal to the clerical hypothesis of its miraculous inspiration, by no means injures the character of the book itself, when its origin is taken into consideration.
<c04>
If you bind into one volume the writings of fifty men, especially of men varying in period by several centuries, and varying in condition from semi-barbarous to semi-civilized, you will of course have errors and contradictions. You may have great and noble truths also. And we actually have both these in the Bible. We must 'prove’ its contents, and 'hold fast’ that in them which is 'good.'
In spite of Mr. Beecher's persistent talk about plenary inspiration, and claim that all parts of the Bible are infallibly inspired of God, he also, in practice, takes the liberty of judging what parts of it to obey, and what not to obey. The difference between him and Messrs. Parker and Garrison, as far as practice goes, is a difference of degree, and not of kind. An instance in point is suggested by one of his boastful questions, left unanswered, but designed to suggest the implication that it must be answered in his favor., He asks-(p. 33.)
‘Who instituted the Lord's day, in commemoration of the Resurrection, if not the first generation?’
By ’the Lord's day,’ he means Sunday. And by ’instituting’ it, he means instituting such a use of Sunday as is now practised by his particular sect, and the allied group of kindred sects, under the utterly unauthorized name of the ‘Christian Sabbath.’
Who instituted the Lord's day in commemoration of the Resurrection? I don't know that it ever was instituted for such a purpose. Certainly, the present churches of Orthodox Congregationalists do not understand it so. Ask them why they go to meeting on Sunday, and forty-nine out of fifty of their church-members will confidently point to the fourth commandment of the Jewish decalogue, or else to the first two verses of the second chapter of Genesis, as the answer, utterly and absurdly inappropriate as both of them are for such a purpose. And not one in fifty of them will even think of citing ’the resurrection,’ as his reason for the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath, until he has been driven from several previous refuges of lies in the attempt to account for it.
It is needful to the maintenance of the power and influence of Mr. Beecher and his clerical brethren, that they persuade their people to observe Sunday as a Sabbath. To secure their compliance with this custom, Mr. Beecher tells his people that God requires it of them, and that God's command to them, to this effect, is found in the Bible!-in spite of the directly opposing facts that the writers of the Bible are unanimous, from beginning to end, in designating Saturday as the Sabbath, and declaring that the Sabbath was an institution peculiar, and designed to be peculiar, to the Jews. Here is one instance where Mr. Beecher takes the liberty to depart from the teaching of the Bible, and to preach (and practise)’another gospel.’
I will give one more instance.
Mr. Beecher claims ’plenary authority for apostolic teaching, ’and triumphantly declares that the twelve apostles had ’power to bind and loose on earth and in heaven.’ Let us see how he regards their authority when he chances to differ with them in opinion. 
The apostle James gives the following precept respecting the treatment of the sick. (5: 14.)
‘Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.’
If Mr. Beecher's hypothesis respecting the inspiration of the Bible, and the plenary authority of the Apostles, is correct, this passage points out an explicit and imperative duty for the sick and their friends; a duty which Mr. Beecher is bound to practise in his own family, and to enjoin upon his people, especially if they are accustomed to disregard it. Does he fulfil this duty? Does he, when any member of his own family is sick, send for the elders of his church, and have them put oil on the patient? Does he, when, being called to visit sick persons, he finds they have neglected this duty, admonish them with regard to it, and urge its performance? Does he, when he finds ’that the members of his church, with one consent, imitate ’the world’ in utterly neglecting to obey this precept, preach in favor of it, condemn disobedience to it, and insist that the sick shall be oiled by the elders of the church, 'according to the Scripture'? Nothing of the sort! 
In this case, Mr. Beecher chooses to use reason in opposition to Scripture. He chooses, in this particular, to agree with Mr. Parker and Mr. Garrison. I think that, in so far, he does well! But why does he insist on the hypothesis (even while belieing it by his practice) of James's absolute inspiration and plenary authority? How does he dare to ’take away’ a command of Scripture in this case, and to ’add’ to Scripture a command for the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath, if the denunciation at the end of the book of ’Revelation’ covers the whole Bible, as he represents, and if it is a denunciation really to be feared, as he represents? His theory and practice do not hang together. 
Among the eccentricities which I have mentioned as characterizing Mr. Beecher's pamphlet are the following. He thinks it important to believe in a preexistence of souls, before their appearance in this world. He thinks it important to 'join on’ where the Westminster Divines left off-—a formula of which I do not pretend to understand the import. And he indulges, from time to time, in a strain of exalted phraseology, such as the Western people call ’high-falutin,’ as follows:-
'Such are the concessions that have been quite generally made by the leaders of Christendom, and that on the very field of Waterloo, when the squadrons of the enemy, flushed with anticipated triumph, are thundering in upon our hollow square.'-p. 19.
‘What shall we say of those who, while the squadrons of Antichrist come rushing in full onset on our squares, command us to ground arms, and let them ride us down?’-p. 20.
'I marvel the stones did not cry out, and the bones of the immortal Edwards burst from their cerements, when such voices echoed in Nassau Hall and Andover, in Philadelphia and Boston. When the proud Philistine walks up and down our New England Israel, and defies the armies of the living God, what answer do these Sauls and Abners send back to his deadly challenge?'-ib.
'Never is the New [Covenant] more effulgently divine than when, in a world full of blasphemy, the white horseman rides in, and with steady hand, and eye of fire, transfixes his elect through and through.’-p. 34. 
I have small space left in which to speak of the position of Mr. Beecher, in this sermon, (and elsewhere,) in regard to slavery. While admitting, (amazing exercise of candor!) that ’the churches have need to confess sins of omission towards the slave, ’he declares that’ time will show their head, heart and system to be right in this matter.’ And he humbly hopes that his own conviction that ’slaveholding is a sin’ is also ’the honest conviction of the New England churches.’
Mr. Beecher's ’hope’ in this matter has need to be humble, very humble. For, if the churches of New England cherish any such conviction as he attributes to them, (I mean humbly hopes concerning them,) they have kept it covered with a bushel as effectually as Mr. Beecher's church has done. 
Dr. Cheever also heartily believes that slaveholding is sin. We have no need to consult, or to publish, certificates to that effect, for he has made it so plain by his energetic speech and action, in the pulpit and out of it, that, even with the disadvantage of having but half a church to cooperate with him, he is hated by the nation, saints and sinners alike, scarcely less than Mr. Parker and Mr. Garrison are hated, and for the same reason.
Who has ever heard of any specially anti-slavery character in Mr. Beecher or in his church? Who has seen even a ripple in the stream where they have been gliding smoothly along with that group of churches of the popular religion which forms, notoriously, the main bulwark of slavery? Churches whose revival sermons avoid comment on slavery as tending to check the 'work of grace'! and whose 'business men's prayer-meetings’ expressly forbid
<c05>
the introduction of ’controverted topics'! and whose nurseries- the ’Young Men's Christian Association’-send delegates to the sister prayer-meetings of slaveholders in the South, armed with certificates that they are 'all right’ in regard to the 'peculiar institution'!
But stop! I am going too fast. The readers of this sermon know the anti-slavery faith of Mr. Beecher's church, as far at least as words can show it. He has taken off the bushel, and, lo! there is a candle clearly burning, which has been burning-so he tells us-for twenty years. On close examination, it proves to be a genuine wax candle. What a pity that it was not taken from under the bushel, and set on a candlestick, twenty years ago! 
The resolutions of Mr. Beecher's church, which have been slumbering in the clerk's record book for twenty years, are very excellent resolutions, if the pastor or the church had the heart to use them. But, to all outward appearance, they remain a dead letter, used merely for show on certain occasions, as the Catholic priest uses the wood of the true cross. To all outward appearance, South-side Adams is acknowledged as a Christian brother of Mr. Beecher, and his church as a sister with Mr. Beecher's church, in the same denomination.
Call you this backing of anti-slavery? ’A plague upon such backing!’
Even in the act of calling upon the churches of New England 'prayerfully’ to do more than they have ever done against slavery, Mr. Beecher takes pains to give a thrust at Dr. Cheever's ’Church Anti-Slavery Society,’ saying that this doing should be effected- ‘not by new societies-we have societies enough, and to spare-but by the local churches.’ Very well. In this statement I heartily agree with Mr. Beecher. But will he and his ’local church’ set the example? and, if they really do not fraternize with South-side Adams and his church, (especially since his recent intensely pro-slavery Thanksgiving sermon,) will they set their candle on a candlestick, and make that fact manifest?-C. K.W.

ARTEMUS WARD AND OLD ABE. 
The last Vanity Fair has an account of an interview between the President elect and Artemus Ward. The latter finds Mr. Lincoln persecuted by applicants for office, and describes the means by which he clears the premises:-
‘Good God!’ cried Old Abe, ’they cum upon me from the skize-down the chimneys, and from the bowels of the yearth!’ He hadn't moren'n got them words out of his delikit mouth before two fat offiss-seekers from Wisconsin, in endeverin to crawl atween his legs for the purpuss of applyin for the tollgateship at Milwawky, upsot the President eleck & he would hev gone sprawlin into the fire-place if I hadn't caught him in these arms. But I hadn't more'n stood him up strate, before another man cum crushin down the chimney, his head strikin me vilently agin the innards and prostratin my voluptuous form onto the floor. ‘Mr. Linkin, ’shoutid the infatooated being, ’my papers is signed by every clergyman in our town, and likewise the skoolmaster!'
Sez I, ‘you egrejis ass,' gittin up & brushin the dust from my eyes, ’I'll sign your papers with this bunch of bones, if you don't be a little more keerful how you make my bread baskit a depot in the futur. How do you like that air perfumery? ?’sez I, shuvin my fist under his nose. ’Them's the kind of papers I'll give you! Them's the papers you want!’
‘But I workt hard for the ticket; I toiled night and day! The patrit should be rewarded!'
‘Virtoo,’ sed I, holdin’ the infatooated man by the coat-collar, ’virtoo, sir, is its own reward. Look at me!’ He did look at me, and qualed be4 my gase. ’The fact is,’ I continued, lookin ’round upon the hungry crowd, ’there is scacely a offiss for every ile lamp carrid round durin’ this campane. I wish thare was furrin missions to be filled on varis lonely islands where epydemics rage incessantly, and if I was in Old Abe's place I'd send every mother's son of you to them. What air you here for? ’I continnered, warmin’ up considerable, ’can't you giv Abe a minit's peace? Don't you see he's worrid most to death! Go home, you miserable men, go home & till the sile! Go to pedlin tinware-go to choppin wood-go to bilin sope-stuff sassengers-black boots-git a clerkship on sum respectable manure cart-go round as original Swiss Bell Ringers-becum ’origenal and only ’Campbell Minstrels-go to lecturin at 50 dollars a nite-imbark in the peanut bizniss-write for the Ledger-saw off your legs and go round givin concerts, with techin appeals to a charitable public printed on your handbills-anything for a honest livin', but don't come round here drivin Old Abe crazy by your outrajus cuttings up!
Go home. Stand not upon the order of your goin', but go to onct! Ef in five minits from this time,’ sez I, pullin’ out my new sixteen dollar huntin cased watch, and brandishin’ it before their eyes, Ef in five minits from this time a single sole of you remains on these here premises, I'll go out to my cage near by, and let my Boy Constructor loose! & if he gits amung you, you'll think Old Solferino has cum again and no mistake!’ You ought to hev seen them scamper, Mr. Fair. They run orf as tho Satun hisself was arter them with a red hot ten pronged pitchfork. In five minits the premises was clear.
‘How kin I ever repay you, Mr. Ward, for your kindness?’ sed Old Abe, advancin and shakin me warmly by the hand. ’How kin I ever repay you, sir?'
'By givin the whole country a good, sound administration. By poerin ile upon the troubled waters, North and South! By pursooin a patriotic, firm, and just course, and then if a State wants to secede, let'em Seseesh!'
‘How 'bout my Cabnit Ministre, Ward?’ sed Abe.
‘Fill it up with Showmen, sir! Showmen is devoid of politics. They hain't got a darn principle! They know how to cater to the public. They know what the public wants, North & South. Showmen, sir, is honest men. Ef you doubt their literary ability, look at their posters, and see small bills? Ef you want a Cabinit as is a Cabinit, fill it up with showmen, but don't call on me. The moral wax figger perfeshun mustn't be permitted to go down while there's a drop of blood in these veins! A. Linkin, I wish you well! Ef Powers or Walcutt was to pick out a model for a beautiful man, I scarcely think they'd sculp you; but ef you do the fair thing by your country you'll make as putty a angel as any of us, or any other man! A. Linkin, use the talents which nature has put into you judishusly and firmly, and all will be well! A. Linkin, adoo!
He shook me cordyully by the hand-we exchanged picturs, so we could gaze upon each other's liniments when far away from one another-he at the hellum of the Ship of State, and I at the hellum of the show bizness-admittance only 15 cents
ARTEMUS WARD. 

From the Portland (Me.) Transcript.
HORNBY SECEDES!!
LETTER FROM ETHAN SPIKE. 
HORNBY, NOV. 19, I860.
The seventeen plagues of triberlation is come. From the airy concupisence of the purple zenith, the sun hes gone daown to the oriental chambers flingin its knockturnal rays on aour glorious Union for the last time! One bright an very pertickerler star is sot or abaout to set.
Its no use tryin to disguise it-heartless Black Republicans may deride an larf. So Zero fiddled when the conflamation was burnin Rome-larfin won't squinch the fires.
Hornby is already nullified, an, onless suthin is done pretty quick, she'll see seed!
I haint time to write all the perticklers. I've ollers bin a Union-saver, and true to my perlitical instincts, am doin my best to hold on the pieces. But this time the Union is too much for me. While I'm runnin arter one piece, two or three more gets adrift, an the divil in a gale of wind hes an easy time compared to mine.
Up to last teusday we thought everything was all right. We expected of course, that Bruckinbridge an Duglis was elected, and that the statootes of the constitootion was consequentially safe. But A lass! we was
-mistaking souls.
Wot drempt of heaven,’
when in reality we stood on the slippery rocks with nothin to catch bolt on, an billers underneath. A
<c06>
sreak of chain lightnin aout of blue sky-a thunderbowl when it want at all expected, new tetters in Jinooary, a cattamount without no har on or an Ethiopian nigger changin his spots, couldn't hev knocked us furder into the latter eend of next week, than did the news of Abraham Hanibal's election!
Of course a taown meetin was the fust thing in order arter we got over the fust shock.
Cap'n Perterbation Pillsbury on takin the cheer remarked as follors-
‘Feller citizens. Fust an last it hes bin my lot to preside over several or more meetins-but never before hev I approximated the discharge of manifest duty with such a tumultooous feelin of awful responsibility.
‘Feller citizens. We've heern an talked of crisies afore, but put all the crisises that ever was since crisises was inwented, together, multiply em by all the figgers in the multiplication table, add the remainder an carry for every ten, bile an steep from july to etarnity, an this ere that we've met to consider is more crisiser than the hull. I may say with the classics-it are-“Hoc some bonem knee plus horribus que see cundun arter em."
‘Feller citizens. It ar my painful duty to announce to you that Abram Hannibal—a quodocter generatian, an Illinoy nigger, with eight quarter parts merlatter blood into him, has been elected to away the destinations of these suvrin states!’
At this pint Jim Peabody ris for information. He 'would respectfully ax the cheer how many quarter parts make a hull?'
The cheer decided the question aout of order, and directed that Jim should be cared aout of the meeting, which, arter a hard tussle, was done, an the Cap'n 
continered.
‘Feller citizens'-says the Cap'n says he, 'What is to be did! Shall we put up with this violation of aour constitootional rights,or-'
Here another Black Republican wanted to know what constitootional right hed bin violated! ‘The people, ’says he,' hev only exercised their onalenable legal frankineense an I should like, Mr. Cheerman, to hev you pint-'
Afore he could finish, his hat was promply knocked over his eyes, an he was cared into the entry to cool his heels with Jim Peabody.
The Charman thanked me an tothers who toted the feller aout, for aour promptness in maintainin the right of speech, an said he’would take this occasion to say-that this war a free meetin, an hoped everybody would free their minds.'
There want only one other ’black’ in the haouse, an when the cheer said this, he half ris, but I gin him a look that meant some pison, an he sot daown mighty spry, an tried to look as though he'd hed no idee of gettin up.
‘To resume’ said the cheer. ’Shall we give in, squizzle, kerflumux an back daown, or shall we rise in the vartooous indignation of insulted majesty an daown trodden what do ye call it, raise hail kerlumby, an tharby set an example which will go daown to onborn footoority?
‘Mr. President-beg parding-I forgot I war that flunckshanary myself-Feller citizens-I haint got no great of a voice, owin to bein ehoked when young with a tough doughnut; but sich as it ar, it is for war! Sir-leastwise gentlemen of the jury-or more properly speakin feller citizens-I love the Union-I do by hokey! But, “Hic san jacket,” I love Hornby more. I love to contemplate the spar stangled banner underlatin its brazen folds amid the stary amplitoods of onmittigated spiflication. I yield to no livin critter, whether that critter ar found mid the tarnal snows of the equatorial phalanx, or brilin neath the tepsicorial visisitoods of torrid empyreans, in admiration of the American Eagle! But sir, I would see that flag cut up for poulties bandages-I would see that eagle plucked barer than bare-rock, and his meat used for wolf-bait afore I'll see the rights of this suvrin taoun invaded or upsot. Gentlemen, I dont know what them rights is, but my praoud motter is naow an ever 54-40 or fite!
‘I will naow appint Permission Peabody a committee of the hull to draft resolutions expressive of the common sense of this meetin.'
While the committee was aout making the sense of the meetin, the Tipsycorial Glee Club sang the Marcellus hymn-altered for the occasion.
‘Sons of Hornby,
Wake to glory-'
'Old Dan Tucker’ an ’The frog he would a wooing &c.’ with great effect. Deacon Pendergrass was axed to pray, but he would at, so we passed the balance of the time in stompin, imitation pigs roosters an tom-cats.
The committee on resolutions offered the following:
In the name of the State-forevermore, amen, SS. Whereas the people of Hornby, being of sane mind an lawful age, do depose an say-
1st. Resolved: That all men is created free an equal exceptin them that is'nt.
2d. Resolved: That the election of Abram Hanibal is a direct insult to Hornby, and ortent to be put up with, so it ortent.
3d. Resolved: That onless the said Abraham shall take back everything he hes said agin the peace an dignity of this suvrin moonicipality-or ef he hes’nt said nothin, he dus not faithfully promise not to do it agin, then this moonicipality will proceed to stultify itself accordin to statoote made an provided.
4th. Resolved: That we hev the right, an will see-seed-forcibly ef we can, peaceably ef we must.
5th. Resolved: That the Seliek men be empowered to borry on the credit of the taoun, ef they can the sum of $24,19, to put the Hornby Phalanx on a war footin.
6th. Resolved: That the “Stars an Stripes” be an hereby is abolished, an that a new flag be obtained, emblazoned with the taoun arms-a wood chuck rampant, with the motter “I bites,” an ons star in the center.
7th. Resolved: That this ere goen aout of a survin loominary ar a sollum thing, an haouever much human critters may laaf an jeast, we is gratified to know that nater is more seriouser, an is makin demonstrations suitable to the sollum ewent. The airthquake of Oct.19, was a leetle ahead of time to be sure,but on the hull creditable. Thar ar spots on the sun, an since the 6th of November it rises later and later, at the same time settin airlier an airlier. The moon also is gibeous, an some think its got the phases, for all of wich this meetin is suitably grateful.
8th. Resolved: That moast of this distressin sitooation is owin to Portland. Tharfore Resolved that we will care aour tetters to some other market, an that we repudiate all demands wich Portland folks hold agin us.
9th. Resolved: That this meeting do naow adjourn-wich it did.'
All the above is facts, I make nocomments-its onnecessary. ETHAN SPIKE.

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
FOURTH EDITION.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-con tradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. PricePrince 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publisher.
A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
Oct. 5-6m. 274 Canal street, New York.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair-Dyeing,
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st., and 20 West st,; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town. Boston, May 1, 1860.

TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN’S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
JUST published, a full Report of the proceeding of the TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION, held in the city of New York, May 10th and 11th, 1860, 100pp. large octavo. This pamphlet contains the addresses and speeches of Mrs. E. CADY STANTON, Mrs. E.L. ROSE, Rev. Mrs. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Rev. BERIAN GREEN, and others, with the resolutions, &C., making an exceedingly interesting and valuable document. But a limited number of copies have been printed, many of which have been disposed of in advance of publication. ‘A word to the wise,” &c.
Price, 25 cents: by mail, 30 cents.
Address ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street.
