THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED —
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT —
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT,
General Agent.
TERMS — Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON,. JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & son, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.38, BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPETMBER 18,1863. WHOLE NO. 1702.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE NEW YORK RIOTERS VINDICATED!
The sympathies of nine Englishmen in ten must be with the cause in which the people of New York have risen in arms against the Federal Government. It seems tolerably certain that they are simply maintaining their constitutional liberties against an outrageous usurpation; and, be the law what it may, it is clear that moral right is on the side of those who refuse to be marched under the banners of an imbecile Government, to wage an aggressive war against a kindred nation. The cause of the war is not one in which doubtful rights are disputed; in which the United States are threatened with a curtailment of their territory, or the loss of a possession to which they have some sort of claim. It is not now in any practical sense a question of the Union. The war is one for the conquest of eleven free and sovereign States; for the enslavement of six or eight millions of men of Saxon blood and English speech; for empire, plunder and confiscation. The Confederates do not ask for an inch of Northern territory; they have offered no insult to the North; they demand of it nothing but to be let alone. In such a war, no true-hearted Northern patriot will willingly draw the sword; in such a war, an act of high-handed authority, which, were the country in danger, might be just if not legal, becomes a usurpation to be resisted to the death by every good citizen. The cause of the rioters, then, is a good one; the attempt of Mr. Lincoln to enforce a conscription by military law is a double act of treason, for which, if law be ever restored, his life will become forfeit to the law. But the crimes of which the insurgents have been guilty are so heinous that no one can wish well to the criminals. The outrages which excuse the military intervention of the Federal power have been so atrocious that, if the intervention had been confined to the suppression of the riot and punishment of the rioters, no one would inquire closely into its legality. The burning of the books, the attacks on buildings in which the business of the conscription—that is, in the view of New York, of military kidnapping—was carried on, the shooting down of provost marshals and other agents of Mr. Lincoln’s criminal scheme, if they are irregular, are not to be peremptorily pronounced illegal acts. In the eyes of the law, a Federal agent who oversteps the bounds of the Constitution is as great and as mere a criminal as any private citizen; and if, as we believe, the conscription is utterly illegal, then the provost marshals are mere kidnappers, who may lawfully be resisted by men standing on their own defence. But there can be no plea whatever in palliation of the barbarous crimes of which the wretched negroes have been the victims, any more than for the very similar atrocities committed by Federal troops on Southern citizens. The murder of helpless negroes by the New York rabble is exactly on a par with the murders committed by Butler, M’Neil and Burn side on Confederate citizens and soldiers. The plunder of negros property is no more pardonable than the plunder of Southern villages, towns, and plantations by the troops of Blenker, Pope and Mitchell. The burning of negro dwellings is as infamous as the destruction of defenceless Southern homesteads and unresisting cities by the Federal expeditions sent out for that purpose into Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia, and elsewhere. For crimes of this kind we have no word of excuse to offer; and we would gladly consign the favorite generals of President Lincoln and the ringleaders of the murderous insurrection in New York to the same condign punishment. It was just as much the duty of the New York authorities to have punished the men who took the lead in murder and incendiarism, as it is the duty of the Federal Government to hang Generals Butler, M’Neil, an Blenker, And Gov. Seymour is almost as guilty as President Lincoln, with this difference— that a word from the latter would have sent the assassins in uniform to a court marshal or to the gallows, while Mr. Seymour may really be unable to lay his hands on the chief of fenders in the scenes which have so lately disgraced the Empire City.
The fate of the miserable negroes, however, conveys a lesson which ought not to be forgotten in our horror at the atrocities of which they were the victims. The English admirers of Gen. Butler try to persuade us that the North is really fighting to liberate the negro from slavery; that this object, if half-unconsciously entertained, is yet sure of accomplishment in the event of Northern success; and that, for this reason alone, England should desire to see the North triumphant. Now, we see how much truth there is in this idea. The North has always hated the negroes, ever since it ceased to hold them as slaves. This feeling is a curious and a composite one. First and foremost, there is the sense of physical antipathy; the loathing of a superior race for an inferior, forced into its company on terms of factitious, unnatural, and abhorrent equality. Secondly, there is the unmistakable fact that the negroes are a nuisance; that their ignorance and idleness make them unwelcome inmates of cities which are not yet quite reconciled to the phenomenon, so familiar to ourselves, of a class doomed to permanent misery and degradation. But, finally, the laborers of the cities hate the negros, as our trades-unionists hate those whom they also call “blacks,” as competitors for labor willing to work for lower wages, or on more reasonable conditions than themselves. At all times, therefore, the negro’s life in the North is one of danger from white arrogance and mob caprice. But at this moment there is another cause which excites the ordinary hatred borne towards him to perfect frenzy. In his own despite, he has become, if not the chief cause, yet the most obvious cause and prominent symbol of war and disunion. It was his friends, the Abolitionists, who compelled the secession of the South. It was for his sake that they made reconciliation impossible, by inducing the President to issue his monstrous ukase of emancipation. It is for his sake, therefore—so reason the New York people-that the war continues, that the Union is at an end, that we are to be dragged from our homes to fight against our brethren, and to be slaughtered under the leadership of men promoted to command, not because they are generals, but because they are negrophiles. “It is all for the damned nigger” and King Mob resolves that the nigger shall pay dearly for his involuntary crime.
 We can hardly hope that a man so incapable as President Lincoln of appreciating the signs of the times, will be warned by this horrible out burst of national feeling to retrace his foolish steps, and to resolve that, in making war for the Union, he will leave the question of slavery to resolve itself. But we think that all English emancipationists, who are capable of rational thought on the subject, ought now to have learned that emancipation at the present moment would be at once a blunder and a crime; that it would make the negro everywhere as he is at New York, the enemy and the victim
<c02>
of the white man; and that it could hardly fail to lead, in the end, to a frightful civil war, and the reenactment of slavery under worse auspices than ever.—London Standard.
Selections.
GARIBALDI TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Garibaldi, the Liberator of Italy, has sent fresh words of greeting across the Atlantic to Abraham Lincoln, hailing him, too, as a liberator of the oppressed. “An entire race of men,” he says, “bound by selfishness in the chains of servitude, has been restored by you, at the cost of America’s noblest blood, to the dignity of man, to civilization, and to love.” This is what one of the purest and greatest of living men thinks of the most gigantic struggle of our times. Those “battles of Titans” on the soil of the New World are not, to the eye of the Italian patriot, scenes of purposeless bloodshed—a confused noise of mortal strife, without object or result on which the thoughts of humanity can rest with hope. There is no man living so little likely as Garibaldi to look with complacency on unnecessary war. His heroic soul is as full of pity as of courage. A life of hardship and adventure— a rare experience of war in all its horrors—has not blunted the sensibilities of his gentle nature, nor dulled the integrity of his conscience. To him life is a sacred possession, and death by the sword either a heinous crime or a solemn sacrifice. A war of ambition he would be keen to detect and stern to denounce. The pomp of profession does not impose upon his honest intelligence,. He sees through the cheat of imperial wars “for an idea.” He is intolerant of the statecraft that works with the sword I of patriotism. He demands that if blood be spilt, it be to save the life of a nation—to redeem the manhood of a people. And this he sees in the mighty, costly efforts of the States loyal to the Union and its freely elected chief. He recognizes in their outpouring of valor and treasure—in their cheerful submission to enormous exactions and burdens— a resolute purpose to maintain the compact by which thirteen colonies were converted into a sovereign commonwealth of thirty-five States, to complete the magnificent superstructure raised upon the basis of liberty and equality, and to work out the sublime principle of free citizenship without distinction of color or condition.
To Garibaldi, as to all the most eminent Liberals in every European country, it is as clear as daylight that the forces of which Abraham Lincoln is Commander-in-Chief are making war upon slavery—not upon the slave-owners, but upon slavery. Not upon slavery in the rebel States only, but upon slavery as an institution on the American soil. It is marvellous that any one could at any time have doubted this. The secessionists and their Northern friends never did. The earliest utterances of the Confederates and Copperheads were in the same vein as that latest address from Jefferson Davis to the army, which the telegraph brought us yesterday. All that he says there of extermination, and partition, and servile insurrection, has been said from the beginning. Even before the “two years of warfare had begun, we heard, as we hear bear now, that “the enemy” “aimed at the confiscation of Southern property and the debauchery of the innocent contented negroes. Such talk had always a basis of truth, and never will have more than that basis. All above the necessary fact of settled enmity to slavery is “bunkum.” “The Republican North never meant anything less than to clear the Union of complicity with slavery, by preventing its extension into the Territories. The North means now, without much distinction of Republican or Democrat, to get rid of slavery altogether. That is the “Union” policy. That is what Missouri and Western Virginia have done. That is what even Kentucky means by electing a Union governor. That is what Northern Carolina, Eastern Tennessee, Upper Georgia, and South -Eastern Louisiana are prepared for in proposing-nosing reconciliation with the Federal Government. The men who, far in advance of their contemporaries, advocated negro emancipation as necessary to purge the Union from sin and shame, have been suddenly overtaken by events. They who were an infinitesimal minority ten years ago are now at the head of the nation. ‘They have stood fast by the truths they grasped, and the world has come round to them. The Church and the State, the preachers as well as the politicians, the cities and the villages —all were against them, and with the slave-owner; believing that in his hand lay the secret of prosperity to the whole commonwealth. It is foolish to say that a conversion of opinion precipitated by political events is without merit. Events are the great teachers of mankind, and it is the better part of mankind, though not the best, that consents to be taught by them. But if foolish to asperse Americans for being no wiser than the world at large, it is unjust to forget that the events which overruled the will of the majority were themselves forced into existence by the energetic minority. The self -devotion of John Brown was as necessary to the election of Abraham Lincoln as the arrogance and ruffianism of the invaders of Kansas. The North required to be incited to resistance of Southern encroachments by splendid examples. The South was thus forced to secede or to submit. Peaceful secession might have been permitted, but the insolence of treason compelled the vindication of just authority. Hence followed the “two years of warfare “which Jefferson Davis looks back upon without the faintest symptom of self-rebuke. Of that warfare it was impossible that slave emancipation should not be a principal part. Honor to the men who welcomed the necessity! Honor to the rulers who, while bound first in duty to uphold the Union, caught gladly at the opportunity of freeing the slave! This is what Abraham Lincoln did—and for this Garibaldi hails him as Liberator of the Anglo-African race. Who will not join in the greeting? Who are they that stand aside from the throng of European sympathizers with American progress, and snoot the arrows of derision or reproach at the emancipating banner of the Union?.?• They are certainly not the men who have served well the cause of liberty in their own countries. They do not bear names of note among philanthropists or patriots. They are better known in Imperial palaces than among the people. They are rather the sycophants of successful ambition than the pioneers of public advancement. And of what do they complain? Beaten out of their professed disbelief that the Union would adopt a policy of emancipation, they took refuge in predictions of measureless calamities from the adoption of that policy. This, too, has proved a refuge of lies. No one can be got to believe now that the proclamation of freedom was a license to cruelty and lust. For more than thank six months that proclamation has been in force. It; has given liberty to hundreds of thousands of slaves. Has it devoted a single family to rapine and blood?
<c03>
It has given the Union a score of negro regiments; but has it inflicted on the South a single act of barbarity? Both sides have their, historians in the English press. The Confederate armies enjoy the presence of at least one British chronicler, profoundly sympathizing with their reverses, intensely eulogistic of their merits. Has he recorded so much is as one example of the atrocities vaguely denounced by the Confederate President? He told us that the negroes would not fight, or, if at all, on the side of their masters. Will he tell us how they fought on the Mississippi and at Charleston, and in whose ranks? The President stigmatizes their employment as soldiers as uncivilized, but Europe will not endorse the stigma. Only in the atmosphere of slavery does docs the lie by which slavery is excused pass current. England set free her slaves Because because she believed them to be men and brothers. England believes no less of the negroes on the American continent than of the negroes in the West India Islands. No echo will answer from our free homes to the slaveholder’s complaint that his chattels are arc treated as men, not as brute- beasts. Let the South cherish its belief that God has condemned one portion of the human race to penal servitude, without conviction of crime, and without tickets of leave. The North is in accordance with England and the world in recognizing the sable sons of Africa as lawful heritors of all common human birthrights. —London Morning Horning Star.

ANOTHER STEP WON BY THE NEGRO.
The negro in the United States has won another step in the ladder of promotion to the rights and duties of a human being. President Lincoln declares that a black man falling into the enemy’s hands shall be treated exactly as if his skin were of the orthodox color. He is not to be shot, nor yet sold into slavery, but simply detained as a prisoner of war till he is paroled or exchanged. This will be a bitter pill to the Confederate authorities, but there is really no choice in the matter. President Davis, will have to eat his own words. He may treat as he chooses those rational chattels over whom his power extends, but when the chattel is” dressed in the United States uniform, His Excellency must mast learn to treat him as a man. This necessity will be for the southerners Southerners a very salutary discipline. Who knows but that, if the war should continue long, the enforced habit of treating black men on the footing of human beings will become inveterate, and pave the way to emancipation? As the Southern prisoners in the hands of the Federals are all white., Southern whites will have to be exchanged for Northern negroes. The sons of rich planters will thus be likely to find themselves weighed off against their own escaped slaves—so much white flesh in one scale, so much black in the other; St. Clair against Sambo. It will no doubt be felt as an awful degradation. Southern prisoners will perhaps elect to remain in confinement, rather than endure the ignominy of being rated at the same price as their niggers. Let them take comfort. The ignominy of being exchanged on such terms is one which may be buried in the depths of their own consciousness and forgotten, for it is one of which the world takes no account. It is all the same to us whether the human spirit chooses a temple of ebony or of alabaster. It is the soul within the man, and not the color of the skin, that gives the article all its value. A slave and his owner, if both stripped and covered with a coat of whitewash, will seem so very much alike that one may be equitably exchanged for the other. If, however, the soreness as to color be found very serious, it might be arranged that the black prisoners should undergo a private whitewashing at Richmond before they are exchanged, so that by an innocent device the cartel might still deal with whites only. With or without this accommodation to Southern prejudices,. President Davis will have to come to terms. President Lincoln has the means of coercion in his hands, and will assuredly use it. “For every soldier of the United States killed in violation of the laws of war, a rebel soldier shall be executed; and for every one enslaved by the enemy, or sold into slavery, a rebel soldier shall be placed at hard labor on the public works, and continued at such labor until the other shall be released, and receive the treatment due to a prisoner of war.” We need not shudder at a prospect of endless retaliation. President Davis will know better than provoke it.
The policy of the North in enlisting negroes is one, the justice and humanity of which are open to serious doubts; but, however this may be, there cannot be two opinions as to the course which the President has now taken. Having resolved to call the negro to arms, and employ him against the enemy, he was bound to secure for him the fullest protection allowed by the laws of war. If the President had bad allowed the proclamation of Jefferson Davis to take effect upon negro prisoners, he would have been denounced all over the world as a poltroon. He is bound to tend their safety and comfort with just the same jealous and stringent care as he expends upon his white soldiers. The Confederates will declaim and denounce, but they will see the wisdom of submitting. Nor will the arguments they may employ have any weight with the opinion of mankind. It may seem hard to them that they should be compelled to treat as prisoners of war the poor wretches who a few months since were working on their own plantations, and who are now brought forward by the enemy to fight against them. It may seem to them a very natural thing to seize their ‘own property wherever they find it, and to affix an extra deodand upon the traitorous chattel caught in the attempt to slay its master. But the Southerners must remember that this is one of the accidents of the “peculiar institution.” It is not the first time they have had to learn that chattels with legs and arms and animating passions are awkward things. They are chattels so long as they can be kept in that lowly estate, but no longer. If they can escape, no matter how, the chattel attributes disappear, and those of humanity take their place. Once out of their master’s reach, the world holds them to be as free as himself. If they choose to use their freedom to enlist in the armies of a lawful belligerent, they are sheltered by the laws of war. They cannot be dealt with as rebels, for they never were the subjects of allegiance. The South, which denied them the rank of citizens, cannot punish them for treason. They have betrayed neither country nor state, for they have neither. These remarks apply to those of the negro soldiers who were lately slaves; but probably the largest portion of the colored soldiers in Federal pay consists of free negroes from the North, many of whom were never in bondage bond are at all, and some of whom—the possessors of freeholds—have exercised the rights of citizens in several of the Northern States. The Southerners have no more right to sell these men into slavery than they would have to sell President Lincoln him self if be he chose to take the field as commander-in- chief, and had the ill-luck to fall into their hands. Their theory as to color, and their ethnological and physiological views regarding the African race, are peculiar to themselves, and it is a mere egotisti-
<c04>
cal impudence to fancy that they can carry them Into in to practice in transactions with third parties. They would have to learn this lesson very soon, if they were to invade any of the British possessions in the West Indies, and it is just as well that they should first master it thoroughly on their own shores.
 Public opinion will abundantly sustain President Lincoln in his threat of retaliatory measures for the purpose of securing fair treatment to his negro soldiers.— Manchester (Eng.) Examiner and Times. 

“THE ADMINISTRATION IS NOT THE GOVERNMENT.”
This is the dogma upon which the Democratic party of to-day bases its rule of action, excuses its attitude of hostility to the Government at Washington, and its virtual recognition and approval of that of Jeff. Davis—in short, by which it excuses and justifies treason, and openly and brazenly abets and aids those in arms against the Government. It is through this false assumption and the sophistries growing out of it, that copperhead Democracy has never yet uttered a word of condemnation of the rebels—that Democratic stump speakers and editors have never yet been known, in their harangues and tirades against the Administration, to utter a word of reproach, or reproof even, of Jeff. Davis and his co-traitors. And why should they? If they believe their own sophistry, Jeff. Davis and all the rest of the rebels may be the best of Union men, and patriotic friends and supporters of the Government. They might say, with equal truth and consistency, that they are only fighting the Administration. But that would be most too heavy a draft on the credulity of even modern Democracy; so it is only insinuated and acted out, instead of being spoken”.
“The Administration is00 is not the Government,” says the Democratic platform, and therefore we are under no obligations to support the Administration. We may embarrass it in every way that hate, prejudice, jealousy, and treason even, can suggest, and yet be true, loyal, patriotic, Union-loving citizens at the same time! There never was a more wicked or foolish sophistry than this, invented by partisan hate and rancor. Let us look at it in its true light. Whatever demagogues and copperheads may say, this nation is at war. However Northern Democrats may try to excuse and palliate the rebellion, Jeff. Davis and his army are fighting against this Government, and for its overthrow, and for the dismemberment of the territory belonging to the Government of the United States—for the dissolution of the Union. They don’t make any pretensions to be Union men, or to be merely fighting the Administration, and not the Government. These are axioms, self-evident truths. And if they needed any confirmation, we have it in the fact that they (the rebels) have their diplomatic agents in every, foreign country, asking interference in their behalf, and the recognition of their independent existence, as a nation. All the Ryan addresses and copperhead platforms that may be scattered over the land cannot do away with or alter these facts. The Administration or the Government then, is at war with a powerful and inveterate enemy who is doing his best, hot not to destroy the present Administration, but to resist the Government of the United States, and, if possible, to destroy that Government; but to dissolve the Union at all events. The Government, through its regularly elected and qualified officers, called upon the country for a volunteer army to suppress the rebellion. Nearly half a million of volunteers rushed to the Union standard in response to that call, and have fought as well as any soldiers ever fought; but the rebellion is not crushed, and more men are needed. The ranks of the old army cannot be filled by recruiting, and the Government— not Abraham Lincoln—through its regularly elected Congress, according to statute in such cases made and provided, enact a law, authorizing and requiring the President to raise more men by draft. In the meantime, the rebel sympathizers at the North have been filling; the minds of the people with lying defamations of the Administration—calling the war an abolition war—Abe Lincoln’s war for the liberation of negroes, &c., until many have come to believe that they ought to resist the draft. Suppose a majority of the people had thus been influenced to resist the draft, because demagogues declared it to be unconstitutional; suppose further, that on account of this disaffection, the Administration had found it impossible to raise sufficient troops to meet the rebels, and they were thus enabled to capture and pillage the capital of the nation, and thence finding no opposition, had ravaged Maryland. Mary land. Pennsylvania, and even New York; with such success, all the nations of Europe would at once have recognized the Confederacy, and entered into treaties; and this Government through its officers would have been compelled to do the same. All this might be done under this plea that the Administration is not the Government. And while this is being accomplished, Vallandigham and all the rest of the martyred traitors could go on, ’‘declaring their devotion to the Government and the Constitution, and haranguing the people on the necessity of making the President live up to the letter of the Constitution; and because the Constitution does not define the exact method of putting down this most wicked and causeless rebellion, declaring that there is no power under the Constitution to put it down, or to punish traitors, or to do any other act for self-preservation.
Looking at it in the light of reason and common sense, there never was a greater fallacy or more wicked and fatal sophism than this of the copperhead Democracy, that “the Administration is not the Government,” and that therefore men may, in time of war, conspire with the armed enemies of the country, and prevent the legitimate officers of the government from meeting and repelling that enemy, and still be loyal and devoted friends of the Government.— Kenosha Telegraph.

THE WRONGS OF THE REBELS.
Suppose a deputation from Jeff. Davis to apply to the English Government formally for help against the United States Government; and suppose the question of intervention really opened as regards the United States, as it is now in the case of Russia. We may imagine Earl Russell requesting the emissaries of Davis to wait upon him to explain the merits of their case.
We will suppose Messrs. Mason, Slidell and Benjamin to be seated in the foreign office. Earl Russell asks them to state their grievances. “What harm has the Government of the United States done the people you profess to represent, gentlemen?” is of necessity the first question. “What oppressions have you suffered, which our influence and intercession may remedy? What rights have you been deprived of? I am anxious to see justice done between men; it is England’s magnanimous desire to help the oppressed everywhere. I have just appealed to the Emperor of Russia to give have to a portion of his subjects those equal rights which were denied them, and that impartial justice which they could not get before. Explain to me your wrongs, as the
<c05>
Poles did, and I will cheerfully use my influence with the Government to relieve you and do you justice.”
At such an address, Messrs. Mason, Slidell and Benjamin would be a little puzzled, no doubt; and we may suppose Earl Russell, anxious to relieve an embarrassing silence, catechising the embassy of Davis. “You have probably been denied the inestimable rights of free speech and a free press, by the oppressive Government of the Union?” “No,” . ”Mr. Mason would be compelled to answer; “the people of the Northern States have always maintained free discussion; it is we who have forbidden it, and prevented it.”
At this reply the face of the English Earl shows surprise, but he goes on:—” Then you have probably suffered restraint in the freedom of religious worship?” “No,” .”Mr. Slidell would have to reply; “the United States Government has never interfered with us in that respect; all sects and denominations worship God freely after their own fashion.”
“I see it now,” says Lord Russell, “the North, of which you complain, has denied you the right of freemen to take part in the government of your great country?” “No,” Mr. Benjamin would have to say; “; “on the contrary, the leaders of the South have managed the affairs of the nation for nearly three quarters of the time since the Union was formed.”
Lord Russell, puzzled at these unexpected replies, thinks a moment, then suggests: “Perhaps the United States Government has laid upon you unequal and oppressive burdens of taxation?”— “No,” replies Mr. Mason: “on the contrary, the part of the revenue derived from our sparsely settled States has never been equal to the expenditures of the Government within them; our part of the postal service has always cost more than it brought into the revenue, and our people have scarcely known that they had a government, so light were its burdens.”
“Probably, then, the Government of the United States has seized your sons, and forced them into a vast standing army?” “No,” replies Mr. Slidell; “we of the South were the first to introduce conscription on the American continent.”
“I do not understand,” mutters the puzzled Earl. “Were you wronged in the last Presidential election? Was Mr. Lincoln elected in an unconstitutional manner? Were you deprived of the right to vote against him?” “No; the elections were not tampered with; no one attempted to coerce our votes,” says Mason, who remembers that he and his fellow slaveholders were the only Americans who did ever prevent a free and fair poll.
“No conscription, light and equal taxation, a preponderating share in the government, free speech, a free press, and freedom of worship guarantied, and a free and constitutional election!” muses the British Secretary of Foreign Affairs, “why, gentlemen, if ‘the Poles had enjoyed but half these rights, privileges and immunities, Europe would have held them mad to rebel, and I should not have listened to their agents a moment. What have you, then, to complain of?”
At this awkward question, we must suppose a few moments of awkward silence. Then Mr. Mason replies: “The North constantly declares our slave system wrong.” “And the English people agree with it,” says Earl Russell, “but the North are always ready to hear your defense of it, I believe.” “The North insisted on a protective tariff,” says Slidell. “But Louisiana, your own State, was in favor of protection for her sugar? V” suggests Earl Russell; “and besides, I noticed that one of the first acts of your Montgomery Congress was to lay an export duty on cotton, which is almost your only article of export.”
“We are tired of the Union, and want to set up a government of our own in the South,” at last exclaim the rebel agents, driven into a corner. “Ah!” says the British secretary, u “that is another affair altogether. 1 I was led to believe you had wrongs to be righted, and I1 was willing to intercede in your behalf, according to our English habit. But you have suffered no wrongs, it appears; and you have plunged your country into war without a shadow of cause. That is another affair; to mediate in your favor would be the act of a fool; and to assist you in any other way would be simply to declare war, without cause, against a friendly government. The public opinion of Europe would not justify such an act. I 1 must bid you good morning, gentlemen.”— N. Y. Evening Post.
THE CONDITIONS OF RECONSTRUCTION.
BY ROBERTBOBEBT DALE OWEN.
To the Hon. Wm. H. Seward, Secretary of State:
Sir: You have reminded us that peace must come some time, and that conferences, in some shape, must precede or attend it. We do well to bear this in mind, and to inspect, beforehand, the ground which we shall by and by be called upon to tread. There must, at last, be certain conditions of peace.
You have intimated your preference for the Halls of Congress (the vacant seats once more filled) as the constitutional forum best suited for conferences of pacification.
The vacant seats once more filled! That is it desirable, no doubt—under certain conditions; and of all the preliminaries of peace, none are so to important as these. The men who shall fill those vacant seats will hold in their hands the balance of legislative power.
Who are constitutionally entitled to fill them?
The Supreme Court has decided, by a unanimous vote, that since the passage of a law (sometimes called the “Non-Intercourse law,”) approved July 13, 1861, the inhabitants of the insurrectionary portions of the Union are public enemies; not the disloyal alone, not those who have taken up arms alone, but all. After stating that the territory “held in hostility to the United States has a defined boundary,” * the Court adds:—
“All persons residing within this territory, whose property may be used to increase the revenues of the hostile power, are, in this contest, liable to be treated as enemies, though not foreigners.” * * * “When the regular course of justice is interrupted by rebellion or insurrection, so to that the courts of justice cannot be kept open, civil war exists; and hostilities may be prosecuted on the same footing as at if those opposing the government were foreign enemies invading the land!’ * * * “. “* * *”Whether property be liable to capture as enemies’ property does not, in any manner, depend upon the personal allegiance of the owner.”
*This boundary, earlier defined by the respective acts of secession, was officially declared by proclamation of the President, issued under date of July 1, 1862. This was done in accordance with a requisition contained in the second section of an act of Congress approved June 7, 1862. The list includes eleven States, reckoning Eastern Virginia as one. It does not include Western Virginia, nor Maryland, nor Kentucky, nor Missouri. Nothing here said, therefore, applies to the constitutional rights of the inhabitants of any of these States. To a proper understanding of the legal points involved, it is indispensable to bear hear in mind which States are, in the eye of the law, insurrectionary and which are not.
<c06>
The decision of our highest legal tribunal is, that these men, without distinction as to individual loyalty or disloyalty, have, in law, the same rights, and the same rights only, as alien enemies invading the United States. Men cannot by their own act, release themselves from constitutional obligations; but they can and do, by levying war against the government, forfeit their constitutional rights.
For war annuls all treaties, all conventions, all agreements, how solemn so ever, securing privileges or protection to a hostile party. The rights of war alone remain. By civil war, the insurrectionists lose every privilege, every protection, which the constitution affords to the citizen. We act upon this principle every day. By the constitution, the home and the effects of the citizen are inviolate, except after warrant issued, upon probable cause and under oath, specially describing the premises. Does this apply to the house of a rebel in an insurrectionary State? The constitution declares that the citizen shall not be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law. What process of law precedes the opening of a battery on the Confederate ranks? or the confinement of our prisoners of war? or the appropriation of the enemy’s ammunition or commissary stores?
When we make and ratify with a foreign nation in time of peace a treaty granting to the subjects of that nation certain rights and immunities, that treaty becomes a part and parcel of the supreme law of the land, as much so as the constitution itself. But when that nation declares war, its subjects can no more claim one of those solemnly granted rights and immunities than if the treaty had never existed. No single rule of international law is better established than this.
But under that very rule, the insurgents, having levied war, and having thus become public enemies, can no more claim any of the privileges or immunities once guarantied to them under the constitution, than an alien enemy can claim rights under a treaty ratified during peace, but cancelled on the day his government declared war.
Therefore, by a rule of public law applicable in all wars, and sanctioned by the assent and the constant usage of every civilized nation, no inhabitant of the insurrectionary territory has a constitutional right to elect a member to the Congress of the United States; and no senator or representative elected by these insurrectionists, though according to the forms prescribed by the constitution, can legally till a single vacant seat in our Congressional halls.
Nor is the legal aspect of the case one whit<illegible> changed, if these men lay down their arms. A treaty made during peace, and cancelled by war, does not revive with the cessation of hostilities. The matter is then as completely open to negotiation as if no treaty had ever been made. A treaty in the same words, or with entirely different*** conditions, may be made, but it is a new treaty; and whether it shall be made, or shall not be made, is a matter entirely at the option of the contracting parties.
Any rule or law in contravention of this would be an absurdity too flagrant even to merit discussion. Does the insurgent who appeals to the wager of battle ‘risk nothing? Is he to be secure and successful, whatever betide? If he conquer, is everything to be under his control? And if he be vanquished, is he be still to retain each right and privilege which he be ever possessed? Who, under such a state of things, so safe and prosperous as a rebel!
In virtue, then, of one of the plainest and best established rules of international law, the inhabitants of the insurgent States, whether in arms or after submission, have no constitutional right whatever to add, by election, one member to the Congress of the United States.
This is the law. Our right to enforce it is as undeniable as our right, with an army, to cross the Potomac.
But all things which are lawful to us as are not expedient. There may be legal rights which it is in unprofitable or unmerciful to enforce. We have the right, if good it seem to us, to restore to the South, with or without conditions, her constitutional privileges; just as we had the right, at the close of the last war with Great Britain, to revive and ratify anew the treaty of amity and commerce which existed before the war began.
In making up our decision as to this matter, we should not suffer ourselves to be moved by bitterness, or anger, or rankling animosity. The Christian is bidden to forgive trespasses against himself, even to seventy times seven. The statesman, if he merit the name, is actuated, not by passionate impulse, but by a grave and considerate regard for great national interests; above all, for the establishment, on an enduring foundation, of that domestic tranquillity which lies at the basic basis of all national good. And the enlightened statesman knows, and founds his public acts upon the knowledge, that, as between litigant individuals, so between opposing communities of’ men, no bargain can properly be called good that is not permanently beneficial to both the contending parties.
But if there be danger at such a crisis from the intemperance and the injustice of sectional hate, there is greater danger from the temporizing weakness of ruinous concession. It has been said by one of the wisest of modern writers on public affairs, that “when a nation has been wearied by long strife, it will submit to be duped for the sake of peace.” I Let us as heed that warning voice. Otherwise, all our victories may be barren.
Every publicist of repute has set forth (what common sense suggests) as among, the most important of national rights and duties, the rule that a nation ought to protect itself not only against immediate but also against prospective dangers. Deriving all rights attendant on conquest “from justifiable self-defense,’ Vattel says:
“When the conqueror has subdued a. hostile nation, he may, if prudence so require, render her incapable of doing mischief mischief with the same case in future.” * * * “If the safety of the State lies at, stake, our precaution and foresight cannot be extended too far. ”Vattel’s” “Law of Nations.” Book iii., §201 and §44.
In closing, by a peace, this war commenced by the South, what precautions should be taken to prevent a second insurrection,?? What does prudence require to be done, that the South may be “incapable of doing mischief with the same case in future?”
As soon as the enemy lays down his arms, shall we admit him, without conditions, to our Congressional councils, give him a vote in framing our laws, see him ally himself with every disaffected member from the North, suffer him, with their aid, to override the entire legislation of the last two years permit him to disarm us by voting down all military and naval appropriations, instal him as judge in his own case, and sit quietly by while he rescinds the
† “Claimants of schooners Brilliant, &c., versuse., <illegible> United States.” March term, 1863. Opinion of Grier, J.Amer. Law Register, April, 1863, pp. 334 to 344.
‡ De Toequeville’s “Ancien Regains at. la. Révolution.” Chap-xiii

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land all the inhabitants, thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION 0F THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that Instant the war powers of CONQRESS extend to Interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF war; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACH OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Emancipation proclamation, repeals the Confiscation act, repays himself for all slaves lost during the insurrection, perhaps repudiates the national debt, or— if, to carry the last measures a few votes should be lacking-compromises the matter by adding to the debt incurred for the preservation of public order, the twelve or fifteen hundred millions spent in a fruitless attempt to overthrow it? Shall we adopt this as our policy? If we do, it will be the first time so stupendous a piece of national folly was ever enacted since the world began.
The extent of that folly and its practical consequences will be better appreciated by glancing at a few figures. If all the vacant seats in Congress are suffered to be filled without conditions, there will be, in the House, ninety slave State votes to one hundred and forty-two Free State votes; and in the Senate, thirty Slave State votes to thirty-four Free State votes. Twenty-seven Northern votes siding with the South in the House, and three Northern votes siding with her in the Senate, would give her a majority in both branches. The command of the Senate alone, by aid of three Northern votes, would enable the South to arrest all legislation; to delay, for example, all supplies, whether for civil or military purposes.
I desire, as you do, to see the vacant chairs in Congress filled. I desire to see them filled, as you have expressed it, by those “who may be constitutionally sent there.” I desire, at the earliest moment consistent with the public safety, to see revived, in favor of the people of the South, those Constitutional privileges which they legally forfeited by levying war against their and our government. But I call to mind Vattel's wise suggestion and De Tocqueville's sage warning. I am unwilling to see the nation “duped for the sake of peace.” I am unwilling to admit to our councils insurgents by whose act the land has been deluged with blood, until they shall have been rendered “incapable of doing mischief with the same ease in future.” For the very sake of peace, I am unwilling to assent to a peace which will be the prolific parent of future wars.
Few among us really desire so hollow a peace. If we sift the matter to the bottom, the diversity of opinion as to our future policy is, in one sense, much less radical than on the surface it appears. If men differ as to the conditions under which the insurgents shall be restored to their forfeited rights, it is not, as a general rule, because any man desires war in perpetuity. All but the grossly ignorant know that war, protracted through long years, or perpetually recurring, involves ruin to all interests, public and private, political and commercial. Most men strongly feel that our country, desolated and demoralized by a fifteen or twenty years' civil war, would not be worth living in.
If it seem to us incredible that men, free from insanity and having the public ear, should express their willingness that Davis and Stephens, that Mason and Slidell, that Floyd and Cobb and Breckinridge, that Wise, Hunter, Toombs, Pickens, Rhett, Benjamin, and all the other secession leaders, to whose treason we owe that gigantic conspiracy which has lost hundreds of thousands of lives, and hundreds of millions of treasure-that these men and their accomplices in crime (if only the South sees fit to elect them, and if only they; in presenting themselves, take that customary oath, which once already they have violated.) should become again legislators for our country, and should be deemed, in conjunction with their sympathizing allies of the North, the proper agents to decide, by their votes, the terms of pacification-if all this seem to us incredible, let us not rashly conclude that the advocates of a scheme so monstrous entertain the deliberate design to give our country over, for a generation to come, to rapine and anarchy. They are but the blind leading the blind. They cherish the delusion that this Republic may be reconstructed part free, part slave, and yet remain, in permanence, at peace. But for that delusion, none but outlaws, or men disposed, like burglars at a fire, to enrich themselves at the expense of their neighbor's ruin, would entertain, for a moment, the project of a reconstruction on such conditions; for it is not, except for an insignificant minority, the intention to perpetuate war.
I a leader of the New York Herald of August 12, the editor, after predicting that the next Congress will repudiate the Emancipation Proclamation and the Confiscation Act, adverts, but without quoting it, to your letter of Feb. 6, 1863, to Mr. Dayton-which he calls a letter to M. Mercier, in these terms:-
“Meantime, we call on Mr. Seward to make good the pledge he gave in his letter to the French Minister, M. Mercier, to receive back into the Union the Southern States as they are, with all their institutions intact, and to admit into Congress such of their Senators as survive, who were entitled to seats when the rebellion broke out, and such other Senators as those States may think proper to send to fill up vacancies, together with whatever Representatives they may elect according to the Constitution and laws.”
I pray that you will not imagine I so misconceive your language as to put upon it such a construction as that.
(To be continued.)

JACK HORNER AND HIS BIG PLUM.
Mr. Fernando Wood, a notorious politician of this city, having given out for the last six months that offers of submission on the part of the rebels had been made to the Administration, and not accepted, publishes at last what he considers to be evidence of the truth of his assertion. It consists of a correspondence between himself and President Lincoln, which is indeed evidence of a marvellous condescension on the part of the President and of a marvellous impudence of his own, but evidence of nothing else. As long ago as the 8th of December, 1862, this Wood wrote to the chief magistrate a private note in which he declared that “on the 25th of November last, I (the said Wood) was advised by an authority which I deemed likely to be well informed, as well as trust-worthy and truthful, that the southern States would send representatives to the next Congress, provided that a full and general amnesty should permit them to do so. No guaranties or terms were asked for, other than the amnesty referred to.” “In pursuance of this precious information, Wood urged the President to appoint four gentlemen who bad formerly maintained “political and social relations with the leaders of the revolt," to correspond with them officially on the subject of a return to duty.
Mr. Lincoln would have been justified in taking no notice of this missive, on many grounds; in the first place, because it came from Wood, who is a convicted criminal whose unsupported word is not entitled to the slightest credit, and whose opinion, consequently, as to “an authority” which he “deems trustworthy and truthful,” was worth about as much as that of Bill Stokes of Blackwell's Island; in the second place, he might naturally have supposed that this report was of a piece with many other foolish rumors set afloat about that time by such crazy pates as Mr. Chase Barney and such scheming swindlers as J. Wesley Greene, and let it pass as an idle wind; or, in the third place, he might have dismissed with contemptuous silence an effrontery in a private individual so unparalleled as to propose to the government not only the novel and disgraceful expedient of opening a correspondence with insurgents still in arms against its authority, but of committing that correspondence to the hands of their old political cronies, that is, to its own enemies.
These proposals in themselves were sufficiently impudent, but Wood couples with them in the coolest manner the assurance that his principles do not ask “any guaranties or terms “beyond a free pardon of all offences.
A judge who should be invited by a nest of pickpockets and burglars to suspend the laws of the country, on the condition that they would consent to return once more to the bosom of society, might be properly astonished by the overture; but we cannot find the exact terms in which to describe the emotion which probably seized upon Mr. Lincoln's mind when he dipped his eyes into the literary refrigerator of this fellow Wood. It is most likely that he surveyed it with an irrepressible gush of laughter, inasmuch as the President has a keen sense of the ludicrous, and hails his discovery of it with a salvo of explosions from the lungs. But if be took it seriously, he must have been astounded, like the beadle in Oliver Twist, to the pitch of losing his breath, or of staring his eyes out of his head. Here is an enormity, he must have said, beyond all human proportions or human credence. An arrogant and upstart class, which founds its entire pretensions, as well as its wealth, upon the most hideous crime of the age, after having made upon the nation, in defense of its privileges, a cruel and bloody war of two years' duration, in which thousands of the noblest lives have perished on both sides, and millions upon millions of valuable property have been lost; after having done more mischief than a hundred Catilines and ten thousand Nana Sahibs, with an unlimited number of Captain Kidds thrown in; and after having importuned and begged nearly all
<c02>
the despots of the earth, from the solemn mime of France to the reckless pirate of the Caribbean seas, to help it crush out the life of the only prosperous democratic republic on the face of the earth, fails in its gigantic scheme of wickedness, and then sends an emissary to the government it had so atrociously outraged, to say that it will come back, if everything is forgiven it, and nothing inflicted or exacted!
Mr. Lincoln, we say, might have flung such a proposal, even if it had come to him well authenticated through a more trustworthy channel than Wood, into the nearest rubbish hole, with sovereign contempt; but Mr. Lincoln has, at least, two remarkable personal qualities: he is more patient than Job himself in listening to all sorts of advisers and backhanded comforters; while he has not forgotten the lawyer-like sagacity which allows a willing witness to run on with his story until he is inextricably involved, and tripped up by the very thread he is spinning. Wood he likely thought both fool enough and rogue enough to commit some of his accomplices, if he should be allowed to blab, and so Mr. Lincoln replied to his singular address. He answered very pertinently three things; first, that he ascribed no manner of importance to Wood's alleged information; second, that if an amnesty was all that the southern people-not their leaders-wanted, they might be assured of it as soon as they laid down their arms; but thirdly, that before anything could be done or proclaimed he must be put in possession of the exact information which Wood pretended to have received.
Nothing could have been more frank, explicit or genial than this reply of the President. He did not believe that the insurgents were prepared to relinquish their stubborn struggle against the government; but if they were, he was ready to stop the war for the suppression of their revolt as soon as he could be satisfactorily assured of that fact. But until such assurance came, be must of course prosecute the war as actively and as efficiently as he could. Armies in the field, some of them hundreds of miles from home, and all of them conducting the most critical operations, are not to be stopped at the cry of every individual who happens to pass, or who chooses to take some shirt hung out to dry for a flag of truce. The cabinet or the council of war will receive and consider all such manifestations, but the soldier, to accomplish his end, must move straight on, like the cannon-ball which is the symbol of his trade.
Nevertheless, Wood, in his rejoinder to the President's reply, takes it for granted that our armies are to be halted while he is engaged in his costive labor of getting out a plan of peace. With a duplicity which is characteristic of him, he takes no notice of the President's offer to declare an amnesty as soon as the facts of the case should warrant it; he produces not a single voucher, or even the shadow of an authority, which the President had asked, for his pretended information: but he runs off into hypocritical expressions of sorrow that he has not been listened to, coupled with insolent criticisms and solemn monitions of advice. The truth is, that Wood had no information either “trustworthy or truthful,” no more than he might have extracted from some such creature as George Sanders, in one of his drunken confidences, or any other equally enlightened habitue of the New York Hotel, where “rebels most do congregate.” If he possessed such information, he would not have refused it to the urgent request of the President. But it was not possible for him to possess such information, because he knows, as all the world knows, that “the leaders of the revolt” have never proposed, and do not now propose, to come back into the Union on any terms. They could not entertain a thought of that kind without incurring the instant and universal contempt of their followers whom they have misled. Whatever others may do, they must brave it out to the last, or be torn to pieces by their own hounds. Even one of the most moderate of them, Alexander H. Stephens, not a month ago declared that “reconstruction was not to be thought of;” and the more virulent are likely to be still more obstinate.
In short, this entire story of peace propositions emanating from the rebel leaders, already some eight months old, is a base and flimsy device for the deception of the people, which, now that it is brought to the light, is seen to have no more body in it than the ghost at Wallack's.-N. Y. Evening Post.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1863.
MR. SUMNEE'S GEEAT SPEECH.
On Thursday evening, 10th inst., Hon. CHARLES SUMNER delivered a most lucid, elaborate and eloquent speech before the citizens of New York at the Cooper Institute, on “OUR FOREIGN RELATIONS," showing-
First-The perils to our country from Foreign Powers, especially as foreshadowed in the unexpected and persistent conduct of England and France since the outbreak of the war.
Secondly-The nature of Foreign Intervention by Mediation, with the principles applicable thereto, as illustrated by historic instances-showing especially how England, by her conspicuous, wide-spread and most determined Intervention to promote the extinction of African Slavery, is irrevocably committed against any act or policy that can encourage this criminal pretension.
Thirdly-The nature of Foreign Intervention by Recognition, with the principles applicable thereto, as illustrated by historic instances-showing that by the practice of nations, and especially by the declared sentiments of British Statesmen, there can be no Foreign Recognition of an insurgent power where the contest for independence is still pending.
Fourthly-The moral impossibility of Foreign Recognition, even if the pretended power be de facto Independent, where it is composed of rebel slave-mongers seeking to found a new Power with slavery for its declared “corner-stone.”
Fifthly-The absurdity and wrong of conceding Ocean Belligerency to a pretended Power, which, in the first place, is without a Prize Court-so that it cannot be an Ocean Belligerent in fact-and which, in the second place, even if Ocean Belligerents in fact, is of such an odious character, that its recognition is of moral impossibility.
Each of these topics Mr. Sumner treated in a masterly and exhaustive manner. The entire speech will greatly enhance his already brilliant reputation as a scholar, philanthropist, statesman and orator, and cannot fail to challenge the serious attention of European powers and diplomatists, especially those pertaining to England and France. Its rhetoric is of the finest kind, and many of its passages surcharged with electric power. It occupies no less than sixteen long columns of the Boston Journal, in very fine type, and could hardly have been delivered in full, as three or four hours would be required for that purpose. Its great length will prevent a general popular perusal of it, and deter all but a few leading journals from printing it in full; but it is a speech for throned powers, cabinets, statesmen, patriots, and thinking and reflecting men universally. It is a grand speech for freedom, justice, international equity, the rights of human nature. In order that our readers may be put in speedy possession of it without abridgment, we send them a Liberator extra, containing it, which is equivalent to giving them an additional number of the paper.
THE MAINE ELECTION. Returns from one hundred and ninety towns show a Republican gain over last year of nine thousand five hundred and thirty-five. Increased vote, nineteen thousand five hundred and twenty-five. The Portland Press estimates the majority of Mr. Coney at from eighteen to twenty thousand. The Press says:-
“Maine sends greeting to all creation, including rebeldom. Monday the 14th of September, 1863, will be ever memorable in the annals of history. In one of the most exciting and desperately contested elections ever held in the State, with a draft bearing heavily upon her people, with everything that could be done to mislead the public mind, to contend against, we have met the enemy, and they are ours. A more complete rout was never experienced by a vanquished party. Not a copperhead is to be found. Maine has sent the encouraging word to her soldiers, that their State will stand by them to the glorious end of this rebellion. She has said, in the most unmistakable language, to the leaders in the rebellion, that Maine will stand by the Government with her men, her money, and her votes.”
<c03>
THE TRIAL OF REV. CHARLES BEECHER.
We have received a pamphlet, entitled “The Result Tested-A Review of the Proceedings of a Council at Georgetown, Mass., August 15,16, and 22,1863 -by Rev. Edward Beecher, D. D. and Rev. Charles Beecher.” The design of it is to show that the Council which recently tried the Rev. Charles Beecher for heresy, and brought in a verdict of guilty, was the result of a conspiracy; that it was a packed body; that its proceedings were characterized by impatience, haste, rushing the result through the last day, cutting off debate, choking down discussion, and adjourning in such disorder as not to approve the minutes of the entire session; that the object of the conspiracy was to entrap the pastor into a council, under the pretence of a fraternal healing investigation, and then turn it into “a trial” -to indict him falsely and maliciously for heresy, and publish that indictment as a “conviction” after trial-&c., &c. To prove that he is no heretic, Mr. Beecher declares that he holds, in the deepest and most orthodox sense, the doctrine of the native and entire depravity of the human race-the incarnation of the Son of God, and the hypostatic union of the divine and human natures in one person-the atonement, the trinity, the eternal punishment of the wicked, the doctrine of justification by faith, eternal decrees and of election—&c., &c. Therefore, he is not justly amenable to orthodox discipline or censure.
Nevertheless, Mr. Beecher is a believer in “the doctrine of the pre-existence of the soul.” The Council says- “By the doctrine of the apostacy of the race in a pre-existent state, he denies the scriptural doctrine of the fall in Adam.” “He is also a believer in the “Divine Sorrow,” by which is meant that God is really grieved and pained at heart when his children do wrong, and feels a real joy and pleasure when they are good. And these opinions, the Council declares, are very dangerous heresies.
Mr. Beecher's church has since taken issue with the Council, and “regrets to be compelled to say that the Council has failed to do that for which it was invited, and has attempted to do that for which it has no authority.” It comforts itself on being “advised that the doctrine of Divine Sorrow is held by many divines of unimpeachable orthodoxy, such as Dr. Pond, of Bangor, Prof. Haven, of Chicago, and the Moderator of the adjourned session of Council, Dr. Fiske.” It resolves to stand by its pastor, by a vote of 27 to 21, which shows it to be nearly equally divided, and, therefore, not a very satisfactory or reliable position for Mr. Beecher occupy.
We are inclined to believe that the opposition to Mr. Beecher, both in his church and out of it, has arisen quite as much from his anti-slavery sentiments as from his peculiar theological speculations; and that, had he remained dumb in regard to the cause of the oppressed, he would have been tolerated in an occasional discourse on “Pre-existence,” or on the “Divine Sorrow.” For when President Buchanan, December 14, 1860, rebuked the North for its love of liberty, and called the people to observe a day of fasting, humiliation and prayer for the sin of opposition to slavery, the pastor preached a sermon against the proclamation, and the church adopted resolutions refusing to comply, with the President's request, and denouncing him as in treasonous conspiracy with rebels. Against these resolutions a protest was drawn up, and signed by, twenty-three names-every one of which is found on the recent petition for a Council! That paper was a stepping-stone to this; and ever since that period, a factious movement has been going on for his removal on the plea of theological unsoundness. We are free to say that, as a test of the religious condition of the church, we would give incomparably more for the series of resolutions adopted by it in opposition to President Buchanan's Proclamation, than for a whole cart load of such theological dogmas as ostensibly divided its members, and which Mr. Beecher regards as of such vital importance on the one hand, and his opponents as so heretical on the other.

SELF-PRESERVATION.
“The expedition to Lawrence was a gallant and perfectly fair blow at the enemy.” 
This judgment recently uttered through the types of the Richmond Enquirer is, in fact, the verdict of slavery in regard to the means needful for its own supremacy and perpetuation. Just so, the toast of defenders of slavery, North and South, eight years ago, used to be- “Bleeding Kansas! Let her bleed!” Just so, when a chivalrous Southern, attended by armed accomplices, came upon an unarmed Senator at his writing-desk, and beat him nearly to death without giving him an opportunity to rise, either for defence or escape-he received universal praise from the defenders of slavery, North and South, as for “a gallant and perfectly fair blow at the enemy.” “Just so, the Irish tools of the copperhead press in New York, under pretence of opposing the conscription, plundered, and tortured, and murdered inoffensive and defenceless negroes. Just so, the blackguards and bullies of mis-named Democracy are combining, in various Northern cities, to deprive colored people of the means of livelihood, and to prevent employers from giving them occupation. Just so, in all Southern towns and cities, for thirty years past, public opinion has justified whatever lynching of freemen and burning alive of slaves was thought to be needful for the maintenance of slavery.
It may as well be understood first as last, that we are contending against barbarism; that, in seeking the extermination of slavery, we are not only doing the work of humanity, justice, law and order, morality and religion, but of civilization itself. The problem is to stop the process of Denomination in our own country; to prevent the manners and morals of the African slave coast from crowding out not only Christianity but common decency and human kindness from the soil planted by the Pilgrims. The slave system aspires to do all this, and has made vast progress towards its accomplishment. It scorns compromise, in the real sense of that word. It demands everything. Our only wisdom, our only safety, is to decide that it shall have nothing, except a rope to be hanged and a place of burial. Until we come to the utter extermination of slavery, we have not the beginning of a prospect of peace or quietness, far less of improvement. We, like the old Egyptians, are to have plague upon plague until the oppressed are set free. Everything else that we do until they are set free is so much time and opportunity wasted. “One thing is needful.” If the rulers do not distinguish what that thing is, let the people demand it of them. C. K. W.
THE CONDITIONS OF RECONSTRCCTION. The letter from Hon. Robert Dale Owen to Hon. William H. Seward, on the conditions of a reconstruction of the Union, which appears in the New York papers, is as important as it is timely-taking the only logical view of the subject, and the only patriotic ground which promises peace and unity to the republic-i.e., the extinction of slavery with the rebellion. Being exceedingly crowded for room, we give the first portion of this letter on our first page, and shall divide it into three parts, but so as not to interfere with its argumentative completeness.
MISLAID. We owe an apology to the Rev. J. Sella Martin for the delay in printing his letter. It was mislaid, and has just been found.
WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS SUSPENDED. President Lincoln has issued his Proclamation, suspending the writ of Habeas Corpus throughout the country, in all cases arising under military law, until the termination of the rebellion, or the repeal of the Proclamation by himself.
READ IT. The nefarious article from the London Standard, which we have placed in the “Refuge of Oppression,”-in justification of the incendiary and cut-throat rioters in New York,-is equal to any thing that has ever appeared in the columns of the Richmond papers for brutality and scoundrelism.
<c04>
DEDICATION
OF MR. SUMNER'S SPEECH, “THE BARBARISM OF SLAVERY.” 
To the Young Men of the United States I dedicate this new edition of a Speech on the Barbarism of Slavery, in token of heartfelt gratitude to them for brave and patriotic service rendered in the present War for Civilization.
It is now more than three years since I deemed it my duty to expose, in the Senate, the Barbarism of Slavery. This phrase, though common now, was new then. The speech was a strict and logical reply to the assumptions of Senators, asserting the “divine origin” of slavery, its “ennobling” character, and that it was the “black marble key-stone” of our national arch. Listening to these assumptions, which were of daily occurrence, I felt that they ought to be, answered. And, considering their effrontery, it seemed to me that they should be answered frankly and openly by exhibiting Slavery as it really is, without reserve; careful that I should “nothing extenuate, nor set down aught in malice.” This I did. 
In that debate, the issue was joined which is still pending in the Trial by Battle. The inordinate assumptions for Slavery naturally ripened in Rebellion and War. If Slavery were, in reality, all that it was said to be by its representatives, they must have failed in duty if they did not vindicate and advance it Not easily could they see a thing so “divine” and so “ennobling” constituting the “black marble keystone” of our national arch-discredited by a popular vote, even if not yet doomed to sacrifice.
The election of Mr. Lincoln was a judgment against Slavery, and its representatives were aroused.
Meanwhile, for more than a generation, an assumption of constitutional law, hardly less outrageous, had become rooted side by side with Slavery, so that the two had shot up in rank luxuriance together. It was assumed that any State was privileged, under the Constitution, at any time, in the exercise of its own discretion, to withdraw from the Union. This absurdity found little favor, at first, even among the representatives of Slavery. To say that two and two make five could not be more irrational. But custom and constant repetition gradually produced an impression, until, at last, all who were maddest for Slavery were equally mad for its disorganizing ally.
It was under the shadow of this constitutional assumption, that the assumption for slavery grew into virulent vigor, so that, at last, when Mr. Lincoln was elected, it broke forth in open war; but the war was declared in the name of State Rights.
Therefore, there are two apparent rudiments to this war. One is Slavery, and the other is State Rights. But the latter is only a cover for the former. If Slavery were only out of the way, there would be no trouble from State Rights.
The war, then, is for Slavery, and nothing else. It is an insane attempt to vindicate by arms the lordship which had been already asserted in debate. With mad-cap audacity it seeks to install this Barbarism as the truest Civilization. Slavery is declared to be the “corner-stone” of the new edifice. This is enough.
The question is thus presented between Barbarism and Civilization; not merely between two different forms of Civilization, but between Barbarism on the one side, and Civilization on the other side. If you are for Barbarism, join the Rebellion, or, if you cannot join it, give it your sympathies. If you are for Civilization, stand by the Government of your country with mind, soul, heart and might.
Such is the issue simply stated. On the one side are women and children on the auction-block; families rudely separated; human flesh lacerated and seamed by the bloody scourge-; labor extorted without wages; and all this frightful, many-sided wrong is the declared foundation of a mock Commonwealth. On the other side is the Union of our Fathers, with the image of “Liberty” on its coin, and the sentiment of Liberty in its Constitution, now arrayed under a patriotic Government, which insists that no such mock Commonwealth, having such a declared foundation, shall be permitted on our territory, purchased with money and blood, to impair the unity of our jurisdiction, and to insult the moral sense of mankind.
Therefore, the battle which is now waged by the Union is for Civilization itself, and it must have aid and God-speed from all who are not openly for Barbarism. There is no word of peace, no tone of gentleness, no whisper of humanity, which does not become trumpet-tongued against the Rebellion. War itself seems to “smooth its wrinkled front” as it undertakes the championship of such a cause. The armed soldier becomes a minister of mercy.
“The Cid was in the midst, his shout was beard afar;
I am Rui Diez, the champion of Vivar;
Strike among them, gentlemen, for sweet mercy's sake!”
In the name of mercy strike, young men, so that the revolting Barbarism, which began the war, shall disappear forever. Anything less than this will be an abandonment of duty.
CHARLES SUMNER.
Washington, July 4, 1863.

THE WAR-ABOLITION-THE NEW YORK RIOT.
It is simply absurd, and often more wicked than absurd, to say, as many do, that it is not slavery, but anti-slavery, that is the cause of the rebellion and its mobs. Anti-Slavery has been simply a manly, Christian, peaceful opposition to injustice and wrong, oppression and cruelty, and advocacy of freedom and natural rights for all innocent beings; and every good man knows in his heart that this is of God-every one who has any true sense of justice, and any appreciation of the “Good Samaritan” of the Savior's parable. No one will pretend that the Abolitionists have ever conspired against the Government, or got up any riots. They are second to no other class of people for their virtues. The mobocrats of this country have uniformly been of the intensely pro-slavery class; and no intelligent person need be told that such was the class engaged in the late brutal and murderous riot in New York. The spirit that animated those barbarous men and women was, to a great degree, a hatred of the negro, and a sympathy with the rebellion because it enslaved the negro. He was hunted by his blood-thirsty enemies as though to blame for his complexion. Most of those, too, who thus hunted him that they might torture and destroy him, were Irishmen, who came here only a little while since from starvation and alleged despotism, and who have often asked and received much charity from their adopted nation. They have no sooner got fairly settled down here than they go to work, in the spirit of the pit, to drive out, with bloody hands, native Americans. I hope it will turn out that the mass of the more sober and industrious Irishmen of the city did not thus curse themselves in the eyes of the world, and blast their future. If not, they ought to unite in-some solemn protest against their murderous countrymen. But the hate of that mob extended also to all the friends of the unfortunate and oppressed race-even to all the friends of President Lincoln and his Proclamation. It is clear to all, that the man known to be in the fullest sympathy with Jeff. Davis-the most rabid pro-slavery General or politician-would have been the most likely of any one to have passed through their ranks with the greatest safety.
This is reaping as the nation has sown. It has sown the wind, and it is reaping the whirlwind. The mob has only followed, in its own way, in the footsteps of Presidents, statesmen, judges, politicians, priests, and “respectable people.” They have carried the spirit of slavery and colorphobia to its legitimate results. The people ought to have expected this.
It is encouraging to think that the mob in New York was put down so easily; but so easily, perhaps, because victory had so lately attended the Northern arms. Had the Confederates triumphed at Vicksburg and in Pennsylvania, we should no doubt have seen a much more serious time, and blood would have flowed wherever the rebel sympathizers had power. “South-side” political leaders would also have then
<c05>
been more bold and daring, and set up their banner, perhaps, in the open interest of the Confederates. They evidently go up or down with the rebellion. These leaders, too, are more guilty than the rioters themselves. The rioters were brutal and murderous in a most frightful degree, but their leaders, both political and religious, had befogged and corrupted them for their own selfish and base ends. Had they been thoroughly instructed in human rights and humanity, there would have been much less excuse for them. They would have sinned against greater light. But both State and Church having proscribed and cursed the black man-the one declaring that he has no rights that white men are bound to respect, and the other that God early put his mark of proscription and bondage upon him, as upon Cain, and united to keep him under the iron heel of despotism-it is a matter of course that the lower and more ignorant classes should cherish the same spirit, and manifest it as occasion prompts in brutal and murderous ways. They are to be pitied as dupes, therefore, as well as condemned as ruffians. Hence their pro-slavery and semi-rebellious leaders are incomparably more deserving of reprobation than they, especially as they endeavor to conceal their iniquity under fair seeming professions of' “Democracy.” But posterity will do them justice, and pillory them by the side of Judas, and Jeffries, and Benedict Arnold.
I have always stood by the Irish in defence of their social and religious rights, and never had any of the popular prejudices against them as foreigners or Catholics; and this, because they were the weak and persecuted party, and on the ground “of Universal Humanity. Nor would I change my position, now that so many of them have risen up against the colored people, and in the interest of the rebellion and slavery. I would urge all to be just to them even to the most wicked and criminal class of them; and, in their time of need, still be charitable to them. 
The colored people have just now a special claim upon our justice and protection, as well as upon our sympathies. They are hated and hunted like beasts of prey. What a commentary upon our American spirit and manners, that some of them had to be put into boxes during the riot, and sent out of the city as merchandise, in order to get beyond the reach of their murderous pursuers! What a commentary, too, upon the “Holy Catholic religion,” that its members, so long under its influence and the influence of its priests, were the chief seekers for blood!-not in vengeance for wrongs done them, but in unprovoked native ugliness and brutality towards wholly innocent persons. I pity the man who has not sympathy for the unfortunate blacks, and indignation for their murderous persecutors. He who has not-and they are numerous-shows that the virus of slavery and negro-hate has also entered into his own soul, and is eating out his manhood. A Christian, of course, he cannot be, nor hope for any speedy entrance into the kingdom of heaven.
It has been eloquently said, that when Wilberforce went to the judgment, he went with shackles in both of his hands, broken from the limbs of the slaves to whom he had given freedom. But many, when they go from our country, and from our generation, will go with shackles in their hands newly forged to fasten upon the limbs of their victims. And how will they be able to confront Him who will say unto them:-“Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, ye have done it unto me.” When I pass from the earth into the more conscious presence of the Father and Judge of all, I would pass in the spirit of Wilberforce, and not in the spirit of the enslaver or the negro-hater. I should dread the thought of entering the spirit world an enemy and a hater of a race that God has made.
Were the question put to me, at this fearful hour, if I would consent to the sacrifice of the Southern slaves in order to save even the Union, my answer would be an emphatic No! I have no right to do such a wicked thing, and should instinctively shrink from taking the guilt upon my soul. I would rather say, Let justice be done, though the Union fall. An ancient Pagan said, “Let justice be done, though the heavens fall,” and I would certainly not place a higher estimate upon the Union than he did upon the heavens. So I say, I will risk the fall of the Union, and of all our American institutions, rather than consent to the robbing even the poorest, feeblest race of its “inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
But let us consider that, if justice is done, neither the heavens nor the Union will fall. Sooner or later, all institutions that have a single pillar of injustice in them will crumble to the dust, or have to be rebuilt again. Their fall is only a question of time. God's word has gone out against them, and it will not return unto him void. This nation, to-day, is a most striking illustration of the fact. Men with their eyes open need no other proof of this than this rebellion and these mobs afford. Hence, he who preaches that justice is divine and authoritative, and must never be knowingly violated, even with a view to save itself, preaches that alone which can insure permanent peace and prosperity. Let there be such sacred reverence for justice and the rights of man, and a corresponding observance of it, with philanthropy added, and the kingdom of God will speedily come with all its blessings.
Let us stand firmly and unwaveringly by liberty and the inalienable rights of all races, and write such history, by our lives and our deeds, in this trial-hour, as our children will not be ashamed to read.
Our fathers of'76 sent forth their immortal Declaration on this great subject of liberty, but made the mistake of compromising it for a time, for the sake of winning slaveholders to the Union. They thought-the best of them-that the monstrous barbarism would soon pass away, and freedom be universal. But it turned out differently. Slaves were multiplied from thousands into millions, and war has followed as a natural result. God thus teaches us by a suffering experience; and now he gives us the mission to take up, and carry forward to perfection, the work our fathers began.
This retributive providence of God that is upon us plainly teaches us that if we come out of this war with slavery still under the protecting Egis of the Government, we shall soon have to enter upon another one. Never till Christianity and all true manhood die out of the North, will opposition to slavery and to the oppression of the black race cease, or the call for justice and fair-dealing toward it be silenced. The wrath of men and the roar of armies cannot repress “the irrepressible conflict,” but by a proclamation of “liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof;” for the spirit and inspiration of liberty are of God. The civilization, humanity and philanthropy of this nineteenth century have fairly aroused themselves against slavery, and are gathering such strength continually that they will not allow the great barbarism much longer to survive. The traffic in human beings-the auction-block, the branding-iron, the lash, concubine instead of marriage-these and all the other abominations of slavery are intolerable in the sight of all just men; and even were they to cease their warfare against it, God would then send his destroying angel to overthrow it. Let us all, then, help it on its way, to its “own place,” and be worthy to join at last in the glorious anthem, “Jehovah has triumphed, his people are free!” Then will follow permanent peace and prosperity, such as the country has not hitherto known.
WILLIAM H. FISH.
Vernon, (N. Y.) Sept. 1, 1863.
An enthusiastic meeting, very numerously attended, was held in Lancashire, England, on August 6th, when a resolution-“That this meeting is convinced that the Slaveholders' Rebellion was initiated to perpetuate the despotism of negro slavery, and accords its earnest sympathy to the Free States, who are fighting for Union and Emancipation,” was passed by an immense majority-an amendment calling for a recognition of the Confederacy meeting with scarcely any support.
<c06>
LETTER FROM REV. J. SELLA MARTIN.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
I see by a report of the proceedings of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, in their celebration of the 4th of July at Framingham, that there seemed to be great fear, on the part of Mr. May, that the English people would accept Mr. Conway’s statement that he was sent here, and authorized by the Anti-Slavery leaders and Abolitionists, to make the offer which he made to Mr. Mason.
It may give the friends, of the slave pleasure to know, that the lovers of the Union, on this side of the Atlantic, did not believe at any time that the anti-slavery leaders and Abolitionists ever gave Mr. Conway any such authority.
I know that the editors of the Morning Star and Daily News refused to publish letters, contradictory of Mr. Conway's statements, because, they said, “they would not allow even the suspicion that Messrs. Garrison and Phillips, and their coadjutors could be so base as to offer to betray their country, which had entered upon an anti-slavery policy at such a cost, into the hands of men who had shown that they would never give up slavery until they were obliged to do so.” Mr. Conway settled the whole matter in the minds of men who scrupulously adhere to truth, by stating in his first letter to Mr. Mason, that he was sent by the Anti-Slavery party-offering to furnish proof of the fact-, and afterwards acknowledging in his second letter that he would have to send to America for his credentials, for bargaining away his and his co-laborers' allegiance. From that day we lost the influence of a great man whom the people distrusted. We all regret this, because one American had just shamefully failed in his advocacy of our cause by a lack of truthfulness-allowing himself to be called the Chaplain of the George Griswold- nay, even thus styling himself. The same over-pretentiousness has ruined Mr. Conway's personal influence, and added another wound to the cause among its enemies. But it has not injured the Anti-Slavery leaders. The people here have too much confidence in them for that.
It seems to me that Mr. Conway's habit of speaking must be careless, to say the least of it. He wrote to his paper-the Commonwealth-that I had called Mr. Lincoln a negro-hater, and when I showed it to some friends who were there, one of them said, “What spite has Mr. Conway against you, that he writes such untruths?”
Whatever I might have said in America about Mr. Lincoln's views, I am too fully aware of the readiness of the pro-southern press to make use of any terms which it could use against Mr. Lincoln's anti-slavery sincerity, to have used any such expression.
My humble labors for the Union are both gratuitous and sincere, and in this field I am constantly kept in mind that the duties of an anti-slavery man are quite different from what they are in America.
I send you this word of explanation because, as this air seems to make those who come from America lose their senses, some of my friends may believe what Mr. Conway says about my speech.
I am, dear sir,
Yours truly,
J. SELLA MARTIN.
Bromley, London E., July 24, 1863.

A VISIT TO NANTUCKET AND THE CAPE.
DEAR MR.GARRISON:- One of the pleasantest visits I have ever enjoyed, in connection with series of excellent meetings, I have just accomplished upon Nantucket, and in several towns upon the Cape. As my ancestral home, I have long desired to visit Nantucket. We were very cordially welcomed and most hospitably entertained by Nathaniel and Eliza Barney, and other friends. On Sunday evening, the 6th inst, I spoke to a large and very attentive audience in and about, the Pleasant Street Baptist Churen, me inside accommodations being insufficient,) upon the future of the colored people. On Monday evening, I spoke in the Methodist Church, upon the state of the country, with reference to emancipation. The attendance was large, and the attention excellent.
It is a delightful sail to and from Nantucket, by the pleasant steamer “Island Home.” “It is thirty miles distant from the main-land. The island furnishes one of the most desirable summer resorts with which I am acquainted. The ocean view from the little village of Siasconsett is unsurpassed.
Upon the Cape, I addressed meetings in Hyannis, Harwich, East Dennis, Dennis, and Yarmouth. These meetings, with one or two exceptions, were well attended, and all were of an interesting character. Our friends, the Hinckleys, Smalls, Robbins, Crowells, Wilkies, Thatchers, and others, were all very kind and hospitable. The sea breezes of the Cape are very refreshing, and some of the sea-side towns very pleasant. But was there ever such sand elsewhere? Our New York farmers would think it a most discouraging prospect to pursue agriculture upon such a foundation.
The public pulse, so far as I have come in contact with it, beats more healthfully than I have known at any former period. With the President's assurance, that the promise of freedom having been made, “IT MUST BE KEPT,” the people are invigorated, loyalists are more fully committed to emancipation, and “copperheads” are rendered more intense in their opposition. With the fidelity of good and true men and women, such as God will bless, I believe the day of impartial liberty has dawned. But slavery as a system, organized in the “Border” country, still has a foothold. Abolitionists have new and enlarged opportunities for the successful prosecution of their labors, in connection with the great underlying conflict of opinion. Very severe and earnest will be the battles in this conflict, after the sound of artillery shall have ceased. Eternal vigilance, the price of liberty, must still be paid, or the prize cannot be attained.
Very truly yours,
AARON M. POWELL.
Boston, Sept. 15,1863.

NORMAL INSTITUTE FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
The Tremont Temple was well filled on Monday evening last, the occasion being the fifth commencement of the above Institute, a fee of 25 cents being charged for the benefit of the Sanitary Commission. Gov. Andrew was to have presided, but was unexpectedly called to Washington. He sent a letter, heartily approving of the Institution and its object. Among others present were Hon. Edward Everett, Josiah Quincy, Jr., John D. Philbrick, Esq., the Superintendent of Schools, and Rev. Dr. A. L. Stone and other clergymen. Ex-Governor Boutwell made a brief introductory address, speaking of the importance of physical education.
Dr. Dio Lewis, the principal, introduced the graduating class of fifty ladies and gentlemen, who were appropriately dressed, the ladies in a peculiar and graceful costume. They gave a series of free gymnastics, accompanied by piano music, which were heartily applauded.
Prof. Phelps, of the New Jersey Normal School, stated that these exercises, in his school, had reduced his sick list from 10 and 15 per cent to 2 per cent.
Then followed exercises with the wands and the clubs, singing, and addresses by Messrs. Gillingham and Bradford, of the class. The mutual help exercises were interesting, and the exercises with the dumb bells. Miss Elizabeth M. Powell, of Ghent, N. Y. (one of the class,) gave a short address, admirable in its delivery and composition, which was highly applauded. Mr. Robinson, of New York, also made a sensible address.
Remarks were made by Dr. Lewis, by Rev. Dr. A. L. Stone, Rev. Mr. Hale, and Prof. Thomas F. Leonard, Professor of Elocution. The latter gentleman stated that the inspirometer showed an average increase of 20 per cent. in the capacity of the ladies' lungs during the term, or from 130 to 177 inches; and of the gentlemen of 30 per cent., or from 220 to 285 inches. Diplomas were given to the graduating class.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FIFTY-FIFTH REGIMENT MASSACHUSETTS COLORED VOLUNTEERS.
Extract from private letters to the Editor.
FOLLY ISLAND, near CHARLESTON, Sept. 1, 1863. 
Since we have been here, our regiment has been worked very hard at what is called “fatigue duty; ”and I can assure you it is rightly named. Every night and morning, orders are sent for fifty, or a hundred, or two hundred men from the regiment for fatigue. It consists, mostly, in unloading vessels, of freight and ammunition of all kinds-in drawing heavy pieces of cannon to the front, and mounting them voder the fire of the enemy-in throwing up intrenchments, covering magazines, digging parallels toward Fort wagner, &c., All this is done under fire of the enemy, and the men, more or less of the time, are obliged to dodge the shot of the enemy. It is a good experience for them, for they learn to keep cool by it. The work, however, comes very hard upon them, they being obliged to be out night after night, and day after day.
The water is very poor here, and that, with the hard work the men are going through with, is causing a good deal of sickness, and breaking them down fast. We have had four or five deaths since we have been here, and are likely to have many more before the <illegible> is over from sickness. So far, the regiment has been so fortunate as not to lose a man from the shots of the enemy, although they have been more or less exposed to them every day. One man in Co. F. received a slight wound from a shell that struck him in the arm. The Pennsylvania colored regiment, that came a week or two later than ours, has already lost five or six men from the shells and sharpshooters of the enemy. They have been at work for several nights in succession close up to Fort Wagner, and more exposed to the fire of the enemy than our men. I have been on fatigue several times, but have been to the front only twice. I was one day, last week, with twenty-five men all day at work at the front, close beside our <illegible> three hundred pounder, which is battering away at Fort Sumter. Fortunately for us, the enemy did not fire at us, although a large number of my men were in plain sight of them. All their shots were fired at batteries of ours to of the right and left of us. I stood close to the three hundred pounder when it was fired, for some time, and you can rest assured there was a slight noise when it went off! It took a week of hard labor to get it to the front, as it had to be dragged through the sand for a long distance, and on the way broke down several carriages.
We commenced the attack on the 17th of August, and have been firing day and night since, with more or less rapidity. Fort Sumter is badly damaged, one side of it being entirely battered in, but it still holds out, although it has not fired a gun for a long while. As yet, our monitors have done nothing, but are waiting for our land batteries to reduce Sumter before they make a more a move. Siege operations are extremely slow, and you need not expect to hear of Charleston being taken for some time to come. Everything, so far, has gone well on our side; and though our operations are slow and tedious, they are sure.
September 6.
Since I last wrote, I have been up to the front twice, and under fire both times. The other night, I had command of one hundred men, and worked them all night, drawing up heavy ten-inch mortars to the fifth parallel, which is within one hundred yards of Fort Wagner. We drew up five mortars, and rolled and carried up twenty barrels of powder. The distance they were carried was nearly half a mile, about half the way under the direct fire of the enemy, with no shelter. We did not get through with our work till broad daylight. It was the hardest night’s work I have yet had. While we were placing one of the mortars, that we had carried up, at the fourth parallel, a shell from Fort Johnson burst not a great way over our heads, one of the pieces striking within two feet of one man, and six feet of some ten or twelve others. It struck just where I was standing when the shell burst, but at the time I moved and got under cover, as did some others. 
Yesterday I was again on fatigue, and at the fifth parallel, in front of Wagner. My men were set to work, carrying up shell to the mortars, a distance of nearly a quarter of a mile. We got through by noon. The whole time we were there, we were under a tremendous fire from our own and the rebel guns. The parallels run in a zigzag way, and our batteries had to fire right over them, and very low at that. The fifth parallel is so close to Fort Wagner, that the men in it were more afraid of our own shell than they were of the enemy’s. It is right in range of Wagner, and nearly its height. Two of our balls struck in the parallel just before I got there in the morning, one of them going within a foot of a <Illegible> head. There was also danger of our shell bursting over and into the parallel. The mortars I carried up the night before, I found were doing pretty good work, almost every shot coming down plump into Wagner. They are trying hard to reach the magazine of Wagner with them, and blow it up.
The artillery men complimented my men yesterday, for their coolness under fire, and said they had done better than any company that had previously been up. I informed the Colonel that they had been <Illegible> complimented, and he came out and told them of it, and thanked them for their coolness. It was very difficult for a person not used to the firing of shot, to tell ours from the enemy’s; and our men were, at times, actually in more danger from our guns than from the enemy’s, as they had to pass in front of two or three of our guns, which were being discharged every few minutes, to pick up the mortar shell they were carrying to the front.
The firing, yesterday, was all directed from our <Illegible> at Fort Wagner. It was the heaviest we have lad for a long while. The Iron Clad took part in it, with her heavy guns. Fort Wagner was not able to fire a single gun, after we had fairly commenced. Our firing is made very effective by being concentrated on one particular object, as upon Sumter or Wagner; while, on the other hand, the rebel fire is <Illegible> here and there, and does us little harm. Being all sand, it is a much harder thing to batter down Wagner than Sumter. When Wagner is taken, we have got to take Fort Gregg, and after it, Fort Johnson, and the new rebel batteries on James Island. Fort Sumter we have virtually destroyed-it is in a mass of ruins; but it is of no use for us to take possession of it, as all the rebel forts bear upon it, and most of them were built to destroy it. In its present condition, we could do nothing with it if we took it.
There is no doubt whatever that quite a number of our guns are able to fire shot into Charleston, but we are hardly near enough, as yet, to do anything very effective.
The artillery men compliment the colored regiments for the work they have done, here, and say they get no credit for it. They have hauled up all the heavy guns and mortars to the front, thrown up all the earthworks for the batteries and magazines, dug all the parallels to within fifty or seventy-five feet of Fort Wagner, done any amount of heavy work, in unloading vessels of ammunition, lumber, and freight of all kinds. Just at this time, they are being very hard worked, and are breaking down under it, many of them. They are worked by separate detachments, day and night.
There is considerable feeling among the men of the 54th and 55th regiments, because they are to be paid only ten dollars a month. They enlisted with the understanding that they were to be paid and treated the same as other Massachusetts regiments. The 54th regiment refuse to receive ten dollars a month, and are waiting for Massachusetts, or Congress, to take some action in the matter. The men need the money badly, many of them, and I think prompt action should be taken in the matter. If Charleston is a taken, it will be owing to the hard labor and exertions of the colored troops here, in a great measure.
<c02>
WHOLESALE KIDNAPPING OF SOUTH SEA ISLANDERS.
A HORRIBLE SERIES OF OUTRAGES.
Recent English papers furnish some interesting particulars of the kidnapping of South Sea Islanders by Peruvian slave-dealers, which has excited so much horror and indignation in the Australian colonies. At a recent meeting in Sydney, a clergyman who was for many years a missionary in Western Polynesia, said that early this year as many as from one thousand fire hundred to two thousand hapless beings, collected from the different islands, had been conveyed to South America, and at this date the traffic is being carried on with unabated vigor.
It is known that twenty-five vessels hare been fitted out in Callao, under pretext that they were going to the South Sea Islands to hire laborers, but in every case they have been used to carry off the natives who fell into their clutches. The dealers have a depot at an island called Easter Island. This is-land is about thirty-six miles in circuit. It lies in longitude 109 W. and latitude 27 S. It is said that they have completely swept the island of its inhabitants. Seven vessels assembled at the island, sent on shore most of their crews, no doubt thoroughly armed, surrounded the natives, and carried them off. Having carried off the people, they took hogs, poultry, and whatever else they desired, and burned the houses, reserving, no doubt, as many as they wanted for their own purposes. To this island the slavers carry the wretched beings whom they manage to seize, and a schooner plies between the island and the coast, carrying cargo after cargo to slavery and death. These vessels are said to be in whole or in part owned by a mercantile house in Callao, and this house is further said to be connected with a firm in Liverpool.
On board one vessel that called off Samoa, there were three hundred natives of different islands, and the captain wished to obtain four hundred more to complete his cargo. It is said that the dealers express a determination to increase the number of their victims to ten thousand. The following incident of the kidnapping operations is given:
“A vessel loaded with captives, on the second day after they had been got on board, stood in toward the shore. Some natives ignorant of the character of the ship, and of what had transpired, went on board. Those in confinement recognized the well-known sounds of their native tongue. They shouted for help, but of course in vain. By desperate efforts they succeeded in breaking a hole in the door large enough to let one through at a time. A number succeeded in reaching the deck, and rushed over the ship’s side into the sea, but there were only two or three small canoes, land was a long way off, and some were not able to swim well. The wretches on board fired from the deck upon the helpless natives in the canoes and the water. A boat was lowered, and many were recaptured. Seven only escaped. Among those carried off were thirteen church members, and many candidates. Eighteen wives are left without husbands, and sixty-three children are deprived of their fathers.”
MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY. The iron works of Hon. Thaddeus Stevens, of Lancaster, Pa., were completely destroyed by the rebels in their last foray into that State. The Copperheads in that locality hastened to show this property to Jenkins, the commander of the cavalry, and begged him to destroy it, informing him at the same time that Stevens had some fine saddle horses. Jenkins demanded the horses, and promised if they were given up to spare the buildings. They were given up on Tuesday, with that agreement. On Thursday, rebel Gen. Early appeared, and ordered the buildings to be destroyed. He was reminded of the agreement made with Jenkins on Tuesday, but he paid no attention to that. Early replied that Stevens had been active against the Confederacy, and had done their cause more harm than any other man in Congress, and they would therefore make an example of him. He regretted that he had not captured the proprietor with the works. “No doubt you would give him a berth in Libby,” said the manager. “No, sir,” said the General, ”I would hang him on the spot, and divide his bones, and send them to the several States as curiosities. ”The order was given to remove all the wagons, iron, tools, and whatever would be useful to the army. The work of destruction was then commenced. The large smelting furnace, two forges, a puddling-mill, the rolling-mill, saw-mill, blacksmith’s shops, storehouses, wagon-houses and sheds, were reduced to ashes.
This is only one of the instances which prove that the rebel raid into Pennsylvania was invented by the Copperheads, and that they were active in pointing out property for destruction. Their works are coming to light.
LOUISIANA AS A FREE STATE. Thomas J. Durant, Esq., one of the ablest lawyers in New Orleans, made a speech before the Union Association of that city, on the 23d ult., in which he said:-
“The President of the United States gave the people of Louisiana fair warning that if they came not out from the rebellion, he would set free all those unwilling instruments that they were using for the overthrow of liberty and free government on this continent; and when they refused, he, on the 1st of January, 1863, in the exercise of his constitutional powers, by the emancipation proclamation declared them freemen; and in his opinion every loyal citizen was solemnly pledged to support him in his course. There might be differences of opinion in regard to the expediency of the policy, but the duty of every man was clear-they should see that the 137,000 slaves in, Louisiana, with the exception of those in two Congressional districts, were set free. When Gen. Hunter took command of the Department of the South, he declared by proclamation that all the slaves in South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida were free. This was set aside by his superior officer-the commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States. But no one has ever set aside the proclamation of January 1, 1863, and he prayed God that no one ever would. It would be the basest ingratitude now to do so, after they had shed their blood so freely in defence of the Union. Every one present, he thought, might make up their minds that if they could not live in Louisiana as a free State, they would not live here at all.”
A BANK PRESIDENT DEFENDS A COLORED SOLIDIER. In Philadelphia, on Thursday last, a number of rough fellows attempted to remove a colored soldier from a horse-car in which he was riding. While the conductor was deliberating whether to comply with the whim of the passengers, a gentleman (who proved afterwards to be Thomas Smith, President of the Bank of North America, rose in his seat, and declared emphatically that the man should not be removed. The Inquirer says:
All attempts at ridicule, the moment Mr. Smith gave his name, gave place to respect, except on the part of one unfortunate individual, who was uncourteous enough to say, “I don’t believe it.” The words had scarcely left his lips when, to use a common remark, more expressive, perhaps, than refined, “down went his house,” a well-directed blow from the indignant and athletic Bank President making the offender measure his length on the floor. Two or three acquaintances of the discomfitted victim of Mr. Smith’s just indignation then rose, and made demonstrations towards the latter; they were for a moment held back by those in the car, during which time the colored soldier’s champion stationed himself in the centre of the car, and defied all opposition. His opponents, somewhat awe-stricken, concluded not to meddle with him. Having carried his point so far, he insisted on the soldier taking his seat, which he did with great hesitation, and was made by his protector to retain it until he reached his destination. Mr. Smith is no politician, and has no radical faith in any political party, but he is a strictly loyal man, and supports, with great vigor, all measures of the administration. His conduct throughout the whole affair was highly creditable.
A NEGRO DEFENDS HIS LIFE. The Cincinnati Gazette publishes the following particulars of a tragedy of which some account has been given in our telegraphic despatches:
“An outrage occurred on Saturday night, at Newberry, near Milford, Clermont county, which resulted in the death of two men. The affair is traced to copperheadism and whiskey, but principally, we presume, to the latter. The facts are as follows: On Saturday night there was a copperhead meeting at Union Meeting House, which was addressed by W. S. Williamson, of Loveland, and Mr. Eiston, of Newberry. Shields, Williamson and others went from the meeting to a tavern, where they imbibed freely of whiskey. The question as to whether a negro would fight was discussed, and in order to test the question practically, they proceeded to the cabin of a negro, on the farm of Mr. Smizor, where they commenced an assault upon the house, smashing the windows, and tearing down the end of the tenement. The negro escaped through the back way, and procured a double barreled gun of Mr. Stringer, who lived close by. Previous to this, however, clubs and stones were thrown at the negro. Upon the latter returning with the gun, he shot one of the parties through the head, and the other through the heart, killing both almost instantly. One of these was named Shields and the other Williamson. The latter lived at Stone Lick, near Goshem.
“A third party was struck with a skillet, and a fourth ran away. Thus it was demonstrated that this particular negro at least had pluck to defend himself and his house against an unprovoked and cowardly attack. He was an inoffensive and industrious man, and frequent outrages had been committed against him, and also against the farmer who employed him.”
<c03>
ROBERT TOOMBS ON RECONSTRUCTION.
We find the following letter from General Robert Toombs in the last number of the Sumter Republican:
WASHINGTON, GA., AUG. 17, 1863.
MY DEAR SIR:-Your letter of the 15th inst., asking my authority to contradict the report that “I am in favor of reconstruction,” was received this evening. I can conceive of no extremity to which my country could be reduced, in which I would for a single moment entertain any proposition for any union with the North on any terms whatsoever. When all else is lost, I prefer to unite with the thousands of our own countrymen who have found honorable deaths, if not graves, on the battle field. Use this letter as you please. Very truly, your friend, &c.,
Dr. A. BEES, Americus, Ga. R.TOOMBS.
DON’T LOOK LIKE IT. When the announcement that Fort Sumter had been fired upon by the Charleston rebels reached Montgomery, Ala., the rebel Secretary of War, Walker, addressed the crowd who were cheering in the streets, and said:
“No man could tell where the war this day commenced would end, but he would prophesy that the flag which now flaunts in the breeze here would float over the dome of the old Capitol at Washington before the first of May. Let them try Southern chivalry, and test the extent of Southern resources, and it might float eventually over Fancuil Hall itself.”
It don’t look much just now as though this prediction would be fulfilled!
THE MORRIS ISLAND VICTORY. To estimate the importance of the evacuation of Morris Island by the enemy, it ought to be borne in mind that Fort Wagner was one of the strongest works ever constructed by the rebels. Thousands of slaves are said to have labored for months upon it, until the thickness of its walls seemed to bid defiance to any ordinance which we could bring to bear against it. The bomb-proof of the fort was a building of very heavy timber, covered by an immense mound of earth and sandbags. Upon either end an entrance and zigzag passages led through and through the structure, and every avenue of approach was swept by guns of the heaviest calibre. The dry marsh which flanked it on the left was known to be filled with torpedoes of the most destructive character.
REBEL LOSSES. The Rebel losses during the bombardment of Wagner were not less than 100 killed and wounded. With two or three exceptions, the wounded were borne away, and the killed hastily buried. The bodies of two officers, one a major and the other a lieutenant, were found in the bomb-proof of the fort, together with those of seven or eight privates. They were decently interred by our own men. One or two wounded men died before they could be removed to the hospital. One of them had eaten nothing for three days, nor had he received from rebel hands one drop of water or surgical assistance. Death was a welcome visitor to him.
On Tuesday, the 8th inst., the Weehawken sent a fifteen inch shell into one of, the magazines of Fort Moultrie, exploding. The Ironsides sent a shell into Moultrieville, setting it on fire and destroying half the town. The monitors and Ironsides bombarded the Sullivan Island forts for four hours, doing extensive damage.
NEW YORK, Sept. 13. A Morris Island letter of the 9th, to the Herald, gives an account of the recent boat expedition against Fort Sumter. The flotilla consisted of between 25 and 30 boats, manned by over 100 sailors under command of Lieut. Commander Williams, of the Wissahickon, and 100 marines under Capt. McCauley. The entire force was commanded by Capt. Stevens, of the monitor Patapsco. The boats were towed within a short distance of the fort. Three boats, under Commander Williams, Lieutenant Reiney and Ensign Porter, landed, and the parties attempted to run up the ruins to the parapet. They were fired upon by musketry, and hand grenades were thrown down upon them. The slope was sharp, and they were unable to reach the parapet. A signal was given from the Fort, and in an instant all the rebel batteries opened on the fort, and shelled it terribly. The three boats were smashed, and all who landed were killed or captured. 
Lieutenant Bradford, of the marines, was mortally wounded. Among those captured were commander Williams, Lieutenants Reiney, Preston, Brower and Bunce, Dr. Wheeler and Ensign Porter. Forty or fifty sailors and marines were killed and wounded, and the entire list of casualties will number eighty. The remainder of the command retired in safety.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Herald, with Gen. Gillmore before Charleston, says:
The rebels have evidently a powerful defence remaining, notwithstanding they have lost Morris Island and Fort Sumter. In the batteries upon James Island the heaviest guns the rebels can bring to bear upon us have been mounted, and our lines are constantly subject to their fire. Battery Bee, on Sullivan Island, has some Brooks rifled guns which propel a shell an amazing distance, and with which they can materially disturb us when we get beyond Fort Wagner. Until the navy does something towards the reduction of these works, it is useless to attempt to plant our flag over the ruins of Sumter. If we were able to destroy that work with guns on only one side of it, four thousand yards away, the enemy, with their batteries on three sides of it, not more than half the distance of our own, could soon make the place too hot for us.
From a dozen different points we can watch the operations of the rebels in the harbor during the day. They are as busy as bees from daylight to dark, and I guess, through the night as well. They have vastly increased the defences of the city within two weeks past. Around Castle Pinckney they have built up huge barricades of sand extending to the very parapet, and have thus rendered that work capable of a strong defence. The middle ground battery is also greatly strengthened in the same way. Heavier guns are undoubtedly now in position on Castle Pinckney than were ever placed there before. What seem to be new batteries are appearing on the battery in the city, and on every side we see evidences of the energy of Beauregard and the rebels in preparing for a stiff defence. They are not losing a moment in inexplicable delays, and before our final arrangements are completed for a naval attack, it will be found, I fear, that Beauregard has quite completed his, and that they may prove effective. New batteries are going up on James Island, bearing upon this island, and it is not improbable that we shall wake some fine morning with a dozen shells exploding about our heads.
A novel mode of removing obstructions has been adopted by Gen. Gillmore, namely; the employment of rebel prisoners in this duty, when it is attempted. It is justly supposed that the rebels know quite as well, if not better, how to handle their own infernal machines than do the Union men, and their risks may possibly be less. Our soldiers and sailors are enthusiastically in favor of the new arrangement.
No event of the war, save the battle of Gettysburg, can be pronounced more important than the taking of Knoxville, by General Burnside. Even Gettysburg was more important only because it drove the enemy from our soil, and had we lost the day the superiority of the rebels would have been assumed abroad, and the assumption would have been acted upon; and the copperheads would have arisen throughout the North, as they did rise in New York even after the enemy’s defeat. By taking Knoxville, and through the complete success of his general movement, Gen. Burnside has cut straight through an important part of the enemy’s line of communications. Gen. Rosecrans, who, like Gen. Burnside, is a great scientific soldier, has forced the rebels to abandon Chattanooga, a position of great natural strength, and on which the arts of defence had been lavishly expended by the skillful engineers of the confederacy, men who have often showed themselves to be masters of their trade. These brilliant and useful successes, the result of skillful combinations and daring energy, are so much done toward the quartering of the confederacy, which was halved by Gens. Grant and Banks, when they took Vicksburg and Port Hudson. Supposing Gen. Rosecrans to be able to continue his forward movement, the separation of the confederacy must soon be made complete.

THE BARBARISM OF SLAVERY. The following incident is one worth noting by the collector of facts for future histories of the Great Rebellion:-
The rebels, on the 30th of June last, passed through Wellsville, York County, Penn., and were greeted with tumultuous sympathy by the copperhead men and women of the town. The days afterward, an unarmed negro was quietly passing along the street, when these same sympathizers raised the cry of “horse-thief,” and one of them pursued him with a gun. The negro quietly submitted, and was walking along with his captor, when five men more, armed to the teeth, came up, and one of them, named Jeremiah Spohr, deliberately and without a word, shot him. The negro fell, when Spohr shot him a second time as he lay upon the ground. The party then dragged the still living victim by the heels with a strap into a field, where they proceeded to bury him. Observing that he still moved, one of them tried to cut his throat but the knife used was too blunt; whereupon a rifle was discharged into his head, and the poor wretch at last ceased to breathe. The body was left on the ground. A week afterward, the coroner’s jury caused, the arrest of the murderers, who frankly acknowledged their guilt; but the Grand Jury ignored the bill against them! The correspondent who sends these particulars states that the prosecutors are Republicans, and the defendants Copperheads. York rejoices in a Democratic majority of about 3,000.
<c04>
MR. SUMNER’S SPEECH. The New York Herald says:-
“Mr. Sumner’s audience was a most numerous and enthusiastic one. Every corner of the vast lecture room, even the most remote, was choked with people. The attendance of ladies was unusually large. The speaker, as may be expected, was received with uproarious applause. On the platform whence he addressed the assembled multitude, he was surrounded by many leading republicans of this city, with a sprinkling here and there of persons of other political opinions.
The most boundless enthusiasm seemed to seize the audience when Mr. Sumner alluded to our relations with England and France. He boldly advocated the unity and integrity of the republic, and declared that the Emperor of the French shall never be able to dictate terms to this country. When he spoke of the possibility of France seizing Texas, and adding it to the empire which the Emperor proposes to make permanent in Mexico, loud cries of “Never, never,” arose from all parts of the house. An intelligent elderly lady near our reporter quietly remarked at this juncture, “Banks will get there before him.”
The orator spoke with his usual fluency, and to all appearances the interest of his bearers never abated. On the conclusion of his address, he was loudly applauded, and a number of persons took the opportunity to be presented to him.”
CAN MR. LINCOLN RE ENSLAVE FREEDMEN? The Washington Chronicle is permitted to make the following extract from a letter of the Hon. Robert J. Walker (now in England) to a friend in that city. We are glad to know that there is not the slightest reason to believe that President Lincoln has any thought of recalling the Emancipation Proclamation, or that he will be a party to the re-enslavement of the freedmen made free by the proclamation:
“Since the victory at Gettysburg, and the fall of Vicksburg and Port Hudson, suggestions appear that President Lincoln should recall the emancipation proclamation. This would ruin the cause here. The proclamation was legal, and as such it did emancipate the slaves, and they are now free. How can Mr. Lincoln re-enslave them? The past is irrevocable even by Almighty power. Besides it would be a breach of faith to the slaves; and in view of their heroic conduct in battle, equally unwise and unjust.”
“After maligning the Administration and sneering at every measure adopted to suppress the rebellion-after declaring that Mr. Lincoln is as much a traitor to his country and the Constitution as Jeff. Davis after doing their utmost to destroy public confidence in the honesty of the war-after espousing with fierce ardor the cause of every rebel sympathizer and abettor in the North-after declaring that there is more respect for personal rights under the sway of the rebellion than under the Government of the United States-after denouncing the war as wicked and fratricidal, and frankly declaring that they are striving to restore a party to power-after doing all that Davis himself would have done, and exactly in the way he would direct, the Copperheads turn upon loyal citizens of the United States, and with an air of injured dignity demand to know whether there is any question about their loyalty! 
THE ENROLMENT IN ILLINOIS. A letter from Chicago of the 31st ult., to the Philadelphia Inquirer, states that much difficulty is experienced in perfecting the enrolment in some of the lower counties of Illinois. In one township, the Copperheads recently held a public meeting, and resolved that the draft should be enforced only over their dead bodies! The writer says-“I heard of various outrages all through ‘Egypt.’ Union men, who are but a small minority in many of these counties, are not safe in their houses. Their houses, barns, grain-stacks., &c., are destroyed constantly by these secession villains. In some places the reign of terror is almost as bad as in some parts of Missouri, where the bushwhackers carry things with a high hand. The general or State government ought to put a stop to these things, or they will grow into something serious.”
STAMPEDE OF SLAVES. Almost every day we hear of a new stampede of slaves in our county. Indeed, so frequent have they become of late, that no surprise or comment is excited thereby. Our people seem to have settled into a state of apathy and indifference upon the subject, The latest case we have heard of came off on Sunday night last. Some fifteen or more negroes, (men, women, and children,) belonging to persons residing in and near Cedar Point Neck, absconded that night, and breaking open a barn, took out a large flat-bottomed boat, which they carried to the creek, and thus made their escape. One gentleman, we understand, lost on this occasion eleven of his negroes. During the past week, not less than fifty negroes from this vicinity have run off, and in several cases masters have been left without hands to work and secure their growing crops.-Port Tobacco Times.
ANOTHER STAMPEDE O F SLAVES. Within the past week a large number of slaves have absconded from different parts of this county, our own neighborhood contributing, to some extent, to the exodus. At the rate at which this thing has been going on for some time past, our county must soon be drained of this species of population Rockville (Md.) Sentinel.
EMANCIPATION IN MISSOURI. The work of emancipation has progressed finely the past week. It is stated that over one thousand able-bodied slaves have escaped from Missouri into Kansas, and enlisted in the army, since our last issue.
It will require but a year’s time to rid Missouri of slaves and negroes, at the rate the work is now going on. The slaveholders and copperheads charge the Militia with aiding the slaves in their attempts to escape.-Springfield Missourian.
The Boston Courier is instructing the Post in the doctrines of true democracy. The Post had published, approvingly, a statement by Mr. Tuttle, democratic candidate for Governor in Iowa, that he was for the Union without an if, and regardless whether slavery stands or falls by its restoration. This the Courier regards as not democratic, and lectures the Post for accepting it. Hence it is fair to infer that the former paper is not for the Union, unless slavery can be preserved. And this is precisely the position of the entire opposition. A few days ago, the Courier owned up to being a copperhead, and now it confesses to being a secession one also.
THE REBELLION AFLOAT. The Richmond Sentinel urges the fitting out of privateers against American commerce, and tells its readers that they should use every exertion in this behalf; and “even if we lose all the land, except enough to afford sovereignly a resting place, these ships ought still to be put to sea.”
“Rule or ruin,” was long the motto of the slaveholders. They still act on that principle, it seems.
MAURY AS A PIRATE. Mr. M. F. Maury, who recently published a letter in the London Times in which he applauded the course of Vallandigham, Governor Seymour, and Northern copperheads generally, turns up to-day as in command of the pirate Georgia, which has burned the ship Constitution, of this port, off the island of Trinidad.
Major General Blunt, in his official report of the battle of Honey Springs, Arkansas, says, the First Kansas Colored Regiment particularly distinguished themselves. They fought like veterans, and preserved their line unbroken throughout the engagement. “Their coolness and bravery,” adds Gen. Blunt, “I have never seen surpassed. They were in the hottest of the fight, and opposed to Texas troops-twice their number-whom they completely routed The Twentieth Texas Regiment, which fought against them, went into the fight with 300 men, and came out with only sixty.”
THE LAWRENCE MASSACRE. A St. Louis despatch says:-The excitement which has prevailed in Kansas since the Lawrence massacre has subsided, and in its place has come a determination fearfully earnest to avenge that terrible act. There seems to be no confidence in or respect for Gen. Schofield. Quantrell and Onsrebar are about thirty miles from Kansas City, with a largely increased force. The $200,000 in cash taken out of Lawrence has given them glory and recruits, and their numbers have swollen from two hundred to twelve hundred. In Leavenworth, Wyan-dotte, Paola and Ossawattomie, the citizens are under arms, and all the towns are nightly guarded by citizen patrols.
LECTURE ON EMANCIPATION. A large, intelligent and appreciative audience assembled at the Methodist Chapel, on Centre street, on Monday evening last, to listen to an address from Mr. Aaron M. Powell, of New York. The speaker has a clear, distinct voice, and his appeals and arguments in behalf of emancipation and the rights of the colored man everywhere, are convincing and unanswerable; and their results can be best estimated by the attention and interest of the audience which continued throughout the meeting.
Upon an important and encouraging fact he dwelt most earnestly, and feelingly,-that instead of now looking mainly to the long-tried Abolitionists to sustain and carry the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation to a successful issue, he turned, most joyfully, to the avowed sentiment of Missouri, Tennessee, Louisiana, &c., for the advocacy of the principles therein enunciated.
His appeals to every lover of his country and his race to sustain the Government, cannot fail to have made a deep impression on the mind of every one who heard him.-Nantucket Inquirer.
<c05>
NEW YORK, Sept. 14. A Glasgow, Ky., despatch to the Tribune states that a party of guerillas, in command of Hamilton, and numbering about 300, appeared on the cross roads of the Bucksville and Tomkinsonville pike, where a camp meeting was in session. They dashed in among the people, producing a great panic, and scattering the congregation. The ladies were robbed of their jewelry, the men of their watches and purses, and many valuable horses were stolen.
The Richmond Enquirer has slender hopes of the success of the double game its copperhead peace friends in the North are trying to play. In view of their assertion, that the Union is to be preserved, the Enquirer says:
“The common people instinctively ask, “If you all agree with the Government that the rebellion must be crushed, why do you oppose the Government? Why not give it men and money to do what it is so earnestly striving to do?’ The answer is most difficult, and can hardly satisfy the masses.”
The rebel State Government of Mississippi, at last accounts, was in Noxubee county, on the Alabama border, five hundred miles from the capital. That of Missouri was at Little Rock, in Arkansas. The Governor and State officers of Louisiana were on board of an old steamboat up one of the bayous of the Mississippi river, and Gov. Isham G. Harris, with the archives of Tennessee, was somewhere in the mountains in the northern part of Alabama.
Gen. Grant recently remarked to some Illinois gentlemen, that he had extended Gen. Logan’s furlough without any request on his part, “for the reason that he considered him in the field doing duty, while he was fighting the copperheads of Illinois.”
Negro troops numbering about two hundred have arrived here from the West, and are quartered at the Park Barracks. This is understood to be the first occasion on which negro volunteers have been permitted to use the barracks, which stand on city property.-N. Y. Evening Post.
Gen. Rosecrans has just completed recruiting two full regiments of negroes, and has commenced a third.
The first negro regiment in the Department of the Cumberland has been organized and officered. It numbers nine hundred and eighty men. Col. Charles R. Thompson, formerly Captain and Aid upon the staff of Gen. Rosecrans, is in command, at his own request.
The Nashville Union says: “We are as sure that the people of Tennessee will pass an emancipation ordinance before twelve months, as we are that they ought to do it.”
Hon. Reverdy Johnson, of Maryland, addressed the Saratoga County Agricultural Society at Saratoga, New York, on the 3d inst. In the course of his address, he said, “Slavery was an evil fruit, full of national difficulties, and would eventually fall in the contest with free principles.”
TOUSSAINT GUARDS. A letter received in this city to-day from Alexander H. Johnson, of the Toussaint Guards, states that Joseph L. Hall and Cornellius Henson, of this city, reported missing after the assault on Fort Wagner on the 18th of July, were killed.-New Bedford Standard.
The rebel General Pemberton is alive. At last accounts he was about to take up his residence at Atlanta, Ga.
Gen. Magruder is reported to be dead, falling, like Gen. Van Dorn, by the hand of an “injured husband,” a sort of character that seems to be uncommonly common in the land of chivalry. Magruder was a smart officer, as we found to our cost at Galveston.
In Providence, on Monday, says the Journal, a colored conscript presented himself for examination, and failing to develop any physical disability, inquired if “age wouldn’t do nothing for a body?” “How old are you?” asked the captain. “Forty-seven, sir.” “Well, if you can show that you are so old, you are exempt under the law.” So the conscript pulled out of his pocket a bill of sale of himself, dated at Richmond, which gave enough of his descriptive genealogy to warrant the board in exempting him for over age.
Mr. Mason recently left London for Dublin, with the probable intention of returning home. The day before his departure from London, the rebel loan fell there to 30 per cent, discount. “Twas quite time for him to be going.-Louisville Journal.
Minister Clay writes from St. Petersburg to a gentleman in this city, that “they have granted me a telegraph line charter, the line to run from the Amoor river to America. It will unite all the continents, and be the great work of the age. It will illustrate my mission to this country.”
Among the slain in Gen. Sibley’s expedition was John Beemer, a wealthy Englishman, a graduate of Oxford, and former officer on the staff of Lord Raglan. He had come from England on a Buffalo hunt in the Northwest, and took a nominal position upon Sibley’s staff, to gratify his taste for adventure. Sent on reconnoitering service, he was caught in ambuscade and shot down with iron-headed arrows, the savages scalping him, and hacking off one side of his head while he was yet alive. He leaves a splendid yacht and large library in New York.
The New York Evening Post figures up the complexion of the next Congress so far as chosen, as containing 90 Administration and 81 Opposition members. To these are to be added three Republicans elected in Vermont on the 1st inst., giving an Administration majority of twelve. There are fifteen members yet to be chosen, a majority of whom will be Administration.
THE LOSS OF THE STEAMER SUNBEAM. The steamer Sunbeam, which was lost on Lake Superior August 28th, had on board only ten passengers, among whom were Hon. Abner Sherman and son, and Hon. Augustus Coburn, of Ontonagon; Rev. Mr. Berd and Mrs. Shepard, of Hancock. The crew numbered about twenty men. Mr. Frazer, the wheelsman, alone is known to be saved.
The women of the Northwest are getting up a monster soldiers’ fair, at Chicago, for the last week of October and the first week in November. They mean to raise $70,000.
A Copperhead paper is about to be started at Plymouth, Mass., to be called The Rock of Plymouth. Will not the very stones cry out against such a desecration?
IMMENSE UNION DEMONSRATION. An immense Union meeting was held at Cambridge, Ohio, on the 2d instand. A prominent feature was a procession nearly five miles long.
Thomas Rahelly, aged nearly 104 years, died at Newport, Rhode Island, on the 18th ult. He was formerly boatman for Daniel O’Connell, the famous Irish Liberator, and has lived in this country thirteen years.
The Democratic Convention at Worcester would not listen to Lieut. Riordan, a loyal Democrat. Their friends had taken one of his arms from him, and by way of compensation they tipped him the cold shoulder.
NEW YORK, Sept. 12. The steamer Evening Star, from New Orleans, 5th, arrived at one o’clock this morning. She was detained nine hours by General Banks, to carry despatches. Sept. 5th in the Mississippi, passed brig Nonatum in tow, bound for Boston.
The correspondent of the London Times asserts that out of two hundred and fifty lawyers in the city of Baltimore, there are not more than twenty who are Unionists.
PERSONAL. Dr. W. K. Hurley, of Tennessee, has been removed from a clerkship in the First Auditor’s office at Washington, for opposing the emancipation proclamation and expressing disloyal sentiments.
The American Telegraph Company announce the opening of an office at Chattanooga, and the reception of business for that place.
Of the nominees on the Massachusetts democratic ticket, two-thirds are old whigs, one is a democrat, and the other is doubtful.
Gov. Andrew, of Massachusetts, while on his way to Fryeburg, and near Conway, N. H., had an opportunity of taking the lead in an extemporized fire department. A correspondent of the Portsmouth Journal says be was at one time on the roof surrounded by smoke and burning cinder, then at work at the chain pump, or carrying water to the chamber above. By the vigorous efforts of Gov. Andrew and his associates, a house was saved from the devouring element.
Mr. Frank Moore has in press an edition of the various reports of the Committee on the Conduct of the War, with explanatory notes relative to the generals unfavorably mentioned in the reports, and other valuable data. The work will make two volumes of the size of the Rebellion Record.
FROM LIBERIA. Accounts from Liberia state the biennial election resulted in the choice of Hon. Daniel Bashiel Warner as President, and Rev. James M. Priest as Vice President, the term of office to commence in January next Mr. Warner is of unmixed African blood, born in Baltimore, April 19, 1815, reached Liberia May 24, 1823, and has not since been out of the country. He is a man of integrity and ability, a successful merchant, and has acceptably held several prominent public positions, among others that of Secretary of State. He is now serving his second term as Vice President, and was lately acting President during the absence in Europe of Mr. Benson.
<c06>
AN APPEAL TO THE GENEROUS FOR CRIPPLED AND INVALID SOLDIERS.
SOLDIERS NATIONAL HOME, on the John Quincy Adams Farm, Weston, Mass.-This place has four hundred acres of land, and is to be a permanent Home for Invalid Soldiers. It was formerly the old Gov. Gill Farm, subsequently the Ward Nicholas Boylston place, and bequeathed by him to President John Quincy Adams; and his son, Charles Francis Adams, Minister to England, now holds it in trust. An association of gentlemen have leased it for a long number of years, and are determined to see no invalid soldier suffering. Boston and Massachusetts have the reputation of doing more for this class of invalids than they are aware of; and we are confident that the old Bay State merchants and others will never turn a deaf ear to that class of men who have periled life, health and limb for the continuance of our glorious Union. Several having recruited at this Home, have re-enlisted, and are now back in the army.
Lieut. George W. Caleff, prisoner of war in Richmond and other Southern dungeons for more than a year, is authorized to collect.
Headquarters of the Association is at 19 Charlestown street, S. PORTER, Vice President.
TO LADIES AND GENTLEMEN!
Do call immediately, and help us prepare, for the sick and wounded coming on shortly. Office open from 10, A. M., until 5, P. M.
Boston, Sept., 1863.
RECRUITING IN THE SOUTH
With in the lines of our armies are many thousands of colored men, healthy. Strong, and unemployed. Beyond our lines, but within our reach, are a hundred thousand more, who unwillingly labor for the support of the rebellion.
The Government is prepared to arm these men, and to place them where they can do much for themselves and for us. But the system of recruiting for the regular army was adopted for a small force, and, when unaided by the State, it is slow.
The deficiencies of this service it is proposed to remedy by agencies established by the contributions of patriotic citizens. These agencies will be solely for co-operation with the government for the more rapid advancement of the recruiting service; for obtaining acclimated men for the increase of the army by the use of such means as will induce them to offer themselves to the Government. The Committee will undertake nothing which is not sanctioned by the Commanders of Departments, by the laws of civilized warfare, and by the laws of the land. 
The undersigned have been appointed by a larger Committee to solicit subscriptions for this object, and they request that those who will take part in forwarding it should send their contributions to Mr. RICHARD P. HALLOWELL, Treasurer, No. 98 Federal street, Boston.
J. M. FORBES, Executive Committee.
A. A. LAWRENCE, Executive Committee.
S. G. WARD, Executive Committee.
MARTIN BRIMMER, Executive Committee.
THOMAS RUSSELL, Executive Committee.
J. H. STEPHENSON, Executive Committee.
LE BARON RUSEELL Executive Committee.
Boston, Sept. 7,1863.

NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.-The Sixteenth Annual Term will commence on Wednesday, Nov. 4, and continue seventeen weeks. Lecture fees, $55. Aid will be afforded to a limited number of students needing it. Any person or persons paying to the College $100 can send a student free of tuition through its course of education. Address or apply to the subscriber, at the College, No. 10 East Canton street, Boston.
3t. SAMUEL GREGORY, M. D., Sec’y.
COLLECTIONS BY PARKER PILLSBURY.
Feltonville A. S. Society, by Lewis Haynard, $5; collection at lecture, 8.47. 

AARON M. POWELL will speak at 
North Bridgewater, Tuesday, Sept. 22.
Fall River, Wednesday, Sept. 23.
New Bedford, Thursday, Sept 24.
Providence, R. I., Sunday, Sept 27.
Mr. Powell will also probably address meetings at Pawtucket, Valley Falls, and other adjacent towns during the week following the 27th inst.

WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Milford, (Mass.) on Sunday next, Sept. 20th, 
at 2, P. M., and 7, P.M.
THE HUTCHINSON EAMILY-“reorganized, reconstructed and augmented,” by the union of the “House of John”and “Tribe of Asa”-will conclude their series of spirit-stirring Concerts in the cause of Freedom, Humanity and Reform, on Friday (this) evening, Sept.18th, and on Saturday afternoon and evening, at the Meionaon. Tickets of admission-evenings, for adults, 25 cents; children, 15 cents. Afternoon, adults, 15 cents, children, 10 cents.
The character and object of their concerts, and the superior excellence of their singing, should secure the most liberal patronage. Go and hear them:-[Ed. Lib.
DIED-In Newport, R. I., August 22, GERTRUDE F., daughter of Mrs. Cecelia Babcock, of Salem, Mass.; Sept. 7th, GEORGE WENDELL DOWNING, son of George and Serena Washington, 13 months.
BEYOND THE LINES;
OR,
A YANKEE PRISONER LOOSE IN DIXIE.
 A New Book of Thrilling Interest. 
BY REV. CAPT. J. J. GEER,
Formerly Pastor of George Street M. E. Church, Cincinnati, and late Assistant Adjutant General on the Staff of Gen. Buckland. With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of the School Visitor.

THIS is one of the most thrilling accounts of adventure and suffering that the was has produced. Capt. GEER was wounded and captured at the great battle of Shiloh; tried before several prominent Rebel Generals for his life, among whom were Hardee, Bragg, and Beauregard; incarcerated in four jails, four penitentiaries, and twelve military prisons; escaped from Macon, (Georgia,) and travelled barefoot through swamps and woods, by night, 250 miles; was fed by negroes in part, and subsisted for days at a time on frogs, roots and berries, and was at last recaptured when within thirty-five miles of our gunboats on the Southern coast.
The particulars of his subsequent sufferings as a chained culprit are told with a graphic truthfulness that surpasses any fiction.
The work contains a fine steel portrait of the author, besides numerous wood engravings illutrative of striking incidents of his experience among the rebels. Every Unionist-every lover of his country-every man, woman and child should read this Book of Facts as they actually occurred.
The author has not only succeeded in making a narrative of exciting interest, but has ingeniously interwoven in the book many original and eloquent arguments in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war against Rebellion and Oppression.
Just published on fine white paper, and handsomely bound in cloth. 285 pages.
Agents wanted in every county and township in the Union, to whom extraordinary inducements will be offered.
Specimen copies will be sent to any person for $1, post paid, with particulars to Agents.
NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
No narrative of personal adventure which has been published since the war begun, equals this in interest. The account he gives of the treatment of himself and his fellow-prisoners exceeds anything we have heretofore read.-Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
The Captain’s graphic account of affairs in the South, during his long captivity there, will be read with great interest. The Introduction is by Rev. Alexander Clark, which is sufficient in itself to warrant a large sale.-Philadelphia Daily Inquirer.
Address all orders to 
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher, 
1308, Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
Sept. 11-t

A GREAT WORK!
EVERY MAN HIS OWN PHYSICIAN.
THE NEW ILLUSTRATED HYDROPATHIC ENCYCLOPEDIA: A Complete System of Hydropathy, embracing the Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Body Illustrated; Hygienic Agencies and the Preservation of Health; Dieteties and Cookery; Theory and Practice of Treatment; Special Pathology and Hydro-Therapeutics, including the Nature, Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment of all known Diseases: Application to Surgical Diseases, to Midwifery and the Nursery. With 300 Engravings, and nearly One Thousand Pages, including a Glossary and Index complete. By R. T. TRALL, M. D. Sent prepaid by FIRST MAIL for $3.50. Address FOWLER & WELLS, 308, Broadway, New York.
Sept. 18-2w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
JEFF. DAVIS-THE MAN FOR THE TIME!
"Not even a Sir Thomas Lucy but comes in his time."-CARLYLE.
When times are disjointed, and nothing goes right,
When men prefer evil and danger to light,
Then God brings up leaders to lead bondmen out,
And force all misleaders to face right about.
Jeff. Davis, the tyrant, comes up for the times,
To bring to stern judgment this the land for its crimes;
The man, of all men, just the man that should be,
Who, fighting for bondage, all bondmen will free!
For God and Humanity now he works hard,
Though he has a new way of dealing that card;
He plays a sure game-that is-sure not to win!
To gain what he plays for he cannot begin.
So, Jeff., sprawl your logic, and keep up this racket!
Call out all your bondmen, and arm them to back it!
That course will the grandest results introduce,
And make the worst foe of the Union a goose!
The Government long had been wicked and rotten;
Here God's rights and man's rights had long been forgotten;
'Twas time for such men as Jeff. Davis to rise-
Men full of corruption, deception and lies.
All up with a round turn't was high time to bring 
This slaveholding nation, to hell on the wing;
From God's holy laws it was rushing to ruin,
All heedless and careless of what it was doing.
The Powers above took the matter in hand-
In councils all wise this catastrophe planned;
They knew nothing else the distemper would cure,
And that as we were then we could not endure.
All bondmen to freedom from bondage must come;
Jeff. Davis the man is to bring them all home;
His labors will do more to slav'ry destroy,
Than all Abolitionists else could employ.
For Davis thank God, then! his work must be done;
He speeds on his course, and his race must be run;
His deeds are gigantic, and well they will tell
Of work done that none else could do half as well.
Momentous the times are-eventful and grand;
Between night and morning of great things we stand;
Sublime is the living of life in this age,
And grand to have made one bright spot on its page.
Jehovah is moving-this time is his own-
For work be requires head and hand to be shown:
All hands to the rally! the work must be done!-
All earnest to finish the task well begun.
Billerica, August, 1863. D. PARKER, M. D. 
LENOX.
Soft summer sounds salute the air,
Cool country colors greet the eye;
Around my wide piazza chair
The hay-blown breezes lingering sigh.
The level lawn of gracious green,
The odorous line of gay parterre,
The clear cut paths that run between-
Content the claims of cultured care.
Near by, the neat New England town,
In latent strength of thrifty ease,
Scatters its squares of red and brown
Beneath the old familiar trees.
The white church gleaming on the hill
Beside its patch of village graves,
Lifts, like a lighthouse, calm and still,
Above the dark green swell of waves.
Beyond the vale the landscape looms 
In mountain masses, crowned with firs,
Save where the golden chestnut blooms,
Or where the silver birch tree stirs.
Low at their feet, in sweet surprise,
Repeating every varied hue,
The "mountain mirror" scoops the skies,
And laughs in sunshine and in blue.
And over all sublimely broods 
The spirit, by Nature only taught;
And all is peace, save where intrudes
One dark, deep shade of human thought.
Embraced within her mountain arms,
Few fairer scenes the eye have met:
Would that the soul knew no alarms-
Would that the gazer could forget!
Forget the far-off strife, that shakes
His country's glory into shame;
Forget the misery that makes
A by-word of the nation's name!
Forget that she, who years ago
Brought Freedom forth, in throes and tears,
Now lies in second labor low,
Convulsed in agony and fears.
God grant swift safety to the land!
God haste the peace-returning morn 
When our great Mother yet shall stand
Triumphant with her second-born!
Then, like this fair and favored place,
Shall the Republic's grandeur be;
For she shall look from heights of grace,
And undiminished glory see. 
C. K. T.
- N. Y, Evening Post.
FINISH THY WORK.
Finish thy work, the time is short;
The sun is in the west; 
The night is coming down-till then 
Think not of rest.
Yes, finish all thy work, then rest;
Till then, rest never;
The rest prepared for thee by God 
Is rest forever.
Finish thy work, then wipe thy brow;
Unfired thee from thy toil!
Take breath, and from each weary limb
Shake off the soil.
Finish thy work, then sit thee down
On some celestial hill,
And of its strength-reviving air
Take thou thy fill.
Finish thy work, then go in peace;
Life's battle fought and won,
Hear from the throne the Master's voice,
"Well done! well done!"
Finish thy work, then take thy harp,
Give praise to God above;
Sing a new song of mighty joy 
And endless love.
Give thanks to Him who held thee up 
In all thy path below,
Who made thee faithful unto death,
And crowns thee now.
ABRA'S VISION.
Abra Ham Lincoln-may his tribe increase!-
Awoke one night-for wonders ne'er will cease-
And saw amid the gas light in his room,
Looking as dark as the great day of doom,
Agrinning negro, black, grotesque, and old. 
Long thoughts of war had made our Abra bold: 
"What wantest thou?" he to the phantom cried.
"I want to know, old Mars," the form replied,
"What you be wine to do wid dis ere chile?" 
Abra Ham frowned-then said with serious smile, 
"This written in Heaven, and this is my decree:
Both you and yours henceforward must be free.
My word is given; and now, old man, depart."
But why upsprings he with a sudden start?
No more he sees a negro, black and old, 
But a fair angel, with his locks of gold, 
Radiant as morn, and gladsome as the spring.
"I am the soul of that soil'd earthly thing 
Thou saw'st but now. I thank thee from my heart, 
Abram Ham Lincoln! Then the better part
Hast chosen for thyself and for thy land,
For this one deed stand thou at God's right hand."
The angel vanished. Abra slept no more,
But paced all night in thought his chamber floor.
<c02>
The Liberator.
A CHAT WITH A FUGITIVE.
[CONCLUDED.]
"You have weeded the squash vines nicely."
"Yes, give'em a fair chance, and let'em run. I likes to give everything a fair chance."
I was silently pondering his theory of education when he added, "This is pretty hot for you, Miss; it's hot for me, though I'm used to living in a hot place."
"And how old were you when you got out of the hot place?"
"I dunno; I's what you might call a lad; I spect I's seventeen or eighteen. Ye see when I got big enough for a ploughboy, I was sold onto a plantation, and in the winter my master let me out to work on the railroad, way out between midway in Aiken, mos down to Georgia. And I run'd away, and got on board a vessel; that's the last time I run'd away. Ye see, I'd run'd away a good many times afore inter the woods to get rid of a whippin or sumthin, but they allers caught me. When a slave runs away, the master offers a reward. If he's gone long, he's afraid he'll get into Canada; they allers lives in fear of Canada, slave owners does; and he offers a great reward. And then the poor whites,-there's a many of them jes as poor as the slaves is, only they aint got no master, they go out ever so many of'em, and they are almost sure to bring him in, dead or alive. And then master allers pays the reward jes the same, whether he is brought in dead or alive. O, it's hard work to get out of bondage any way. Nobody can't get out of it without drefful sufferin!"
"What made you start this time?"
"O, they'd whipped me pretty hard, and I thought this time I'd run for freedom. So I hid in the woods till in the night; then I hid in a freight car, and just afore daylight it started. Then I got off the train the best way I could before we got to Charleston, and went into the city, where I felt at home; for I was born there, ye see. I knew they'd never think of looking in Charleston for me; they'd look in the woods: so, after a day or two, I went onto a vessel, and worked. I asked the cook where the vessel was again. He said, to Boston. I asked where that was, and he said 'twas a land o' freedom. I never heard of Boston afore. Ye see, they did n't learn us slaves nothin; we growed up jis like any other brutes. I thought if I could get to Boston, I'd be free, like enough, or I'd get a better master. I didn't know much about it. A better master is what the slaves allers wants when they is bad off. I hadn't no idea how fur'twas o Boston; I did n't know as 'twas going to take more'n a day. So I crept in among the cotton under the deck, and before morning she swung out into the stream. The next mornin the cook got up early, and come down to get some wood to build his fire, and he was scart to see a man stowed away there. He said 'twas lucky he found me, instead of any one else; for he could give me somethin to eat. He stowed me away so there couldn't nobody see me. If the cap'n had seen me, he'd turned right round, like as not, and carried me back. Many of' em do; they get so intimated with the slaveholders: deed, they've got to, cordin to the law the slaveholders made. We was four weeks and five days on the journey to Boston. I had to lay still all the time day and night, I was in such close quarters; and 'twas so dark, I never saw no light day or night. There was a big storm once, and he come and told me they spected the vessel'd go down; and if she did, I'd have to go down with her, for they could n't get at me to get me out in a hurry. When we got to Boston, he got me out in the night unto a sailors' boardin house at the North End. I never see him again. He was an Englishman-a real English, too. I wanted to go to England with him, but he said I wouldn't live to get there; deed, I don't think I should. Nobody knows what I suffered getting here; nobody can't get freedom without sufferin. I should have been frightened to try if I had known beforehand; but now I know what freedom is, I'd be willin to suffer a great deal more to get it.
I was frosted on the way. I suffered so with cold, I was all frosted up; and I had bad to be doctored some time. Then the Abolitionists sent me down to Portland; they's allers been good friends to me, the Abolitionists has. I staid in Portland some time-worked for the R-s in their factory. They's good to me. Bimeby there came a story I was goin to be taken. They's afeard I'd be taken, going in the street. I had quite a ways to go. And Mr. George R-(he's alive then,) says he, "Don't you never let them take you! Knock down the first man that touches you!" And I said, "I'd be afeard to strike-I'd run." "No," they all said, " you must n't run; they'd be sure to get you then. Why'd you be afraid to strike? "And I said, "If I struck a white man, I'd be killed for it!" And they told me no-I would n't here. They'se afraid to have me stay in the city; so they sent me out into the country, to a place they got me, and I lived there with the P-s two years. They's fine men, doctors both on'em; it was jis like home to me there. I often thought they's as good as Lord William Garrison himself. I think he's good; he's been willin to suffer so much for our sake." 
"You can read, James?"
"A little; they learnt me down in Maine. I went to school two winters. I didn't learn so much at school, but they learnt me at home. I read in a book they called the Young Reader; and I can read a little in the Bible."
"Then you came back to Boston?"
"Yes, and I worked in a boardin house on Howard street. One morning as I was going to market, I looked over the other side o' Quincy Market, and who should I see but the brother of my old master and he was a Jew, too! He didn't get his eye on me; and I walked till I got to the next corner, and then I run, I tell you! I went to some of my Quaker friends out in-, and staid a spell; and then I came here, and staid till fall. While I was workin for Mr. Foster, they got a scare again, that there was somebody com-in out from Boston to catch me. So I run'd away again; I's pretty much used to runnin away. I went off in the night, and left the work right where 'twas, and I didn't stop for my pay nor nothin. I didn't tell Mr. Foster I's goin away; I didn't dare to trust him. I knew the Southerners didn't know the value of money, for they never had to earn it, (they made heaps o' money out of us slaves—they must have planted it some where; some thinks they's got it planted, and some thinks they's sent it to Europe,)—and I knew the Yankees had to earn their money; so I didn't know but they could hire him to give me up.
"You would not be afraid to trust him now?"
"No, I wouldn't-I know better now. Mos all the people here at the North's better'n I used to think; but there's some on 'em I wouldn't trust any more'n I would a rebel. Why, when I was in the cars the other day, two of 'em was talkin; I didn't seem to hear, but I listened. One of'em says, 'I believe now the Confederate money's better'n ourn.' He seemed as if be kind o' had a hopes 'twas so; and thinks I, John's no better'n Pete—I wouldn't trust you anyhow."
I had heard the story, long ago, of his alarm at the time Burns was captured in Boston, and returned to the gall of bitterness and bonds of iniquity, how some kind neighbors hid him in an inner chamber, while they planned a refuge for him with a brother in an inland town; and in the gray of dawn, the kind-hearted doctor took him in his carriage to a remote railway station, whence the steam-winged steed bore him swiftly to a place of safety; and the true-hearted brother who took him in returned the message-"All Fillmore's bloodhounds couldn't get him away, if you want him protected."
(The doctor explained it to me, very carefully, a few days ago, that the New York riots were occasioned by the unjust decisions of the Provost Marshal General on some questioned points in the Conscription Act, and Governor Seymour was going to test their 
<c03>
legality. 'Twas very kind in him to explain; as I thought, at first, the rebels and copperheads got them up. One always likes to know the truth!)
So I did not question James farther on that part of his story, especially as I saw my aunt, who was coming along the walk, and stopped to examine a squash that modestly turned up its cream-colored skin among the great leaves, gazing with wonder at the extreme smallness of the patch denuded of weeds. 
By-and by, I remembered a large currant bush in the shadow of a clump of forest trees, close by a dwarf pear, around whose young scions James was carefully weeding. There, the currants, sheltered by the leaves of a wild grape, had ample time to elaborate their vinous juices before the sun, in his occasional fierce visits, could scorch them into an immature and unsavory redness. 
"See how this pear has grown lately!" he said, lifting up a young scion of the Buerre Diel, four feet of fresh growth. "Things'll grow now, if there is no weeds in the way; only give'em room;" and he tenderly drew away the rosebushes that intruded, and bound them on one side. "Wouldn't I like to see things grow in old Carolina now!"
"How did you like Australia? You staid there some years, I think." 
"Yes, I went out there. I thought nobody wouldn't steal me there. I hadn't the least idea how far'twas, or I wouldn't ha' gone."
"You brought home some gold?"
"Yes-should ha' brought home more if I'd come home at the right time. But I went to speculatin, and I lost right smart. But what I's got is safely investigated."
"You must buy a piece of land, James, and have a home of your own, you love gardening so well. But, perhaps, you don't choose to settle here in the North," I added, seeing that his face didn't brighten up at the prospect.
"I'd rather go back to Charleston; that's my home; that's the beautifullest country that ever I see. May be I can't never go back, but I'll wait and see, if them Catholics and Jews, all them foreigners, don't get all the whole of our country into their hands, both North and South; but I tell you, my dear friends"-he dropped the handful of witchgrass and purslane, and began gesticulating with both hands in a manner that, joined with his free use of expletives, made me suspect he sometimes addressed public audiences-"you don't begin to know how deceitful they be, nor how much power they have; and they've all got friends in Europe watchin to help 'em. They'll never let our people be free, if they can help it. I think ministers ought to preach against'em; they ought to preach agin the sins now in this time, instead of preachin agin the old Egyptians and Babylons, their doins and failins."
"Be of good cheer, James! You can go back to Charleston by-and-by, and find your brothers and sisters, and have your home among them, I dare say."
"I hopes so, Miss"-with his brightest smile-and I took my full pail into the house; the refrain of the song of the returned soldiers over the way still lingering in my ears-
"We're marching along, we're marching along."
"Wherefore have we fasted, and thou seest not?
Behold, ye fast for strife and debate, and to smite with the fist of wickedness: ye shall not fast as ye do this day, to make your voice to be beard on high. Is it such a fast that I have chosen? a day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Is not this the fast that I have chosen-to loose the bands of wickedness, undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy health shall spring forth speedily; thy righteous ness shall go before thee; the glory of the Lord shall be thy rereward. Thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach. The restorer of paths to dwell in."
"Fight for God and Governor Andrew!" was the war-cry of the immortal Fifty-fourth on the walls of Wagner. Never again, God grant it! shall Massachusetts fall from her proud place among the nations! Never again, while Anglo-Saxon blood rules on the Northern continent, shall her streets be polluted by the feet of a slave captor! Now, at last, has President Lincoln's proclamation of protection of the colored troops conceded to them the full measure of manhood to which they so triumphantly vindicated their claim at Port Hudson, Milliken's Bend, and Fort Wagner. MARION MAY. 
MEETING OF FRIENDS OF PROGRESS.
MR. EDITOR,—Will you permit me a few words in your paper, not as a report, but simply a notice of the "Meeting of the Friends of Progress," of North Collins, held according to appointment, the 28th, 29th and 30th of August. The attendance was large, about fifteen hundred the last day, and throughout the entire series an unusual quiet and strict attention was observed. The President, G. W. Taylor, is a man of such sterling worth and every day virtue, that even opponents respect him, and would not disturb a meeting over which he should preside. A goodly number of speakers were present, and some of the different reforms were well represented; but in these times, but little interest is felt in any subject that does not bear directly upon the condition of our country; and even Spiritualism, in its utterances to please Spiritualists, must condescend very much to things of earth. Mrs. Hyzer, of Buffalo, Mr. Holt, of Fredonia, and Mr. Lyman Howe, of-,were the principal representatives of that faith. They are all of the class termed inspirational, and speak with great fluency. The Anti-Slavery speakers were Parker Pillsbury, Susan B. Anthony and Giles B. Stebbins. Mr. J. Burroughs, and a soldier by the name of Wortman, (on furlough,) spoke to good acceptance. Mr. Wortman made a plea, eloquent and thrilling, for the soldier in camp and in hospital, and told of the many wrongs which he endures because of unprincipled officers, whose word is law. He made an appeal especially for liberal reading for the soldier, an appeal which ought certainly to be answered. I was exceedingly gratified to hear him denounce copperheadism in the name of the soldier, everywhere. He also gave his approbation of the proclamation, and of universal freedom. The effect of his speech was excellent. I send you the resolutions, passed without one dissenting voice, presented by Parker Pillsbury. I wish I could give you a report of his speeches, but I am not able to do it. I need not tell you they were strong in defence of truth, eloquent and beautiful in illustration, scorching and withering in rebuke of wrong-doing, in individual and nation, and more than fearful in prophesy of the future. I cannot help feeling that we shall all regret when this dear friend and faithful counsellor shall have passed away, that so very few of his excellent words have been gathered up, to be handed down to our children.
Miss Anthony spoke for the "Woman's Loyal League," and quite a goodly number of names were obtained for the petition. Mr. Stebbins's speeches were more hopeful than Mr. Pillsbury's, and seemed to be well received. I should think Mr. Stebbins rather a favorite in that region, on account of his acceptance of the spiritual philosophy. It is very easy, however, to see that Mr. Stebbins was an abolitionist before he was a spiritualist, and does not yet believe in giving up his work in that direction. Altogether the meeting was excellent, and cannot fail of permanent good. It were well for our country that such meetings multiply. 
Yours, for universal freedom,
LUCY N. COLMAN.
Rochester, Sept 5th, 1863.
RESOLUTIONS.
1. Resolved, That war is ever an evil, and becomes a crime, unless waged for the removal of evils greater than itself.
2. Resolved, That the present terrible conflict between our Northern and Southern States is but the natural retribution for the long-continued crimes and cruelties of slavery, in the guilt of which, the North and South have been both implicated-a terrible ful-
<c04>
of the prophetic words of Jefferson, "I tremble for my country when I remember that God is just, and that his justice cannot sleep forever." Now, as the God of the oppressed is ever true, can there be any deliverance from the desolating scourge now wasting us, nor any permanent peace or lasting nationality, but through a decree of immediate emancipation to every slave, in every State; not as a "military necessity" only, but in the name of justice and humanity, "and according to the law of the living God." 
3. Resolved, That to close up the conflict by any compromise or reconstruction which would leave slavery, even in one loyal State, would constitute the war the most wasteful and wicked sacrifice that ever stained with murderous blood the annals of mankind; besides being a renewed defiance of the laws of nature and humanity, which would inevitably, at last, recoil upon us in a righteous retribution, entombing us with Egypt and Babylon in a perdition of infamy and shame.

PHRENOLOGY.
The science of Phrenology has served to throw great light on the philosophy of mind. It has discovered hidden springs of action which before were a puzzle to the world; it has opened wide the gates of self-culture, and taught man wherein lise his true salvation. And yet at the time of its discovery, instead of being welcomed as a glorious ray of light from the Great Source of all truth, how was it received? How are all new truths received? What is the fate of all discoverers and reformers? Know the history of one, and you know the history of all; for Humanity is always the same; she always acts from the conservative principle. Her unbounded confidence in the wisdom of her forefathers causes her to reject as an impostor the one who dares to teach a new idea. All her best lovers, all who have striven the most earnestly for her reform and elevation, she has repaid for their good faith with denunciation, abuse and oppression. Dr. Gall, the discoverer of Phrenology, and its faithful advocate, was expelled from Germany, his native land, because the doctrine which he taught was said to be in opposition to religion. This is false; no truth is in opposition to religion, though it may and oftentimes does sadly conflict with creeds. When a truth of Nature contradicts the theology of a church, it must battle long before it can tear down these dark walls of superstition. But Truth is invincible, and all the babbling solemnity of mysticism cannot long prevent its eternal rays from penetrating the dark fastnesses of ignorance and bigotry. Our wishes and desires are true standards of action, so long as they move in harmony; but when one outweighs the other, there are discord and chaos. And mankind, seeing the discord arising from their unbalanced faculties, knew not to what cause to attribute this want of harmony, and so concluded that they must have been the work of two antagonistic spirits-the Good and the Evil; and that the Universe was governed by two great Rulers-God and the Devil. Phrenology has removed this great stumbling-block from the path of Humanity. It has taught man that he, as the work of the All-Infinite, must necessarily be a good work; that he possesses not a single faculty or sentiment which he should not possess, and that all the discord which, is in the world arises from the want of concert and balance in the faculties, and not from any set of evil propensities. People are forever running into extremes; they look at things in detail, and cannot make I a successful combination; they study things piece by piece, and are unable to combine all into a harmonious whole. We have an example of this in the Shakers, who, seeing some of the evils arising from society, conclude at once, without further investigation, that society must all be wrong, and consequently they trample upon and contract all social intercourse whatsoever. They think they have certain faculties which it is their duty to starve or annihilate; they think that to glorify God they must crush down and destroy the powers with which he has endowed them! And there is another sect of the present day, descendants of the rigid Puritan school, who illustrate this fact of the want of a philosophic generalization. They draw everything to that one focus of gloomy stoicism. They line the path of right with the crape and sable of their morbid and melancholy thoughts, and, with relentless decision, resolve to walk therein. They carry their virtue beyond all lawful limits; they have no curves in the architecture of their morals; all is straight, solid, angular. They clothe themselves in gloom, and with long visages and downcast hearts refuse to rejoice; they look at smiling nature, but will not smile; they hear the running stream and the unchained fountain dance gleefully onward, and in joyful note proclaim their never-ceaseless hymn of love and praise to the Great Perfection; and they praise too, but it is only by groans and regrets. They love the beautiful, but think this love unholy, and strive to crush it; and, to do this, they denounce all embellishments, and refuse to adopt any of the charms of social life. "We must be strong, we must be firm and stout-hearted; and to be this, we must he self-sacrificing; we must deny ourselves; we must crucify our natures." This they think, and this they try to do. They think that some of their faculties are wrong, and strive to eradicate them; but they strive in vain. Nature cannot be annihilated; no men-made laws, no prescribed rules can ever destroy or kill that which God has planted. The world will come at length to see things as they are: it will come at length, as indeed it partly has already, to repudiate that "total depravity" of Nature, and adopt that which declares the absolute supremacy of Nature in all things: it will come at length to believe, that God made no mistake when he created man, but that all things are, and always were, and always will be, just as the All-Perfect would have them, and consequently must be good. But they are in that gradation state which from good aspires to be better, and will ever be aspiring till the darkening shades of ignorance shall recede, and entirely disappear from the earth.
When men come to appreciate the fact that God is the Author of Nature, and that from a holy source nothing unholy springs; when they come to comprehend that they have themselves to study and analyze, and not to crucify; when they come to know that to glorify God they should refine, elevate and strengthen the talents he has put in their keeping, and not crush them down; when they come to comprehend this-then we shall see the scales of humanity begin evenly to balance; then we shall see man's reason keeping pace with his passions, and his love for truth stronger than his prejudice. Then the history of reformers will not be what it is now; then men like Socrates and Jesus, like Robert Emmet and John Brown, will not be too good to live upon the earth.
EMMA. 

MRS. HATCH AND THEODORE PARKER.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-Happening, fortunately, to be personally acquainted with the writer of the communication which was published in your valuable and freedom-loving paper lately, and which so intensely excited the ire of the particular friends of Mrs. Cora L. V. Hatch, I trust you will kindly permit one, who rarely troubles you with the effusions of his pen, to offer for the consideration of those interested in the elucidation of truth, a few ideas touching particularly the subject of Spiritualism.
The writer has been more or less conversant, for the past thirteen years, with the mysterious phenomena and their singular developments, as exhibited in manifold ways and through various processes. During the above time, I have occasionally been a medium for the "sounds," and other kindred manifestations; and, if I am not egregiously mistaken, I called the Spiritualists of New England together to inaugurate steps for the further advancement of the cause, before any other member of the Spiritual Fraternity. At that Convention-of which your correspondent was unanimously selected as Secretary-addresses were offered for the acceptance of those assembled, 
<c05>
by Andrew J. Davis and Adin Ballou. I was after-wards repeatedly chosen, at subsequent Contentions held at Masonic Temple, Worcester, and other places at regular and stated intervals, to record the proceedings, and prepare them for publication in papers devoted to the spread of the new philosophy; therefore, from the golden opportunities which constantly presented themselves for my examination, it cannot surprise your readers when I say, that my experience, in the course of a long series of years, has forced me to the inevitable conclusion, that at least nine-tenths of the Spiritual communications, so called, can be satisfactorily and rationally accounted for by heretofore discovered laws; that, in point of fact, those wordy, frothy speeches and solemn addresses, professing to emanate from our lamented THEODORE PARKER through the vocal organs of Mrs. Hatch, bear not the slightest resemblance to the noble utterances of him whose loss to the thinking world is incalculable-producing a void in the religious community to be sincerely deplored while the present generation lives.
But the question at issue (as "Anonymous" intimates) is-Did Theodore Parker ever speak through Mrs. Hatch?-and, if so, what evidence can she present? I claim, not any! But the burden of the proof lies with Mrs. H. and her sympathizing friends. The affirmative must first substantiate its position, before the negative can be honestly called upon for refutation. Still, rather than allow our criticising opponents to complain in the matter, I assert-First, that any three unprejudiced minds may compare the printed discourse issued to the world under the auspices of the Spiritualistic Fraternity with Parker's published works, and if they say that its authority is genuine, I will acknowledge that there is a chance for argument. Second, that notwithstanding the assertions of a friend of Mrs. Hatch, (who sturdily maintained in my presence lately, that he actually saw Theodore Parker standing behind the medium during the delivery of the discourse,) the preponderance of testimony is against him; as there were four or five hundred persons present, who had equally as good eyesight, and yet saw nothing unusual or remarkable-certainly, no one unclothed with the earth form. Nearly every speaking medium in the country claims to have intercourse with eminent departed souls; and there are nearly as many Swedenborgs, Franklins, and Parkers, as there are mediums.
TRUTH.

A SCENE AT SARATOGA.
In one respect, Saratoga society this season is to be commended highly. It is thoroughly loyal. No traitors are tolerated, and no copperhead, if there, dares avow his opinions. Not only good, loyal songs are sung in the drawing-rooms, but anti-slavery songs are sung there, and with apparent approval from all quarters. This, it must be confessed, is a wonderful advance over the old times when the overseer's lash was virtually represented at all the hotels in Saratoga., A little of the old leaven worked out while we were there, but it was soon squelched. It happened thus: A couple of negro banjo and violin players appeared before the hotel, and began singing their peculiar songs, accompanied with their instruments. Two gentlemen stood near" each other listening to the song?, when one of them, who subsequently announced himself as a North Carolinian, remarked that the banjo player had a fine head, one of the finest he ever saw. The gentleman who stood near him, and who was from Cincinnati, replied that he had, and remarked that the other negro bad a remarkably humorous face. Shortly after, the negro struck up a song, the burden of which was that his master in old Carolina sent him to find the cows, but that he had lost his way, and had n't yet found it. The Carolinian said "be had better be back in North Carolina." "In what capacity?" asked the Cincinnatian. "With his master, of course," responded the Carolinian. "He probably does n't think so," replied the Cincinnatian. "I am from North Carolina myself, sir, and I know that he had better be back there. A plantation is the best place for niggers. They ought to be owned by somebody, and taken care of." "There's a difference of opinion between us on that subject. I have lived South myself, and I don't think slavery is the best condition for blacks or whites." "I am a Southerner, sir! My father has lost over a million of dollars in this war. I am a loyal man, but no abolitionist. It's such d-d abolitionists as you that have plunged this country in war. I am a Southerner, sir, and what I say I hold myself responsible for." "Well, I supposed so. Every decent man at the North considers himself responsible for what he says, and does n't think it necessary to bluster about it either. I certainly never intended saying anything that is untrue, or that I am not responsible for." "I tell you, sir, that I am a Southerner, and those boys would sooner take me for a master than you." "Perhaps they would. There's no accounting for tastes. Suppose you go down and ask them." 
"You are an impertinent puppy and abolitionist! I am a Southerner, and hold myself responsible." "You are laboring under a mistake, sir. Such bluster and bravado once passed current here, when dispensed by your bogus chivalry; but times have changed, and such stuff is held in less respect in this locality just now than Jeff. Davis's shinplasters are in Richmond. You only waste your breath by such talk." "I tell you, sir, I am a Southerner and a white man, and I say slaves are better off South than free negroes are North." "I hadn't any doubt about your being a white man until you raised the question, but as you have taken the trouble to announce it, I take the liberty of doubting it. I don't believe you are a white man." And as he said this, the Cincinnatian advanced a couple of paces, and looked the Carolinian straight in the eye. The latter dropped his eyes in a moment, his haughty, imperious manner gave way, and muttering that be didn't "wish to continue such blackguard talk," he slunk away. As he left, the Cincinnatian responded, "You began the conversation, and when you have got enough of it, you can end it." A large crowd had by this time gathered about them, composed of all sorts of people, and a general smile played upon the lips of all. As the Carolinian slunk off, a small boy in the crowd cried out, "P-1-a-y-e-d o-u-t," and one or two others exclaimed, or inquired, "How are you, copperhead?" and thus ended this "great constitutional discussion " at Saratoga.-Springfield Republican.

ARTEMAS WARD ON THE DRAFT.
Artemas Ward has issued the following circular:
Circular No. 78.
As the undersigned has been led to fear that the law regulating the draft was not wholly understood, notwithstanding the numerous explanatory circulars that have been issued from the National Capital, of late, he hereby issues a circular of his own; and if he shall succeed in making this favorite measure more clear to a discerning public, he will feel that he has not lived in vain:
I. A young man who is drafted and inadvertently goes to Canada, where he becomes embroiled with a robust English party, who knocks him around so as to disable him for life, the same occurring in a licensed bar-room on British soil, such young man cannot receive a pension on account of said injuries from the United States Government, nor can his heirs or creditors.
II. No drafted man in going to the appointed rendezvous will be permitted to go round by way of Canada on account of the road being better that way, or because his "uncle William" lives there.
III. Any gentleman living in Ireland, who was never in this country, is not liable to the draft, nor are our forefathers. This latter statement is made for the benefit of those enrolling officers who have acted on the supposition that the able-bodied male population of a place included dead gentlemen in the cemeteries.
IV. The term of enlistment is for three years, but any man who may have been drafted in two places has a right to go for six years, whether the war lasts that length of time or not-a right this Department hopes he will insist on now.
V. The only sons of a poor widow, whose husband is in California, are not exempt, but the man who owns stock in the Vermont Central railroad is. So also are incessant lunatics, habitual lecturers, persons who were born with wooden legs or false teeth, blind men, (unless they will acknowledge that they "can see it,") and people who deliberately voted for John Tyler.
<c06>
IRELAND IN AMERICA.
BY BARNEY M'BLADGER.
Ye genii of the nation,
Who look wid veneration,
And Ireland's dissolation unsaysingly deplore-
Ye sons of Gineral Jackson,
who trample on the Saxon,
Attind to the thransactions under Governor Seymour.
When Linkin (dirthy scunmbug!)
The tyrant and the humbug,
Wid cannon and wid tunder upon our city bore,
Our fortichude and valliance
Instructed his battalions
To rispict the gallant Irish wid Governor Seymour. 
Shure, 'twas thin that Colonel Brien
Dthrawed his throops up in a line,
And whin he was beyant them a half a mile or more,
We hammered the curmudgin
Wid brickbat and wid bludgin,
And bate him into smudgins for Governor Seymour.
And here was our Fernandy,
With his boys so blithe and handy,
And likewise Misther Andrews, from Ould <illegible> shore;
Whin him they did arrest,
He was sleeping on the breast
Of a wench, like all the sor’of the "friends" of <illegible>.
Thin the polis-dirthy devils!
Marched down wid two swivels:
We had killed forthy nagurs, and washed to kill more;
We was throwin' the brickbat,
Mashin' the little nagurs flat,
But 'twas only for the love of Governor Seymour.
And as the Jordge harangued,
We bothered and we banged,
And the 'rolling office doors and windows down we <illegible>
Shure, 'twould benefit yer sowls
To see us desthroy the rowls
Wid which they thried to draft us from Governor Seymour.
Thin the fut, the dragoons,
In squadrons and platoons,
Wid their bands a playing chunes, down upon us bore;
And they bate the ratatoo, 
And the bagnets we did view,
Which indid the shaloo for Governor Seymour.
Camp 15th Illinois Cavalry,
Corinth, Miss., July 20, 1863.
FREEDOM IN MISSOURI. Says Edward Everett: 
"When I look back to the controversy which grew out of the attempted restriction on the admission of Missouri into the Union in 1820, and on the fully which dictated the repeal of the Missouri Compromise in 1854, and then consider that the people of Missouri, assembled in Convention in 1863, have decreed that after 1870, all slaves then in Missouri shall be free I am awe-struck with the visible tokens of an over sealing and interposing Providence."
The slanders of the copperhead papers against the patriotism of the negro are receiving frequents <illegible> futations. A negro in Rhode Island was enrolled in two towns, and drafted in both. Instead of taking advantage of this informality, he goes for one town, and sends a substitute for the other! What white man could do more? Out of fifty-three men drafted is Enfield, Conn. fifty-two paid their three hundred dollars. The remaining gentleman was a negro, who expressed his determination to go and represent the town. 
A GOOD DEFINITION. Copperheadism is thus defined by a cotemporary: "The Union as it was-a under Buchanan; the Constitution as it is-under Jef-Davis."
The funeral of the late George W. Collamore, Mayor of Lawrence, Kansas, took place at Boston, the <illegible> His remains were interred in the Mount <illegible> Cemetery. 
The news of the victories of Vicksburg, Port Hadson and Gettysburg was received in Oregon with great satisfaction, and in Portland and other cities, <illegible> ions and torchlight processions were the order of the day.
The valuation of the city of Providence is as follows:-Real Estate, $37,701,000; personal property, $28,714,800; total, $66,415,800-an increase of $382,800 since last year. The rate of tax is $6.80 each $1,000.
CITY LETTERS AND CORRESPONDENTS. All city drop letters now require a prepayment of two cent each, a fact which the public are very slow to learn.
One of the colored regiments at Newbern is commanded by a brother of Henry Ward Beecher.

EDWARD M. DAVIS,
STOCK & EXCHANGE BROKER,
No. 39 SOUTH THIRD STREET,
(SECOND FLOOR,) PHILADELPHIA, PA. 
I HAVE this day opened an office for the transaction of a general EXCHANGE and BANKING BUSINESS, and the sale of Bonds and other Securities on Particular attention will be given to Government Secretaries, as the most reliable investment. 
Bonds and Stocks in general will be bought and sold.
Dividends, Interests and Coupons will be collected and remitted.
Railroad, City, County and Township Bonds negotiated.
Quartermaster's Vouchers and Yearly Certificate bought and sold.
Interest allowed on Deposits, and Loans negotiated.
Special Collections made.,
Coin and Currency bought.
Foreign Exchange sold.
As I have a prompt and reliable correspondent in New York, connected with the Broker's Board, I can exceeds orders there with dispatch.
Any business entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully. E. M. DAVIS,
SECOND FLOOR, 39 SOUTH THIRD ST.,
Philadelphia, Press
Philadelphia, April 1st, 1863-6m
5-20's The principal on these Bonds can be <illegible> April 30th, 1882, but is payable at the option of the Government any time after April 30th, 1882. They draw interest in Gold, semi-annually, at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum, payable May 1st and November is of each year, at the Mint in Philadelphia. The principal is also a payable in Gold. They can now, and until July 1st, be had for legal tender notes at par, thus making green-backs draw interest in gold, and securing the principal in gold also. Interest begins the day the many is paid. The Bonds can be had "Registered," or with "Coupons." The first are drawn to the order of the buyer. The interest can only be collected by the person whose name is in the bond, or by attorney. For safety, his its name and residence are registered in Washington and <illegible> the Mint. There is a power of "transfer" on the back of each bond, to enable the original buyer to convey it. The "Registered," for permanent investments, are preferred. The "coupon" Bonds are drawn to bearer, and have attached to each of them a small "Coupon" or check upon <illegible> Treasury of the United States, payable to bearer for such amount of interest due from the day of issue up to the <illegible> of November, 1881. The last payment of interest. May 1st, 1882, is paid with the principal when the bead is surrendered. By an act of congress, they are not <illegible> and no tax can be collected from the holder of them except under the law creating an income tax. Any persons crime under the law create ding an income tax. Any person <illegible> $10,000 or under will not have any tax to pay on the principal or interest, provided the parties have other income
I am authorized, and shall be glad to supply they <illegible> it par to the purchaser, until July 1st , 1863, my <illegible> coming from another source.
Look carefully over your "Green-backs". Parties such times pass at par those that are equal to gold. They can easily be distinguished from the others, as they has printed on the face "Payable on Demand." They were issued before the general suspension of specie payments, and as Government takes them for duties on foreign impact they will bring as much as gold in the market. They are several millions still unredeemed They came is reissued.
My business is exclusively on Commission. All order entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully Any inquiries answered.
E.M.DAVIS,
EXCHANGE BROKER,
No. 39 South Third St., Philadelphia

IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING"
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from
223 Washington Street, to
No.31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure than are more none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one also, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does of grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its original color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are <illegible> in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to <illegible> or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
NO. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
