THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are too be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLYOD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 41. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1502.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
SLAVE TRADE ARGUMENTS.
A Mississippi paper (the Cross City) thus gives its reasons for favoring the re-opening of the foreign slave trade:
'A great deal can be said pro and con. We shall confine ourself to arguments in favor of the foreign slave trade. And the first is, that it will give political power to the South. It were a fatal blindness to ignore the truth, that the two great sections of this country are distinct, and a fatal error to suppose that there can be an equality of rights without an equality of political power to sustain them. If the North has an excess, the North will govern, and vice versa. It is utterly impossible that all the paper instruments upon earth can give political equilibrium of social and political conditions. Under these circumstances, the only road to security is the road to political power. The slave trade will give us political power. Every fifty thousand slaves will give us the right to thirty thousand votes in the National Legislature, and thus, therefore, will contribute directly to the political power of the South. But more than this. The labor basis at the South is too small to sustain even our present superstructure or direction. Slave labor is too efficient and too cheap to permit of hireling labor in competition with it. It is too valuable in agriculture to be used at cotton prices in manufactures and the mechanic arts.
'The difference at the South will be harmonized by the foreign slave trade. Every white man of capacity will own his slave. Every man of enterprise will own his labor. All of the ruling race will come to the same social stand-point; all will cast their votes from the same position; as well at home as abroad, they will have a common interest and a common cause; the institution of American slavery will become re-integrated and erect, and so compact and firm, will stand not only to sustain itself, but to sustain the South, sublime and composed, among all the storms that rage among other nations of the earth.
'As an act of justice to the poor as to the rich, to non-slaveholders as to slaveholders, it is important that this state of things should come about. The basis of slave labor, as I have said, is too narrow for all to stand. To men of wealth, it does not matter much; it is equally well with them, whether they are on or off the platform. If off, they can purchase again, and it does not matter whether the ticket of admission be at one hundred or one thousand dollars. It will be the index of its value, and it is of little concern to him whether his wealth have this or any other representative. But to men compelled to work their way, it makes all the difference between their being slave-owners or non-slave-owners. They are out of the ranks of masters not from choice. They may affect indifference to a privilege from which they are excluded, but they have no repugnance to that condition; perhaps the most common wish is, that they may approach it; and it is but fair and just to that large class of our citizens, that slaves shall be allowed to come in numbers sufficient for them all, and that they shall have not only the opportunity of joining the class of slave proprietors, but shall have every motive of interest, as of feeling, to do so, and affirm the nature and expand the fortunes of that particular form of society with whose fortunes they have chanced to be associated.'

FREEDOM A CURSE, SLAVERY A BLESSING.
NEW YORK, Sept. 23, 1859.
To the Editor of the N.Y. Daily News:
Believing as I do that your paper is conducted upon the basis of the strictest impartiality, and that it is ever open to give publicity to any thing for the benefit of society and the public good, and that a conservative doctrine is the sterling principle of your editorship, induces me to ask you to allow me a small space in it to say a few words in relation to several articles that I have, with surprise and regret, read, since I arrived in this city on business, in the Tribune and other abolition papers. These are so replete with errors and falsehoods, as regards Southern slavery, that I cannot, in justice to my own conscience, and in justice to the contented and well-fed Southern slaves, allow them to pass by me unnoticed. Any person possessing common sense will easily discover that most, if not all, of these incendiary articles emanate from the pens of English aliens, who have the impudence to come here, and assume the omnipotent God-head over the affairs of this country, and often-times realize large fortunes by abusing its institutions, which they know but little about, as their minds and feelings are inaccessible to honest convictions, in consequence of having built in them an impenetrable barrier of prejudice and envy; and I would beg most respectfully to say to such, that f they want to develop their counterfeit philanthropy, and to ameliorate the social condition of the laboring classes, to take a trip back to England, and ameliorate the condition of the poor, industrious, down-trodden and half-starved-to-death miners, stockingers, and weavers and apprentices, who scarcely ever know what a good meal is, instead of interfering with the happy and contented Virginia slaves, who bask in the sunshine of everything that is necessary for their comfort and happiness, and who have the greatest abhorrence against the very name of Abolitionists imaginable, and who make a great deal more for themselves every week than the majority of English laborers make to supply a large family, and pay rent and taxes.
There are no slave beggars in Virginia, but there are thousands in England; there are no slave paupers in Virginia, but there are thousands of them in England; there are no slaves in Virginia that die from exposure and want, but there are thousands that do in England; there are no slaves in Virginia that commit suicide from poverty and want, but there are thousands that do in England. I have seen white slavery in England in all its tyrannical forms, and I have seen colored slavery in Virginia with all its happy effects, and as these English writers for the abolition papers write prejudicial and theoretical impressions, I will write from practical experience. The jubilant feeling existing in England, at this time, in view of the prospect of an abolition President being elected at the next Presidential election, demonstrates the feeling English people have toward America. They have nominated that anti-American traitor, Wm. H. Seward, for President, and I should not be surprised to hear that they nominate one Mr. Douglass, not S.A. but Frederick, for Vice-President.
Very respectfully,
J. ATKINS.
'My public speeches show my opinion to have been decidedly in favor of a proper, EFFICIENT, and well-guarded law for the recovery of fugitive slaves. In my judgment, the present law is constitutional; and all good citizens are bound to respect and obey it, just as freely and readily as if they had voted for it themselves. I think agitation on the subject ought to cease.'-DANIEL WESTER.
<c02>
A NUISANCE.
There was once a female nuisance called Abbey Folsom, who went to all the conventions she could get, for the purpose of blowing up, and she was hence called 'the flea of conventions.' A person 'commonly known by the name of WENDELL PHILLIPS is doing an office of the same sort, for which he deserves the title of 'nuisance,' as his business consists in getting up in conventions, and elsewhere, and spitting his malicious venom on the reputation, of the good and great, with the hope of covering them over, and hiding them from the world under it.
Thus Mr. Phillips began his dirty business in a good work, as he was an amateur agent of the abolition society, having not to get his bread and butter thereby; but for many years he has spent his time at public meetings winch are silly enough to employ him as speaker, in uttering all manner of stupid and wishy-washy malevolence, merely taking up the time of the audience, and conferring a Thersites reputation on himself.
Of late, this Phillippic nuisance penned a choice epistle to a paper, which emits his dirt, written to no less a person than the President of Harvard College, and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, censuring them in a stuffy and painfully conceited manner for drinking wine at a tavern-dinner—the great Phillips having self-constituted himself adviser and speechifier to mankind in general, and the above eminently distinguished persons in particular among others. This sort of thing is what this Wendell is usually engaged about.
His last performance was at a course of lectures got up in Boston, under the auspices of Theodore Parker's Society, who consider themselves ' some pumpkins,' because they differ in their opinions from every body about them; and have long been preached to by a bitterly disputatious and omniverously self-glorious quasi minister, now abroad for his health, and the good of his people, as we might hope.
Of course, this special society must have its own course of lectures, and the person they employ to open it is the spiteful creature whose business is to convert the memory of the most distinguished men of the State, dead and living, into compost, for his own and others' satisfaction. Wendell knows so much more than all others, and is, in his own conceit, so much more than all others, that he despatches such creatures as the lamented Choate or Daniel Webster in a mere spit; they are simply atoms of filth, exhausted ' tobacco chaws' in the mouth of this extravagating producer of gall and verdigris.
Of course, the same lecture contained pointed attacks on the Christian Church, Edward Everett, Nehemiah Adams, Cambridge College, and other things which our people generally delight to honor, or it would not have been given by Wendell Phillips.
The Boston Journal, a part of whose brief report we copy, ends with a strong compliment to the 'eloquent Phillips.' We think if he had been gently led out of the room, it would have been a fitting 'mode of disposing of the speaker; and that if thereafter he had been compelled to absorb a pint of strychnine whisky, it would have been a suitable penalty to add in. We did not mean to allude thus much to the miseries of an audience, compelled to swallow such dishwater and dirt as this ejected by the nuisance alluded to, and must ask pardon of our readers for holding up such a noisome product thus at length.—New Bedford Mercury.
'Quem Deus vult perdere, prius demental.' We were reminded of this pithy sentence upon recording, the other day, the vulgar and brutal assaults upon Daniel Webster and Rufus Choate by Wendell Phillips. We rejoice to believe that there is little sympathy in this community with any thing like the revengeful violence which will not spare the memory of the dead, but in imitation of the vampyre and the jackal, riots over departed greatness. It is impossible to exaggerate the loathing with which we regard the feeling which will allow a man to speak in the language of hatred of universally acknowledged merit; and we shall despair of our community if such a display of the worst feelings of which human nature is capable, does not at least check the popular admiration of a violent rhetorician. Yet we cannot but apprehend that there is a not inconsiderable portion of our people who, in their fondness for the exhibition of intellectual ability, are ready to pardon too large a mixture of pure bid temper. There is doubtless, a portion of the public, as probably o every other community, who sympathize with any kind of assault upon those who are above their own level, whether intellectually or morally, and who throw their weight, whatever it is, on the side of narrow-minded hatred. But it is time that the great and upright mass of the community should consider the tendency and effect of this deplorable habit of mind. It has operated largely, and will more and more tend to deter men who would otherwise have had the disposition, as well as the ability, to serve the public, from suffering themselves to be brought forward as marks for every insult that party hostility, personal ill-temper and bitter malignity can devise. Men of tolerably peaceable disposition will not allow their tranquillity to be so disturbed; their honest efforts to be misrepresented, and their reputations to be sacrificed to the ambition of those who are incapable of disinterested labor for others. They will not give up the tranquil pursuits of their personal objects in life, only to be annoyed and disgusted with the filth scattered around by these political Houyhnhnyms; and it the country wishes to be well governed, it must frown emphatically upon the scurrilous libels produced by men whom neither birth nor education has saved from being blackguards, and who use the best gifts of God—talents and opportunities—only for the most malignant purposes.—Boston Courier.
Wendell Phillip's last lecture: The juice of a scrap book mingled with Abolition phlegm. Sour, cold and nasty.—Boston Post.
Mr. Phillips manifested a bitterness of ten per and a lack of charity, which would make the lyceum, if it produced addressee of no other character, a very unprofitable educator of the public mind.—Boston Transcript.
Last winter, the votaries of Theodore Parker became indignant because that gentleman was not invited by some of the lecture committees to read one of his peculiar dissertations before their ticket holders; they therefore planned a course of their own, in which Mr. Parker was to give four discourses upon different subjects. The success of this was such, that another course has been commence this autumn. Wendell Phillips led off with a tirade against men like Daniel Webster and Edward Everett, and after an hour's exertion, during which he imparted no information to his audience, but only incited them to a deeper hatred against men whose characters are as far above his own as the heavens are above the earth, Mr. Phillips sat down, absolutely applauded by a Boston audience for uttering words, which, if any foreign lecturer should pronounce , would be stoned out of the city.—[Boston correspondent Newburyport Herald.
<c03>
From the Concord (N. H.) Statesman.
REFORMERS TURNED MADMEN.
It is a singular but indisputable fact that some of those men whose example has become most pernicious within the last fifteen years, were those who at the start were persons of undoubted excellence, and oftentimes of apparent piety. Examples of this description are not wanting in New Hampshire; of men who sat out upon a benevolent purpose, but afterwards, becoming aware of the slow growth of new views, and the reluctance of mankind to depart from old habits of thought and well-worn paths, apparently became incensed with their fellow-men, and ended with blasphemy a work which may have been commenced with prayer. The land is strewn with this description of wrecks. They sat out as reformers, and ended as sceptics, or revilers of good things. Their mission was a humane one, but the sequel too often proved that it had been unwisely pursued, or been entrusted to indiscreet instrumentalities.
The most recent instance of these shipwrecks is found in the person of Gerrit Smith, of Peterboro', N. Y. A writer in one of the religious newspapers says of him:
'Mr. Smith has occupied a prominent position for forty years, and the sad instructions of his history are those which ought to affect the public heart. Among all the wild theorists of our day, none has made a more pitiful descent from truth to error. Liberally educated; the heir of an immense fortune; attractive in manner, and popular in elocution; prominent as a philanthropist, and unsuspected as a Christian; he awakened no ordinary hopes, which, alas, have been succeeded by no ordinary disappointment. Once a devoted and useful member of the church of his village, he has turned matricide toward that church, until her silent walls and scattered worshippers proclaim the fury of the fight which he waged against her, because she would not follow his changing path of error. Once baptized by sprinkling, he renounced it, and was immersed. Once a strict observer of the Christian Sabbath, he long since repudiated it, and has chosen the Jewish Sabbath. Once a pioneer of the Colonization cause, eloquent, liberal, renowned—that cause has now no more relentless foe. And whatever may once have been his confession of the faith of the gospel, there is now scarcely a characteristic relic of that faith against which he has not uttered his anathema.'

SELECTIONS.
From the N. Y. Central Independent.
THE PHOBLEM OF THE AGE.
The question of slavery is the great problem of the present age. It will not be ignored; it cannot be hushed into silence; it must be discussed and decided, before we can find a voice that will hush the winds of strife; and command the waves of agitation to be still. Our national watchword has been ' inalienable human rights,' and yet we have sustained human chattelhood, and thus disarmed ourselves for the universal struggle against despotism—put a weapon into the hands of tyrants, and furnished the world with its most plausible argument against republican institutions. Such incongruities cannot be adjusted by ignoring the issue at conventions, nor by covering it up with rickety platforms, erected by pro-slavery hands. 
The question must be met; it will not be postponed. Human nature is rising up in its power and dignity, and demanding an analysis of this great subject. It is thundering vehemently at the door of every human heart, and must be heard. Freedom is not a sectional matter: it is national: it is wide as the world—vast as the universe. When Garrison and his negro boy commenced printing slips of paper: containing pungent arguments against slavery, and dropping them into the streets of Boston from his garret window, he was mobbed, and imprisoned, and, with few exceptions, the whole community, 'North and South, said' Amen!—the agitation must stop!' But it has not ceased. The halls and churches that were to bo sealed against the admittance of anti-slavery orators now ring with their eloquence;—the mails that were forbidden to carry incendiary documents, on the subject of slavery, are gorged with anti-slavery tracts, and have grown obese with 'The Impending Crisis.' The hand of ' Providence is in the work; its discussion is ordained of God, and politicians might as well attempt to extinguish the lightning by bulletins from Buchanan, as to attempt to arrest the agitation on this subject by withholding executive favors, or by the lavish distribution of it.
The people have more enlarged views of freedom than they had before: errors have been corrected, prejudices are disappearing like the fog at the approach of the sun, and the masses begin to realize the responsibilities and the dangers as well as the advantages of this stormy time of discussion and advancement. We are not waging war against an autocrat enthroned on the other side of the sea; not fighting against taxation without representation; not striking a blow for religious liberty. We are contending for the rights of man—for the inalienable rights recognized by some in our political ethics, but denied by the many in our political practice. As the noble Barons at Runnymeade demanded the Magna Charta, so we demand freedom for all persons within the borders of the free States, irrespective of creed or complexion. We say slavery shall not bi extended into territory now free. 'Keep quiet!' exclaims Buchanan and his Cabinet, while they hasten with gangs of slaves to take possession of the free soil, and send troops of ruffians and jail-birds and cut-throats to drive the friends of freedom from their pre-empted rights. 
We say that freedom is a principle striking down deeper than charters from King John or Declarations of Independence endorsed by the patriarchs o liberty here. Every man has a title deed to himself, bearing the signature and seal of God. It is written all over his nature; upon his face; upon his heart; upon his soul. Freedom looks out of his eyes, speaks in his utterance, moves in his footsteps, shines in his smiles, and suffers in his sorrow. No skin is so black as to blot out the autograph of the Almighty written there in characters that are indelible. No nature is so low and degraded as to obliterate the humanity and the divinity of man; and yet, modern democracy comes with a Dred Scott decision to disfranchise a nation; to extinguish the rights of a race; to divorce what God has joined.
Syracuse conventions, regular nominations, harmonious combinations, fearful threats of a dismembered Union, sulphury predictions of bloody revolt and revolution, cannot put a stop to slavery agitation. The principles of freedom must prevail here and elsewhere; and the great question cannot be quashed by the little great men whose names are nailed to a ticket, nor by the wire-workers who put them there. You may spit upon freedom, call it by unpopular names, refuse to give it social position burn it in effigy, baptize it in blood and fire, and bury it under the thrones of tyrants, it will come forth sooner or later crowned with success.
<c04>
WHITE SLAVERY.
It does not seem to be very difficult, says the Springfield Republican, to sell white men and women as slaves at the South, as a recent case at Abbeville, Alabama, illustrates. The story is told in the Banner, a democratic paper of that town, and cannot therefore be set down as an abolition lie. It appeared by the evidence on trial, that one James C. Wilson was taken sick at the house of a poor white woman named Hicks, at Columbus, Ga., that Mrs. Hicks and her daughter Patience ministered to the sick man for several weeks, and that during his convalescence, he courted the daughter, with such success that marriage became necessary to save her from dishonor. Instead of doing the honorable thing, Wilson persuaded the girl to elope with him, and took her to Abbeville, Alabama, where he sold her as a slave to Rev. John Guilford. We are not told what denomination of Christians the Rev. Guilford honors by his gospel ministry, but it is evident that he is a sound believer in the doctrine that slaves should not be confined to the African race—as why, indeed, should they? Wilson was not contented with selling the girl that should have been his wife, but went back to Columbus, and decoyed away her brother, a lad of 15, and actually sold him to the same Rev. Guilford. After several months of anxiety and grief, the mother traced her children to their new home on the plantation of the Abbeville pastor. The daughter had become the mother of a fine white babe, daughter of the wretch who bad sold her, and both herself and brother were much browned by work in the field. Mrs. Hicks interested several lawyers in her behalf, and a writ of habeas corpus was taken out against the clergyman, and the Judge of Probate ordered the release of her children. The Rev. Guilford is not quite satisfied with his share in the transaction, and has taken the case to the Supreme Court of the State, not, however, with the expectation of getting his white negroes back again, but to get rid of the costs imposed on him by the Judge of Probate. The whole affair which we give as established by testimony at the trial, throws more light upon the evils and the possibilities of wrong involved in the slave system, than a folio of argument. People who think the enslavement of negroes not a matter of sufficient consequence to fret themselves about, will feel very differently when slavery becomes indiscriminate as to the color and race of its subjects. That sets the question in a new light entirety. No white man or woman would like to be a slave, even to the excellent and devout Christian minister at Abbeville, Alabama.

WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
Pro-slavery journals, politicians, and ecclesiastics, have ever loudly asserted that this great act of justice has been a failure. The truth is now forcing its way. It has been a great success. Judged by the lowest standard—sugar—it is far from being a failure. The New York Tribune—replying to some crocodile lamentations on this subject in the President's organ—' The Constitution '—says:
'Consider another fact or two taken almost at random from various official and unofficial, but trustworthy reports, bearing upon the question how far the act which made freemen of slaves was successful as regarded them. In Jamaica, within eight years of that event, nearly two hundred villages had been built by the emancipated negroes; 7,340 of them had become freeholders, and they had purchased among them 100,000 acres of land. The Governer of Dominica says in his report of 1853, that the small proprietors who, a few years before, were chattels, were becoming the lessees of large sugar plantations, of which fact he gives several instances. In Grenada, in 1858, 'a proprietary body of some considerable magnitude and importance had already risen from the laboring class'—a class of peasant proprietors and renters of land, making rapid strides in prosperity and independence—and a new class of tradesmen had come into existence. In Guiana, the Governor writes in 1852: 'Population is augmenting, education spreading, crime diminishing, and trade increasing. In Montserrat, the report of 1853 declares that no 'island in these seas exhibits a more decisive tendency to social and moral regeneration and improvement.' In St. Kitts, in 1856, it is said: 'Attendance in schools is steadily increasing; crime steadily diminishing.' In St. Vincent, the condition of the laborer is described in the official returns as almost universally one of comfort; from 1845 to 1858 the amount of land either held in fee, or rented by the emancipated negroes, increased from less than 2,000 to more than 10,000 acres. In 1857, 8,209 persons were living in their own houses built since emancipation, when the laboring people amounted to less than 14,000 persons. Nor were there in 1857, any paupers in the island. In Tobago, 'the laborers are well-behaved and industrious;' small proprietors have greatly multiplied among them, and many of the common laborers live in houses built by themselves since emancipation. Out of its entire population of about 15,000, white and colored, there were 2,800 of the latter paying direct taxes, and 2,500 freeholders. In Tortola, a gracing island, the blacks are nearly all owners of cattle. In British Guiana, out of a laboring population o 70,000, 50,000 are estimated to be holders of land for which, since they ceased to be slaves, they have paid a million sterling, or five millions of dollars; In Antigua, says Dr. Davy, a perfectly good authority, three-fourths of the laborers have cottages of their own, with small freeholds, forming altogether about eighty-seven villages, all built since emancipation, near the estates on which they were then chattels.'

PERSONAL LIBERTY LAW IN NEW YORK.
The following document is in circulation in New York:
APPEAL TO THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Shall the soil of the Empire State be longer polluted by the track of the slave-hunter?
Shall we ourselves be subject to his call to chase and catch his human prey?
Shall we be subjected to fines and imprisonment for refusing thus to degrade and dehumanize our selves?
Must our doors and hearts be closed to the panting, starving stranger, who seeks shelter and protection from the remorseless kidnapper that would drag him back to the woes of the plantation from which be escaped? 
Must we help to send him back to the land of chains and tortures from which he fled through troops of bloodhounds scenting out his track, through forests where wild beasts prowl in the darkness, through rivers and dismal swamps, with no eye to pity him, save God's, shining through the north star, guiding His despairing child to the nearest asylum where the wicked cease from troubling?
Serious, solemn, momentous, are all these inquiries! What shall our answer be? First, we will ask the Legislature to pass a law that shall forever protect our State from the desecrating presence of the slave-hunter. By the Fugitive Slave bill of 1850, we are now forbidden to shelter or assist the forlornest stranger who ever appealed for
<c05>
sympathy and aid. Fines and imprisonments impend over as for exercising one of the holiest charities of our religion. The law of God is denned. Vice, the foulest, the blackest, is exalted to virtue, while virtue, humanity, and holiness are legislated into crimes, and Heaven's own conditions of salvation are impiously reversed.
We rejoice to believe that our Legislature, by passing a Personal Liberty Bill, can remedy these fearful wrongs. A petition for such an act has been prepared to accompany this appeal. You are asked to sign it, to circulate it, to obtain for it the names of all your neighbors and fellow-citizens, and to send it, early in January, to the Legislature.
This is no formal, idle request, but an earnest, well-considered appeal, in the name of God and Humanity. And this appeal is made to you, reader, whoever you may be, as one upon whom the responsibility of God's law unceasingly rests.

THE AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE AND THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH. 
MR. JAY'S REMARKS ON PRESENTING THE PETITION AGAINST THE SLAVE TRADE, IN THE EPISCOPAL CONVENTION AT NEW YORK.
Mr. President:—I rise to present a petition addressed to this Convention by members of the Diocesan Church; a petition respectful in its tone and legitimate in its prayer, and as it is short and explains itself more briefly than I could do by an oral explanation, I will read it. Before reading it, I will remark that I do not propose now to discuss any of the questions it may bring before us, but simply to refer it to a special committee of three clergymen and three laymen, with instructions to report thereon to the next Convention, the lateness of the hour allowing no opportunity for a proper examination of the matter at our present session.
The petition reads thus:
To the Diocesan Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the Diocese of New York:
The undersigned, members of the said church in the said diocese, respectfully show to your honorable and reverend body that it hath recently been made matter of public notoriety, by the proceedings in our courts of law, the avowals of prominent statesmen, and the developments of the American press, that, in defiance of the laws of God, and of the ancient statutes of this republic, the African slave trade hath been re-opened, and is now being prosecuted from the port of New York, within the limits and jurisdiction of this diocese.
The undersigned further show, that so powerful is the influence exerted in favor of the said trade, and so vitiated is the moral sense of a part of the community in regard to the same, that the legalizing of the said traffic is openly advocated, and the laws that denounce the same as piracy are mocked at and trampled upon with impunity.
Your memorialists do therefore respectfully and earnestly pray your honorable and reverend body to take such steps as, on deliberation, to your wisdom shall seem meet to encourage a sound Christian sentiment on this subject, and to stay this growing evil, to the intent that, by the voice and influence of our Church, truth and justice may be more firmly established in our Diocese, and especially that the city of New York, where the Church of England was so early planted, and so liberally endowed, and where our Diocesan Convention holds its sittings, may be purged of its present participation in this stupendous crime. 
(Signed) J.F. Butterworth, J. B. Silkman, 
J. A. C. Gray, W. H. Robertson,
C. S. Bourne, J. G. Holbrooke,
J. Butler Wright.
I move, sir, that this petition be received, and referred to a committee of six clergymen and six laymen, to report thereon at the next Convention; and I had not proposed to make any further remarks on this motion, beyond observing that the subject is so grave, and relates so clearly to matters within our Diocesan limits, and the cognizance and jurisdiction of this body, that I trusted whatever differences of opinion might obtain among gentlemen in regard to the best course for furthering the objects of the petition, the Convention would be unanimous in their determination; that their action upon it should be so calm, so deliberate and so judicious, as to meet the just expectations of their petitioners, promote the sound morality of the diocese, and enhance the dignity and usefulness of the Diocesan Church.
But, sir, I am advised by one or two gentlemen who profess to know the temper of this body, that I am too sanguine in my expectations—that this petition will be treated with contempt and laid upon the table, by a vote cutting off debate, and that this course will be adopted on the plea of preserving the tranquillity of the Diocese. Upon this question of reference, therefore, I will say a word.
I trust, for the honor and peace of the Church, that my advisers ore mistaken. I hope that this Convention will pause before it commits itself to such a course. If there is one lesson clearly taught as by the woeful experience during recent years, of legislative bodies and religious councils in this country, it is that the very surest method of arousing and intensifying agitation, is to gag debate and trample on petitions; and I firmly believe that this Convention, by treating this petition with contempt, will produce this very result they wish to avoid, and raise new issues in regard to the rights of the laity, and the proprieties of legislation, upon which they will be beaten as inevitably as have been the sectarian assemblies whose exploded and wretched policy in regard to the treatments of petitions I understand this Convention is to be asked to imitate.
I need scarcely say, sir, that these petitioners—men of high character and position among as, and well known for their moderate views and conservative principle—have no wish to disturb the tranquillity of the Church. They are men of common sense, and they know that there is nothing in this petition; that there would be nothing in its reference to a special committee; nothing in the wise, judicious action of this body on the report of that committee, whatever that action might be, calculated to disturb the tranquillity of any person in the diocese, excepting the slave traders, to whose villanies these petitioners object, and that class of men deemed respectable, or otherwise, who lend them their sympathies, who share in secret their accursed profits, and who are seeking to legalize the traffic.
That is the only class in our diocese whose tranquillity need be disturbed by a reference of this petition, and who will doubtless approve warmly and heartily a refusal to refer it.
I hope the Convention will not misunderstand the question. It is not whether the Convention ought to take any steps or not in regard to the actual prevention of the slave trade from our diocese, as certified by these petitioners; that is for the committee to report upon. The only question here is, shall the petition be referred quietly, without debate, without agitation—shall the Church, in calm consciousness of strength, treat this subject with composure, and deliberately ask what is her duty; or shall she shrink from it in terror, as other denominations have done, and rival them in an exhibition of weakness, cowardice and folly?
If the Convention determine; to shirk the matter, I dare say it may be all for the best. I, for one, shall wait patiently for the reversal of its decisions, as I did for the admission of the Church of St. Phil-
<c06>
lips, where, after eleven years, this Convention placed the seal of its approval upon what for ten years it had shunned as fanaticism. 
But, believing, as I do, that the rejection of this petition will inevitably arouse agitation, and that year by year you will be called upon, in tones more and more imperative, to confront the question of the slave trade, flourishing under the very shadow of old Trinity, and going forth to desolate Africa and renew the horrors or the middle passage, I ask the Convention to remember, as the laity and the public will remember, that it was not those petitioners but their opponents in this body who inaugurated the storm, and who now propose to sow the wind with a moral certainty that they will reap the whirlwind. 
On the conclusion of Mr. Jay's remarks, a motion was made to lay the petition on the table, but it was withdrawn on a suggestion that the same end could be answered by a direct vote on the resolution of reference.
The report of the Tribune says:
'This petition of Mr. Jay's created quite s sensation in the Convention, and was received with a sound of suppressed laughter, and a slight attempt at hissing. When the question came to a vote, the resolution was rejected by a very decided majority, and only the sacredness of the place kept the applause from breaking forth at this result.'

From the New York Tribune.
THE CADUCITY OF FAME.
Ask the next person you meet, under thirty years of age, a question implying a knowledge of some man famous throughout the land, who died before he was born, and see how much he knows about him. Say, John Randolph of Roanoke, or William H. Crawford, or George Clinton. The odds are that you will find their notions of these once famous men seriously obfuscated, if they ever so much as heard of them. A case in point occurs to us as we write, and the more in point as it touched on a Massachusetts man to the full as famous in his day throughout the nation, as Mr. Webster in his. We were talking with a well-educated young person, well-educated according to the routine of the best American education, and incidentally mentioned Fisher Ames. Not meeting with the responsive sympathy we expected, we drew from our collocutor an acknowledgment of never having heard of such a man! Then there was Samuel Dexter of Massachusetts, a man whom his cotemporaries, many of them, held to be fully the equal of Mr. Webstar in grasp of mind and force of thought, as he was certainly his superior in legal learning and general knowledge, and who had sat, too, like him, in both houses of Congress, and in the Cabinet at Washington. How few men, under forty years of age, have any vivid idea of him, if they have any idea at all! And a greater man yet, Theophilus Parsons, whose immense mental power could play with masses of legal, classical, and scientific lore, such as would have incumbered and overlaid any other man—who had all the classical and various knowledge Mr. Webster pretended to—be had been almost washed away out of men's memories, when his son of the same name, the other day, threw him, by war of plank, a lively memoir, which may keep him afloat a while longer.
We do not think that the Speeches of Mr. Webster would answer the purpose of this monument of bronze. Paper and print, it is true, make monuments more perdurable than brass. But, it Fisher Ames's works have not kept his memory fresh in men's minds for fifty years, we think that Mr. Webster's fame can hardly afford to depend on his tar perpetuity. In fact, men don't read speeches as a general thing. They are to the many as Shakespeare was to Mrs. Pendennis: 'They say they like them, but they don't.' Mr. Webster's Oratory has failed to obtain a hearing with our cotemporary posterity on the other side of the ocean. They have never been reprinted there, and one of our correspondents not long since told an authentic anecdote of two of the most renowned orators of the English Parliament acknowledging that they had never read a line of his works, though they had been sent to them as presents by himself or his heirs. They are too voluminous and heavy to float long on the popular current. His best chance for being remembered is by the extracts which will survive in the declamation of schoolboys. Those light cock-boats often swim a long time after the 'great admirals' and huge argosies they escaped from have foundered in the unsounded depths of oblivion. But who can answer for any one a permanent tenure of the favor of the makers of school-books? In the crush and crowd of 'orators renowned' with which our logomachy teems, who can say who will bold his own? Where are the oratoric heroes of oar youth, whose resistless eloquence thundered from the recesses of the English Reader and the Columbian Orator? Their voices are lost among the throng of louder speakers in these latter days. Who may not share their fate? Behold! this also is vanity.
Indeed, it is not so strange that the great men of former years should have passed out of memory, when it is so hard to keep in mind the great men of the present day. We, most of as, know the name of the President of the United States, and generally that of the Governor of our own State. But of how many of the adjoining States do won men know so much as the names of the predominating Excellencies? How many of our readers can repeat at one minute's notice the names of the Cabinet at Washington? We apprehend that out of our gentle readers and still gentler subscribers—a million of the one and two hundred thousand of the other-not one in ten, if one in a hundred, could perform the task, did his life depend upon it. And yet, probably, nearly all could tell you who made up Washington's Cabinets. And why is this? Simply, because we cannot camber our memories with the names of men who do not stand for something substantive. The names which are familiar in our mouths as household words are those of men identified with some great change in human conditions. Questions that turn merely of the ins and outs, on the loaves and fishes, make small impression on any minds but those engaged in the game of which they are the stakes. Those whose solution will affect the happiness or prosperity of the great masses of Mankind, are the ones which will spread the fame of those, disentangling or cutting them over lands and seas,
'Whatever clime the sun's bright circle warms.'
It is too much the aim of false wisdom to evade and defer such questions as these, as evils to be shunned, instead of blessings to be welcomed. The man who shall have the brave sagacity to confront and grapple with them, land compel them to a fortunate answer, will be known and admired of all time, and will show the wide abyss that divides a philosophic Statesman from the Politician of a day. He will not need a statue, but he will be sure too have one.
The New York Express says that the liberality of the Massachusetts Legislature in a unanimous vote requesting Mr. Everett to deliver his address, is much commented upon at the South and elsewhere. And no wonder!
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men are unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
INAUGURATION OF THE STATUE.
Boston Correspondence of the Anti-Slavery Standard.
The other great event. since my last letter, was the fitting inauguration of the Webster Statue, last Saturday week. O, my friend, you should have seen it rain! It fell like the dews of heaven on my thirsty soul, and refreshed it. The preparations had been on large scale, to make this one of the most imposing ceremonies ever seen in New Englandï¿½as, indeed, such an imposition deserved to have. The State House yard had been filled with workmen for a week before, putting up seats to accommodate several thousand people. It was really a very neat job, and did the contractor and his hands credit. In the centre was the platform on which Mr. Everett and the other actors in the drama were to stand, the State House behind them, the statue on their left hand, and the amphitheatre extending around them. The exterior of the amphitheatre, towards the surrounding streets, was hung with draperies, which gave a finish to the whole thing. Had it only been a fine day, it would have been a fine sight from the central point, beyond a doubt. But as it was! The way in which the rain came down and was blown round corners was a sight to see The seats soaked, and the draperies dripping, and the flag of the country dinging to its staff, was enough to give the bird of Freedom himself a cold in his head. All the plan of operations had to be abandoned, of course, and the Music Hall subtituted for the blue vault of heaven, and the statue of Beethoven had to do duty for Mr. Webster. I took pains to see the procession, and a trail of more bedraggled misery I never saw floundering through the mud beneath and the rain above. The military looked soaked to the bones, and the civilians displayed the most remarkable collection of umbrellas (mostly cotton) that I ever had an opportunity of studying. It was a fine chance to observe the natural history of that order of nature. Of course, it was a most cruel disappointment to all those who had reckoned on lifting themselves up into notice on Mr. Webster's shoulders. The wet blanket was wet indeed, and heavy as well.
I could not but be struck with the singular unanimity of the people in the streets, among whom I went for the purpose of overbearing what they would say on the subject of the day. There seemed but one opinion among them of contempt for the whole conceon. Everybody expressed satisfaction at the rain, dislike of the statue, and indignation at its being put where it was. These were all person I did not know by sight, and who, I presume, did not know me. Had either Governor Banks or Mr. Everett been listening to the talk of the street, they certainly would have beard no good of themselves. If the feeling so spontaneously uttered in the streets of Boston be general in the State, there will be no difficulty about getting names to the petition for its removal. It is another moot question hereabouts whether Governor Banks has hurt or helped himself by this morganatic marriage of his with Webster Whiggery. The whole responsibility of the measure justly rests upon his head, as he had only to shake it, without saying a word, when the proposition was made, to put a stopper upon the whole thing. The poor creatures who make up the Legislature have not shown themselves to have spirit or character enough to be considered responsible beings. One thing I know, he has not conciliated Boston Hunkerism by this oblation to it. This I know of my own knowledge. They hate him just as much as they ever did, with a slight dash of contempt mixed with it, which they never had before. But then they are of no possible political consequence. The only wonder is, that he should have thought it worth his while to try for them. For he did risk, by the attempt, the good opinion of the best portion of his own party, who are by no means backward in expressing their sense of the operation. But we shall see whether it will have any practical effect on their conduct. I am afraid not. 
You must have noticed the way in which all the orators of the Inauguration slid over the last years of Mr. Webster's life. The Plymouth Speech was the central idea on which they endeavored to fix the minds of their hearers. And there is a sort of Republicans who attempt to cover the thing up by saving that this statue is erected to the Webster of 1820, and not of 1850! I trust these wise dividers of a hair 'twixt north and north-east side, will extend the mantle of their charity a little farther. Why not nave a statue to General Arnold at New Havenï¿½not to the traitor of 1780, but to the soldier of 1777ï¿½not the Arnold of Westpoint, but of Quebec and Saratoga! But such stuff is merely flapdoddle, 'the stuff they feed fools on.' Ever since that disappointment, there has been a regular engagement between the Clerk of the Weather and the admirers of Mr. Everett. They, thinking it a pity that he should be disappointed of the opportunity provided to display his rhetoric, induced the General Court to invite him to repeat his oration from the rostrum originally prepared for him. And ever since, the weather couldn't have behaved worse if it had been under the direction of a Garrisonian Abolitionist. The general feeling has been that fine weather was unpopular as long as those seats remained in the; State House yard. I saw by this morning's paper that an order had been passed for removing a portion of them, which obstruct the entrance to the building. Perhaps this is accepted as a compromise, for it is now fine weather and looks as if the Rehearsal after the Play may come off to-morrow. It can but throw a new ridicule over the whole affair. Everybody, out of the innermost courts of Webster Whiggery, is laughing at it.ï¿½D. Y. 

THE WEBSTER STATUE. 
Boston Correspondence of the New York Christian Inquirer. 
We are still in the midst of the Webster Statue Celebration. In this case, our rage for the fine arts has pursued its way through multiplied difficulties. It has, indeed, seemed as if some mysterious power was occupied in thwarting the arrangement, and men less logical, or more superstitious than the Committee of One Hundred, might have believed that the spirit of Daniel Webster himself was determined to prevent such a caricature of his person from being set up in Boston. First, the ship which brought the statue, like that ill-fated craft,
'Built in the eclipse, and rigged with curses dark.' 
which brought the statue of Calhoun, was cast away, and the ugly bronze was fairly deposited at the bottom of the sea. This would have seemed to put a stop to the matter. Not at all. The bold Committee went to work again, got another statue, and this time succeeded in getting it safe to Boston. But when unpacked, consternation fell on all beholders. It was not at all like Daniel Webster, and it was as ugly as it could be. From the head to the pantaloons, all was bad. The worst enemies of the original could not deny that he was a grand-looking man; that there was an imposing majesty in his presence, and all the marks of power conscious of itself, in his bearing. But the marks of this figure were weakness and want of character. In making it colossal, it became tall and thin. Instead of the aplomb, which so marked the prototype, the attitude of this is undecided. It puts out a foot hesitatingly, as though asking leave to step forward. Great was the disappointment and chagrin of all beholders. People came and looked, and went away with a downcast expression. They thought they ought to like it, but found it impossible. Those of more decided opinions suggested that it should be broken up, and sold for old copper. What the Committee said among themselves will never be known; in public, they said nothing. But it was evident that something must be done with the statueï¿½where should it go? Some suggested Mt. Auburn, but the contrast with the life and grace of Crawford's statue of James Otis would have been too cruel. Some said State-street; and as Mr. Webster's friends wore mostly in that neighborhood, this would have been the proper place. 
Some timidly suggested the State-House yard; but it did sot seem likely that a Republican Legislature and a Republican Governor would consent to place on the public ground of Massachusetts the statue of a man, however great, who had devotee the last years of his life to overcoming the prejudices of Massachusetts in favor of Freedom. But it turned out otherwise. It is said that Gov. Bank exerted himself warmly to induce the Legislature to consent. Fortified by this new ally, the Committee went forward and obtained the consent of the Legislature to peace the statue before the State House. So it was set up on its pedestal, every one saying: 'Perhaps it will look a little better when it stand higher up and farther off. At all events, with Mr. Everett for the orator, we shall have a grand tin at the inauguration.' Great preparations were made the State House yard filled with benches, capable of seating many thousand persons, and the day appointed. But the gloomy ghosts, who had evidently their minds against the success of the enterprise, here interfered again with a storm of rain. So the audience adjourned to the Music Hall where Mr. Everett inaugurated the statue, the 
<c02>
statue itself standing solitary in a distant place, with dripping head looking sadly upon the empty seats around. But, as the audience had the oration, they had the best part of the celebration, and, moreover, had the noble statue of Beethoven, by Crawford, in golden bronze, to look at, instead of Powers' failure in dirty black. It was, on the whole, getting out of the affair very well. But some unwise individual took it into his head that seats in the State House yard ought not to be wasted and therefore persuaded the Legislature to ask Mr. Everett to repeat it. Another day was fixed, and another torrent of rain descended. The spirits were obstinate; but Prof. Felton does not believe in spirits, and is not to be frightened. So another day is fixed, and again the clouds gather. So that, at last, the housekeepers beg, for the sake of washing-day, that the inauguration may come to an end, and that we may have sunshine again.

THE WEBSTER STATUE.
We suppose Mr. Everett will have an opportunity delivering his oration on the State House Platform, under the droppings of the image set up by the modern Belshazzars, Monday afternoon, providing the windows of heaven are stopped up for the time being, and the stars and stripes are seen floating from the Capitol! The Statue has already been inaugurated by an old fogy tramp into Music Hall, last Saturday afternoon, through a drenching rain, half a mile from the location of the brown image. But the Legislative sages, who are sponging the people, by an extra session, have built a rostrum and divided a grist of soft wood benches for themselves and the ladies, and a few others to squat on, and they can't bear to have the name of doing honor to the bronze statue of a great man (who, if the image, could speak, would doubtless despise them) without the game. They are resolved upon a second edition of the oration.
With regard to the statue itself, a writer in the Traveller has thus expressed 'our ideas exactly:'ï¿½ 
Editors of the Traveller:ï¿½We offer the following brief remarks to elicit public opinion of the Webster Statue. When this image was in the Athenaeum, we could discover in it nothing of Websterï¿½Daniel, Noah, or the Professor. Now that it is placed upon a pedestal, in the open grounds of the State House, to the best advantage, we are till compelled to say it has not so much of a likeness as is usually to be found in a caricature. Webster's whole personal appearance was full of significanceï¿½this has none of that, but is replete from head to foot with insignificance. Daniel of old was cast into the lion's den, but the Lord delivered him safely out of it; and may the fate of this second Daniel be as propitious! 
A mammoth balloon is to ascend from the Common. Aproprosï¿½affix the statue to it, and the chemical affinity between it and its companion may possibly attract this to that, and both may sleep together undisturbed at the bottom of the ocean. As the balloon shall ascend, the public will have an opportunity of seeing at what height the statue presents the strongest likenessï¿½if any. We hope the press will be free, and the people freely express their opinion upon the subject. 
A WEBSTER WHIGï¿½NO DEMOCRAT. 
The Provincetown Banner gives it a fair hit thus:ï¿½ 
AN OPINION ON THE STATUE.ï¿½They are about to inaugurate the Webster Statue in front of the State House, in Boston. We saw it the other day. It looked like a colored coachman, who had just been rescued from the water, and had lost his hat. It may be a tolerable likeness of the great Danielï¿½below the waist. However, it may possibly add to Mr. Webster's notoriety, as every one who passes it will enquire who that image is intended for. 
The Anti-Slavery Standard, in an able article on the subject, says: 
Whatever may be said of the Webster statue as a work of art, the setting it up we regard as a poor piece of partisan effrontery and indecency. Let it be taken down, and laid away carefully for fifty yean more, until the great question betwixt Humanity and the United States government is settled. The question of Mr. Webster's fame is continued to abide judgment in that. Why should his retainers, the Boston men, whose natural flatness has been increased, like Mr. Winthrop's, and from the cause, wish to obtain a snap judgment in the case? We understand what is due to necrological proprieties, but we don't like to see a funeral procession swagger. We don't like to be jostled by a coffin. A hearse has nothing more than a reasonable right of way. We resent being elbowed off our own premises by an impertinent and hideous statue. This statue is an impertinence. We care not what official respect facile Mr. Banks may feel himself compelled to exhibit towards it. It was not a pageantry that should have been indecently forced upon this generation. Even Louis Napoleon has abstained from his coronation hitherto because the glory of Italy and the generosity of the general amnesty had not quite disarmed the hostility of Victor Hugo on the island of his exile. Why should Webster be crowned when the heart of a great nation has not ceased to throb with indignation at his recent and fatal treason? 
Millard Fillmore, the man whose Presidential signature completed the enactment of the Fugitive Slave law, being in Boston the other day, visited the Republican House of Representatives. The Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican says 'Emboldened by the fact that the statue of the defender of the Fugitive Slave law has been placed ii the State House grounds, he probably thought that the presence of the man who gave it life by his signature would be acceptable.' 

MANN AND WEBSTER. 
The Boston Courier is highly indignant at the pro position to erect the statue of Horace Mann on the State House grounds, opposite that of Webster, which leads the Worcester Spy keenly to remark:ï¿½ 
The Boston Courier, we infer, would not have known Daniel Webster, if he had never done any thing to befriend slavery. That ugly statue Webster has been placed in the State House grounds it seems, to commemorate what he did to 'conquer our prejudices' against slavery. This explains its bad look and terrific pantaloons, and fully vindicates the artist. The statue was made 'as ugly as sin for a very good and sufficient reason. The thing representative. It symbolizes what the Courier worships in its heroes. If Mr. Webster had always been true to himself,ï¿½if his political creed had a ways been kept free from pro-slavery ugliness, he to would have been a very obscure person, ' known to but very few people,' and wholly unworthy of statue. But he contradicted himself and shock? the people of the State, by delivering in Congress that famous 'Seventh of March speech'; therefore the Boston Courier worships his graven image, an even threatens to pull it down when the statue Horace Mann goes up. 

DANIEL WEBSTER. 
[From the Herald of Freedom of Oct. 2, 1840.] 
Just before our great anti-slavery meeting Glasgow, news reached us that 'the Defender of the Constitution' had gone into one of the slave State and absolved himself and his party from the reproach of anti-slavery. He there, as we heard American papers, made his pro-slavery confession Priest Preston, of Carolina, who had threatened, in his sacerdetal displeasure in the United States Senate, to hang Mr. Webster's anti-slavery constituents.
George Thompson told the people of Glasgow it, assembled in thousands at that mighty meeting. He told them of the intellectual power of the American statesmanï¿½of his northern birth and early education,ï¿½how he went to School to LIBERTY up among New Hampshire's rocks,ï¿½and how, having learned of another teacher in the schools of the South, he had now betrayed his native principles, and done homage to the slave system, in consideration of the South in the coming tug for the presidency. We wish the dark-eyed orator could have been within bearing, when Scotland uttered the indignant cry of 'SHAME, SHAME!'
John Dunlop, of Edinburgh, was there, and heard it. He left to his meeting, and hastened borne to seat at Randolph cliff, where a princely picture Webster hung, painted by King, at Mr. Dunlop's order, in Washington, when he travelled in this country. He took down the recreant orator, reversed the painting, and hung it up in the rear of the apartment, face to the wall, and placed a splendid painting of the chief RED JACKET over the fire-place in its room. 
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, OCTOBER 14, 1859.
CIRCULATE THE PETITIONS.
The following forms of Petitionsï¿½the first having reference to slave-hunting in this State, the second to the removal of the statue of Daniel Webster from the State House grounds whereon it has been treacherously erectedï¿½have been sent to many long-tried friends of the Anti-Slavery cause in various parts of the Commonwealth, for the purpose of a speedy and thorough canvassing for signatures in every town and village, without distinction of sex. 
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of
Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING, in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person who has been held as a Slave shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor' to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union. 
To the Senate and House of Representatives of Massachusetts:
We, the undersigned, citizens of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to remove from the State House groundsï¿½as no honor to the State, and repugnant to the moral sentiment of THE PEOPLEï¿½the STATUE OF DANIEL WEBSTER, whose last years were spent in defending the Fugitive Slave Bill, and whose last counsel to the Common wealth was to 'conquer her prejudices' against Slave-hunting, and to return men to bondage 'with alacrity.' 

THE LATE SAMUEL PHILBRICK, ESQ.
At a special meeting of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, held on the 7th inst., it was unanimously.
Resolved, That this Board, having a short time since had occasion to express its high appreciation of the character and services of SAMUEL PHILBRICK, Esq., on his resignation of the office of Treasurer of the Society, on account of the seriously impaired state of his healthï¿½now that he has been removed by death, would record the expressions of their warm regard for his memory, and of their grateful remembrance of his disinterested, long-protracted, and vigilant supervision of the financial affairs of the Society. Early in giving his countenance and support to the Anti-Slavery movement, he was ever true to the principles he professed, and eminently conscientious and upright in the discharge of all the duties of life. Of a modest and retiring disposition, he consented to take the office which he so long and so faithfully filled, not to be seen or known even by those in harmony with his sentiments, but that he might thereby be useful, in advancing a cause, which, though every where, spoken against, strongly commended itself to his reason, judgment and humanity, as worthy of universal approval. 
Resolved, That we respectfully proffer to his family our heartfelt sympathies in view of their bereavement. In behalf of the Board, FRANCIS JACKSON, President. ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec. 

TO ALL THE FRIENDS OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY CAUSE. 
MARIUS R. ROBINSON, of Ohio, is an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and as such is commended to all friends of the Society, and of uncompromising anti-slavery. As editor of the (Ohio) Anti-Slavery Bugle, and as a clear, earnest, and impressive speaker, his services have been of the greatest value to the cause, and have entitled him to the fullest confidence and respect of its friends. In full apprehension of the principles of Anti-Slavery, in faithful application of them, and in a fair and courteous spirit to opponents, he is surpassed by no one. 
Mr. Robinson is at present laboring in Western New York. He will receive subscriptions to the National Anti-Slavery Standard, and other Anti-Slavery papers, and donations to the American Anti-Slavery Society. 
For the Executive Committee. 
A CASE OF INTEREST. 'There is in one of the Southern States, in a literary institution, a negro man, twenty-four years old. He is eager for knowledge, and has acquired an education equal to that given in the common schools at the North. Further than this, he is familiar with the experiments usually given in chemistry, mechanics, &c, and prepares the apparatus so that the chance of failure is very remote. He is a tolerable mechanic, and has constructed a one-horse power steam engine, which is nicely got up and works well. He is anxious for fear he shall be sold South, and his fears are far from groundless. If he can be set free, his master will sell him for one thousand dollars. His friends desire to procure this amount by subscription, to be repaid or not, as those contributing may desire. He can put aside from his wages two hundred dollars per annum, besides providing for insuring his life till all advances are repaid, and this he will be glad to do.
The above account is from an entirely responsible and reliable source. Should this meet the eye of persons able and willing to aid, to any extent, in a case of such unusual promise, all such are requested to write to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 21 Corn hill, Boston. 
RICHARDSON'S NEW METHOD FOR THE PIANO FORTE 
An Improvement upon all other Instruction Books in Adaptation, Classification, Progression, and Facility of Comprehension; founded upon a New and Original Plan, and Illustrated by series of Plates, showing the position of the Hands and Fingers, To which are added Rudiments of Harmony and a Thorough-Bass. By NATHAN RICHARDSON, Author of ' The Modern School for the Piano-Forte.' Boston: Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington st. 
What is claimed for this handsomely executed volume, that it is ' an improvement upon all other Instruction Books,' will be readily conceded by those who examine it; and, therefore, it cannot fail to be preferred. Specimens of the compositions of celebrated composers are interspersed, by the study and practice of which the student will gain a knowledge, and in some degree imbibe the styles of these eminent masters. 
Our readers in Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and New York are reminded of the petition for a Personal Liberty Law, which are now in circulation in those States as well as in Massachusetts. In Rhode Island, the Petition for the abolition of the Caste Schools is also in circulation, and should have, as it doubtless will, a very general signature.
SNOW'S PATHFINDER'S GUIDE. This little monthly , which is so very useful as to be an absolute necessity of the travelling world, has just made its regular appearance, and is to be found at publisher's counter 49 Devonshire street, corner Water street.
Died, at Glenburn House, Rothesay, on Monday, Sept. 19, of congestion of the brain, JOHN PRINGLE NICHOL, LL. D., Professor of Astronomy in the University of Glasgowï¿½eminent for his scientific attainments, a man of splendid endowments, and a most eloquent public speaker. 
All communications for the undersigned should be sent to 21 Cornhill, Boston. 
SAMUEL MAY, JR.,
General Agent Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. 
<c04>
<ILLEGIBLE> IN BEHALF OF THE INDIANS-SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS
public meeting was held in Faneuil Hall on Monday evening last, for the purpose of considering the best means of bringing before the country the condition of our Frontier Indians, and their claims for protection. The galleries were well filled with a mixed, audience of ladies and gentlemen, and some hundreds occupied lower part of the hall.
Mr. WM. H. PILLOW was called upon to preside? and Rev. H. K. W. PERKINS was chosen Secretary.
Rev. JOHN BEESON, who has become well known as an, advocate of the rights of the Indian race, made an energetic speech upon the topic to which he has devoted his life. He commenced by showing the claims which the Indian race have upon us as a nation, and declaring the great injustice which had been done to the race ever since the country was discovered. He referred to a map of North America, and pointed out the different Territories that had been taken, one after another, from the Indians. He had always looked to Boston very hopefully for assistance. Its literary fame and the number of its charitable societies had given him this hope.
He read a list of the benevolent societies in Boston, arguing, as he thought, the philanthropic spirit of its people, which he hoped to see exerting itself some-what in his favorite cause. He declared that the Indians were naturally the first objects of our charity; but that they were neglected and left to vice and sin, and misery, and poverty, while voices were heard " from Greenland's icy mountains and from Afric's burning sands,' and received a ready and powerful response from our Missionary Societies. Out of forty five Indian reservations, only fifteen were provided with missionaries.
The earnestness and energy, and rude eloquence of the speaker, frequently called forth the applause of the audience. He closed by offering a series of resolutions, as follows:
1st. Resolved, That there is neither necessity nor justice in excluding the Indians on our western frontier from public sympathy and from the protection of civil law.
2d. Therefore Resolved, That a committee of seven be appointed by this meeting, whose duty it shall be: to use the necessary means to promote a thorough interest in their condition. It shall be authorised to agents to the distant tribes, to assure the Indians of friendship, and to gain correct information of their needs; to issue suitable publications, and to aid in getting up a series of mass meetings in various cities, and as soon as practicable, convene s National Convention, which shall discuss the details for an improved Indian Department, to be presented for the action of Congress during the coming session. 
3d. Resolved, That s premium of $1000 be offered; for the best treatise on the following points: 1st. The causes why the Indians have not been Christianized. 2d. The causes of their fading away. 3d. A plan for their future government. 4th. The location and extent of the domain or domains which should be appropriated for their final settlement.
The 4th and 5th resolutions invite the pastors and the press to participate in the work.
6th. Resolved, That the Treasurer and the Secretary of the Association for the promotion of the Gospel among the Indians and others, as established in the city of Boston, be the acting officers for the purposes herein named.
After remarks by a young man announced as Mr. ATWOOD, Mr. BEESON stated that two letters had been received, expressing sympathy in the causeï¿½one from Edward Everett, the other from Rev. Dr. Lothrop.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., was then introduced, and was received with enthusiastic applause by the audience, which had become quite full at this time. He said he did not come to the meeting expecting to see so many present as there were. Nor did he expect his enthusiastic friend would receive so much assistance from Boston as he hoped. He was not so ready to believe that so much would be done by Boston, because of its charitable societies, its education and its literature. He was present because he did not want this advocate, who had looked towards Boston so hopefully, to go back able to say that no one had stood by his side here to help him. He was a Boston boy, and had some pride in the matter. He spoke of the justice of the cause. In our history, the first name that would make an American blush would be that of an Indian. Longfellow could reap a harvest of gain and praise out of his romantic 'Hiawatha,' but a meeting which was gotten up to extend a helping hand to save the remnants of that race, was not attended by men of aristocratic feelings, men of letters, clergymen or politicians. In alluding to the way in which governments treat this and other matters, he said that 'government is a gang of rogues'ï¿½an expression which excited applause. The Indians, he remarked, further on, were not base enough to live near the white race. The necessity of such a meeting as this, he said, was because the church and the school were closed against it. The saddest thing about the whole affair was, that while every bodyï¿½the press, the pulpit, all men-agreed that the Indian had been wronged beyond account, and should be redressed, none, or few, would lift a single finger in behalf of this feeble and fading race.
He reviewed the process of wrongs by which Indian wars were incited, so that contractors might get rich. The work of frontier Yankee civilization was coining the blood of the Indians into money. In some future age, another Prescott would become famous by writing a history of the atrocious wrongs now done to the Indian race. The Methodist missionaries in Oregon found some way to get all the lands into their power, and than left off preaching to live like princes. In Kansas, we are assured the mission stations succored the Border-Ruffians, and sometimes were the haunts where Border Ruffians planned their incursions; one of their leaders being himself a missionary preacher.
Every body cheated the Indianï¿½from the hunter down to the missionary. Cortez brought them before his muskets and said, ' Kneel and be Christians, or I will shoot you!' Of course they kneeled, and became Catholics at once. That was the way he preached the gospel. But that course was kind compared with the treatment the Indians had received for the last twenty years, and would receive for twenty year to come. The Church sends them nothing but religion; the Government sends them nothing at all.
Mr. Phillips here said he was glad, for once, at least, to speak in praise of Edward Everett, who, when in Congress twenty years ago, put on record an eloquent speech in behalf of this outraged race .Unlike the mass of American statesmen, he did not leave public life without making one effort for this great national cause. (Applause.)
Passing from this topic, he said that the meanest of all spirits was that of the Yankees, who put all their sins back two centuries upon their fathers and all their penitence two hundred year hence. If this meeting did not do the Indian any good, he said, it would show us how defective is our education, how weak is our religion, and how few real men there are among us. In closing, he trusted that at least the might, in respect to this subject, acknowledge their national sin.
The resolutions were then adopted, and the Committee provided for by one of them was constituted by election, as follows:ï¿½Hon. Edward Everett, Wendell Phillips, Esq., Rev. H. K. W. Perkins, Rev. John Beeson, Rev. S. K. Lothrop, D. D., Rev. A. A. Miner, William H. Pillow.
The meeting was much larger and more interesting than some of the best friends of the cause had anticipated. It closed at half-past 9 o'clock. 
We hear of a wholesale slaughter of Indians in Northern California. A telegram, dated Yreka, 6th Sept., says, George H. Dobbins is herewith informed, that on the 13th inst., the Pitt River Rangers attacked a rancheria of Beaver Creek Indians, numbering two hundred, seventy of whom were killed Three of the Rangers were wounded.
<c05>
THE CHURCH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
DEAR MR.GARRMON:
Last evening, we attended a lecture on the Church anti-Slavery Society by its Secretary, Henry T. Cheever, but after listening to him for man than an hour, found it rather difficult to understand whether he is endeavoring to put new wine into old bottles, or wine into old bottles. He called upon the ministry and church members to join in the work. Coming to call sinners to repentance, and finding the 'evangelical' churches to be the ' bulwarks of slavery,' it was eminently proper that he should first summon them, and perhaps natural that, in viewing their all-surpassing guilt, he should forget or neglect call upon minor sinnersï¿½those outside the pale of American Church, 
The reason for the formation at a new anti-slavery society was, that no other was distinctively Christian. He admitted that the American Anti-Slavery Society was essentially a religious movement, but it was not the representative of the Church. (Thank Heaven that it is not!) The Church Anti-Slavery Society was to be made an exponent of the Church; its objects being to mould public opinion against slavery, to vote for no man who is not anti-slavery, to plead for the oppressed in public prayer, (in defiance of the directions of professors in theological schools to their embryo parsons?) to rebuke the clerical defenders of slavery. 
Remarking that the formation of this Society is ' a duty we owe to Christian slaveholders and Christian masters, for that there are each is fact,' and quoting the command of God as given in 1 Tim., chap. 5ï¿½'Them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear'ï¿½'neither be partaker of other men's sins;' and Eph. 5:2ï¿½'Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them,'ï¿½he then proceeded to show the increasing pro-slavery sentiment of the Southern churches, and denouncing 'any advocate of slavery as an enemy to humanity and to Christ' The Church Anti-Slavery Society was re to refuse fellowship with slaveholders, and the advocacy and practice of slaveholding were to be a bar to church fellowship. He also stated that while 'the political papers generally published the Declaration of sentiments of the Society, but very few of the religious papers would do so'ï¿½rather a significant fact. 
Mr. Battles, the able pastor of the Universalist Church, remarked that he did not know but he should be regarded as an outsider, but he wished to know what position the Church Anti-Slavery Society was to assume toward slaveholder and the defenders of the practice; toward the American Bible Society, which refuses to furnish a single Testament for the slaves, though it has been offered $5000 to expend in Bibles for them; toward the Tract Society, which not only refuses to publish anti-slavery sentiments, jut after having pledged itself to publish tracts against every evil, if presented in Scriptural language, or plain comment thereon, yet refuses to do so, mutilates memoirs which incidentally contain testimonies against slavery, and through its official organ represents, by implication, that the anti-slavery sentiment is ' a flame which is fanned by infidelity'; toward the Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, which represents the teachings of the Bible and the apostles as favoring slavery, and refuses to make slaveholding, or even the separation of parents and children, by sale or purchase, a disciplinable offence, or bar to church fellowship or communion. 
Mr. Cheever said the Church Anti-Slavery Society, at its meeting, passed a resolution to correspond with the Tract Society, and offer it a tract for publication. (!!) 
Mr. Battles asked Mr. C., if the Society should refuse to publish such a tract, and the Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions should continue its present course, would he fellowship them? Mr. Cheever replied that, as an individual, he would not. What he will do in his capacity as pastor of a professedly Christian church remains to be seen. 
Mr. Maltby, pastor of the Hammond Street Church, (Congregationalist.) warmly opposed the plan of the Church Anti-Slavery Society. Mr. Cheever explained his position, and 'spoke of RTV. Dr. Ross, the Southern ministerial defender of slavery, having been invited into the pulpit of the Old Sooth Church, Boston, and other places; also, of slaveholders being invited to the communion of Northern churches.
Mr. Maltby rejoined, explaining his position, and saying that he ' yielded to no man in abhorrence of slavery; he could not find terms in the English language to express his abhorrence.' This last sentence of Mr. Maltby's must be taken literally; indeed, upon being asked if he did not consider slave-holding sinful, he ' could not find terms in the English language' to express even an opinion, but remained silent. He seems to stand se a fair exponent of the Orthodox clergy generallyï¿½fearing to have the anti-slavery wedge enter their organizations, choosing peace rather than purity, and practically preferring Barabbas to Jesus. 
Mr. Cheever, seeming to think himself misunderstood, in some additional remarks, said he firmly believed there were truly Christian slaveholders, and, urged, in support of this position, the circumstances by which the slaveholder was surrounded. Of course, this same argument may be made to embrace! the highway robber, the pirate, the horse-thief, as well as the man-thiefï¿½all true Christians, for sooth! Does not Mr. Cheever completely stultify his theory, and the scheme of the Church Anti-Slavery Society, by the concession that the slaveholder who violates and tramples under foot the principal command of Christ, is yet a follower of Christ? Says Jesusï¿½' If ye love me, keep my commandments, and the apostleï¿½' He that saith, I know God, and keepeth not: his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.' And yet Mr. Cheever has the logic which converts the slaveholder, who says, ' I know God,' and ' yet keepeth not his commandments,' into a follower of the Lamb'! 
We presume, that if the Southern churches were mainly made up of horse-thieves, who daily practised the nefarious business, and the churches were to defend it perfectly compatible with Christianity, and publicly teach that it was no bar to church communion and fellowship, our Northern church members would not join such a church, or, having innocently got entangled in it, would not neglect to embrace the first opportunity to sunder all ecclesiastical fellowship and connection with it. We cannot conceive how the churches can regard the man-stealer and the cradle-robber as so much better than the horse-thief. 
We 'take it for granted' that if a Society(existing in a country where horse-stealing was the sin of the nation,) claiming ' to diffuse a knowledge of Jesus Christ, and promote sound morality, should issue tracts strongly condemning the theatre, dancing, novel reading, sleeping in church, yet among its publications not one word carrying the faintest impression that horse-stealing was morally wrong, but, on the contrary, declare an effort for the abolition of the movement 'a flame which is fanned by infidelity 'ï¿½should mutilate and suppress the words of deceased writes against the business, and by misconstructions and omissions falsely represent them as not opposed to such theftï¿½such a Society would not be a Christian Society. The American Tract Society is just as much lees Christian than such a Society as the man-stealer is less Christian than the sheep-stealer. 
If Rev. Dm. Adams, Lord, Blagden, &c., were to write books and newspaper articles in defence of horse-stealing, stating that it was 'not an offence against natural religion,' 'not a violation of revealed religion,' it is difficult to believe our Northern 'evangelical' clergymen would enter into ecclesiastical union and church fellowship with such men; and while acknowledging it their duty to cast out all unchristian teachers, should yet openly and unblushingly proclaim such teachers not only Christians, but
<c06>
ministers of christ actually engaged in teaching Christianity! But we have leaned from observation, that all such things are possible in the American religion.
Banger, Sept.27, 1859.
MR.EDITORï¿½As a member of this community, I cannot be silent under the imputation that we hold the memory of Daniel Webster as especially worthy our-homage; and. as a citizen of Massachusetts, I feel bound to utter my protest against the action of the Legislature in allowing the Capitol grounds to be desecrated by his statue. 
Yours, for the right, SIMEN SIMPLE 
TO WHOSE MEMORY SHALL WE PAY REVERENCE?
Men honor those whose lives embody most of those qualities which they themselves hold in esteem. It has always been so, and, from nature of the case, must always be so. The history of the world proves the truth of the remark. 
When might made the right, it was the successful warrior who received the smiles of fair ladies, the praises of men. When government got itself established, it was the great statesman to whom all paid homage. Mechanic-skillï¿½ Goldï¿½ Learningï¿½Artï¿½all have had their day. 
The great man seldom rises far above his sect or partyï¿½and the party never quite reaches its type. The true leader, therefore, always keeps in advance; he accepts every great truth, embodies it in his life, and endeavors to make it beautiful and attractive to the world. With him, the question is not, is it expedient? but, is it time true? is it just? The answer to these questions decides his course. Does the community, the sect or party reach his level of today, he strides on, ever seeking new truths, and striving make those truths active in the thought and in the life of others. It is then of the first importance that we honor those whose lives have been such as to lead us on to better lives. 
ï¿½If we point our snows toward the stars, we shall not indeed reach them, but we shall come nearer than 'if we point downward.' If we propose a high ideal, we shall come nearer to goodness than if we follow an unworthy example. 
Whom, then, of the historically great men of our time shall we reverence? To whose memory shall we pay honor?
He must have been a man of great ability, and made a good use of his talents; of a pure lifeï¿½chaste, temperateï¿½a fit example to the rising generation; of sterling honestyï¿½strong enough to resist the temptations of personal luxury; of a strong sense of justice, recognizing in every man brother; of lofty aims, never sacrificing the good of his country, or the rights of others, to ambition; true to his convictions, never placing his conscience in the keeping; of another, or bartering it for gold; of a progressive spirit, always ready to receive new truths, never turning back to the exploded errors of the past.
The man possessing these qualities, living, has a right to our reverence, our active co-operation and assistance; dead, his memory should receive all honor, and be handed down to posterity as a cherished blessing; His portraits should adorn the walls of our public buildings, his statues grace the public squares, his name be found at the corners of the streets, and be familiar in our mouths; and when our children ask the reason of all this homage, it should he our care that the real nobleness we honor be held up to their view, that they, seeing the beauty of goodness, shall also be impressed with a desire for its possession. All the honor we pay to real worth will but redound to our own honor.
I have been led into this train of thought by the great efforts which have been made to hold up to the homage of this community the memory of Daniel Webster. Did he posses the qualities which have been enumerated as worthy of reverence? We think not. Undoubtedly he was a man of great ability. God did his part well. But, did he make a good use of his talents? That is the question. From the beginning to the end of his life, that splendid mind was devoted to selfish aims. Was his life pure? Notoriously the reverse. His voluptuousness and intemperance were too well known to admit of denial. Who of all those extravagant eulogizers would hold up the private life of Daniel Webster as an example to his son? We may well believe none of them are bad enough for that. Was he of sterling honesty? Answer, the very long list of tradesmen's unpaid billsï¿½the money borrowed, but never returned. Of a strong sense of justice? Witness the poor fugitive sent back into bondage by that accursed law, the work of his brain. Witness chains of slavery riveted tighter by his hand, the territories opened to the curse by his eloquence. Of lofty aims? He considered protection of commerce as the legitimate end of governmentï¿½that property should be the qualification for the Senate. The real welfare of his countryï¿½alas I it was not so precious a thing as was the gratification of that vaulting ambition which made him forget all claims beside. 
Was he true to his own convictions? Read the noble words to be found in his earlier speechesï¿½the love of liberty, the sentiments of justice, the abhorrence of slavery; compare these with the seventh of March speech. Alas! he had sold himself for paltry ambition, and more paltry pelfï¿½stifling his highest thought; and he spoke but as his paymasters directed.
Was he progressive? His sentiments on all the leading topics were far more progressive when he entered public life than when he so sadly laid himself down at Marshfield to die. I repeatï¿½we honor in others the qualities we ourselves esteem. 
Do the citizens of Massachusetts believe in kidnapping?ï¿½let them honor the supporter of the Fugitive Slave Law. Do they desire to see the curse of slavery extended over all the Territories?ï¿½let them honor the man who opposed the re-enactment of God's great law of freedom. Do they wish intemperance and unchastity held up to their sons?ï¿½let them honor the man who was repeatedly inebriated, and whose passions were uncurbed so long as he retained strength for their gratification. If, on the contrary they desire not to see Massachusetts only, but all soil free-free as the air-if they desire to see her young men grow up virtuous, moral, honest they will unite in demanding a higher and better example. As with one voice, they will call upon the Legislature to hurl the statue of Daniel Webster from the grounds of the state, and in its place they will erect a monument to some real friend of progress and liberty. No, Mr. Editor, it is libel on the good sense and good principles of the people of the State of Massachusetts to pretend that they have no higher standard. They admire the great intellect: of Daniel Webster, but they do not approve of the made of it. Not one of all his eulogists had a word to say in favor of his Union-saving exertionsï¿½his repeated cries of wolf! wolf! when there was no wolf .Even the man who, as the representative of a free state, offer to buckle on his knapsack and fight in defence of slaveryï¿½ who, while Governor, said in Faneuil Hall that he considered the agitation of the slavery question an indictable offenceï¿½even he knew too well the temper of this community to praise any but his sentiments favorable to liberty. Let us not be led by a few Whig and democratic politicians, or by those un worthy Republican who are willing to cater for Whig and democratic votes, into the avowal of sentiments we detest. I believe that a great majority of the inhabitants of Massachusetts love freedom better than slaveryï¿½honesty better than dishonestyï¿½and I implore them to insist upon it that her legislators shall not disgrace the Capitol by holding up to the reverence of future generations an example diametrically opposed to their cherished sentiments.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE DUTY OF CHRISTIAN CHURCHES.
At a public meeting in the Town Hall in the city of Hallowell, (Me.,) on the evening of Tuesday, Sept. 27,after an address by Rev. Henry T. Cheever, on the Principles and Plans of the Church Anti-slavery Society, the whole assembly, with the exception of pro-slavery Democrats, adopted by rising the following resolution:-
Resolved, when the advocates of slavery, driven from its defence on the grounds of expediency and policy, as not a sufficient warrant for its audacious of the rights of man, have at length come to assume its inherent rightfulness, and to appeal to the Bible for a sanction of this assumption:-and when Professors in Southern Universities are required to teach and maintain that 'slavery was commanded by God's chosen theocracy, and sanctioned by his Apostles, and to be supported, vindicated and defended as a noble and necessary institution of ' it is no time for Christian ministers or Christians to blink the question of its inherent sinfulness. And we, a portion of the Christian people of Hallowell, do here by declare our deep conviction, that slaveholding is itself a crime, that it is the duty of Christian churches of every denomination to treat the practice of slaveholding as essentially sinful and anti-Christian, and to from Christian fellowship all who persist in it after due remonstrance and admonition.

THE RECORD INCOMPLETE.
Editor of the Liberator:
Since writing you the note of information as to the action of the Salem Street Church, I have been surprised to learn that, in defiance of the vote of the Church, and in the face of their action in voting an adjournment pending the discussion of Mr. White's motion to allow members to hand in their contributions to the Church Treasurer, on Sunday last, the Mr. Richardson gave public notice that all who wished to the American Board could do so by bringing their money of the Church!! And thereupon it was boasted that a larger collection than usual was taken!
Verily, I did not suppose that depravity so great as thus to violate all good faith and propriety, and defy the Church itself, existed in that direction, and hence I was not on the watch for any new development on that day. I failed to be fully posted, as I meant to, to give you the full information.
J. A. H.

A HAPPY HIT.
For some days, it had whispered round that Adin Ballou, in his ministration with the Spiritualists, at the Brick church in Milford, was last Sunday to give a phillippic against Theodore Parker and his heresy. Some of the extreme conservatives high glee at what was expected. But, alas! they got what they did not expect. Very justly, Mr. Ballou, in accordance with his peace principles, arraigned Mr. Parker for war spirit more logical heresy. He placed the pro-war clergy and chruches on the same platform with Mr. Parker. This was a happy hit, and filled some minds with chagrin and disappointment. The readers of the Liberator must not think it strange they hear of many sudden conversions; for surely, heresy-hunters, who are in trepidation even at the name of Theodore Parker, will hardly consent to be in fellowship with him even in defence of a position they have ever maintained. When will a denial of the Sermon on the Mount be as grave a heresy as to doubt the plenary inspiration of the Bible?
G. W. S.

THE DEMOCRACY IN FEAR.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Our little village is in quite an agitation. 'Straws show which way the wind blows.' Here is a straw for you.
On the evening appointed for Mr. Foss to lecture here, when, owing to his failure to come, his appointment had to be filled by another, the speaker presented the claims of the petition to Congress which you have printed in the Liberator for some weeks. The several parts of the petition, asking the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law, &c., were taken up and accompanied with arguments why the petition should be circulated and granted; after which, the following resolutions were presented meeting and adopted:-
Resolved, That a Committee of four be appointed to circulate petitions so as to obtain as many signatures as possible prior to the session of Congress, and that this Committee be instructed, &c.
Resolved, That we will circulate this petition, not because we can expect it to be granted by the present Congress, but because there is great need for agitation, North and South, in Congress and out of it, before slavery can be abolished.
Resolved, That though the petition does not ask all we desire, inasmuch as we earnestly seek the entire abolition of slavery in all the yet, since the petition ask about all that Congress can constitutionally grant, we will hope that, in using means to obtain the less, we will be doing what will also tend to effect the greater.
These resolutions, together the remarks on the petition, elicited some discussion, but only one short speech, by a young Democrat, in opposition to the petition.
In a day or two after this meeting, the following notice, which I copy verbatim, was posted in the village:-
Notice is hereby given of a meeting to be held at the Town House in Topsham, on Friday evening, Sept. 23, 1859, for the purpose of discussing the impropriety and danger to our country of circulating and signing the petitions from the Garrisonians, and presented to the citizens of Topsham on Tuesday Sept. 13, by the Rev. N. R. Johnston.
All are invited to attend. Those who love their country, and desire to labor for its universal prosperity, are invited to lend their aid; those who are not patriotic enough to aid us are requested to come and hear.
Topsham, Vt., Sept. 20, 1859.
This notice called together a small meeting, at which one short Union-saving speech was made in opposition to the petition. This was followed by an announcement, from the other side of the house, that on the same evening of the next week, there would be a meeting to discuss both sides of the question. At this meeting, which is now past, the discussion was fairly opened by two opposing speeches, a Democratic lawyer leading the way in a very loyal defence of all that the petitioners seek to overthrow. The contest is thus fairly begun, and, form all appearances, is not soon to close, unless the 'unterrified Democracy' fail of ammunition.
Topsham, Oct. 4, 1859.
AGITATOR.

THE BUXTON SETTLEMETN.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
You will probably remember that last year I gave the readers of the Liberator a sketch of my visit to Elgin settlement of fugitive slaves at Buxton, Canada West, under the auspices of the Rev. William King. At that time, a delegation from the Irish Presbyterian Church-Prof. Gibson, of Queen's College, Belfast, and Rev. Mr. McClure, of Derry-visited the settlement, and the whole occasion was instructive and gratifying.
Rev. Wm King, and Wm. H. Day, Esq., a young colored man of talent and position, accepted an invitation tendered them by this delegation, and are now in Ireland, holding meetings and collecting funds in aid of the Buxton writes me from Waterford, Ireland, August 20th, 1859, announcing their reception by the General Assembly of the Presbyterian against slavery is on record. They also had a meeting in Metropolitan Hall, the Lord Mayor presiding.
<c02>
Some 3000 persons were present. The Lord Mayor took occasion to endorse the truthfulness of their anti-slavery testimonies in full, saying that he knew, for he had lived two years in Charleston, South Carolina.
On Tuesday evening, Sept. 8, these gentlemen addressed, in an eloquent and effective manner, a public meeting in the Rosemary Street Presbyterian Church, at Belfast-Robert Boag. Esq. in the chair. He remarked that he was gratified to find with them, in the person of Mr. King, the noble and generous 'Clayton' of Mrs. Stowe's great work.
W. C. N.
Boston, Oct. 12, 1859.

THE SLAVE TRADE QUESTION.
At the annual meeting of the American Board of for Foreigh Missions, at Philadelphia, on Thursday, last week, a protracted and exciting discussion was had at the meeting, on motion of Dr. Cheever, to memorialize Congress to suppress the slave trade. Dr. Cheever spoke with his usual force, urging immediate action. He moved the following amendment or addition to the report concerning the Choctaw and Cherokee Churches:
'Your Committee add that, in the opinion of the Board, the holding of slaves should be pronounced an immorality, inconsistent with membership in any Christian Church, and that it should be required that these Missionary Churches should immediately put away from themselves this sin, and should cease to sanction it even in appearance.'
Dr. Todd of Pittsfield moved the reference of the subject to the Business Committee,' and Chancellor Walworth said somewhat tartly that it was too late in sessions of the Board to throw such a firebrand among us. There was no difference of opinion among us about the slave trade, but he objected to this Board being put in a false position by this measure.
The Rev. Dr. Squier (who has resolved the problem of' the Origin of Evil') asked whether it would not do well to sign the memorial as individuals, and not compromise the Board as such?
The Rev. Dr. Anderson, one of the Secretaries, arose and fully indorsed all that Dr. had alleged as to the relations of the slave-trade to their African missions, and as to the supreme importance of removing the obstacle out of the way. It was this, with other things, which is threatening the Gaboon Mission. The principle is right. We ought to resist the slave-trade, and petition Congress on the subject, but the matter has come up so suddenly that we have no time to devise proper methods and memorials. He did not wish the matter indefinitely postponed, but that some wise measure shall be devised, since the slave trade is now enormously increasing along the entire African coast, except where British power is in the ascendant.
Dr. Patton suggested the subject be referred to a Special Committee to report to the next meeting of the Board. We must look this gigantic evil square in the face.
The Rev. Dr. Perkins of Persia, spoke in terms of the strongest condemnation of the slave trade. Progress in railroads, wealth, building, &c., in America during the twenty-five years of his absence from America, had surprised him, but nothing surprised him so much as what he heard of progress in Slavery and the slave trade in Christian America.
The Rev. Dr. Pomeroy agreed with Dr. Anderson and Dr. Patton in their suggestions to refer the subject to a Special Committee to report next year.
The Rev. Dr. Duffield of Detroit, deprecated so long a delay. Let something be done promptly. If we have not time to put the matter in proper form, let us instruct the Prudential Committee to do so. How many poor souls will be killed by this traffic before the next meeting of the Board?
Dr. Converse of Philadelphia abominated the slave trade, but he deprecated any such action as this, because it will fire up the Extremists of the South to do what we do not want them to do.
Dr. Heman Humphrey thought we ought to meet the matter promptly, and the Rev. Mr. Bingham of the Islands showed how a Secretary of the Board, Dr. Evarts, had once caused the commander of a United States vessel to be court-martialed for his conduct to a missionary in those islands. And could not the Board have memorialized Congress had United States ships tried to set the slave trade on foot there? 
Mr. Orcutt of the Colonization Society, denied Dr. Cheever's allegations. There has been but one cargo of slaves landed at the South, and that has ruined those engaged in it. The Government has just strengthened its African squadron by additional force. This subject will breed discord, affect our income, &c.
After some further remarks from Chancellor Walworth, the whole subject was referred to the Business Committee.
The Board, in Congressional fashion, had an all-night session on the 7th inst., and discussed connection with slavery with great vehemence. The result was to cut off the Cherokee Indian Mission because some of the Cherokees hold slaves. Dr. Cheever wanted to hold on to the mission, and purify the churches by expelling the slaveholders, but the congregational idea of letting each church manage its own membership prevailed, and the mission, though forty years old, was dropped by the Board.

A POWERFUL TESTIMONY.
The recent lecture of Wendell Phillips, at the Tremont Temple, and his letter to Judge Shaw and Pres. Walker of Cambridge University on the Temperance question, have caused many to' gnaw their tongues for pain,' while they have elicited admiration and thankfulness on the part of the true friends of sobriety and freedom universally. At a quarterly meeting of the Bristol County Total Abstinence Society, held at Mansfield on the 5th inst., it was 
'Resolved, That we heartily approve of, and call upon all temperance organizations to aid in circulating the frank and manly letter of Wendell Phillips, to the Chief of Massachusetts, and the President of Harvard College, arraigning them for lending their influence in upholding a notorious grog-shop in the city of Boston.'
In a private letter, received from our esteemed friend, WILLIAM ROBSON, Esq., of Warrington, England, he says:-
'What a noble rebuke was that of Wendell Phillips to the Chief Justice of Massachusetts, and the President of Harvard College! Is it possible that it can fail of producing fruits of righteousness in the public mind? Give my kindest remembrances to him. With what pleasure, if I might, would I come to live and die among you, fighting the great battle of human freedom by your side while strength or faculty remained, or victory left us nothing 
The East Boston Ledger, referring to the opening lecture of the Fraternity course in this city, by Mr. Phillips, says:-
'Wendell Phillips was then introduced amid an ovation of hearty enthusiasm, and proceeded to deliver an address, which, in force of logic, aptness of illustration, power of sarcasm well directed, pungency and pertinence of rebuke, and the most entrancing eloquence, probably never was surpassed by any man, living or dead. We have no idea that Henry Clay, in his palmiest days, could have held an audience more enwrapped or spell-bound. It was a masterly effort on the part of this peerless orator, never to be forgotten by the whole-hearted and discriminating listener. We make room for as much as possible, and every manly man and womanly woman with' a soul as big as the universe,' to get the and Bee, and read every word of 
Alluding to the same masterly lecture, the Worcester Spy says:-
'Wendell Phillips, one of the most eloquent men that has ever lived in Massachusetts, never speak on any topic of public interest without causing a sensation; and those who feel his terrible criticisms most keenly, cannot wholly admiration of the earnestness, and the affluence of intellectual power, with which they are delivered; and they who feel more agreement than disagreement with his general positions and estimates of character, are more apt to yield quietly to the magnetic charm of his eloquence, than to criticise and protest against any thing that might in cooler moments seem like overstatement or too great seventy. Too much severity, however, is usually much more wholesome than extravagant and undeserved laudation.
'On the evening of October 4th, Mr. Phillips delivered the introductory lecture of the Fraternity course of lectures in Boston. The vast hall was thronged with a brilliant and intelligent audience, and the discourse on that occasion was one of his most effective productions. A intelligent man who heard it says-" His voice seemed more musical, his manner more graceful, and his presence more magical than ever.' This speech mainly devoted to the various recent eulogies on Webster and Choate, and as several portions of his speech show the finest powers of the man, and as it has been greatly admired, and also criticised more or less, our readers may like a few extracts from it.'
<c03>
HORACE MANN. Rev. Dr. Charles Lowell, in the Boston Daily Advertiser, relates the following anecdote of John Adams and Horace Mann:
On the day when Mr. Webster delivered his eulogy on Adams and your present correspondent officiated in the devotional exercises, and afterwards dined with the Mayor and a large company. John Quincy Adams was an invited guest, but delayed his coming. On arrival, apparently as an apology for his tardiness, he said had been at Dedham, listening to an address from a young man of whom he never heard before, but who was destined, if his life was spared, to be honorably known beyond the limits of his native village, make his mark upon the age.'
That young man was the successor of Mr. Adams in Congress-Horace Mann. The prediction of Adams was fulfilled. He did, indeed, set his mark on the age in which he lived, and the prediction of Mr. Adams might have contributed not a little, under God, towards its fulfillment. wrote to Mr. Mann, with whom he was acquainted, informing him of what Mr. Adams had said. The answer expressed emphatically the gratification of Mr. Mann, and his determined purpose to attain, if possible, to the distinction and usefulness Mr. Adams had foretold for him.
THE MANN MONUMENT. Messrs. S. G. Howe, R. C. Waterson, George S. Boutwell, George B. Emerson, Alpheus Crosby, E. Edmunds, and Josiah Quincy, have memorialized the legislature to the effect that a public meeting in the city of Boston having taken measures for procuring by general public subscription a bronze statue of Horace Mann, they respectfully request that a suitable place be assigned for it in the State House grounds. Gov. Banks promptly sent a special message to the Senate, commending the purpose of the petitioners, and expressing the hope that the request may be granted.
FADING AWAY! The Sentinel (Marshall county, Va.,) says:
The South is becoming so 'mixed up,' that a man cannot feel safe any more in marrying there, for fear his wife will prove to have black blood in her veins. Negroes are so fully kept in their 'sphere' by Northern white men, that, as a rule, persons can always find out negro blood by tradition, and it comparatively safe to marry dark-complected women so very common in the South.
And a Charleston (South Carolina) correspondent of the N. Y. Police Gazette writes thus:
If the morals of this city continue at present, in a century there will be no negroes here. At present, you will see yellow girls in this city that cannot be told from white women. When it becomes general, slavery is but a name, for being white, they are less submissive and of less value. Among my own slaves, there are ten females who have fifteen children, and but two of the number are black.
Mr. Douglas is violently assailed in the Atlanta (Ga.) Intelligencer. He is called the Bull-Dog of the Nation, and also a hypocrite, who 'ought to be damned for all time to come with the South.' We quote:
'The South wants something more than he would give her. She wants her slave property protected from Abolition legislation, and this she demands at the hands of the President. And if this protection be denied when asked, she will then fall back upon her own resources, the sword of independence, and fight for the laws of the land and our rights. Indeed, if she had not this right guaranteed to her, the slaveholder would be deterred from emigrating to the Territories with his property, which would give to the North the power of a tyrant, as she is, and make the South a vassal at the door of Abolitionism, asking for mercy.'
The Montgomery (Ala.) says:
'We are confident that Douglas can neither receive the vote of Alabama at the Charleston Convention, nor can he receive an indorsement at the hands of Alabama's Democracy even if nominated. But there are men, even in Alabama, who are laboring to accomplish both these unholy purposes. They should be met at the very outset with the stern rebuke of the true State Democracy. We should not only repudiate Douglas, but since he has forced the issue upon us, we should demand firmly every jot and title of our territorial rights. To be sound upon this question should be a sine qua non for honors in the gift of Alabama.'
The New Orleans Crescent tries to make out that the talk at the South about re-opening of the Southern slave trade, has been got up to draw out the 'contortions' of Northern abolitionists. It says:
'Perhaps we helped on the delusion under which many of the free soil papers of the North labor. If so, we shall not beg pardon of anybody. We have alluded to the matter on several occasions, and assumed neither positive nor negative grounds. Indeed, we are not sure but that we very slightly encouraged the idea that the African slave trade in active operation. If we did-we don't exactly remember at the present writing-it was to make Greeley, Beecher, and company, cavort, howl and rave, and fuss in feathers, not because we had any definite or other knowledge in the premises.'
Funny fellow, this man! We wonder if he ever read the story of the boy, who cried wolf once too often?-Boston Journal.
FREE VS. SLAVE LABOR. The Savannah News says that a contractor on the Main Trunk Road, unable to procure negro labor at a reasonable price, recently went to the North to procure emigrant laborers. He returned on the steamer Florida with forty German laborers, with whom he contracted for six months services as laborers on the road, at $10 to $12 per month. The same contractor is at present obliged, from the scarcity of hands, to pay $20 a month for negroes. The News asks: Can slave labor, restricted and inadequate as it is, maintain its position at the South against the cheaper white emigrant labor of the North?
FATAL DUEL IN CALIFORNIA. The overland mail of the 16th of September, which reached St. Louis on Saturday, brings the intelligence of a fatal duel between Senator Broderick and Chief Justice Terry. It took place near Francisco, on the morning of the 13th. Mr. Broderick fell on the first fire, pierced through the lungs. He lingered till half past 10 o'clock, when he died. The account says that some of the San Francisco papers evince a disposition to consider Mr. Broderick the victim of a conspiracy, but others assert the fairness of the duel. pistol went off before raised into line with his antagonist. Terry's shot took effect two inches from the right nipple, carrying away part of the breast-bone. Mr. Broderick suffered intense agony from the time he was shot till he died.
Mr. Corwin appears to be bent upon making himself as odious to the Republicans as possible, by canting about the fugitive slave law. He made a hard speech on the subject, at Irontown, the other day, and gas'd as much about the rights of slaveholders to have their peculiar property caught for them, when it shall have stolen itself, as if he had an eye to the Charleston Convention's nomination himself No one can to his love of the law, but the theme, most assuredly, is one that need not be hamered away at when a Republican meeting is held. We must wear the chains, we suppose; we can't help ourselves; but it is really too much to have one of our friends argue by the hour that they are ornaments, that we ought to be proud of them, and that we are, in the last resort, all 'nigger catchers." There are Democrats enough to talk such miserable drivel, men whose sworn duty it is to prove that the whole duty of man is to capture runaways who are attempting to carry the Union to Canada. Leave the dirty work to them, to whom it belongs, and whom nature, foreseeing their fate, kindly endowed with a capacity for its performance. The Wagon Boy will prove to be a very slow coach, if he shall continue the course he has recently adopted. The people do not mean to be fed with political husks, having not been so prodigal of principle as to be reduced to necessity of stealing democratic fodder,-Traveller.
COLORED MILITARY AND COLORED MUSIC.-While Massachusetts is endeavoring to foster and encourage dark colored men for Volunteer Militia, the free city of Philadelphia is determined to put down colored bands of music. At the Firemen's Convention which had assembled a few days since, for the purpose of getting up an escort to the Empire Fire Company of Lynn, it was voted to exclude all colored hands from appearing in the line of procession for any Fire Company. In the city of 'Brotherly Love,' no colored persons are allowed to ride in the public omnibusses, hacks, or horse railway cars. They are also excluded from admittance into any fair, concert, or of amusement. No colored person is allowed at the meetings of the City Councils, or in the schools of the city.
A book is about to be published, giving a detailed account of the cruise of the yacht Wanderer when on her last slaving expedition. This book, says the Charleston Mercury, will make a sensation. It is brought out by a person who took a part her adventures, will give a minute account thereof.
<c04>
THE TWENTY-SIXTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY; 
IN THE MONTH OF JANUARY NEXT, IN BOSTON, 1860.
In a year when Americans find themselves citizens of a country where the African slave-trade is going on, and slave-hunting unforbidden, and sheltering the fugitive indicted as a crime, and the leading religious and political influences so dead to this public shame as to discountenance legislative reform, we are confident that we have only to open our subscription in order to be becomingly and effectually sustained by the awakening virtue of the people, in the enterprise to which our lives are given.
We entreat, then, all the friends of and the foes of Slavery, every where, in the South as at the North,-in Europe as in America,-philosophers as well as Christians, Catholics no than Protestants, to subscribe to a fund and a mode of expenditure prepares the way before every sect, every party, every association; which makes all other men's anti-slavery labors light; and which as, for six and twenty been laying the foundations of many generations, so as to exclude slavery from American institutions, and secure to posterity hose blessings of liberty which the last generation passed away without enjoying.
THE UNDERSIGNED, while asking the favor of their subscribers' company, on their customary Anniversary occasion, are impelled by the goodness and the grandeur of the enterprise,-by its indispensable nature, by the universal and fundamental character of its principles,-to entreat also the assistance of all. The crisis in the nation's life makes the occasion:-one which it will be worth crossing the ocean to participate in. And while thanking our European friends for their generous cooperation of last year with America, we ask its continuance yet a little longer; till a spirit of devotedness adequate to this great world-enterprise shall have been here awakened.
From this day forward through the year we begin to arrange our plans, organize our efforts, and economise our means, greater or smaller as the case may be, to meet this great national claim: and we desire all who would see slavery abolished, and truth, honor, peace, liberty and safety in righteousness restored, to meet us at its close, for cheer, counsel, sacrifice, resolve, and generous co-operation.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING.
ELIZA LEE FOLLEN,
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN 
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN,
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON,
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL,
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS,
CAROLINE WESTON,
MARY WILLEY,
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
SARAH PARKER REMOND,
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY,
ABBY FRANCIS,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK,
EVELINA A. S. SMITH,
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL,
AUGUSTA G. KING.
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE, 
ELIZA APTHORP,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT,
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ELIZA ANDREW.
MISS HOSMER'S ZENOBIA. Mrs. L. Maria Child writes to the Home Journal that she has received from Rome a photograph of Miss Hosmer's new statue of Zenobia in chains, as she appeared in the triumphal procession of Aurelian. Mrs. Child adds:
The earnest young sculptor has worked at this great statue with such intensity of purpose, and such untiring labor, that physicians sent her into Switzerland to save her life. The production is worth all the concentrated thought she has bestowed upon it. It far surpasses any thing she has hitherto done. Many women, if they had accomplished half as much, would think they had a right to put up at the Hotel de l'Univers, and do nothing the remainder of their natural lives, but repose on their laurels, and be lionized by visitors. But Miss Hosmer is not one of that stamp. Her soul is so absorbed by an intense love of art, that she will never be satisfied with any stopping-place on the ladder of excellence.
This grand specimen of modern sculpture is now at Rome, in the Academia dei Quiriti. It will be exhibited a short time in London, and then brought to this country.
THE LOST AND FOUND AERONAUTS. Messrs. La Mountain and Haddock, who made an ascension in a balloon from Watertown, N. Y., on the 23d of September, were not heard from till last Monday, when a telegraphic despatch received from La Mountain, dated at Ottawa, Canada West, stating that they came down 150 miles north of Watertown, in the midst of a great wilderness, and were rescued most providentially by a Mr. Cameron, who was in the forest with Indian guides, looking for timbers. They were without food for four days. They travelled in their balloon 300 miles, and were up in the air only from four to five hours.
A WOMAN INSTANTLY TORN TO PIECES. This morning Mrs. Schnabel, a young creole, whose husband is engineer in Merrill's drug mills on St. Charles street, between Fifth and Sixth, went to that place, as usual, about 9 o'clock, to carry him his breakfast. While Schnabel was eating, his wife stood near the machinery, conversing with him. There is a large upright shaft a few inches from the principal wheel that carries the machinery. Mrs. S. was standing near this, and bent over to pick up her husband's pipe. Her dress caught in the cogs of the wheel, and she was drawn in between it and the shaft. Her legs, arms, and backbone were instantly crushed to atoms. The effect of the shock was so great as to break the machinery in several places. Her husband in vain tried to rescue and when the awful fact flashed upon his mind that she was dead, his grief knew no bounds. Mrs. Schnabel was an intelligent, industrious woman, and much devoted to her husband and child.-St. Louis Evening Bulletin, Sept. 17.
Some reactionary rascals have murdered Cora Geffrard, daughter of the President of Hayti. This is the third child the President has lost in a short time. A more barbarous murder than that of the young lady was never perpetrated. She was but 19, and had been a wife only two months. At the time of her murder, she was reading a prayer-book. The object of the assassins was to get up a rebellion against the government, but it was a singular mode to commence action in such a way as to create sympathy for by a deed of unexampled brutality and cowardice. The conspirators failed, and were arrested. Their chief, Gen. Prophets was not prophet enough to foresee his failure.
Ericsson's calorie engine is to be exhibited at the National Fair, and it said will 'demonstrate to farmers of Illinois that it can plough, sow, reap, thresh and go to market with as much safety as the most gentle team of and at an expense of one cent per hour (for fuel and oil) for each horse power employed.
A negro girl at Ghent, Ky. painted herself, and attempted to cross by the ferry to Indiana. The novelty of the steamboat attracted her attention and exposed her ignorance. Suspicion was excited, and she returned to her 'old Kentucky home.'
A terrific gale occurred in St. on Friday last, tearing down chimneys, uprooting trees, displacing and unroofing houses, and doing other destructive work in its course.
New Orleans, Oct. 7. The fillibusters headed by Gen. William Walker, who sailed from Berwick Bay in their own steamer without a clearance, arrested at the SouthWest at Pass at 1 o'clock to-day, by the U.S. Marshal, assisted by the U. S. Artillery. They peaceably surrendered.
Hon. Joshua R. Giddings, who is on a lecturing tour in Vermont, is quite unwell.
<c05>
TREASURER'S REPORT 
Of Receipts, for Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. Wm. I. Bowditch, to redeem pledge, (omitted by late Treasurer.) $100.00
H. J. Prentice, to redeem pledge, 1 00
Wm. I. Catlar, to redeem pledge, 9 50
Miss Mary J. Parkman to redeem pledge, 10 00
C. B. Molntire, to redeem pledge, 3 00
S. May, Jr., to redeem pledge, 50 00
Framingham Celebration, Fourth of July, 97 55
Abington Celebration, First of August 76 78
Charles E. Hodges, donation, 1 00
collections by A. T. Foss.
Wm. Barker, Smith's Mills, $2; Mr. Cummings, do. 1. $3 00
Fall River, $2 36; Hezekish Drown, 3; P.
D. Conant, I; Providence, R.I., 5 00;
Danverspert, 6 65; Springfield, 1 18;
Milford, 20 79; Weare, N.H., 4 53;
West Randolph, Vt., 10; Snowville, 6.
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, Oct. 6, 1857.

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Donations.
A friend, by R. D. Webb, of Dublin, Ireland, $1 20 
From Massachusetts S. Society, being proceeds of the Worcester Fair, 200 00 
FRANCIS JACKSON. Treasurer.

THE WEYMOUTH ANTI-SLAVERY FAIR
WILL OPEN AT
on the afternoon of OCTOBER 25th.
[Hears of starting from the Old Colony depot, Boston, half-past 8 and half-past 2. Hours of return, half-past 10 and half-past 
In the list of contributions, for many of which we are indebted to the kindness of friends in Worcester, Boston and elsewhere, especially in New York State, are a lot of gentlemen's buckskin and fur gloves, ladies' sleeves and collars, children's aprons, drawers, capes, toys. A few of the fine Weymouth-made comforts and basket-bedquilts. A few splendid crochet toilette and table s saucers to accompany a tea or dinner-service. Needle-books, mats, stands, watch-cases in variety too great to specify.
But above all the rest, is the rare occasion now offered to our friends for the timely selection of New Year's Presents for ornamenting the library, chamber or parlor, or enriching the port-folio, consisting of oil and water-color drawings, framed and ready to up, line-engravings, lithographs and mezzotintos, not to be found in the print-shops-the works of distinguished English and French artists. The mere inspection of them will amply repay the slight admission-fee.
There will be a social tea-party on the evening of the 27th, and a social dancing party on the evening of the 28th, both to close at seasonable hours. Refreshments will be constantly provided for distant friends at all hours of the day to suit their convenience; and it is hoped that all who hate slavery, (and who in this neighborhood does not?) will take advantage of the pleasant autumn season, and come together from the four Weymouths, from Boston, from Abington, from Plymouth, Hingham, and all the towns between, from Brookline, Canton, and throughout Norfolk county,-for invigorating social intercourse and anti slavery co-operation.
The Ladies-Managers are in correspondence with eloquent and distinguished friends of the Enterprise, far and near, with the prospect of being able to invite their friends to a festival of the mind and heart as well as to a series of social meetings for rest and amusement.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON and WENDELL PHILLIPS will be present and speak on the occasion, and EDMUND QUINCY has consented to preside at the Tea Party, (Thursday evening, 27th.)
Admittance to the Fair, 12 cents.
Admittance to the Tea-Party, 25 cents.
Admittance to the Social Dancing Party, 50 cents.
Weymouth, Oct. 1859.

WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR. 
DALL'S LECTURES. MERCANTILE HALL.
Mrs. Dall will deliver a course of Lectures at Mercantile Hall, Summer street, on three successive Monday evenings, to commence
MONDAY, Nov. 7, at half-past 7 o'clock. 
Nov. 7.-Low Wages and Hard Work. 
Condition of women employed in slop-work. Way of safety, honorable independence. Dress-makers and governesses. Mayhew's Letters. Noble women among the fallen. Women never forbidden to labor, only ladies. Historical argument. Unhealthiness of French factory labor. Women sold as 'beasts of burden' in England. Metal workers. An absurd fiction in the statement that all men support all women.
Nov. 14. Practical opposition, and the work 
Avocations already open. False ideas of society keep respectable women out of them. Practical opposition not ended. Penn. Medical Society. Census of Great Britain and the United States. Nantucket. Dr. Franklin's sister-in-law. Olive Rose. Baron Toermer and Felicie de Fauveau.
Nov. 21. New work to be done in Boston.
Drowning of Daughters. New means to prevent it. Medical specialities. Dr. Heidenreich. Marian, the Bible woman. Training School for Servants. Knitting factory, &e. &c. Mr. Buckle's position to be questioned. A Labor Exchange. Will you tread the nettles? 
There will be no tickets. Reporters, Clergymen and other lecturers will find free admission.
Single admission 25 cts. Doors open at half-past 6 o'clock.

THE ORIGIN OF MANKIND.
One First Pair, or Many?
Dr. WM. SYMINGTON BROWN has prepared a Lyceum Lecture on the above subject, to which he would direct the attention of liberal Committees. This Lecture embraces a fair statement of the pros and cons, with the results of recent investigations.
Address, Wm. Symington Brown, M. D., 
TO LYCEUM COMMITTEES.-DR. JOHN S. ROCK would respectfully announce to Lyceum Committees and others, that he is prepared to lecture on the following subjects:-
The Character and Writings of Madame 
The Unity of the Races.
The Lights and Shadows of African Life.
CAPE COD ANNUAL MEETING.-The Annual Anti-Slavery Convention, for Barnstable County, will be held at HARWICH, in EXCHANGE HALL, on Saturday and Sunday, November 5th and 6th. It will commence at 2 o'clock, P. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. and other speakers to be more particularly named hereafter, will attend the Convention.
All who have been accustomed to sustain these Conventions in years past, by their presence and cooperation, and all friends of freedom, of whatever name, are requested to attend. All advocates or apologists for Slavery are invited to come. Are we for Liberty or for Slavery? Let none refuse to reply, and let none evade the issue.
ELAM BAKER, Committee.
FRANKLIN ROBBINS, Committee.
J. H. ROBBINS, Committee.
WORCESTER COUNTY SOUTH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-A special meeting of the Worcester County South Division Anti-Slavery Society will be held in WORCESTER, at BRINLEY HALL, on Sunday, October 23d, commencing at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M., and continuing afternoon and evening.
A general attendance of the members is particularly requested; and all friends of freedom are invited to attend.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, CHAS. L. REMOND, and SAMUEL MAY, Jr., will be WILLIAM A. WILSON, Secretary.
WORCESTER NORTH.-The Worcester North A. S. Society will hold a quarterly meeting at East Princeton, Sunday, Oct. ANDREW T. FOSS and SAMUEL MAY, Jr., will attend in behalf of the Massachusetts A. S. Society. Per order.
PRINCETON.-Mr. Foss and Mr. MAY will speak at the Town Hall in Princeton, Saturday evening, Oct. 15.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at
Warren, Tuesday, Oct. 18.
Ware, Wedensday, Oct. 19.
North Brookfield, Friday, Oct. 21.
Springfield, Sunday, Oct. 23.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS.S.A.ALIEN'S WORLD'S 
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
To THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:-'My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually until, on the crown, it had become quite this. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's 'Restorer', according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color. and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THSECRETIONS. My hair censes to fall which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 23.1855.
President J. L. EATON, LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allien's World's restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commended using it, but very but notwithstanding this I found that its was distinctly visible THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PRESENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, ditor 'ladies' Repositary.' Cincinnati. Ohio.
‘I have been using Mrs. S. A Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE. Editor 'Christian Advocate,’ Buffalo, N. Y.
Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleaure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era,' Boston, Mass.
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bold nor gray, my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN. Ed.' Guide to Holiness,' Boston.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which, belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N.Y.
My hair has greatly thickened upon put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural the wig-like produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. Mrs. E. S.ANDRUS, (many Martinsburgh, N. Y. 
In her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allan's, she writes to the 'American Baptist.'-'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. '
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed.' Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity, and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement,' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greens county,.N. Y. 
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c, for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS McFARLANE. Pastor Prof. Dutch Church, Esopus, Ulster country,N. Y.
I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer have produced all the effects described tisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. J. WEST, Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my '
Rev. B. C. SMITH. Prattsbury.N. Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair seen turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistewn, Pennsylvanices.,
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
'We think very highly of your preparation, and have no doubt, if had an agent a large quantity might be disposed of.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to self articles on which they make more profit than on always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. bottle of the will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. 
Address all letters for information &c., to 'Mrs. S.A. Alien's World's Hair Restorer Depot, ' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a criminal offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS October 14. lyoop.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the New York Independent.
AT RICHMOND.
At Richmond, in the month of May,
I climbed the city's lofty crest;
Below, the level landscape lay. 
And proudly streamed from east to west, 
The glories of the dawning day.
Then stand the statues Crawford gave 
His country, while, with bleeding heart, 
She showered upon his open grave 
The laurels of victorious Art, 
And wept the life she could not save.
How grandly, on that granite base,
The youthful hero into sublime; 
The Leader of the chosen Race, 
The noblest of the sons of Time, 
With all his future in his face!
And he who framed the matchless plan 
For Freedom and his Fatherland, 
Type of the just, sagacious Man, 
Like Aristides, calm and grand, 
Within the Roman Vatican.
Nor less he wean the patriot wreath. 
The foremost of the three, who stands 
As when, with his prophetic breath, 
And flashing eyes, and outstretched hands, 
He cried for Liberty or Death!'
Here surely it is good to be—
Whoa Freedom's satire soil I tread. 
And, on the mound, transfigured see 
The Fathers, with whose fame we wed 
The endless blessings of the free.
But when the summit'! ample crown 
Flamed with the morning's fiercer heat, 
I turned, and, slowly passing down, 
With curious gaze, from street to street, 
Went wandering through the busy town.
And lingered, where I chanced to hear 
The voices of s crowd which hung. 
With laugh and oath and empty jeer, 
Beside a door o'er which was swung 
The red flag of the auctioneer.
In truth, it was s motley crew; 
The brutal trader, sly and keen, 
The planter with his sunburnt hue, 
The idle townsman, and between, 
With face unwashed, the foreign Jew.
Within, O God of grace! what sight 
Was this for eyes which scarce had turned 
From yonder monumental height. 
For thoughts upon whose altars burned 
The fires just kindled in its light!
So when the rapt disciples came 
From Tabor on that blessed mom, 
What chilled so soon their hearts of flame? 
The fierce demoniac, wild and torn, 
The cry of human guilt and shame. 
For here were men, young men and old, 
Scarred with hot iron and the lash; 
And women, crushed with griefs untold; 
And little children, cheap for cash; 
All waiting, waiting—to be sold!
For me, each hourly good I crave 
Comes at the bidding of my will; 
For them, the shadows of the grave 
Have gathered, or the woes that fill
The life-long bondage of the slave.
Too long my thoughts were schooled to see 
Some pretext for such fatal thrall;
Now Reason spurns each narrow plea, 
One thrill of manhood cancels all, 
One throb of pity sets me free.
VIRGINIA! shall the Great and Just, 
Like sentries, guard the slaver's den?
 O rise, and from your borders thrust 
This thrice-accursed trade in men, 
Or hurl your heroes to the dust! 
WM.ALLEN BUTLER.

From the National Era. 
LINES FOR VILLAGE FESTIVAL.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
The Persian to his altars bore 
Sweet blossoms fresh with morning dew, 
And veiled the old false worship o'er 
With beauty borrowed from the true;
Around Palaemoc's flowery shrine 
Their mace of grace the maidens wound, 
And wove the wreaths or Isthmian pine 
The victor's brows were crowned;
And we to-day, amidst our flowers 
And fruits, have come to own again 
The blessing of the summer hours. 
The early and the latter rain;
With manhood's strength, and maiden's glance, 
To lend our Christian holiday 
The beauty of the Persian dance, 
The vigor of the Grecian play;
To see our Father's hand once more 
Reverse for us the plenteous horn 
Of autumn, tiled and running o'er 
With fruit and flower and golden corn.
Once more the liberal year laughs out 
O'er richer stores than gems or gold; 
Ones more with harvest-song and shout 
Is Nature's bloodless triumph told:
Our common mother rests and sings 
Like Ruth among the garnered sheaves; 
Her lap is full of goodly things, 
Her forehead gay with autumn leaves!
Oh, favors old, yet ever new! 
Oh, blessings with the sunshine sent! 
The bounty overruns our due, 
The fulness shames our discontent.
We shut our eyes, the flowers bloom on; 
We murmur, but the corn-ears fill; 
We choose the shadow, but the sun 
That casts it shines behind us still.
God gives us with our rugged soil 
The power to make it Eden-fair, 
And richer fruits to crown our toil 
Than summer-wedded islands bear.
Who murmurs at his lot to-day?
Who scorns his native fruit and bloom? 
Or sighs for dainties far away, 
Beside the bounteous board of home?
Thank Heaven, instead, that Freedom's arm 
Can change a rocky soil to gold; 
That brave and generous lives can warm 
A clime with northern ices cold!
And by these altars, wreathed with flowers, 
And piled with fruits, awake again 
Thanksgiving for the golden hours, 
The early and the latter rain.

DEAL GENTLY WITH THE LITTKLE ONES. 
He who checks a child with terror, 
Stops its play, and stills its song. 
Not alone commits an error, 
But a grievous moral wrong. 
Give it play, and never fear it; 
Active life is no defect; 
Never, never break its spirit; 
Curb it only to direct. 
Would yon stop the flowing river, 
Thinking it would cense to flow?
Onward must it flow forever;
Better teach it where to go.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
UNEARTHING OF VERMIN]
The practice of saying that which is not' has had a large currency in all parts of the world, except the country of the Houhnhnyms, (visited and described by Capt. Lemuel Gulliver.) where this offence was so rare that it had received no name other than the periphrastic expression above quoted. In our own ' free and enlightened' country, lying is rather common than otherwise, and is not a crime, not being forbidden by the civil law, though the clergy speak severely of it as a sin, and men of the world stigmatize it as discreditable and shameful. We should fall into a great error, however, if we assumed, from the condemnation of falsehood openly by these two classes, that either of them actually refrained from availing themselves of its temporary advantages in cases of urgent need, that is, when their credit or profit may be promoted, or any impending „ loss or disgrace may be averted by it. The sarcastic statement of the old song is still as much deserved as ever—
'Oh, if it were a mean thing,
The gentles would not use it;
And if it were ungodly. 
The clergy would refuse it.'
In the warfare of sects, and the occasional disputes which arise in their propagandist associations, (as, for instance, in the New York and Boston Tract Societies,) charges of violation of the truth—made in terms less direct and abrupt, though quite as expressive, as those which pass between drunkards and gamblers—freely pass from one side to the other, and are generally deserved on the part of both. But few people know how largely deceptive statements enter into the ordinary operations of the clerical class, and to what an extent their craft is built on, and supported by, misrepresentation; misrepresentations in favor of their side, misrepresentations against the other side; misrepresentations at first assumed, then repeated until custom has given them a sort of currency, then argued upon as a solid foundation for yet more gain to themselves or damage to their opponents. The particular matter of which we now propose to speak is not simply and solely clerical falsehood, the plump lies occasionally told (for the glory of God) by gentlemen of the class in question, but that department of their offences in this kind which infringes at once upon God's truth and the king's English, perverting language from its appropriate meaning, and giving currency to a 'damaged phraseology,' which misleads the community in every case where it is allowed to pass without protest. 
One of the words which has thus suffered, having come well nigh to lose its distinctive meaning, and to take on a new, and entirely alien, signification, in the common speech (and for the self-glorification) of those who chiefly use it, is 'Congregationalism.' The Christian Examiner for the present month has collected some curious specimens of the habitual use of this word, and its congeners, by orthodox clergymen, as if its meaning included Trinitarian doctrine as well as a particular form of church-government, and as if Trinitarians had a right to monopolize it for their own purposes. The earliest specimen which it quotes of this misuse of the word occurred nearly twenty years ago, in the American Quarterly Register, where certain statistical tables, prepared by Rev. Dr. Gillett, of Hallowell, and purporting to give a complete list of the ' Congregational' societies of Maine, omitted most of the Unitarian societies, all of which were as thoroughly Congregational as their orthodox opponents. 
This fraudulent employment of the word 'Congregational' to represent a part of that denomination as the whole, and utterly to ignore the other part, had been used many years before by the founders of the 'Congregational Board of Publication,' in 1829.Their purpose was to diffuse the theological ideas comprised under the word Orthodoxy; but since many Congregationalists were diametrically opposed to Orthodoxy, the Board made their terms of membership such as to exclude this class, retaining, nevertheless, a descriptive appellation to which both parties had an equal right, and avoiding the limitary epithet which would properly describe their own exclusive and sectarian character. The thirteenth Annual Report of this Board, issued in this city in the present year, tells us that its founders were men ' with one mind and one judgment embracing the theology sometimes called the Edwardean, sometimes the Hopkinsian, and sometimes the New England Theology.' These founders knew very well that a large class of Congregationalists with one mind and one judgment rejected this theology. And if Charming, Buckminster and Ware had organized a society for the diffusion of their theological ideas, and called it the Congregational Board of Publication, while they refused to admit Orthodox Congregationalists into it, the latter class would have been very ready to see, and very prompt to declare, the dishonesty of such a proceeding. Let us pass to another ‘Congregational' Society. 
The Sixth Annual Report of the Directors of the ' Congregational Library Association," presented in Boston, May 24th, 1859, now lies before us. It speaks of the meeting of the Association as held in the Congregational Building'; refers to the recent establishment of 'The Congregational Quarterly'; acknowledges contributions to 'The Congregational Building Fund'; congratulates its readers on the establishment of a CONGREGATIONAL HOME 'in the building aforesaid; and speaks of its efforts and purpose' to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace among the entire Congregational family in our land.' The Constitution, however, restricts the voting membership to ministers and laymen connected with the Orthodox Congregational denomination.' In every other part of the pamphlet, the word Congregational is used in the above deceptive sense, as if they were the sole representatives of it. 
In like manner, the 'American Congregational Union,' established in New York city six years ago, constantly uses the words in question as if they belonged to orthodox Congregationalists.
The Constitution of this body specifies the following among its particular objects and purposes: 'to publish authentic information concerning the history, condition and continued progress of the Congregational churches in all parts of this country,' and to afford increased facilities for mutual acquaintance and friendly intercourse and helpfulness among ministers and churches in the Congregational order.' In the execution of these purposes, the ' Union' publishes The American Congregational Year-Book,' giving an 'Alphabetical List of Ministers,' Statistics of the Churches,' and a Catalogue,' with Biographical Notices, of' Congregational Ministers who died in 1858. All these lists systematically exclude and ignore all but Orthodox Congregational ministers and churches. And although the Rev. Secretary of the 'Union' and Compiler of the 'Year-Book' admits that 'no minutes are complete until all churches are reported, and alphabetically arranged in their several Associations and until an alphabetical list of all the Congregational ministers in the State it made out,' he does this only to stimulate the 'State Scribes' to a fuller report Orthodox ministers and churches. The honesty of his 'American Congregational Year-Book' may be judged by the fact, that of the thirty-four Congregations Ministers of this city, be reports only twelve, utterly ignoring the existence of all but those of the Orthodox stripe.
In the same manner, 'The Congregational Quarterly the first number of which was published in this city in January 1859, pretending to give a 'CONGREGATIONAL NECROLOGY for 1858,' and lists, as perfect as their time and meant would permit, of the
'Congregational Churches formed during 1858,'
<c03>
'Congregational Pastors dismissed during 1858.'
'Congregational Pastors settled during 1858,' 
'Congregational Ministers married during 1858,' 
'Congregational Ministers deceased during 1858,'
carefully omits all the Congregational bodies and functionaries in question, except the Orthodox ones, 
The worst specimen, however, of the misuse of this word of which we are complaining—the worst, because it gives currency to the false meaning in the very act of assuming to explain the true one—is found in a quarter where we should least have looked for it, 'The New American Cyclopaedia' conducted by Messrs. Ripley and Dana. The Orthodox clergy-man to whom they have entrusted the work of informing their readers what Congregationalism is, commences by correctly defining its essential peculiarity, as follows: 'It maintains the independence of each particular congregation of Christians, and their sufficiency to perfect and maintain their own organization, to elect and inaugurate their own officers, and with and through these officers to perform all needful ecclesiastical acts. Like every other system of church order it may be connected with any form of doctrine, and any particular mode of worship.' Almost immediately however, this author proceeds to take advantage of the usage dishonestly manufactured (as above described) by his Reverend Orthodox brethren, and writes his article in such a manner as to give currency to the false interpretation which they have put upon the word. Here is his language, in which, with unspeakably impudent coolness, this purpose is avowed:—' In the common, though more limited and strictly denominational sense in which it will be rued ' it will be used in this article, the word Congregational designates a class of churches which hold in general that system which was maintained by Augustine and Calvin.'
Let us turn to another case in which language and truth are at once perverted to serve a sectarian purpose.
Mr. Gerrit Smith had written—in opposition to a, well-known dogma of the Orthodox creed—'When we are told that God has prepared an eternal hell—a place of endless and inconceivably exquisite torture—or a large share of his children, we are sure that this shocking picture finds no counterpart and no warrant in creation and Providence. These tell us of a Father, and not of a fiend; of love, and not of hatred; of forgiveness, and not of revenge. These tell us that in all ages God has made his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and has sent his rain on the just and on the unjust; and these bid us hope that in other worlds, as well as in this, he will still be the father and the friend of men.' 
The Independent wishes to oppose this doctrine, to bring discredit upon it, and to represent it as unreasonable as well as unscriptural. And the characteristic method by which it undertakes to do this is to represent Mr. Smith's denial of an eternal fiery hell as a denial of 'future retribution,' and of 'the moral government of God.' So it heads the article in question—'Gerrit Smith on Retribution.' It introduces an extract from Mr. Smith's discourse (commencing with the passage above quoted) with the words—'We give his views of the doctrine of future retribution.' At the close of this extract it asks—'Is there then "no warrant in creation and Providence" for the doctrine of retribution?'—as if this, instead of 'hell’ had been the object of Mr. Smith's assault. And it proceeds to the direct falsehood of saying that Mr. Smith's argument 'ignores the moral government of God.' 
The concentration of impudence, injustice and falsehood in these comments of the Independent upon Mr. Smith make them worth dwelling upon for a moment, as an illustration of the character, the policy, and the theological system of that paper. That system assumes that, to the thousands of millions of human beings who have died 'impenitent sinners,' God has already discontinued all fatherly kindness and friendliness, and will henceforth, throughout eternity, manifest himself to them only as a pitiless tormentor, making no attempt to dissuade them from sinning, and vigilant only to continue their suffering. Gerrit Smith, on the other hand, assumes—on the reasonable ground (which, in this case, happens also to be Scriptural ground) that God is unchangeable, that He shows fatherly kindness towards impenitent sinners here, and that here also he desires, encourages, and assists their repentance and reform—that in no future state of existence will He ever lose these dispositions, or discontinue the manifestation of them. What words will express the monstrousness of the claim that the former of these systems maintains, and that the latter ignores, the MORAL GOVERNMENT of God! 
An article entitled ' A Subject for the Times,' in a later number of the Independent. (Sept. 22,) mourning over the increasing disbelief in hell, and deceitfully representing this as a disbelief in ' retribution' contains the following direct and deliberate lies, mixed with many other statements ingeniously combining truth with falsehood.
Lie No. 1. 'Of course, all who reject the Biblical scheme of redemption reject the idea of a retribution by positive legal sanctions, to take effect in a future and eternal world.' 
Lie No. 2. 'In the chapters published in the September number of the Atlantic Monthly, she [Mrs. Stowe] puts into the mouth of a mother lamenting the death of a son of whose conversion she was not well assured, the whole force of her logic kindled with all the earnestness of a mother's love, to urge objections to the doctrine of future retribution.' 
Lie No 3. 'Mr. Theodore Parker, Gerrit Smith, Esq., and Rev. Mr. Frothingham of this city, have recently published letters or discourses in which they urge the same plea—that because God is a Father, he will not inflict upon his children retributive punishment in a future state.'
So malignant and so enormous have been the falsehoods systematically uttered by the 'religious' press respecting Mr. Parker, that we will mention here, for the information of those who have not been accustomed to hear or read him, that his teaching respecting future retribution has invariably been that God will render to every man 'according to his works,' throughout eternity not less than in time. 
Our next instance of the violation of truth combined with the perversion of good English, is also from the Independent. After speaking (Aug. 28th) of a book recently published—' Theodore Parker's Experience as a Minister'—as taking rank 'with the worst effusions of Thomas Paine,' it says of the author—'Now we find him in the wont grade of infidelity. The same paper, some years ago, spoke of William Lloyd Garrison as 'an infidel of a most degraded class.' Probably Rev. Leonard Bacon, one of the editors, is accountable for both these statements. The editors and correspondents of the Independent have often insinuated similar charges, in other language, against both these gentlemen. 
Now, the particular ground of these charges, as well as of the charge of blasphemy ' which has so often been made by the same unscrupulous railers against Mr. Parker and Mr. Garrison, is the position taken by these persons in regard to the Bible. They have frequently been charged by the whole class of papers misnamed 'religious,' (of which the Independent is a representative and type,) with rejecting the Bible, throwing away the Bible, treating the Bible with contempt, trampling the Bible under foot, &c. &c. And the very article in the Independent of which we have last spoken charges Dr. O. W. Holmes, the author of the Breakfast Table papers in the Atlantic Monthly, with 'malignity against the Bible.' Each repetition of these charges is a deliberate lie, a calumnious accusation made either without evidence or against evidence; for the truth respecting their treatment of the Bible is the very opposite of these statements. Instead of throwing it away, they carefully keep and study it; instead of rejecting it, they are constantly quoting the highest and noblest truths from its pages; instead of despising it, they have constantly spoken of it as pre-eminent in the highest
<c04>
class of books, and have censured their censurers (the people who pay it an exaggerated and idolatrous word-reverence)for not coming up to those of its requisitions which are just and righteous. 
That which these three men really deny and reject the priestly hypothesis, constantly asserted, but never proved, (and not even asserted by the Bible u r itself.) of the divine inspiration and infallible correctness of every portion of the Jewish and Christian Scriptures; together with the practical inference drawn by the clergy from this assumption, that reason, justice and humanity must give way when any portion of the volume thus formed by the collected writings of forty or fifty Jews and Christians shall come in n conflict with them. 
The clergy, in all parts of our country, defend slavery and capital punishment, and use their influence for the continuance of those abominations, on the alleged ground that the Bible favors them. Mr. Garrison and Mr. Parker say 'fit be true that the Bible, for our belief in the authorizes things so manifestly evil, to much the worse for the Bible; for our belief in the justice and benevolence of God, and in the duty of men to practice justice and benevolence towards each other, is not to be cancelled by the counter declaration of a book, or of all the books in the world.' As soon as I they had taken this ground—a ground certainly reverent towards God and accordant with the Golden Rule—the clergy commenced that practice which they have continued to the present moment, of stigmatizing these men as Infidels,' and their efforts in behalf of the poor, the oppressed and the ignorant as y malignant philanthropy.' And, in one of the very 'articles from which we have quoted above, the Independent sneers at the writings of Dr. Holmes and l Mrs. Stowe, as showing ' a sentimental regard for the honor of God as a Father'! 
The exposure of a lie, and especially of a malignant insinuation which perverts, without directly violating, the truth, requires much more space than that occupied by the lie or the insinuation itself. We have exhausted this week's space for the enumeration, but not the catalogue of the offences in question. As the razor-strop man says—There are a few more left of the same sort.—C. K. W. 

RESOLUTIONS,
Adopted at the Annual Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society, held at Alliance, Ohio, September 3d, 1859. 
Resolved, That in the signs the times, as read and seen in the present daring and desperate demands of the slaveholders, and the willingness of the Federal Government to yield to their every behest, and the fearful apathy of the people in Church and State on the whole subject of slavery and slavery aggression including the already re-opened African slave trade, we are more and more assured at this our seventeenth anniversary, not only that our work is not done, but is becoming more and more important, more and more pressing; demanding greater faith and fortitude, more intense self-consecration, and of that spirit of martyrdom which has always distinguished the march of every real reform;—and, trusting in the sacredness of our cause, and in the power of truth and its great Author, we will, with augmented seal and fidelity, pursue our warfare with the despotism which rules our land, until victory perch upon our banner, or we perish (as so many have already) beneath it. 
Whereas, the instrumentality which holds the slave in his bonds is the physical force, concentrated through the Constitution in the government of the United States, and which is composed of the united strength of all individuals who voluntarily support it; be it 
Resolved, That the claim of freedom from participating in the sin of slaveholding is unfounded in every religious organization which tolerates in its members the holding of office, or voting under the United States Constitution.
Whereas, by the condition of the American Constitution, the entire natural power is pledged to suppress any insurrection among the slaves; therefore,
Resolved, That should the slaves, in the true spirit of the Revolution of 1776, ever unsheath the sword of rebellion, and attempt by violence to obtain their freedom, our wishes, our hopes, our hearts, and our hands too,(so far as we believe they can be righteously employed,) shall be always on the side of the oppressed, and against the oppressor, in defiance of all Constitutions, statutes, demands or decisions to the contrary.
Whereas, it has been fully demonstrated in the recent Oberlin Wellington Rescue Case, that the State government has either no authority or no power to protect the citizens of the State from the outrageous aggressions of the slaveholder under the Fugitive Slave Law; therefore, 
Resolved, That it has become the right and the most solemn duty of the people themselves, to secure such protection to themselves and families from the prowling kidnapper and slave-hunter, and from the Federal Government, his ever faithful servant, as God and nature have put in their power, and by all means which, in their judgment, are approved by righteousness and true religion. 
Resolved, That in view of the Anti-Slavery professions of the Republican party, and the influence which it possesses through these professions to mislead the honest but ill-informed masses, and employ in the support of slavery the efforts intended for its overthrow so as almost to even deceive the very elect, we feel called upon in this our annual assembly, solemnly to renew our protest against the principles and policy of the Republicans, as the most efficient and dangerous obstacle to the successful completion of our labors.
Resolved, That were there no other charge to be preferred against the Republican party, its action towards the free people of color in the northern states and territories is sufficient to cover it with shame and condemnation; ministering, as it does, to the general 'prejudice against color' that fetters in almost every religious denomination, and literary, social, political, or scientific association, it is emphatically what it calls itself, the 'white man's party;' and proving by its action that it is that, and nothing more, we must brand it as wholly below the spirit of the age, the wants of humanity, and the respect and co-operation of any honest and impartial lover of mankind. 
Resolved, That the African Slave Trade is already re-enacted, in fact, if not inform; and the failure of the government to even fulfil ha treaty stipulations to prevent it, or provide any vigorous measures for its arrest, or to punish as its own law provides, the moat desperate and daring pirates who carry it on, affords but another evidence that we live under a despotism the most fearful that now curses the earth, and that cannot too soon be hurled to the deepest and most irrecoverable destruction. 
Resolved, That the dishonorable manner in which our petitions to the last Ohio Legislature for a Personal Liberty Law were met by that body shall not deter as from importunately demanding its enactment, until it is secured, and until Ohio is made as safe and secure to the fugitive from southern slavery, as it is already to the less fortunate exiles from the governments of the old world.
Resolved, That in all the agitation against slavery by political parties, pulpits or churches, white fidelity to the Constitution and confederacy is maintained, we see, instead of hope for the enslaved, only a melancholy exhibition of the degeneracy, the moral weakness, and the blindness of the age, and incapacity to grapple with the great Problems and Reforms which should be its honor and glory. And white recognizing and rejoicing in every well-intended word or act from whatever source, in earnest protest against the great curse and crime of the country, we would still, as the forlorn hope of the bondman, press forward in our stern battle, ever true to our glorious motto—'No
UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS
<c05>
A. 8. CONVENTION IN ILLINOIS. 
EARLVILLE (La Salle county. Illinois,) September 24, 1959. 
A Convention assembled to-day, in the Court-House at Ottawa, in response to a public call, which, after two harmonious and successful sessions, having adopt a Declaration of Sentiments similar to those of the American Anti-Slavery Society, adopted at Philadelphia on the 4th of December, 1833, a Preamble and Constitution for a permanent Anti-Slavery organization, a portion of which was copied from the Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and a set of resolutions, (a copy of which I enclose,) adjourned, subject to the call of the Executive Committee. 
Mr. John Hossack, a Scotchman by birth, and an emigrant to the West at an early day, and now a wealthy merchant of Ottawa, was called to the chain, and afterwards elected President of the Society. Mr. Hossack has been an abolitionist for many years. His splendid mansion on the south bank of the Illinois river at Ottawa was pointed out to me, on my first visit to the West, six years ago, as a depot of the U. G. R. R., of which, like Thomas Garrett, he baa been an industrious and faithful agent for twenty years, His selection for President of the Society was most fitting. 
Prominent in the Convention was Rev. George W. Bassett, who also was an early resident of Ottawa, and I believe the successor of Rev. Mr. Con-way in Washington. It was chiefly through the efforts of Mr. Bassett that the Convention was called, Mr. Bassett is a fine speaker, and an energetic and thorough-going Abolitionist. 
Rev. Mr. Slade, formerly of Foxboro'. Mass., latterly from Aurora, 111., and now resident minister in Ottawa, was present, and took an active part in the Convention. His well-known anti-slavery zeal while n Massachusetts has not abated in the least, although he is now surrounded by quite a pro-slavery community. 
I read a portion of the Declaration of Sentiments of the American Anti-Slavery Society, stated something of it principles, history and labors in the Anti-Slavery cause, and urged the Convention to organize the Society on the broad and catholic platform of the American Society, and as an auxiliary to it. A resolution, (the sixth in the series,) expressing the readiness of the Society to co-operate with the American Anti-Slavery Society and its auxiliaries, was afterwards reported by the Business Committee, and unanimously adopted. Able speeches were made during the day by Rev. Messrs. Bassett, Slade and others, which would have done honor to an old line Garrisonian Convention. I regret that I cannot send you a specimen. 
I look upon this movement as a very significant and important one. First, it is the first genuine Anti-Slavery Society in Illinois, formed on the very spot where the Republican party of the State was born six years ago. We confidently expect that the fire kindled in Ottawa to-day will spread all over the State in two yean—especially will the principles of the third resolution become the watch-word of a dominant party, by the meeting of the next Legislature. 
Second. La Salle county is one of the largest in the State, in point of territory, and the second in population, having 35,563 inhabitants in 1865. This population gives it great political importance in the State. We expect, through the organization formed to-day, to exert a very decided influence upon the Republican organization of this county, and, through the Republican party, upon the politics of the State. The Black Law must be stricken from the Statute Book, and the Fugitive Slave Law nullified, and all men protected by law in this State. This is the cry we intend to raise, and keep up until we have what we ask for. But I will not enlarge further than to say that I have held two meetings in the town of Ross's Grove, in De Kaib Co., at which I had a good attendance, and at each of which I gave them a speech and a dozen or two of tracts. Both tracts and speeches seemed to be well received at the time, but a committee came nine miles the next week, to ascertain whether I was an infidel! The committee said they did not believe I was an infidel, but to satisfy their minister and certain others, they had concluded to call and see! Suffice it to say, that they departed perfectly satisfied that said suspicions were altogether unfounded. The following is Article 2d of the Constitution of our new Anti-Slavery organization:—
'The object of this League shall be the dissemination of Anti-Slavery truth, the increase of the Anti-Slavery spirit, and such combination of influence, and such concentration and direction of effort as shall seem adapted to the destruction of slavery, and the advancement of the cause of liberty.'
Article 3d and 4th are the same as Article 4th and 5th of the Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society. 
The Declaration of Sentiments is too long for this article, but such as all radical Abolitionists would endorse. 
The following are the resolutions, which, after being discussed, were unanimously adopted:—
1. Resolved, That religion, humanity and patriotism demand of every American the most aggressive, efficient and untiring exertions for the emancipation of every slave, and the entire and thorough eradication of the spirit of slavery from the country. 
2. Resolved, That the Black laws of this State are mean and inhuman, their provisions criminal in their character, disgraceful to our Commonwealth, a direct encouragement to slavery, and a serious discouragement to the cause of liberty. And that a party, to be worthy of the political support of the true friends of liberty, must wield their power for their immediate and utter repeal. 
3. Resolved, That the people of Illinois owe it to their self-respect, as sovereigns of an independent State, and to a decent regard for the principles of religion, morality and common humanity, to take immediate measures to secure the passage of a Personal Liberty Bill which shall make our soil an inviolable! sanctuary to the slave the moment he trends it; and that the political aspirant who is not heartily devoted! to the attainment of such a bill, is unworthy of the suffrages of a free, just, and liberty-loving people. 
4. Resolved, That the exigencies of our government, both State and National, in a special manner demand the elevation of men of uncorruptible moral integrity to fill the offices of public trust. 
5. Resolved, That the extent of the social, political and religious degeneracy of our country, under the auspices and moral influence of slavery, admonish all true patriots and genuine Christians of the necessity of immediate and extensive organizations for the purpose of averting the progress of despotism, and reviving the dying spirit of liberty. 
Whereas, it is most desirable and highly important that the true friends of impartial liberty in the United States should become better known to each other, and, so far as practicable, unite, organize and cooperate together for the accomplishment of the common object; therefore, be it, 
6. Resolved, That this Society express its readiness and willingness to co-operate with the American Anti-Slavery Society and its auxiliaries, and all other Anti-Slavery Societies, of whatever name, which are earnestly and faithfully laboring to promote the abolition of American slavery.
Thus is the Anti-Slavery spirit, of the moat radical type, like a hidden fire, manifesting itself from time to time when least expected. The existence and manifestation of this spirit, and the universal agitation of the slavery question, are as natural and inevitable phenomena as floods, flowers and sunshine in their season. What folly to call the abolitionists the prime movers of this agitation! They are no more entitled to this honor than they are to the honor of es-
<c06>
tablishing other law of mind and matter. Abolitionists are agents, not actors; effects, not causes they are but the first fruit of this universal spirit, by no means its source. 0, Democrat! o, church, ocrat! not unto us is to be attributed all this upheaving of fossilized religious and political hunkerism, but unto a Power which moves and moulds us all, and which has ever moved and moulds the world mind through ail time. Before you can stop this agitation, you will first have to dethrone the Almighty, and subvert the law of progression, enstamped upon man nature itself. 
Yours, truly,
A. J. GROVER.

LANDS FOR SALE.
LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass., and constituting a part of the original Community domain are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland—most of the-tillage being under a high state cultivation-and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy or erect buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, pleasure, or profit may dictate. Persons also literary inclination and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands an offered. who may desire for themselves and families superior moral and social influences of Hopedale or who may wish to secure for their children the advantage of the Hopedale Home School—a flourishing institution of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in he attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education--will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home. 
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R. R., by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England. 
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family. 
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of
E. D. DRAPER, 
Hopedale, Milford, Mass, 
June 17,1859.—tf.

HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E. D. Draper's advertisement as above, offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedale Community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into homesteads of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to persons friendly to our distinguishing principles, who may choose to settle in our midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends cherishing a general sympathy with, our people, and desiring to give their children the advantages of our excellent select and common schools, will avail then-selves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the Unitary social arrangement, the anticipation of which originally attracted us hither, the next best thing is, to see as good a Neighborhood built; up as circumstances will allow. We are therefore pleased with Br. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement be crowned with success—Pactical Christian.

GET THE BEST
WEBSTER UNABRIDCED
pictorial edition
1500 pictorial illustrations 
GET THE BEST.
WEBSTER's
UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY 
1500 pictorial illustration.
9000 to 10,000 NEW WORDS in the vocabulary 
Table of synonyms by Prof. GOODRICH.
With other new features. Together with all toe matter of previous editions. 
In one volume of 1750 pages. Price $6 50. Sold by all Booksellers. G. & C. MERRIAM, Springfield, Mass
sep.9. 6t.

CARPETING
'All the Year round.' JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET. (NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from england, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons. Velvets. best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Fellings Canton and cocos Matting
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PBICES,
Far cash or approved credit
Sept 16 tf

NEW ENGLAND
Female Medical College
SPRINGFIELD STREET, BOSTON
THE Twelfth Annual Term will commence on WEDNESDAY Nov.2, 1859, and continue seventeen weeks. PROFESSORS: Enoch C. ROLFE, M.D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; John K. palmer, M.D., Materia Medica, Therapeutics and chemistry; Stephen Tracy, M, D., Anatomy And Surgery; marie E. Zakraawska, M. D., Obstetrics and diseases of Women and Children; France S. cooke, M.D Physiology and Hygine; Mary R.JENKS, M.D., Demonstrator. Fee. $5 for each of the six tickets Free tuition from State Scholarships, for students in Massachusetts. Room to be had by students in the College building. The College has now clinical Department for the practical education of its students. ENOCH C. ROLFE, Dean of the Faculty, 
Sep.23. 563 Washington st.

BOARDING HOUSE. 
ROBERT B. CROSBY would inform his anti slavery friends, and such others as desire pleasant rooms and good board, that having opened house No.23. Eliot street, a few doors from Washington street, he will he happy to entertain such as may pleased to favor him with their patronage
Boston, sept, 10, 1859. tf
