THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-ones square for $1.00
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies authorities to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the papers, viz.:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 14. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1587.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Spartanburg South Carolina, Spartan.
GOOD SUNDAY READING.
In the case of an eloquent sermon, delivered to his congregation on the 25th anniversary of his ordination as their minister, Rev. Dr. Robbins, of Boston, a Unitarian clergyman of much ability, thus spoke of the duties proper of the pulpit, and the fitting use to make of the Sunday religious services. ‘O, si sic omnes!' 
At length, after much experience and observation, my judgment was made up, my course was taken.-I had seen no good, but often ill, effects result from using the pulpit for political discussions and social disquisitions. I had no reason to expect that any good, I might be able to accomplish, by the treatment of secular themes, would counterbalance the harm I should risk doing. I was doubtful of my ability to disease them with sufficient knowledge, discretion, impartiality and force, to lead to any important result. I was afraid of bringing into the sanctuary another fire than that caught from the fire of God-of speaking in another spirit than that imbibed at the feet of Jesus. I determined to know in the pulpit no other kingdom but the spiritual kingdom which ‘cometh without observation'-no party, however high and pure its avowal platform, but the company of Christ's confessed and loyal disciples-no philanthropy but the Christian charity which  ‘suffereth long, and is kind; which envieth not, vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil: beareth all things, hopeth all things, endareth all things, and never faileth'-no instrumentality of reform but the regenerating words of God-no sure hope for humanity but in the power and preaching of the cross of Christ.
But one consideration weighed upon my mind more powerfully than any other. It was the connection of the pulpit with the Sabbath day-a day which I believe it to be absolutely necessary to the true welfare of our busy, restless, striving, struggling people. to concentrate to its legitimate uses-to set apart for spiritual rest, refreshment and consolation-so that the whole community, as far as possible, may be brought under its peculiar influence of peace, conciliation and religious joy. I regard the Sabbath-and every year's experience deepens the feeling-as a day sacred to tranquility of soul. to peaceful thought and harmonious emotion-to thankfulness and hope and love and joy-to the forgiveness of injuries the forgetting of distinctions, the cessation of all hostilities, the interruption of all debates-to filial approaches to our heavenly Father, and fraternal advances towards our fellow-men.
A blessed time of truce-by the general consent of the Christian church in all ages-a blessed time of truce, the common inheritance, the sacred right of all; the full enjoyment of which by his brother man, of whatever name or rank or party, or shade of opinion, no individual has a right to violate; and he who stands in a Christian pulpit should be the last to wish or venture to violate. A blessed season of armistice; when the white flag should wave from the tower of every church, from the windows of every home, and in the hands of men as they meet and pass in the streets, though yesterday they may have battled as opposing partizans the forum; or to-morrow they may be arrayed against each other at the polls.
A blessed day of jubilee, when all shall be allowed to lay down their implements of toil, to emerge from the confinement of the shop, to rest from menial offices, to put off the garb of labor and the badges of service, and put on the holiday attire, to wend their way towards the open gate of some amiable tabernacle of Hosts, or walk forth in the fields or public squares with easy pace and quiet mind, to inhale the incense of morn or even, and join in the silent worship of nature in its more spacious and beautiful temple-when not only such rest and such liberty as this shall be the privilege of all but rest and freedom also to the mind and heart-from all the excitements of the week; from all agitating discussion and embittering controversies; from the repetition of every day's political debate; from the infliction of listening in the church to feeble echoes of the harangues at the hustings; from every watchword of party, which, acting like a war cry upon slumbering animosity and prejudices, will rob the heart of its peace, and despoil the soul of its most needful and sweet enjoyments.
I have regarded and treated the Sabbath as such a day of truce, of armistice, of jubilee. I have looked upon my congregation as a company, not only of men and young men, but also of women and maidens and little children; of all ages and <illegible>, of all varieties of political opinion, in all the different stages of moral and spiritual development; not only citizens of an earthly commonwealth, but candidates also for a heavenly; who have came up to the temple to praise, to pray, to enjoy an hour of devotion; to be impressed with a sense of the presence of God, to imbibe the spirit of Jesus, to be enlightened by the pure, peaceful merciful and beneficent ‘wisdom which is from above.’ I have doubted, therefore, my right to turn the whole tide of thought in all these minds into the channel of a discussion for which many of them are entirely unprepared, which would be most uncongenial to the state of feeling of others, which would be unsuited to the religious wants of not a few, and from which some have come to the place of worship to be for a season diverted. I have doubted my right to revive disputes and distinctions, from the influence of which it is the duty and ought to be also the desire of those who are ordinarily most affected by them, to be delivered in the sanctuary. I have doubted my right to spoil any man's enjoyment of that house of prayer, which he himself has helped to build and to sustain for his own and his children's devotional duties, by forcing him to listen to a one-side debate against his political creed, and making him feel as if he had been dragged against his will into the caucus hall of an opposition party. I am convinced that if I were in the hearer's place, and the preacher, on the Sabbath day, should impose upon me a political lecture in the place of a Christian sermon, I should feel grieved and mortified.

THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO CHOATE.
THE 'DUMB DOG' OF ESSEX STREET CHURCH.
The twenty-fifth anniversary of the settlement of Rev. Nehemiah Adams (better known as ‘South-side Adams) over the Essex street church, in this city, was celebrated at that church on Monday evening of last week. Hon. Rufus Choate made a speech of considerable length, glorifying his pastor, in that he never reminded him of his sins in the past week, or warned him against the prospective sins of the week to come, and setting forth his idea of the duty of a minister of the Gospel. We make the following extracts from a report in the Traveler:-
There is another reason, which I, committing nobody, running the risk of differing from many of you, laymen and clergy, but assuming to act for
<illegible>
<c02>
nobody but myself, with your permission, will proceed to give, as a reason, why a sober, conscientious and thoughtful layman might well have attended the worship of this church. And that is, permit me to say, that we have every one assuredly felt, as we came here from Sunday to Sunday, and took our seats in our pew, that we should hear nothing in the world but religion preached from that pulpit, and no manner of politics, State or national, directly or indirectly. We came here, if we came as we professed we did, to hear of those things which pertain to religion, to the salvation of the soul, and to the rest everlasting. And I may be permitted to say for myself, that I have uniformly found it to be true, and I have uniformly reconciled-if I needed to reconcile-my own attendance upon this church, by the consideration of that truth-I have uniformly found it to be true that I heard nothing, was assailed by nothing, was secularized by nothing, was defended or attacked by nothing which I had done, nothing for which I had voted or acted in the political world without. All of us spent the week before, and all of us were obliged to spend the week afterwards, more or less in that same heated, <illegible>, political world; there we acted, there we had to debate, there we lost our temper; but I thank my pastor that I am able to say, in the presence of so many, and such respectable clerical friends as those I see  about me, that never in an introductory prayer, never in a hymn, occasionally, or in the ordinary course of public worship selected, never by any illustration in any sermon, by any train of association, right or wrong, carried back into the world, that I had left, and which I should have been willing, for that day at least, to have forgotten forever. Of religion, and a correct moral personal life-of these I came to hear, and of these alone have I ever heard at any time.
I have no manner of doubt that there are a great many pulpits in Boston, of which the same thing might be said. I do not personally know that it might not be said of every one. I know that it can be truly said of this, and I am thankful to be able to thus publicly state that I know it to be true. 
And now, since I have mentioned this subject, my friends, may I be permitted, without presuming to complain of anybody, or to dictate to anybody, and still more without assuming to myself to preach concio ad clerum, or to preach at all, may I be permitted, on behalf of uninstructed and unprofessional laymen, to say one single word to serious clergymen, on the duty of a rigorous abstinence from politics, and from any element which has been connected, in any way, with active party politics, on the Lord's day. I need not say that I have a great deal too much personal respect and love for the profession, in all its denominations, that I too perfectly appreciate the past and present transcendent good they have done to their country and to man, to wish, even if I had it in my power, to abate a title of the just respect that is due to them, or to impair in the least degree the just influence which they have acquired and which they possess in this community, still less to intrude into that secret and elevated circle of private judgment which is every man's right. But I will say, I repeat, in behalf of laymen, once more, that it is exactly because we love and honor them, it is exactly because we would do every thing we can, not merely to pay the allotted salary, but every-where to preserve to them the influence which the selection of their field of duty has entitled them to exert, that I take the liberty, in the presence of some of them, to say something. 
Permit me then to suggest, in the first place, that he who preaches on politics, or on any topic in the least degree connected with practical party politics, in the pulpit, lays himself under the suspicion, at least from many, many laymen, that his motives are not entirely unobjectionable, and that thus he does something, or does much to unfit him for the full and perfect performance of the great duty to which he has been solemnly called. I do not say that such a man is not a very bold man; I do not say that he is not a very sincere man; I do not say that he is not as hold and sincere as an old prophet standing up before a king, and in the eloquence of an expiring nation, denouncing his sins, and the sins of his people.
But I mean to say, that he runs a great risk of being suspected, not to be bold and not to be sincere at all. He runs the risk of being suspected, and he is suspected of denouncing a slaveholder, not because he hates the slaveholder, or feels that he has any thing to do with the business, but because some rich man in his congregation hates slaveholders, and be cause he pleases him by denouncing them. He runs the risk of being suspected, not of being brave against a danger which is a thousand miles away, but of being a coward, and bowing down before a supposed danger that is very near him. He runs the risk of being suspected, not of being bold, to challenge a man who cannot do him any harm, but of challenging that same man because he is afraid that another, who can do him harm, may be within the reach of his voice. He runs the risk of being suspected, not of braving a danger that may arise from a distant region, and a distant public sentiment, but of being afraid of a public sentiment at hand, that may take the form of a danger, that may risk his salary, or by possibility induce the chance of calling a council of dismission. And thus it comes to pass, as I submit, and as I have heard it many times remarked, that this suspicion unfits him to do the duty which we expect of a minister of the gospel, and thus of doing something to violate that great trust which he took upon himself with so much solemnity at his ordination, to let no man despise the ministry so far as he was concerned, and to preserve it for its proper influence in the noble specialty which has been assigned to it.
Permit me to give, as a second reason, in the pursuit of this same course of thought, that intelligent persons, and very many intelligent persona, are too apt to think that the preacher of politics in the pulpit really does not know his business, and that he is really above or below, or one side of it, and does not understand his business. We listen to him as we ought to listen, to the uttermost extent of the protestant theory of independent private judgment, when he interprets the Scriptures, when he teaches us morality; when he testifies of eternal providence, and ‘vindicates the ways of God to man; when he teaches us that we are all sinners, that our natures are alike degraded, that the retributions of a common eternity are before us all. We listen to him with respect, and with nothing less than reverence; there his studies and his profession have fitted him for it; there he stands upon his own ground, and within his own charmed circle; there he is master, and we are his implicit disciples; for that exactly we prize, and for that exactly we pay him. But when he has left that ground; when he has taken up the occupation of politics, is not his occupation wholly gone? is not his power of instruction substantially gone? The great concrete of practical polities, the workings of our special confederated system, the laws and conditions of our very artificial nationality, will he permit me to inquire whether or not his deep studies, allude et diverse institution, have enabled him to know anything at all of these? As an educated man, as a religious man, as a student of general morals, he will know all about the<illegible>
<c03>
science. He will have learned from his Bible that the race of man is of kindred blood, all of it, and he will have learned from his Bible, or from nature, that all men stand on an equality of right, and responsibility, and duty before God.
But how far these glorious generalities are modified and controlled by civil society, of any description, which is also the work of God; how far these rays of light, as Burke beautifully expresses it, come to be refracted, when they go into such a medium as this; how far history shapes all systems and has shaped our system; how far, for example, the acquisition of a territory-a now fact-by the common blood and common treasure, makes it proper to lay it open to all, or shut it up against some-does he know aught of this? These things pertain to practical <illegible>, and he is no practical statesman, although he is better and holier and higher. 
In saying this in the presence of clergymen, do I disparage the clergy? No more, my friends, you will agree with me, than the honest schoolmaster, who was himself a clergyman, disparaged Frederick the Great at the time when the whole world was ringing with his victories, by expressing a doubt whether, after all, His Majesty could conjugate a Greek verb in me-exactly because it was not his specialty. Suum cuique sua in arte credendum est. You remember how finely Goldsmith recognizes that rule in his 'Retaliation.' Speaking of Sir Joshua Reynolds, who stood at the head of his profession, the most tolerant, the most modest, the most enquiring men, Goldsmith describes him as exhibiting that same character at the Club, in society, everywhere; but he says that whenever any one who was conversing with him, began to talk  
Of their Raphaels, Correggios and stuff, 
He shifted his trumpet, and only took snuff.’ 
Let me ask my clerical friends, again speaking for laymen-whether they think it to be quite fair play between man and man, to catch a parishioner in his pew, silent and still, by custom, decorum, and the manners of New England, and turn upon him every eye in the congregation, for the politics he practices, and for the party to which he has attached himself? Is it quite right-as a clerical friend now in my eye expressed it in a sermon sometime ago, in every word of which it gives me pleasure to agree-that he should find himself suddenly plunged-as a man finds himself in a snow bank-into a caucus? I put it to you, is it fair, manly, moral, honest? Is it not cruel, and cowardly, so to treat an individual man? But while I hate and despise all manner of cant in religion or in politics, and while I do not think the ad hominem argument a very good method for the discovery of truth, in logic or out of it, let me, in the hearing of some of the clergy, venture to suggest, that the preacher, of whatsoever faith, who thus overflows his banks upon any element connected in the remotest degree with the party considerations or organizations of the day, runs a great chance of hindering the salvation of that very soul which ho has been ordained to promote and secure. They tell us every one of them, that the salvation of the soul is the highest concern of man; they tell us, every one of them, that nothing on earth or in heaven can be compared with it, to the individual in its consequences. 
There is sometimes upon their lips that tremendous expression-whatever it means in the original- ‘the salvation of the soul is precious, and it ceases forever.' And yet do they not endanger that soul forever? The layman has no chance, except on Sunday, and they rob him of that Sunday; through the week, he has been anxious, busy, troubled, and he comes here on Sunday, as a man goes into his house at night time, for rest and instruction. The Sunday is all he has, and you take away that Sunday; it is for you of that profession to say, it is for us to say, on behalf of the laymen, whether that is or is not consistent with the character of a preacher of Religion. Remember the very first words he hears in prayer, the very first words he hears in a hymn selected to be sung, however well it may he sung and by whatever choir, the very first illustration in the sermon to which ho may listen, sends him away gloomy and irritable, turns the whole service into a political mockery, and awakens a train of reflection that renders him from first to last inaccessible to the truth, closes his ear to the voice of the charmer, charm he never so wisely as that day. I repeat, then, Sunday is all that such a layman has, and the preacher of politics has robbed him of that Sunday.

From the Boston Courier. 
INDIFFERENCE TO TREASON. 
Nothing more strongly marks-the morbid state of the public mind in Massachusetts, than the entire apathy with which the hill recently introduced by Mr. Griffin has been received. The provisions of this bill embody, to an extent as yet unknown in any State, the principle of open resistance to the authority of the United States; in other words, it is treason deliberately proposed, and not at all unlikely to be deliberately enacted. It sends to the State Prison, for twenty years it may be, a man who reclaims a fugitive from service under a law of the United States which the Supreme Court of our own State have pronounced to be Constitutional! Of course, the practical consequences of such a measure are nothing, for until legal and political chaos comes again, no Court in Massachusetts would hold such a law to he Constitutional, or allow it to be enforced. 
The evil of such an enactment would consist in the irritation it would create in other quarters, and the retaliatory spirit and retaliatory measures it would provoke. Of course, in a widely extended confederacy like ours, there are and must be many acts of the National Government which are unpopular in particular localities. Suppose it comes to be a settled thing that each State, by formal and deliberate enactment, may nullify, and thus render, so far as it may, inoperative upon its own soil, every law of Congress distasteful to its people, what is the value of the Union and of the Constitution? It will then be indeed high time to calculate the value of the Union. The example of Massachusetts is particularly dangerous, because of that moral and intellectual elevation of our people on which we justly pride ourselves. If Massachusetts is wholly insensible to her national and Constitutional obligations, can we expect any thing better of Arkansas? If Boston nullifies, can we cast a stone at the fillibusters of New Orleans or Mobile? 
How any one who has sworn to support the Constitution of the United States can give his hand to such a measure as that which Mr. Griffin has introduced, is one of those moral mysteries which we cannot understand. But we are not obliged to understand it. By a man's own conscience must he be justified or condemned. Mr. Garrison's position we can understand; and it is at least manly, intelligible, and consistent. He treats with just contempt the wretched quibbling and hair-splitting sophistry which affirms that there is nothing in the Constitution which requires and justifies the surrender of fugitive slaves. He sees and says that the Constitution demands this surrender; and on this account he would trample it under foot. This is a more respectable, because a more honest ground to take than that <illegible> by him who is full of <illegible> <illegible>
<c04>
the Constitution, and yet is ready to go quite as far as Mr. Garrison himself in nullifying it. 
The ground on which Mr. Garrison and those who sympathize with him desire to tear the Constitution in pieces and dissolve the Union is, we suppose, that a compact to return a fugitive slave, and still more the carrying of it into execution, constitutes a moral offence, a sin, of such enormity that no amount of material prosperity can be any equivalent or compensation for it. Better endure all the evils of the Confederation-better be without ships, commerce, and manufactures-better be what Mexico now is, than agree to send back a fugitive slave. To this view of moral obligation, and of our duty in this particular respect, we do not at all assent. We do not know of any moral duty higher than that of founding and maintaining government; or, as the Constitution of the United States says, ‘to establish justice, ensure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare.' We deny that any man or any body of men have the right to set up a particular virtue, or a particular class of virtues, as supreme and paramount to all others. We hold that the State of Massachusetts, as it had the power to enter into compact to return a fugitive slave, was also morally justified in doing. so, if thereby it secured advantages of the highest value and importance, which otherwise it could not have gained. In other words, we maintain that the blessings which have accrued to liberty and humanity, by and through the union of these States, were and are important enough to make it morally right for the non-slaveholding States to agree to surrender fugitives, if it were perfectly certain that these blessings could not have been .secured but by paying that price. This is a position which we cannot stop to argue; and if we could, it would be but a waste of time. The decision of this question comes from a region of one's nature into which arguments can hardly penetrate-from those primal moral instincts which lie at the very depth of the moral nature. But we believe that a large majority of the people of Massachusetts are now of this way of thinking. We believe that were a Convention called this day, and the question were put to them in somewhat this form-'Will you stay in the Union with the Fugitive Law, or will you, because of your insuperable repugnance to this law, go out of the Union, and set up for yourselves?' three-quarters of them at least would vote to stay where they are. And in our judgment they would be morally right in doing so.
Starting with the position that Massachusetts was morally justified in purchasing the blessings of union by an agreement to surrender fugitive slaves, we proceed next to lay down the position that, having once made the compact, she is bound to execute and maintain it. The latter proposition is almost a corollary from the former. If it be right to make an agreement, it is wrong to break it: if it be right to break an agreement, it was wrong to make it. There is no manliness, no consistency, no morality in the position into which Massachusetts would be forced if this bill should be passed-that of agreeing to purchase certain advantages at a certain price, and then refusing to pay the price, but at the same time insisting on retaining the advantages. If the clause in the Constitution respecting the surrender of fugitives taints the whole instrument with moral leprosy and death, let her reject the whole. Let her leave, the Union, if she will and can. But to remain in the Union, to enjoy the protection of the national government, to have the infinite and incalculable blessings flowing from our being one people, and at the same time, to reserve the liberty of determining for herself how much of the original compact she will keep, and how much she will throw away, is opposed to the simplest principles of political morality. The disloyalty that awakens indignation is mingled with a meanness that provokes contempt. There is a strange combination of Catiline and a wooden nutmeg selling peddler in such a position. Supposing it to be established, that it was morally right to enter into an agreement to surrender a fugitive slave, if the blessings of union and a common country could not be secured on any other terms-supposing it to be also established, that it is a duty to keep a compact once made, if we keep the benefits purchased by such a compact,-we next proceed to lay down the position that no confederate union between slaveholding and non-slaveholding sovereignties can be made without some such agreement; but the further discussion of the subject must be reserved for another time.
From the Boston Courier.
Our editorial on Monday concluded with a statement of the proposition, that no confederated sovereignty can be made up of separate and independent sovereignties, some of which are slaveholding and some of which are non-slaveholding, without a provision, in the shape of a compact, for the restoration or reclamation of fugitives from service. It is common to say that the obligation to return a fugitive slave grows out of, and is created by, the Constitution of the United States. This is true; but it is not the whole truth. So long as we stop here, we are met with the obvious argument or statement that this particular clause is an excrescence and blemish, which may be removed, and the Constitution be the better for the operation. But be this clause what it may-dislike it as we may-it is but the expression of a general law-the embodiment of an inevitable necessity laid upon those who undertake to form a federal union upon the conditions and under the circumstances we were in when the Constitution was adopted. In other words, slaveholding States will never form a federal union with free States, unless the latter will agree to surrender fugitive slaves, or to allow their masters to come and reclaim them. This is a proposition resting upon ultimate and primary principles in humanity, and which must be proved by arguments drawn from each man's self-consciousness. We appeal in support of it to the very peculiarities of character-defects, if you please-which slavery is admitted to give birth to, to the pride, the, haughtiness, the imperious spirit, the sensitive self-esteem which characterize the masters of slaves. What Burke says is perfectly true, that in the slave countries those who are free are by far the most proud and jealous of their freedom. To enter into a federal union in which no provision was made for the restoration or reclamation of fugitive slaves would be a confession of inferiority on the part of the slave States which they would not brook for an instant. 
It is no use to argue these points with fanatics. Fanaticism is deaf, and will not hear; predetermined, and will not listen. It learns nothing from experience, and its observations are made only from a single point of view. It is impatient, imperious, and intolerant. It brands as weakness and cowardice that regard to prudential considerations by which men are and must be influenced alike in the conduct of life and the administration of government. It refuses to examine, deliberate and compare; to weigh the worth of incompatible advantages, and to take those that make the scale preponderate. Some fantastic, distant, visionary good it proposes to itself, and pursues that with headlong, unobservant impetuosity; and though the <illegible>
<c05>
in the fable, who fell into a well while gazing at a star, his answer and defence are ever ready: couched in the specious fallacy, that we must do right, and let the consequences take care of themselves. There are hundreds and thousands of men in Massachusetts who have as much sensibility on the subject of slavery as the abolitionists themselves; but the difference is, that these men have some sensibilities upon other subjects, and the abolitionists have none. A dissolution of the Union, civil war, the horrors of anarchy, are of no moment at all, compared with the horrible and unspeakable iniquity of restoring a runaway negro. Such moral inconsistencies are the natural result of the mental training and discipline to which the abolitionists surrender themselves. Fanaticism concentrates the rays of feeling into a burning point, and leaves all outside of that fiery ring deprived of its natural heat. The heart of a fanatic resembles the geological structure of Iceland, where a boiling spring throws up its scalding jet, amid a waste of granite and ice. The fanatic is harder than granite, and colder than ice, except in the particular point on which his particular sensibilities are set.
Men, whose feeling on the subject of slavery is modified and controlled by experience, reflection, observation, and sensibility on other points, justify their reluctant and enforced assent to a fugitive slave law on the ground that only at this price can the blessings of a federal union be secured. They think, and think justly, that the Union is well worth this price; and having agreed to pay it, they mean to stand by their bargain, fairly and honestly, in the sense in which it was understood by the parties to it at the time it was made.
The defeat of the mischievous and unconstitutional Freedom Bill in the House of Representatives is, so far as it goes, a good sign; but we fear there is still enough of mistaken and fanatical feeling among our people to make this exposition of our views not unseasonable or superfluous. The points we have labored to establish are, that the federal union between slaveholding and non-slaveholding States is or can be possible without some provision in the shape of a fugitive slave law; that 4t is morally right to secure the advantages of such a union by such a compact, if they can be secured on no other terms: and that the compact, when made, ought to be kept.
From the Boston Daily Advertiser, March 28.
A BILL ‘TO SECURE FREEDOM.’-Our readers are already informed that a measure hearing the above title, together with a substitute offered by Mr. Griffin of Malden, is now before the House of Representatives, and is specially assigned for consideration this evening. So far as the practical bearing of the measure is concerned, this title is a misnomer. The ostensible object of the bill is, to prevent the rendition of fugitive slaves under the Constitution and laws of the United States, but it is scarcely necessary to remind our readers, that cases of this sort are now so rare that to seriously provide against them under a sounding title like this, is fighting an almost imaginary enemy. We have had two fugitive slave cases in ten years, and it is quite improbable that for ten years to come we shall see another claimant, who, with the record of these cases before him, will now care to seek the recovery of his slave in Massachusetts, unless, indeed, some hot-brained enthusiast undertakes to pick up the gauntlet which the proposed bill and some existing enactments throw down to him.
We might, then, with propriety and reason, insist that both the alleged evil and the proposed remedy are too visionary to merit the attention of the Legislature; and that the law for securing freedom will, if enacted, be as imperative and idle as that by which it is claimed that freedom is endangered. The friends of the bill, however, treat the matter as one of practical importance, and urge its consideration with as much earnestness and with the same arguments as though its passage were likely to have some important and tangible result; and we shall, therefore, in our objections to it, consider the measure, not as a political manifesto, but as a statute-as a provision, designed to be active, and not simply dormant.
The law now upon our statute book, known as the personal liberty law,' strictly forbids any State officer to take any part in proceedings under the fugitive slave law: but the sections of that statute which prohibit rendition generally, seek to avoid the appearance of hostility to the Constitution, by adopting the precise terms used in that instrument, forbidding the removal from the State of any person who is not ‘held to service or labor' by the ‘party’ making ‘claim, and the like. Obnoxious as we believe the personal liberty law to be to the spirit and intent of the Constitution, it is far from approaching the direct and open disregard of constitutional obligation which characterizes the present measure. The bill offered by the committee says, generally, that whoever shall arrest, imprison, or carry out of the Commonwealth, any person, ‘for the alleged reason that such person owes service or labor as a slave, to the party claiming him,' shall be punished by imprisonment. The penalty is not directed towards persons acting under any particular statute, which the majority of the committee on Federal Relations may think unconstitutional, but towards persons acting in any other way, under that statute or not,-under as well as in opposition to the Constitution,-and therefore if it means anything, it means that to carry out in any form, the second section of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States, within the limits of Massachusetts, as regards fugitive slaves, shall be a penal offence. 
The object of the bill is, therefore, clearly to accomplish what we have for years known and reprobated under the name of ‘nullification,' and to surpass in this direction even the efforts of Southern States. Upon the merits of all measures having such a design or tendency, we believe that the mind of the people of this Commonwealth was long since made up, and if there are any in our present Legislature, who are yet waiting to be satisfied upon this point, we commend to their attention the language once used in a legislative resolve, addressed by Massachusetts herself to South Carolina:-
Resolved, That [the] Constitution and the laws of the United States made in pursuance thereof. and all treaties made under the authority of the same, are  the supreme law of the land, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding; and that no citizen. State, or other member of the body politic, has a right in any shape, under any pretext, to annul or prevent the execution of the said Constitution, laws or treaties, or any of them, excepting in such extreme cases as justify a violent resistance to the laws, on the principle of the natural and indefeasible prerogative of self-defence against intolerable oppressions.
If the Committee mean to say that; this last exceptional case has occurred, or, in other words; that REVOLUTION is upon us, they should say so; for in that event the exigency requires some more effective steps than the mere passage of this bill.
The substitute offered by Mr. Griffin, to which we referred at the outset, differs from the original bill mainly in purporting to specifically prohibit action under the fugitive slave laws of 1793 and
<c06>
1850, and in open violation of the Constitution, goes far beyond the existing personal liberty law. We suppose that the author of this substitute defends his measure from the charge of direct conflict with the laws of the United States, by denying the constitutionality and validity of the latter. In this regard, the substitute is preferable to the bill of the committee, as it is a less serious matter to undertake to nullify a law of Congress than to undertake to nullify the Constitution itself. But to what purpose is any such legislation? The sentiment of Massachusetts on the slavery question is not so ambiguous as to require expression in this form; and no practical result can be expected from either of these bills, if passed into laws. The people of this Commonwealth do not and ought not to regard their allegiance to the common Constitution so lightly, as to be content with an attitude of rebellion and dishonor, nor will they sanction an open refusal to comply with the obligations of the Constitution, while they enjoy its benefits.
To what are we drifting? To what lengths will Northern fanaticism carry us? We had thought that the treasonable ‘Personal Liberty Bill' capped the climax of folly, and that sectional madness could go no farther. We see our mistake, and feel that unless an uprising patriotism overthrows the rampant spirit of Northern fanaticism, it will not stop short of absolute disunion. If the Constitution is to go unheeded-if Congressional enactments are to be spurned and set at nought-if Massachusetts assumes to legislate for the Union, and dictate the legislation of the United States Congress-how long can the Union subsist? The Republicans claim to be Union-loving and Constitution-abiding: why do they then in their State legislation, in effect, ignore the very existence of any civil power higher than themselves alone?
The Republican Committee on Federal Relations, of the Massachusetts Legislature, have reported a bill abrogating the Fugitive Slave Law, and threatening the severest penalties to whoever shall assist in its execution!
Everybody must see that this falls nothing short of positive and bold nullification, the parallel of which this country's history cannot afford. Those who are urging the passage of this bill of abominations admit its unconstitutionality, and glory in the supremacy of their ‘higher law.’ By it, any officer of the United States, who, clothed with official authority, shall attempt to execute a constitutional law which has been in existence since our Union was formed, becomes a high criminal, and subject to the pains of a five years' imprisonment! And it is supported by those fanatics who eternally prate of ‘Southern aggression,’ and who are charging upon the South a disregard of its constitutional obligations! Republicanism is showing its band, and Massachusetts must suffer the infliction she has courted. The Republican party will yet vie triumphantly with Garrison and the Boston Liberator in its contempt of the Union and the Constitution.
Is Massachusetts prepared for this point-blank nullification, and will she thus ignore the terms of our national compact? If not, she must sternly repudiate the party which has brought her to this unfortunate pass.-Lawrence Sentinel.
No man of ordinary intelligence can fail to perceive, that if such a bill becomes a law, Massachusetts distinctly announces her determination not only to nullify a law of Congress, but to resist and override the Constitution of the United States. True, this is not the first time that the Republican Legislature in this State have shown their disregard of that Constitution. True it is, that the tendency of the doctrines of the Republican party is to the denial of States' rights, the violation of constitutional obligation, and the disruption of the Union.
But the provision quoted from the bill now before the Legislature, indicates that Massachusetts Republicanism is growing more rampant-it is throwing off all disguises-and shows itself just as it is, full of sectional hate, and determined to compass its ends, at all hazards to the Constitution and the Union.-New Bedford Times.
THE ‘BILL TO SECURE FREEDOM.’-In an article on the attempt now being made in this State to nullify the fugitive slave law by an act of our Legislature, the New York Herald says:
‘The Liberator finds fault with the Massachusetts Legislature for having taken no action on the subject, and admonishes them that the eyes of the people are upon them. Now, as the journals of Massachusetts have not dared to protest against this barefaced assumption on the part of a few traitorous fanatics to represent the people of that State, we, in the name of the freemen of Massachusetts, do protest against it, and assert that this treasonable faction does not represent the people of that commonwealth.’
The Herald need not distress itself about this matter. So careful a reader of the Liberator must surely have seen that the fault which the latter finds with ‘the Massachusetts Legislature for having taken no action on the subject,’ is ‘as moonlight unto sunlight, as water unto wine,' compared with the denuncions it has leveled at this paper for recommending, when the subject was first reported upon, that no action should be taken.
Since that time, other leading papers have condemned the bill. Had there been any apprehension that either of these measures were likely to be adopted, we have no doubt that the general voice of the press of Massachusetts would have been raised in opposition. But when it was seen how small a proportion of what we may call a petition-signing people showed any sympathy for any measure of the kind proposed, and that its active champions were almost wholly confined to the ranks of those who have manifested an equal zeal in abusing the dominant party in this State and the Constitution of the United States-the prospects of the scheme were generally felt to be on a level with its deserts.-Boston Journal.
LEGISLATION IN RELATION TO THE <ILLEGIBLE> SLAVE LAW. The time of the House has been occupied, for two evenings, with a desultory and generally dry debate, on the proposition to enact some new laws, designed to render the Fugitive Slave Law inoperative in this Commonwealth. These are measures, the intrinsic rightfulness of which, if considered with reference to the effect they may have upon the rights of humanity, or the principles on which they are based, no man can deny; but whose rightfulness and propriety may be seriously questioned when considered with reference to the relations subsisting between the States and the general government. We have not cared to discuss this question, but we will not wait till after the Legislature has passed upon it before expressing our opinion-it is never our practice to dodge or evade any responsibility, however slight.
Were we called upon to vote on this particular question, in its present shape, we should vote against it; because no such declaration is needed now, to define or affirm the position of Massachusetts on the great issues between the slave power and its opposite; because such an act will add 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constable of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they, espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the Free States are tending.-WILLIAM ELLERY CHAANNING.
54 THE LIBERATOR. APRIL 8.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
nothing to the strength or fervor of the popular detestation in which slavery is held in this State; because we have already a personal liberty law which is amply sufficient to protect the liberties of all persons within our borders, and to test all questions of jurisdiction that may arise; because there is no reason to apprehend that the writ of habeas corpus will be denied to any man by Massachusetts judges, no matter how many decisions the Supreme Court of the United States may promulgate; because we do not believe that any attempt will ever be made to seize and carry away any person, claimed as a slave, within this State; and finally, because we believe the Fugitive Slave Act to be utterly unconstitutional and void. ineffably detestable and inhuman, an act which any man has a right to disobey, and therefore an act which requires no counter or annulling legislation to make it imperative, but only the individual repudiation and defiance of every citizen who so regards it, each acting on his own responsibility. For these reasons, we would not legislate on this subject, but leave the whole matter and all cases that may arise to the people of Massachusetts, who will take good care that her soil is not again made a hunting ground for fugitive slaves, nor her name dishonored by an act of oppression or acquiescence in the tyranny of others. For these reasons, we should vote against any such measures, as we would against any other unnecessary, useless, and impolitic proposition.-Boston Atlas and Bee.

SELECTIONS.
FUGITIVES FROM SLAVERY.
The Boston Bee and Atlas, commenting upon an article in the Worcester Bay State, denunciatory of the proposed Personal Liberty Bill, says:-
The fact is, that in no single State, at the time of the adoption of the Federal Constitution, was there any law establishing slavery. The framers of the Constitution were very careful not to recognize or give vitality to slavery in that instrument, as they did not deem it any part of their business to perpetuate such an shameful system. The clause quoted above, if it is to be interpreted according to the usual rules of law, or if it is taken in connection with any or all the laws of the Slave States, does not, apply to the Southern slave, and was never meant to be so applied. The personality of the negro slave is everywhere and explicitly denied by the local laws of the South, and the idea that he is in the eye of the law a person, or can owe service or labor, is scouted by the slave laws. Slavery rests primarily on this negation. With what consistency, then, can any of its advocates claim anything for it under this clause of the Constitution? But the advocates of human slavery never stick at any inconsistency, and use in one case the very argument which they repudiate in another precisely similar.
But we have not noticed this Democratic pronunciamento, in order to revive this oft mooted lega controversy, but rather to call attention to the abominable insolence and inhumanity of this Buchananite. A black man, he says, who runs away from his master in Virginia, and comes to Massachusetts, commits a trespass in setting his foot of our soil,' if we choose so to regard it.' Does he pretend that the fact of a man's committing a trespass or not depends on how we choose to regard it'; A man, because his skin is about as black as that of the writer of this stuff, is an intruder and trespasser, is he, if he comes within our borders? It will be a new idea in Massachusetts, that any peaceable, well-disposed man commits a trespass by setting his foot on our soil, come he from whatever place he may. But this impudent Democratic assertion shows the utterly intolerant and fierce spirit of the pro-slavery party. Who told this Buchananite that the escaping fugitives are not wanted here; that they come here uninvited? We believe that, were it submitted to a popular vote, nine-tenths of all Massachusetts people would say, that they are not only willing, but desirous, that as many black men, women and children, as have wisdom and courage enough to escape from bondage, shall have that privilege; and the further privilege of being free from the moment they set foot on this Commonwealth, and of remaining here, unmolested, so long as they behave properly.
If the Post knows anything of the wishes of Massachusetts people, it knows that this is the case.-We don't ask Virginia to catch our runaway horses or breachy cattle for us. What business has Virginia to ask us to catch her stray chattels, to the real ownership of which, moreover, she has no claim in equity or common law? The Democracy might as well understand now, as at any other time, that Massachusetts will do no more' nigger catching.' She will not interfere with anything which Virginia may choose to do within her own jurisdiction, and in reference to her own citizens, nor will she permit Virginia to meddle with the State rights and local laws of the old Bay State. The Worcester Democrat and the Post may as well cease to attempt to convince New England people, that the Democratic party can make a monstrous wrong into a right by platforms, resolutions or legislation, or that any man can possibly acquire a right to the absolute ownership of the body, liberty and life of his fellow man, or that it is the duty or privilege of any man to engage in the dastardly business of helping the oppressor against the oppressed, or of re-capturing and returning to his master, the slave that has escaped out of his hands.

THE U. S. CONSTITUTION AND FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW.
The News, of this morning, cites Wm. Lloyd Garrison in favor of the Democratic theory of the Constitutionality of the Fugitive law. Garrison asserts this Union to be a league with death and covenant with hell, and very naturally conceives, if he can make it appear that the fugitive act is constitutional, his case is made out. Garrison desires to subvert the Constitution, and so destroy the Union, and has a very just confidence if he can make it appear that a measure as infernal and diabolical as the fugitive law is, is one of its legitimate fruits, that he can attain his end. The News is willing to aid in the labor. It believes, as Garrison does, that the fugitive slave act is constitutional, and with him it labors to impress the public mind with the belief that it is a law legitimate to that instrument, and necessarily proceeding from it. Garrison has confidence enough in the popular virtue to believe if he can once impress the public mind with the belief that the fugitive law is a natural and inevitable fruit of the Constitution, that the Constitution will be repudiated by the popular virtue; but the News evidently thinks, however diabolical the law may be, if the people can be convinced that it is constitutional, they will repudiate their virtue, and accept its diabolism instead. The first question for those who love the Constitution, and would preserve the Union, is, which of these two philosophers, or two classes of philosophers, is correct. If they both together can manage to prove the fugitive act constitutional, and by that means settle in the affirmative that the Constitution is a league with death and a compact with hell-which will the people do, repudiate the Constitution, or accept the compact? Which will they prefer to save-themselves, or the Constitution? Every man will answer this question for himself.
The next question is, whether it is necessary to accept either of these alternatives. The strong repugnance in the public mind to be driven to either of these alternatives has led to close examination of the instrument, to ascertain whether there is not some mode of escape, and the result of such scrutiny is, that the Constitution does not necessarily authorize nor require any such enactment as the fugitive act-that it is not such a league and compact as Garrison and the News would have the public believe-that it is not an instrument in favor of tyranny and crime, but of liberty and virtue-that instead of dragging the people downward to the observance of crime, it points them upward to the observance of virtue-and, therefore, it should be preserved, and in this manner construed and applied.
Now, it remains entirely with the people to say whether this combined effort of the News and Garrison shall be successful, and the Constitution be destroyed, practically, by taking all the virtue oat of it, as the News would have-or its direct repudiation, as Garrison would have. It is entirely competent for them to have it an instrument of liberty and virtue if they choose. It was so designed by its framers-no man can dear that it is capable of such construction. Why not then so construe it? It is only necessary to vote right in order to do it. It will create no convulsion-no trouble in the land. On the contrary, it will <illegible> peace, preserve the Constitution, and save the Union. And what is still more important, it will save the people themselves.-Milwaukee Democrat
<c02>
By the following report, it will be seen that our respected friend and efficient coadjutor, Miss SARAH P. REMOND, of Salem, has had a gratifying public reception in Dublin, and delivered two lectures on American slavery to great acceptance.

From the Dublin Freeman's Journal.
MISS REMOND'S ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURE.
A crowded and influential meeting of the Dublin Ladies' Anti-Slavery Association was held on Friday evening, in the concert room of the Rotunda, for the purpose of hearing delivered a lecture, or rather, as it proved, an able, eloquent, and comprehensive address, on the subject of the slave system in the American States, by Miss S. P. Remond, a lady of color, a native of Salem, Massachusetts. In the absence of the Right Hon. the Lord Mayor, the chair was taken by JAMES HAUGHTON, Esq., who briefly addressed the meeting, expressing his gratification at seeing around him so crowded an assemblage on such an occasion, an assemblage comprising so many ladies and gentlemen of worth and influence in Dublin. He read a letter from the Lord Mayor, regretting his lordship's unavoidable absence; and after commenting on the due influence of the ladies in forwarding every noble and laudable purpose, and expressing a hope that their efforts would be exerted in Dublin in forwarding the great work of abolishing slavery in America, he proceeded to introduce Miss S. P. Remond, whose appearance at the table, in the front of the platform, was hailed with long and repeated plaudits. Miss Remond, whose appearance is remarkably feminine and graceful, coupled with a quiet, dignified manner, a well-toned voice and pleasing style of enunciation, proceeded to address the meeting.
She said she stood before that enlightened assemblage, the representative of four millions of men and women, robbed of every right, deprived of every privilege-a race of outraged and injured fellow-beings, whose wrongs should command the deepest sympathy, and the redress of whose grievances should, of right, obtain the heartiest co-operation and the most energetic aid from all lovers of freedom in every civilized country (cheers). She pointed out that this question, as it stood, involved not alone the destiny of the down-trodden and proscribed black slave, but also the destiny even of their oppressors. She drew, in characters of the most dreary kind, the prominent features of the slavery system as practised and recognized in the slaveholding States. She showed that over thirty millions of people, who ought to desire, not only to be free themselves, but that mankind should be free, were held in subjection by the influence of about one hundred thousand tyrants who uphold this vile system (hear, hear). America, the free (?) with all her boasted freedom and intelligence, was at the foot of this vile despotism, which had taken shelter beneath the shadow of the Republic, crushing out the life and spirit of an entire people (cheers). She pointed out the obstacles which the true friends of slavery abolition had to contend with, the dire and inveterate prejudices, fostered and kept up against all, white or black, who are branded with the stigma of inheriting trace of the proscribed blood. She dwelt with scorn on the wretched distinctions of caste, and the brutal insults daily offered to unoffending persons. She said she would not, that evening, enter on any descriptions of the revolting horrors, outrages and cruelties perpetrated every day under the abominable slave system; but she solemnly asserted that there were to be found, throughout all the slave-holding States, numbers of characters, incidents and examples, exactly similar to those portrayed in Mrs. Beecher Stowe's admirable book (hear, hear and cheers). In a strain of impressive eloquence, Miss Remond pointedly dwelt on the possible mission of Great Britain in aiding to overthrow the iniquitous slavery system, and showed how compatible such aid was and would be with the spirit of true liberty. She enumerated all the adverse influences, grounded on so called commercial interest and otherwise, which stood arrayed against the true abolitionists of slavery in America; and met them one after the other, in a series of able arguments. She quoted a thrilling passage from a recently-published work, describing the sale, by public auction, of a beautiful white woman, yet a slave-her accomplishments, nay, her very religious and Christian virtues, subserving the purpose of the auctioneer to enhance the price in dollars of this human chattel. Miss Remond, after drawing a fearful picture of the sufferings of helpless women in slavery, concluded her long and able address by a powerful appeal on behalf of a cause, the noblest in which human energies could be engaged-the abolition-of the hateful system by which man can buy and sell, enslave and degrade, his fellow creatures.
Miss Remond sat down, amidst loud and enthusiastic applause.
The meeting was subsequently addressed by the Rev. Dr. Abeltshauser, the Rev. Dr. Foley, Professor Hancock, Mr. Webb, &c.; and resolutions were passed, expressive of sympathy in the cause of the abolition of American slavery, and a determination to sustain that cause by all legitimate means.
In conclusion, Miss Remond warmly thanked the meeting for the attention and sympathy accorded to her and to her mission; and it was announced that another meeting was intended to be held by the society on Friday evening next, when Miss Remond will deliver another address on American slavery.-The meeting then adjoured.
Miss Remond delivered another lecture yesterday evening, in the theatre of the Mechanics' Institute, in the presence of a numerous and respectable audience. On presenting herself, and on being introduced by Mr. James Haughton, she was received with loud applause. She commenced her discourse with all the ease and grace to be expected from an accomplished lady, and the narrative of the wrongs and injustice heaped upon the section of the human family to which she belongs was given with a force and natural truthfulness beyond the reach of art.-In all she said, there was something so persuasive, so femininely beautiful and subdued, that made her appear in the estimation of her hearers (though a free woman) one who felt the wrongs and oppression of her whole tribe, and who, in her own person, endured, through sympathy, their slavery and degradation. Evidencing at once her patriotism and philanthropy, as she called upon her audience not to heed what she said, but to consider the forlorn condition of the slave-to inquire into his abject, misery, and, as they valued the priceless blessings of freedom, to make the case of the millions of bondmen in the land which boasted of its liberty their own. She spoke of the lowly destiny of the poor peasant, condemned to ceaseless toil for the mere privilege of being permitted to live in the land of their birth; and detailed, with painful precision, the many trials and afflictions which he had to endure. But all these were as nothing to the absence of the possession of freedom, and the knowledge of being the chattel property of another, to be bought and sold. She entered into minute details of the oppression to which the colored population, even in the Free States of the American Union, were subjected, and paid anything but a high compliment to the morality of the great majority of the inhabitants of the United States generally, while her pictures of life and manners in the more tropical sections of the transatlantic republic entirely 'stowed' away ï¿½Uncle Tom's Cabin.' She gave some harrowing records of individual wrong and oppression endured J by the slaves in the southern States, and contrasted is the liberty enjoyed by the negro family in South, or Catholic, America, with the bitter and reckless brutality which the colored man and woman had to endure in the evangelical 'North.' After dwelling on the great number of slaves who had escaped by the ï¿½underground railway'-namely, through the instrumentality of the Christian abolitionists, who gave shelter to the fugitive negroes as they made their way to Canada-and, after dwelling with much power and eloquence on the heroism of many-who had been sacrificed for proclaiming the rights of the colored man to freedom and citizenship, she concluded by observing-' The lives of good men are not lost when they die for justice sake; for so great is justice that she rewards all who suffer for her with greatness: and, though their heads may sodden in the sun-upon the scaffold or block-upon a tower high, or city walls-and though their bones may strew the wilderness-the just cause for which they rendered up their lives gives them immortality, and their spirits walk the earth.'. Miss Remond retired amid loud and long continued cheering.
Mr. Haughton introduced an Irish gentleman, named Millard, who had been a long time resident in America. Mr. Millard bore ample testimony to the statements of the gifted lecturer with reference to the condition of the slaves in North America not being in the least exaggerated. Mr. Webb announced that announced that Miss Remond would deliver Another lecture at the <illegible> on Friday evening. The meeting then separated.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS,
BOSTON. APRIL 8. 1859.
EQUAL POLITICAL RIGHTS.
BOSTON, March 22, 1859.
W. L. GARRISON, ESQ.,
Editor of the Liberator. 
It is with great pleasure that I, like every friend of freedom, continue to notice your vigorous and consistent defence of the rights of colored men. But, allow me to utter my astonishment at your passing over in silence a violation of the rights of white men, that goes on before your eyes. Might it not be a worthy task for your pen to characterize, and expose to a deserved criticism, that Resolution of the Legislature of Massachusetts which introduces a difference between native and foreign-born citizens, as to their rights? If an emancipated slave settles in Massachusetts, he is permitted to vote a short time after, like every citizen of Boston; but Mazzini, Ledru Rollin, even Humboldt, Liebig, &c , &c., would not have any such right, except after seven years of residence here. I am decidedly of opinion that a colored man has as many rights as a white man; but are you, perhaps, of opinion that a white man, if he is not born in this slaveholding country, ought to have less rights than a colored man?
The German Liberals all over the Union would, in a body, declare openly their adhesion to the Abolitionist party, if they could hope for any success of that party. They are, therefore, greatly interested to hear from you, a noble advocate of human rights of Blacks, a word on the rights of the Immigrated. Respectfully yours, 
K. HEINZEN,
Editor of the "Pionier."
REPLY. While we do not go to the polls ourselves, (having long since withdrawn from them as a matter of conscience,) we, nevertheless, strongly condemn an act of political injustice like that referred to by the editor of the ï¿½Pionier;' and we have scarcely a doubt that the proposed amendment to the Constitution of Massachusetts, should it be submitted to the people, will be rejected by a decided majority. 'Know-Nothingism' has had its day, and this is its last expiring effort. It is but justice to say that, outside of this Commonwealth, no countenance is given by the Republican journals to this proscription.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD. 
The following highly gratifying announcement has appeared for the last two or three numbers under the editorial head of the Anti-Slavery Standard:-
'With the increase in general estimation of the importance of the great enterprise to which our lives have been devoted grows a new responsibility-that of making known, on both sides of the sea, whatever in relation to it may concern the two great nations that speak the English language.
'To do this effectually requires the trained power of thought and observation, the political intuition and accomplishment, the historic faculty and knowledge which it is the standing difficulty on either side of the Atlantic to combine, and the common despair to find united. The great anti-slavery enterprise of this century demands, in addition, a universal and impartial sympathy, and a proved power to forego all things else for the opportunity of usefulness to the world.
ï¿½The ability to offer such an opportunity has enabled the Executive Committee of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY to obtain such cooperation.
'With the arrival of each English steamer at New York, (beginning at an early day,) we shall publish a communication from HARRIET MARTINEAU.
'Timely notice is given, that no reader may lose the first of a series beginning at a moment so critical in the international connections of French, Austrian, Russian, Italian, English, Spanish and American affairs.ï¿½
The first letter of Miss Martineau will appear in the Standard of this week. The acquisition of a writer so gifted in intellect, so clear-sighted and uncompromising, so thoroughly informed in regard to whatever relates to the anti-slavery cause in this country, so world-wide in her reputation for literary talent and politico-economical grasp of mind, as a regular correspondent of the Standard, will add greatly to the interest of that journal-a journal which, marked by rare editorial ability, and varied and extensive correspondence, and handsomely printed, is deserving a list of subscribers exceeding that of the New York Ledger. Terms, $2.00 per annum.

TRACTS FOB THE TIMES. 
We ask the particular attention of the friends of the Anti-Slavery cause to the following new series of tracts, just issued by the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies. They afford an excellent opportunity and means of aiding the cause, and of disseminating its great truths arid principles. A little money expended in them may be made to accomplish a great good. These tracts may all be had at the following low prices: by the hundred, $2; dozen, 30 cts.; single, 3 cts. Apply at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 21 Cornhill, Boston, and 138 Nassau street, New York.
GREAT AUCTION SALE OF SLAVES AT SAVANNAH,
GEORGIA. Reported for the Tribune.
PRESENT CONDITION OF THE FREE COLORED PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES. By Rev. James Freeman Clarke.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, before the Committee on Federal Relations of the Massachusetts Legislature, in behalf of the Petition for a law against Slave-hunting. No FETTERS IN THE BAY STATE. Speech of William
Lloyd Garrison, on the same occasion. 
SPEECH OF CHARLES C. BURLEIGH at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, ' No Slave-hunting in the Old Bay State. SPEECH OP REV. HENRY BLEBY, Missionary to Barbados, on the Results of Emancipation in the British West India Colonies.
SLAVERY AND THE AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISSION ERS FOR FORKING MISSIONS. BY C. K. W.
THE AMERICAN TRACT SOCIETY. By C. K. W.
BRITISH PHILANTHROPIC CO-OPERATION. In <illegible>-column may be found an excellent Anti-Slavery Address, from Warrington, England, which has been forwarded to us by ROBERT GASKELL, Esq., signed by the Mayor of that place, and 3525 persons of all ranks and degrees. It is the production of a clergyman of the Scotch Presbyterian Church, and so unexceptionable in its language and spirit, and so brief withal, that we hope it will obtain a prompt insertion not only in every anti-slavery journal in the country, but in every other paper friendly to the cause of universal emancipation.
Accompanying the letter of Mr. Gaskell was a donation of one hundred dollars from the Warrington Anti-Slavery Society to the American Anti-Slavery Society-the result of the visit and labors of Miss SARAH P. REMOND, whose reception abroad has been of a most gratifying character. This donation is gratefully appreciated, and will be faithfully applied to the furtherance of that movement, upon the triumph of which depend the freedom and happiness of millions now in bondage, and the safety and permanency of this Republic.
The Twenty-Sixth Annual Meeting of the, American Anti-Slavery Society will be held in the city of New York, in the City Assembly Rooms, Broadway, on Tuesday, May 10th,ï¿½commencing at 10 o'clock, A M.; and continued, by adjournment, at the same place, on Tuesday evening, and Wednesday forenoon and afternoon. [Further particulars hereafter.] Early and co-operative efforts should be extensively made to secure a numerous delegation and an overwhelming attendance.
<c04>
THE MODEL PASTOR. 
Oh! where shall rest be found? 
Rest for the weary soul!
answer has been found to this important question. The problem is solved, and the solution published to the world. Rest is obtainable, if sought at the right time and in the right place. And we are assured of this, not by a person in the first warm flush of discovery, exaggerating in his enthusiasm, and hastily generalizing from a very few facts, but by a patient investigator, who, having observed, compared and listened to-found and made note of-marked, learned, and inwardly digested the matter in question for nearly a quarter of a century, now speaks with the confidence engendered by patient perseverance in his method, and unvarying uniformity in his result. Not to keep our readers in suspense, rest, a delicious repose for soul and body at once, is to be found on Sundays (the secular days are not vouched for) in a pew of Essex Street church in Boston; the shepherd who there leads his sheep among green pastures is the Rev. South-side Adams; and the fortunate discoverer and announcer of this place of weekly refuge is the Hon. Rufus Choate.
The place where this announcement was first made was chosen in the most judicious manner to extend this soothing influence, and increase the number of such cases in this vale of tears. Nearly a hundred clergymen (if we may trust the estimate of the Courier) had assembled with the church and congregation of Dr. Adams, to honor and congratulate him on the completion of twenty-five years of pastoral service, on the evening of March 28th. These clergymen got rather more than they bargained for. They went merely to a festivity, but found a sermon thrown in, with a special and pointed application to themselves. It happened on this wise.
Mr. Choate, having regularly attended the ministry of South-side Adams nearly the whole of the period thus celebrated, had been specially invited to make the principal rhetorical demonstration at the festival in question. He, of course, bestowed the expected praise, honor and glory, with the expected thoroughness, upon the hero of the evening. But there was one feature of his speech which must have taken every hearer by surprise. Instead of using merely ' glittering generalities' in praise of Dr. Adams, he stated elaborately, minutely, and with delicious frankness, the very, actual reason which makes that gentleman's preaching acceptable to him-namely, this: avowing that he went into his pew on Sunday' as a man goes into his house at night time, FOR BEST'-he distinctly, emphatically, repeatedly declares that, throughout the twenty-five years, ï¿½never in an introductory prayer, never in a hymn, occasionally or in the ordinary course of public worship selected, never by any illustration in any sermon, by any train of association right or wrong,' did he find himself carried back into the world that he had left; through the whole of this time, the sermons and prayers, and the selections from Bible and psalm-book, had so precisely answered his particular purpose in going there, that never in a single case did he find himself assailed or attacked by any thing which he had done, any thing for which he had voted or acted in the political world without. Admitting, incidentally, that this heated, heaving political world is not a very good world, and that the action of himself and his associates in it is not particularly praiseworthy, he yet triumphs in the recollection that no sin committed, no duty neglected there, has ever, for a moment, been brought to his recollection by the manner or matter of the South-side ministrations, and that they have never roused in him one single impulse even to attempt to make the next six days' work more worthy than the last.
Now Mr. Choate, though widely and accurately known in the community, and made the subject of much comment for his action in law and politics, has never been reckoned an eminent saint. He has probably submitted, without wincing, to be represented in prayer, hymn and sermon, (in a general way, and as one of a congregation collectively so stigmatized,) as a ' miserable sinner.' He does not reckon this sort of classification as disturbance or annoyance, does not connect it with the acts which he does as a lawyer or a politician, and does not consider the weekly rest in his pew, so much desired and so intensely enjoyed, to be prejudiced by it. We infer, therefore, that other miserable sinners in the congregation, perhaps the entire body of them, enjoy the Sunday rest so graphically described by Mr. Choate, having their repose disturbed by no application or applicability of the sermon and prayer to their actual daily life-no self-reproach for its past-no aspiration for its future-no comparison of it with a better earthly life-no reference of it to a higher standard, either ideal or Scriptural.
This does not answer our idea of a ' preacher of righteousness,' or a ' preacher of the Gospel.' But it so exactly fulfils Mr. Choate's idea and necessity, that he not only exults and glories in it as a credit to the Essex street minister and a blessing to his congregation, but he preaches a short sermon upon that text to the hundred brother ministers of Dr. Adams, who, having come as mere participants in a festive occasion, must have been somewhat astonished at being singled out for special admonition and warning before the crowded congregation; singled out for public instruction, by a lawyer, as to the proper manner of performing their clerical duties, and in a place where they could make neither defence nor reply.
Mr. Choate earnestly appealed to these Reverend clergymen to follow the example of his venerated pastor, and give to their flocks the inestimable blessing of rest, by taking a South-side view of those things generally, which would interfere with their repose, and particularly by abstaining 'from politics, and from any element which has been connected, in any way, with active party politics, on the Lord's day.'
This request, if understood according to its terms, must be considered a somewhat unreasonable one, since compliance with it would deprive these ministers of a large part of their stock in trade. Adhering to it, they could not preach upon, or allude to, any one of the ten commandments, nor any one of the seven deadly sins, since the violation of-all the former, and the commission of all the latter, have formed a part, either of the system of slavery, or of the action of the United States government in defence of slavery; and opposition to these two is manifestly what Mr. Choate means by politics. But setting aside this consideration, and setting aside also the hardened effrontery of a request, made by a layman, in behalf of miserable sinners generally, that clergymen would, in tender consideration for the feelings of those miserable sinners, abstain from the rebuke of one great and spreading department of sin-if any of those clergymen were gifted with a perception of the ludicrous, it must have been difficult for them to preserve the requisite sobriety of countenance, while Mr. Choate seriously elaborated the following double blunder, sufficient, of itself, to cause a presumption of Hibernian descent on his part: a layman, speaking to clergymen, and to clergymen assembled for a purpose altogether different from the reception of criticism or admonition, he urged these two reasons, among others, for their compliance with his request; first, that they were professionally incompetent to treat the subject in question, as being less acquainted with it than their hearers!-and next, that it was unfair to take advantage of those hearers, by giving them an unlooked for rebuke, in a place where they could neither escape nor reply!! Yes, the usually acute and wide-awake Mr. Choate actually committed himself, in these circumstances, by quoting the proverb-ï¿½<illegible> outï¿½-Every man is to be presumed to understand his own trade-and by uttering the following tragico-pathetic appeal:-
Let me ask my clerical friends-again speaking for laymen-whether they think it to be quite fair
<c05>
play between man and man, to catch a parishioner in his pew, silent and still, by custom, decorum, and the manners of New England, and turn upon him every eye in the congregation, for the politics he practices, and for the party to which he has attached himself? Is it quite right-as a clerical friend now in my eye expressed it in a sermon sometime ago, in every word of which it gives me pleasure to agree-that he should find himself suddenly plunged-as a man finds himself in a snow bank-into a caucus? I put it to you, is it fair, manly, moral, honest? Is it not cruel, and cowardly, so to treat an individual man?'
Poor David, King of Israel! How unlucky that he lived before the modern code of honor was invented! Could he have heard Mr. Choate's sermon in Essex street church, he need not have hung his head, like a blubbering school-boy, before the coarse personalities of Nathan. He might then have had choice of two kinds of defence. He might have uttered, majestically, the Hebrew for 'Suum cuique sua in arte credendum est,' adding, with a frown-Dost thou, a mere prophet, pretend to understand the prerogatives of princes?-or, descending to the level of reason, he might calmly have asked-Thinkest thou, O Nathan, that it is quite fair play between man and man, to catch a monarch in his retirement, with neither courtier nor court chaplain at hand to speak for him, and put him out of countenance as thou hast done? Is it quite right thus to throw a wet blanket upon a fellow-creature? I put it to thee if it is fair, manly, moral, honest? Nay, O Nathan, is it not cruel and cowardly thus to treat an individual man?
Had Mr. Choate been familiar with the history and literature of the class of men whom he thus undertook to instruct, he might have found abundant authorities among themselves upon the point in question. For instance, he might have quoted Rev. Cyrus Byington, missionary at Stockbridge station among the Choctaws, and still retained in the service of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, in spite of his expressed determination to admit slaveholders to his church, and to avoid, not only 'the abolition movement,' but any train of measures aiming even in the end' to undermine the system of slaï¿½very! Mr. Byington says, in answer to the question what ministerial instruction he gives to his slaveholding church-members about slavery-ï¿½We give such instructions to masters and servants as are contained in the epistles, and yet not in a way to give the subject a peculiar prominence. For then it would seem to be personal, as there are usually but one or two slaveholders at our meetings'!
Mr. Choate had formerly, on an occasion of merely secular interest, intimated, by an expressive epithet, his opinion that the truths of the Declaration of Independence should not be too minutely reduced to practice. Excellent to make a show with on the fourth of July, and to wave abroad, like the star-spangled banner, on other public occasions, he decided that they were, after all, only 'glittering generalities,' and that they should be used merely as such. He now informs us that certain truths in the Bible are the same in kind with these, only different in degree; the doctrines ï¿½ that the race of man is of kindred blood, all of it,' and ' that all men stand on an equality of right, and responsibility, and duty before God,' he declares to be GLORIOUS GENERALITIES! He admits that these glorious generalities are, and implies that they appropriately may be,' modified and controlled by civil society.' But how far God's glorious generalities are to be modified and controlled by man-'how far, for example,' he says, touching the kernel of the nut with the point of his needle, ' the acquisition of a territory, a new fact, by the common blood and common treasure, makes it proper to lay it open to all or shut it up against some,' these things, he tells his reverend hearers, they do not understand, and had better not attempt to inquire into or report.
In contrast with this cant about the unfitness of the clergy to preach upon those truths which political parties have chosen to pervert or deny-and because the truths in question are perverted or denied, a reason the force of which goes in the opposite direction-how sensible, manly and Christian seem the following sentiments from the pen of Dr. Arnold; Life, p. 169:
I think that the clergy as a body might do much, if they were steadily to observe the evils of the times, and preach fearlessly against them. I cannot understand what is the good of a national Church if it be not to Christianize the nation, and introduce the principles of Christianity into men's social and civil relations, and expose the wickedness of that spirit which maintains the game laws.'
The people who, living at a distance from Boston, are unacquainted with the relation sustained by its clergymen to slavery and to anti-slavery, must not suppose that the hundred ministers who assembled to honor Dr. Adams did so because of any special sympathy with his book of eulogy on slavery. The great majority of them differ in opinion with him upon this subject. They neither desire a revival of the foreign slave trade, nor wish to see even a modified slavery introduced into Massachusetts, nor prefer a continuance of slavery in the South. But their difference with him is one merely of opinion, not of principle-just as upon the question whether wood or coal makes the best fuel, or whether Smith's grammar or Jones's grammar should be used in the schools. They hold that opinion and practice may be diametrically different in regard to slavery, just as in regard to these matters, without prejudice to the character of a Christian, or the function of a Christian minister. ï¿½Holding their opinions to be right, they would be glad to have Dr. Adams hold them also; but they concede his perfect right to preach and practise the opposite. He is, none the less for that, their dear brother in the ministry; and they would no more think of refusing to exchange pulpits with him, or with Dr. Blagden, or with Dr. Samuel M. Worcester of Salem, than with a Christian minister. If he should pick a pocket indeed, or forge a note-or even if he should cease to believe in hell-fire, and begin to believe that God was wise enough, powerful enough, and good enough to convert sinners to holiness in the next stage of existence as well as in this-the case would be different; but since the error is merely a volunteering of his influence in aid of the custom of this country to sell men and women-even Christian men and women-as pieces of property; merely to countenance the actual working of Christian men as horses, only worse, and the use of Christian women as cows, only worse; since this is the only offence, they disregard it; if a sin at all, it is a venial sin; one of those beautiful chapters in 'The Baptized Child' or 'The Communion Sabbath' would counterbalance a hundred such, in their judgment-if their conduct forms a true index to their judgment.
To give, by way of example, a single item of this conduct; while many secular papers have spoken with indignation of Mr. Choate's attempt to make the pulpit, even more than at present, a distributor of indulgences for sin, and the pew, even more than at present, a place of refuge and repose for the sinner, the Congregationalist quietly gives a narrative of the transaction, without comment. The Congregationalist is one of the organs established to support Dr. Adams's sect. Its clerical editor holds opinions widely different from those of Dr. Adams, in regard to slavery; he sincerely regrets the South-side position in which that gentleman has chosen to place himself; but Dr. Adams is none the less, for that, his ' dear brother in Christ'; and none the less, for that, will he consent to meet Dr. Adams, as he has often done already, in ecclesiastical relations, necessarily implying the full recognition of him as a Christian, and as a Christian minister.-C. K. W.
What a suggestive and extraordinary conglomeration of ideas and persons in our ï¿½Refuge of Oppression' this, week! What a satire upon gospel <illegible>, are, the extracts from the sermon of Rev. Chandler Robbins and the speech of Rufus Choate! The special pleader is evidently the echo of the parson.
<c06>
AID AND ENCOURAGEMENT FROM A BROAD.
It is with great pleasure, and many thanks, we publish the following letters from Warrington, England, together with an Address (numerously and most respectably signed) to the American People on the subject of Slavery-all which are indicative of that truly Christian spirit which knows nothing of geographical divisions or national boundaries in its sympathy with the oppressed, and its efforts to redeem the world from all unrighteousness.
WARRINGTON, (Eng.) March 18, 1859.
DEAR SIR:
I have much pleasure in sending you ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS, through Messrs. J. W. Lawton & Bros. They are a contribution from the Warrington Anti-Slavery Society to the American Anti-Slavery Society, to aid in the good work which that Society was organized to accomplish.
Miss Remond's visit to England, you see, is producing some little fruit already. It is to her labors here that you are mainly indebted for this present manifestation of our sympathy with you, and we trust that similar fruits will result from her labors in other parts of the United Kingdom. 
I am, dear sir,
Yours, very truly,
ANN ROBSON.
WARRINGTON, (ENG.) March 18, 1859
W. L. GARRISON Esq.:
DEAR SIR,-The Committee of the Warrington Anti-Slavery Society were in doubt to whom the account-paying address should be sent, in order to secure its publicity. They have therefore request me to real it to you, that you may place it in the hands of some one connected with the American Anti-Slavery Society, who will give it publicity through the recognized organs of the party, and by any other means thought desirable.
The Warrington Anti-Slavery Society, anxious to mark the sincerity of their professions by the performance, of some definite act, have sent a donation of 100 dollars to the American Anti-Slavery Society, to and in furthering the cause they have in common with yourselves.
Miss Remond's exertions hare been eminent serviceable by stimulating into more active life the existing, sentiment of our town; and it appear to me the American Society would act wisely to send over, from time to time, some popular advocate to explain the efforts and the progress made in America. You would then see that the American feeling, that we are rather cold on this subject, is without foundation. The British nation has never receded on this great question. The strong conviction of injustice attendant upon the system of slaveholding is too indelibly stamped upon the national mind ever to be effaced, and there only needs some exciting cause to evidence its vitality,
Whenever appealed to on principles which item can conscientiously recognize and support, the response is quick and heartfelt.
The difficulty is not so much to create a common sentiment as to bring out this felt unity into one combined action. One sentiment alone can give cohesion to this action; that we are engaged in a work of God, demanded from us and all sincere Christians by in acknowledgment of the one Fatherhood of God, and the one brotherhood of man, lessons not only divinely taught, but in accordance with which Christ divinely lived and died. 'How beautifully does the abilities of slavery in the British dominions exhibit the power that accomplishes a work both begun and carried on in God!
We cannot look for efficient agency to any source where the motives and principles will not bear to be tested by spirit and word of Christian truth. The advocacy of principles and modes of action which in foreign to these will ever tend to weave the sympathy of those further removed from the exciting influences which give rise to them. There was <illegible> what of this to be deplored, though scarcely to be wondered at, in the recent Boston Convention; and it seems to me that we act wisely by any expression of our sympathy which may extend the influence of those who adhere faithfully to the only sound basis of action,-that of moral suasion,-and deprecate my cause which accords not with the perfect law of peace and love.
The Immigration Bill recently passed by the<illegible> Legislature, and now lying in our Colonial office for Her Majesty's sanction, has already called forth numerous protests. It append quite as bad as the French Immigration scheme, a legalized slavery; and it is to be hoped that the present ministry, whose term of office is very precarious, may have to raga before the Bill is sanctioned.
I am yours, truly,
ROBERT GASKELL
ADDRESS
FROM THE
Inhabitants of Warrington and its Neighborhood.
TO THE
Citizens of the United States of America,
The principle that man cannot hold property is man appears to us so reasonable, and of such universal application, that we are ready at first to believe it must also be of universal practice. But when we are painfully reminded that in America, men and women, of like passions with ourselves, are bought and sold and treated as chattels, it is difficult to reduce our re monstrance to a set form. We think nature herself should resent the outrage. It is hard to coin at hearts into arguments, to twist our feeling into <illegible> and with words to vindicate the stamp of God.
Inasmuch, however as slavery has grown up through generation after generation, as an Institution of America, and as thus what is an outrage, an outrage, may be looked upon as a product of nature, we will attempt to from an appeal.
By our common humanity, which slavery insult by the one origin, one probation, and one end of all men, be they black or white-by that one God who sits above the consciences of all as universal Loud-and by that final account which, without distinctions of Master or Slave, we must all render up at the great day-by these considerations we appeal to you-a you who now ply this unlawful traffic, that you relinquish it for ever;-and to you who are engaged in the noble work of abolition, that you go forward, conscious that you have with you the great heart of England that in your highest enthusiasm keeps equal <illegible> with yours-and, if it were allowed to speak out the great heart of man.
We make this appeal, not in the spin of <illegible> but of friendship. We recognize the common brotherhood of ail men; and this appeal is lodged with out while brother on behalf of him who is no less our brother, and whose equality, as it is established in nature, we would desire to see established in universal recognition.
THOS.G.RYLANDS, J.P.,
Mayor of Warrington.
WILLIAM QUEKETT, Rector of <illegible>.
GILBERT GREENALL, Member of <illegible> for the Borough of <illegible>.
The address has also received the signature of <illegible> gentleman tradesmen and other inhabitants of <illegible> and neighborhood.
ROBERT GASKELL.
Sec'y Warrington Anti-Slavery Society.
At a meeting of a committee of this society, held at Friday evening last, it was announced that an address to the citizen of the United States upon the subject of slaveholding, had received 3,522 signature. The highest religious and civil authorities in town, <illegible> as the borough member, have appended their <illegible> to his address. In is said by persons conversant with these matter that the number of names <illegible> 1,200 those attached to any previous address or <illegible>-Warrington paper.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
SPEECH OF EDWIN B. GEORGE, Esq., OF GROVELAND,
On the Personal Freedom Bill.
MR. SPEAKER,-I presume there is hardly a person here who doubts that we ought to pass a bill like the one before us, so far as the rights and duties of humanity are concerned. The only question which arises, then, is it constitutional? That is, has the government the right to forbid my offering food to the hungry, a cup of cold water to the fainting, a garment to the naked, protection to a weak, defenceless woman, flying from her oppressor and outrager? I contend that it has not; that these are rights which have never been surrendered up to the national government; rights which remain in the hands of the people themselves, which they breathe in with God's free air, and receive as gifts from no man or body of men.
But it is said, we have by general consent given the national government the right to command us to deliver up to his master the 'person held to service or labor' who escapes. And shall the slaveholder come to us under that clause of the Constitution, and demand his slave? Let Massachusetts reply-When your laws and your courts recognize him as a person, possessing the rights which God has given to every person, and which are inseperable from his personality, then we will do it, and not till then. Now your laws say he is a chattel, a thing, a beast of burthen, and not a person. A slave! There is no such creature mentioned in the Constitution; and if the laws of the slave States have dehumanized a portion of the human race, and placed them on a level with the brute creation, and then one of these chattels chances to stray away, why, let its owner bring an action at common law, and recover it the same as he can any other estray; and not come here and tell us that that instrument which our fathers framed for the protection and government of men, thinking men, was designed for the government of articles of merchandize. The words 'slave' and 'person' are incompatible, and cannot be applied to the same individual.
But it is said the Constitution was designed by those who framed it to protect this kind of property. Well, suppose it was, what of it? If we enact a law here, and a man is tried for his life under the provisions of that law, what will govern the judge in his decisions, our intentions in passing it, or the letter of the law itself? If, then, the meanest and most hardened criminal who treads the earth but to defile it is allowed the benefit of any flaw in the law, why in the name of justice and common sense should not the man guilty of no crime be placed upon as good a footing? Can any one give a valid reason why?
It is said the Constitution has been interpreted differently from the hour of its adoption down to the present time. Granted; but that proves nothing. It was understood by the great men who framed the Constitution, and by almost all our most distinguished public men, from that time down to the hour of the Dred Scott decision, that Congress had the power to legislate upon the subject of slavery in the territories. But the superior intellect of the Supreme Court told these gentlemen they were much mistaken; that Congress had no such power. So, taking shelter under this illustrious precedent,-under the highest tribunal in our land, I say it matters not a straw what the previous interpretation of the Constitution may have been upon the point, for we, in our sovereign capacity as a State, have as good a right to judge of the letter of the Constitution as the Supreme Court; and I believe a better right, for where is the provision which makes that court a judge and interpreter of this instrument? And if the Supreme Court disregards precedent, and follows the letter of the Constitution, as it pretends, in order to strengthen an infamous institution, how much more should we disregard precedent, and follow the letter, when we can thereby defend the defenceless, and strengthen justice and liberty!
But, if 1 were not abundantly satisfied upon this point of the entire constitutionality of this bill, there is another point which would be sufficient to satisfy me. Assuming that it is unconstitutional, what then? There are certain circumstances, as we all know, under which we are justifiable in disobeying the laws. For instance, it is against the law for one man to take the life of another, and yet he can do it in self-defence, if necessary to preserve his own life, and go clear. Now, it is upon this principle, I suppose, for there is no other at all applicable to the case, that some of the Southern States throw our colored citizens into prison when they come to their shores. Citizens, I said; for though prominent Democrats may thank God in the halls of Congress that colored men are not, and never can be, citizens of the United States, I will thank God, here in my place, that they are, and can be, citizens of Massachusetts; and therefore, if there is any virtue, if there is any power in the Constitution, citizens of the United States also. It is upon this principle, too, I suppose, that white men, citizens of the United States, are not allowed to freely speak and publish their sentiments south of Mason and Dixon's line. Now, that the South has the right thus by her enactments to override the Constitution, no one can for a moment doubt; for if she had not, surely the Democratic party, with its large-hearted patriotism, with its disinterested regard for all sections and all races, with its boundless love and reverence for the Constitution and the rights of man, would have put a stop of to such proceedings long ago. So, following this precedent,-for I am very conservative in my tendencies, and cannot do any thing without a precedent,-we unquestionably have the right to pass a law directly antagonistic to the Constitution, if in our judgment the internal peace and the safety of the State demand it. And that the peace of the State, the lives of her citizens, may be at any hour endangered, if the slave-hunter is allowed to pursue his fugitive upon our soil, no one who witnessed the excitement attendant upon the Burns' case can for a moment doubt. Why, sir, I used to wonder, when reading accounts of great battles, how men could march upon the battle field, and deliberately pull the triggers of their guns, intending to take the lives of their fellow-men; but when I saw armed soldiers in the streets of Boston, blockading those streets, not allowing them to be used for the legitimate purposes of business, then I was able to realize how men might, under some circumstances, feel like fighting. 
And so, Mr. Speaker, following the precedent of the States whose loyalty to the Constitution the national government does not for a moment question, we undoubtedly have the right to pass this bill.
Having now attempted to show that this bill is entirely constitutional, and that, even if it is not, it is right and proper, under the circumstances, to pass it, I wish to say a few words, before I sit down, in regard to the petitioners for this bill; for it has been several times intimated upon this floor, that these petitioners were 'foolish persons,' who either did not know <illegible> what they were asking, or else knew they were asking for something which we had no power to grant. Now, so far as two of the most numerously signed petitions which have been presented to his body-one signed by the Orthodox clergyman and five hundred and thirty citizens of one of the towns which I have the honor to represent, the other signed by the Orthodox clergymen and over one thousand other citizens, including a large majority of the legal voters of the town of Danvers-are concerned, I know that the reverse of this is true; that among those petitioners are some of the most intelligent and influential men to be found in the community in which they reside; men who feel as deep an interest in the welfare, the prosperity and the glory of their country as any other class of citizens. And they have petitioned with no evil designs, in no spirit of sectional hatred. It is because they love their country in all its length and breath,-its hills and mountains, its sparkling streams, broad rivers, and inland seas,-it is because they glory in their land as
<c02>
the freest one upon which the sun in all his course looks down, and would make the blessings of this freedom yet more universal,-it is because they love the institutions of their land, its free schools and churches, its benevolent and reformatory institutions, that scatter light and joy around the paths of so many of earth's unfortunate and erring ones, and would give to these a yet wider range-it is because they lore all these things, our national glory and its strength, and would do what they can to wipe out the one dark, stain that rests upon its fame, that they come here, and pray us to enact that the soil beneath our feet shall be free; that the moment the slave sets his foot upon our territory, and breathes our air, that moment shall his shackles fall, his bonds be broken, and he stand forth what God made him to be, a free man.
To this prayer, every sentiment of justice and humanity compels us to bend a willing ear. It is no mercenary cry for the means to make money, or for the means of personal aggrandizement, that has been borne almost daily to our ears during this session in those petitions, but in them we see an uprising of the better feelings of man's nature, in them we hear the voice of the people, and in this case we may feel that the voice of the people is also the voice of God.

THE LATE ARNOLD BUFFUM.
This venerable man, known through his whole career as a philanthropist, has, at last, in a good old age, descended to the grave. He died at Eagleswood, Perth Amboy, N. J., March 13th, after a short but severe illness, in his 78th year. His manly form has gone there, but he is not in the tomb. He still lives, and will ever live. Mortality has put on immortality. What was excellent in him survives, and will be precious as an inheritance to his children and children's children, and as a legacy to the world.
He was born in the year 1782, at Smithfield, R. I. His father, William Buffum, was an Abolitionist of the Old School, the school of Benezet, Hopkins, Franklin, Jay, Brown, etc. His house, at that early day, was a refuge of fugitive slaves. He had twelve children, and could say, what few men have ever been able truly to say, the whole twelve were all anti-slavery in sentiment and practice. They had an anti-slavery birthright. One only survives of this large anti-slavery family.
Arnold Buffum married Rebecca Gould, daughter of John Gould, of Middletown, R. I. It proved a happy union, and continued over fifty years. His worthy partner survives him, and resides with affectionate children. About the year 1825, Mr. Buffum visited England, where he became acquainted with several persons distinguished for their philanthropy. Among them was ELIZABETH FRY, whom he frequently accompanied on her benevolent visits to New-gate prison. He often described this noble woman as she appeared among the prisoners, reading the Scriptures to them in her inimitable way, praying with them, speaking to them words of instruction and hope, and manifesting a deep interest in their behalf. He also formed a friendship with DAVID HOLT, called the Father of Manchester.' They were kindred spirits, and their friendship, cemented by sympathy and correspondence, continued until the death of Mr. Holt.
In Paris, where he resided for a time, he became acquainted with AMELIE OPIE, of England, who was there on a visit. They associated with a little band of 'Friends,' who were living there for a short period. Mr. Buffum and Mrs. Opie were appointed by this band to attend to the wants of several poor people who looked to them for help. A pleasant friendship grew up between these kindred spirits. Once a week they met at the house of LAFAYETTE, and talked of human rights with this world-renowned son of liberty, and the true-hearted friends who gathered around him at his hospitable mansion.
In England, Mr. Buffum eagerly inquired into plans for the better condition of society, and among the objects that engaged his attention were Infant Schools. On returning to his native country, he brought with him the apparatus used in these schools, and tried the experiment of the first Infant School in the United States at Fall River, Mass., where over a hundred children were taught. The experiment was so satisfactory to the people that they added an Infant department to the public schools. The good results, and the evils prevented, can only be known to Him who seeth the end from the beginning.
Mr. Buffum was one of the twelve individuals who associated to commence the great work that is now agitating the whole nation. On the 26th of January, 183e, they formed the New England Anti-Slavery Society in Boston. Mr. Buffum was the first President, and the first lecturer sent forth by the New England Society. He lectured also in opposition to the Colonization Society. He was a member of the Convention that assembled in Philadelphia, December 4, 1833, to form the American Anti-Slavery Society, and, as he had opportunity, he attended Conventions for the formation of State and other Societies on behalf of the down-trodden and oppressed.
He ever advocated the cause of the slave and the free people of color with a boldness and perseverance worthy of all praise. His intimate friends knew his remarkable patience under provocation, and the sensibility of his great loving heart when friends of long standing turned coldly from him because he despised caste, and was the out-spoken and fearless champion of the oppressed. This coldness, though it wounded him, could not change his sentiments or his conduct, or make him swerve a hair's breadth from the line of fidelity to the cause of freedom.
In June, 1843, Mr. Buffum attended the General Anti-Slavery Convention held in London, and took an active part in the proceedings.
Mr. Buffum had a manly form, a stentorian voice, a cheerful temper, a youthful gait, an appearance of robust health, a habit of looking at the bright side of things, and a step, manner and appearance that seemed to say, I'm determined to be a young man as long as ever I can.' Within a few weeks of his departure, the writer of this had an interview with him in this city, when, in answer to inquiries, Mr. Buffum said, 'I feel perfectly well; they take me for a man ten years younger than I am; I feel the same interest in affairs that ever I did, and have a hope of immortality through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.' His manner, at this time, was unusually tender and affectionate, while he spoke of friends and coadjutors, some of whom had passed into the spiritual world, while others survived, and were still in the harness.
Mr. Buffum's buoyancy did not arise merely from animal spirits, natural cheerfulness and constant hopefulness, for he had religious faith that sustained him, and gave warmth and steadiness to his spirits. He believed and confided in the promises of God. This faith carried him through all the trials and persecutions to which he was subject, and over all the dark and stony places of his pilgrimage. He had a | full belief in the brotherhood of man and the Fatherhood of God. He believed that the Almighty, as he had promised, would break the rod of the oppressor, and let the oppressed go free. This belief animated him in his long-continued labors in behalf of his fellow-men, and inspired him with unabated confidence in God. As he walked about his dwelling, he would be heard chanting-
'The Lord is my shepherd,
No want shall I know.'
The Lord was the strength of his life even in times of disappointment and blighted hopes. Mr. Buffum had a serene temper, and never was embittered against his opponents, nor did he suffer himself to lose con fidence in his fellow men
During the last fortnight of his pilgrimage, Mr. Buffum suffered much pain, but his mind was vigorous to the last. He felt that the messenger of death
<c03>
had called for him. Having lived to a good old age, he was sensible that he was an old man, almost four score, and he felt resigned to obey the divine call. The fourteenth chapter of John was read to him by one of his grandsons, and he eagerly responded to Him who spoke as never man spake. Except some whispered words of human love, his last expressions were, 'Glory to God! Glory to God! Let me go to God!' In the language of Whittier, applied to a kindred spirit,
'Such was our friend. Formed on the good old plan, A true, and brave, and downright honest man.'
His children and children's children rise up and call him blessed. They will never forget his affectionateness to them and their surviving parent, his universal love to the human race, his indefatigable searchings after truth, his trust in an overruling Providence, his peaceful death, and bright hope of a blessed immortality. His surviving coadjutors in the cause of oppressed humanity will recollect his untiring zeal, his indomitable courage, his unwearied diligence. The people of color will ever bear in mind his manly and unflinching advocacy of their rights. And all who knew him will never lose the impression of his straightforwardness in every good work to which he was called. T.
We copy the foregoing tribute to the memory of our worthy and venerated friend, and early and intrepid coadjutor, from the Anti-Slavery Standard. The last letter we ever received from him was dated the 18th of January, at Eagles wood, at the conclusion of which he says:-
'Should an opportunity be permitted me, at the next annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, I should be happy to declare my unbroken unity with those who took the lead in that modern revival of that work and labor of love, which is now spreading a most hopeful and encouraging influence throughout the civilized world; and which will certainly bring the day when every yoke of bondage will be broken, and the oppressed go free; when the whole world shall unite in the observance of such a fast as God has chosen; and when we all shall rejoice in the coming of an acceptable day to the Lord.'
I have now entered upon my 78th year, and my Heavenly Father sustains me in health and activity; and in the daily strengthening of my hope and faith, that the day will speedily come,
"When the might with the right and the truth shall be, 
And, come what there may, to stand in the way,
That day the world shall see."
Most respectfully, thy friend and fellow-laborer,
ARNOLD BUFFUM.

FAIR IN AID OF THE PRISONER'S FRIEND.
A Fair will be held in the Music Hall, Boston, commencing April 25th, and to continue five days.-The direct object will be to obtain means for the establishing Rooms to aid the poor, discharged prisoners and to carry out all the various objects connected with the Prison Mission. Rooms are now occupied for this purpose in the building well known as Boylston Hall, corner of Boylston and Washington streets. These are used for offices, for meetings, and as a home.
Those friendly to the work are requested to aid us. Flowers, refreshments, clothing, and various articles are wanted, or donations in money to meet the expenses of the Fair.
Among other features of the Fair will be specimens of convict labor in prisons. Persons having any curiosities made in Dartmoor prison, or in any prison, are requested to furnish them for the Fair.
Works of art to adorn the Hall are respectfully solicited. There will also be exhibited a fine collection of paintings in connection with the Fair. The Germania Band will perform each evening.
Any one desirous of attending one of the tables, is requested to send immediate word to the Rooms, or address Rev. Charles Spear, or Mrs. Spear.

PHOTOGRAPHIC, PORTRAIT OF JOHN G. WHITTIER.
A finely executed portrait of America's most meritorious poet, drawn from life by C. A. Barry, and photographed by Silsbee, Chase & Co., has just been published by W. A. Greene, 16 Summer street, Boston. The upper portion of the head and face is excellent, but the expression of the mouth fails to do justice to the subject.
CONCERT OF SENOR CASSERES.-A large and fashionable assembly greeted the first appearance of Senor Louis Casseres before a Boston public, at Mercantile Hall, last evening, and the marked approval with which his efforts were received leaves little room to doubt that he fairly established himself in favor with a discriminating portion of the community.
The reception of Senor Casseres was cordial, and his reappearance was demanded after each performance. Assistance was rendered by Mrs. J. H. Long and Mr. G. Gove, vocalists, and Mr. L. Coenen, upon the violin, while in the place of Mr. Adams, whose absence was regretted by many, Mr. Henry Draper, a baritone of considerable excellence (lately returned from Europe,) volunteered his services, and gave a pleasing specimen of his abilities.
The entertainment proved very satisfactory to the audience, and the performances were liberally applauded throughout.-Boston Journal.
Senor Casseres is identified, on one side of his parentage, with the proscribed colored race, and by his gentlemanly deportment and extraordinary skill and taste on his favorite instrument, will help greatly to remove that hateful and wicked spirit of complexional caste which so widely prevails in this country. His performances on Monday evening excited the admiration and elicited the warmest applause of a highly appreciative audience. He takes his position among the foremost pianists of the age.
Hon. Nicholas Brown, formerly American Consul to Rome, and Lieutenant-Governor of Rhode Island, his native State, died at Troy, recently, of congestion of the lungs. He was 66 years of age. Mr. Brown's library at Chippaquanset is said to be one of the finest in New England. It is particularly rich in Italian and French literature.
Mr. Brown cherished a growing interest in the Anti-Slavery struggle, and on subscribing for the Liberator, made the generous donation to it of one hundred dollars.

'OLD BROWN'S' COMPANY OF RESCUED SLAVES BURNT OUT.
FIRE AT WINDSOR.-On Saturday morning about 3 o'clock, a fire broke out in a house in Windsor belonging to Mrs. Bibb, a colored woman, and destroyed it and the adjoining house, occupied by two families. The house in which the fire originated was tenanted by the fugitive slaves whom we noticed a short time ago as having escaped from Missouri, through the intervention of old John Brown, of Ossawatomie, Kansas. On the plantation of their master, in Missouri, they had been in the habit of burning pine or other inflammable knots, for a light, and being destitute of the wherewith to purchase the necessary candles for illuminating their dwelling, the familiar knot was brought into requisition, from which, after the inmates had retired, the building took fire. There was no insurance on Mrs. Bibb's building; on the other, owned by Mrs. Haggerty, there was an insurance of $150, the building being valued at $600. Mrs. Haggerty's building was occupied by two families, who saved their furniture and fixtures.-Detroit Daily Advertiser.
Mrs. Bibb is the widow of the late Henry Bibb. The loss which she has sustained in thus kindly sheltering the fugitives from the American house of bondage is a very severe one, and we hope will be made up to her by charitable subscription.
The House of Representatives, on Wednesday, rejected the new personal liberty bill, 106 years to 109 nays. This is a strange vote or a Republican Legislature to give. It looks queer, to find the names of Gushing and Upharn, and Wells and Tucker, in the same list, two of the ablest Democrats in the House, standing shoulder to shoulder with two of the ablest Republicans. There were 27 absentees, the Speaker not voting.-Traveller.
<c04>
SLAVE HUNTING STILL LEGALIZED IN MASSACHUSETTS.
In the Massachusetts House of Representatives, on Wednesday, March 30th, the Bill to secure freedom to all persons •within this Commonwealth, came up for consideration.
On motion of Mr. UPHAM of Salem, the yeas and nays were ordered upon the substitute offered by Mr. WELLS of Greenfield, and the roll being called, the substitute was rejected by a vote of 84 to 132.
Mr. CHASE of Salem, proposed the following substitute for the bill, but it was ruled out of order.
AN ACT BESPECTING PERSONAL FEREDOM.
Be it enacted, &c.
Sec. 1.-Every human being within the jurisdiction of this Commonwealth is prima facie absolutely free, and liable to no restraint or abatement of personal freedom, except in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth.
Sec. 2.-No human being within the jurisdiction of this Commonwealth shall be deprived of any of the rights or privileges resulting from or belonging to his State, as declared in the first section of this act except by the judgment of his peers, or as is in said section provided.
'Mr. BORDEN of New Bedford gave notice that if the bill offered by Mr. GRIFFIN should pass, he should move at the next stage to amend it by adding to it a section of the committee's bill.
On motion of Mr. CUSHING, the yeas and nays were ordered on the question of adopting the substitute offered by Mr. GRIFFIN for the committee's bill; and the roll being called, the substitute was agreed to by a vote of 124 to 90.
The question being about to be taken on ordering the bill to a third reading, Mr. WELLS of Greenfield asked to be excused from voting. He said that a negative vote would seem to place him in opposition a cause which, if he knew himself, was the dearest of all causes to his heart; but that an affirmative vote would be to vote for a wrong and injurious measure, and one calculated to injure the cause it professed to advance.
The' roll was then called, and the bill was refused a third reading by the following vote:-
YEAR, 106, viz.
Allen, Luther, Manchester.
Arnold, Wm. F., North ampton.
Atwill, Gustavus, Lynn.
Babson, John J., Gloucester
Bacon, Amasa D., Sharon.
Barrett, Marcus, Auburn.
Beals, Elias S., Weymouth 
Benson, Geo. W., Lawrence.
Bent, John, Chelsea.
Borden, A., New Bedford.
Brownell, E. P., Westport.
Burgess, B. F., Hanover.
Burrell, J. D., W. Bridge-water.
Burt, Geo. E., Harvard.
Burt, Orlo, Sandisfield.
Butters, Geo. W., Mcthuen
Canning, E. W. B., Stock-bridge
Carpenter, Nelson, Warren.
Chamberlain, S. B., New Bedford.
Chandler, Geo., Worcester.
Clark, O. R., Winchester.
Cobb, Daniel S., Norton.
Cogswell, E., Ipswich.
Collins, Edw. J., Newton.
Conant, T., East Bridge-water
Copeland, Elisha, Taunton mouth. 
Crafts, Joseph, Watertown
Crane, Wm. S., Berkley.
Crane, Hosea, Millbury.
Crosby, J. D., Ashburnham
Davis, Ebenezer, Dudley.
Dickinson, Wm. H., Hatfield.
Doane, Nh'l. Jr., Harwich.
Drew, Job W., Kingston.
Dunnells, Amos A., Boston.
Earl, Wm. D., Attleborough.
Eldridge, John S., Canton.
Eldridge, M. L., Fairhaven
Evans, W. O., Newburyport
Fay, Jonas, Southborough.
Fish, John S., Sandwich.
Fox, Henry H., Taunton.
Freeman, Al'son S., Mendon
Fuller, Albert L., Ludlow.
George, Edwin B., Groveland
Gifford. N.B., N. Bedford.
Gleason, Benj. W., Stow.
Gould, J. Parker, Stoneham
Griffin, John Q. A., Malden
Hamson, T. D., Marblehead
Hartwell, Shattuck, Littleton.
Hathaway, Benj. G., Salem 
Haynes, Henry Jr., Sturbridge.
Hill, James, Beverly.
Hinckley, Nathl., Barnstable.
Howes, James S., Dennis.
Joslin, C. L., Leo minster.
Kimball, Moses, Boston. 
Kimball, N. S., Haverhill
Knowlton, N., Ashfield.
Longley, J. P., Shirley.
Lowe, Henry T., Rockport.
Lyman, H. D., Hinsdale.
McLean, D. S., Plympton.
Mann, Elbridge,. Milford.
Marble, De’k., Hingham.
Matthews, B. H., Yarmouth.
Mayo, Wm., Westminster.
Merriam, Ira, Oxford.
Merrill, Amos B., Boston.
Morgan, Thos. A., Beverly.
Morris, Thos. D., Boston.
Nash, Lorenzo S., Granby.
Nash, Nathl. C., Boston.
Nye, Wm. Jr., Falmouth.
Paige, Paul W., Brimfield.
Porter, Edw. F., Boston.
Potter, Nathal. Jr., Dartmouth
Putnam, Francis P., Danvers
Ray, Peleg, Nantucket.
Reed, Wm. L., Abington.
Rice, Henry C., Worcester.
Rice, Thomas Jr., Newton.
Rockwood, H., Bellingham
Russell, Wm. W., Sunderland
Sears, Judah, Boston.
Shaw, S., Cummington.
Shepard, I. F. Somerville.
Sherman, E. C., Plymouth
Slade, Wm. L., Somerset.
Sproal, Henry, Taunton.
Stebbins, R., Lengmeadow
Stone, Joseph, Springfield.
Stowell, J uth., Brookfield.
Temple, Wm. H., Medway
Tolman, Alb't., Worcester.
Tucker, W.H., Stoughton.
Upton, Edwin, Fitchburg.
Washburn, C. L., Belchertown.
Watson, S., New Bedford.
White, J. B., Blackstone.
Wilcox, P. F., Springfield.
Williams, N. W., Shrewsbury 
Worthington, R. Roxbury
Wright, G. L., W. Springfield
Wyman, Nathan, Woburn.
NAYS, 109, viz.
Ball, Noah, Townsend.
Barker, E., Charlestown.
Barker, James H., Milford.
Bates, S., Charlemont
Benjamin C., Egremont.
Bigelow, A., Cambridge.
Blodgett, Wm. W., PawTucket
Brimblecom, Chas., Barre.
Brimmer, Martin, Boston.
Brown, J. W., Framingham
Bryant, C. W., Roxbury.
Burnham, John, Cohasset.
Burnham, Walter, Lowell.
Bush, John L., Spencer.
Caldwell, J., Charlestown.
Cannon, David, Chester.
Carruth, R., Phillipston.
Chase, Stephen A., Salem.
Chickering, Wm., Andover 
Cobb, Elijah, Brewster.
Cobb, James F.Nantucket 
Coggin, Jacob, Tewksbury
Colt, Henry, Pittsfield.
Crook, J. R., Gloucester.
Crossett, Lib'y., Prescott.
Crowninshield,. A. W., Lexington.
Cushing, Caleb, Newburyport.
Doten, S. H., Plymouth.
Dowse, Nathl., Sherborn.
Dwinnel, Jas. F., Charlestown.
Edwards, N. B., Chelmsford.
Filley, Wm. T., Lanes borough.
French, A. J., Lawrence,
Fuller, Lorin L., Melrose.
Fuller, Wm. H., Whately.
Gage, Addison, Westfield.
Gifford, J., Provincetown.
Goodwin, John A., Lowell
Greenwood, A., Hubbardston.
Griffin, Martin, Boston.
Hall, Daniel, Boston.
Ham, Benj. F., Natick.
Hastings, Solon S., Princeton.
Hatch, Samuel, Boston.
Hayden, Elisha, Medford.
Holmes, Jos. W., Tisbury.
Horton, Henry, Dover.
Howard, Dan., Randolph.
Johnson, D. U., Abington.
Johnson, Sylvd'r., Adams.
Joslin, Asher, Webster. 
Lewis, Benj., Boston.
Lothrop, T. K., Boston.
Lovejoy, John, Lynn.
Lovell, Danl., Weymouth.
Maccarty, William, West Roxbury.
Miner, Elisha F., Granville
Morton, Wm. S., Quincy.
Nickerson, Pliny, Boston.
Noble, N. K., Cambridge.
Northrop, J. M., Tyringham
Parmenter, G. W., Boston.
Parsons, Thos., Brookline.
Pattee, Asa D., Boston. 
Peabody, Dean, Lynn.
Pratt, Chas. B., Worcester.
Pray, Lyman, Charlestown 
Rankin, Geo., Dorchester.
Raymond, S., North Andover.
Richardson, W. T., Cambridge.
Robinson, E., Middleborough
Ruggles, E. H.R., Dorchester
Russell, Thos. H., Boston.
Rutter, Josiah, Waltham.
Salmond, P., Pembroke.
Sanders, A. D., Williamsburg
Sands, Edw., Boston,
Sargent, G. P., Newbury.
Seism, Henry, Palmer.
Seamans, Otis A., Springfield.
Southworth, Edward, Jr., North Bridgewater.
Spofford, R. S., Jr., New-buryport
Stacey, Oliver M., Lynn,
Stearns, G. M. Chicopee.
Stock well, S. N., Boston.
Stratton, W, Northfield.
Sumner, I Great Barrington
Taft, Ezra W., Dedham.
Tay, Sullivan, Lowell, 
Thomas, Marc. A., Lowell.
Tobey, Job T., Lakeville.
Tucker, John C., Boston.
Twombly, Alex'r., Boston.
Tyler, W. H., 2d., Adams.
Upham, Chas. W., Salem.
Upton, Geo., Salem.
Walker, J. A., Pittsfield.
Walker, Wm., Braintree.
Warren, Geo. W., Weston.
Washburn, John M., Lancaster
Wells, G. D., Greenfield.
Wentworth, T., Lowell. 
Whitin, C. P., Northbridge
Whnney, Geo., Royalston.
Whitin, Fred'k., Boston.
Wilkins, John H., Boston.
Woodward, J. C,., Lowell.
Wrightington, S. C., Fall River
ABSENT, 24, viz.
Babbidge, C, Pepperell.
Bigelow, R. E., Paxton. 
Chamberlain, M., Chelsea.
Craig, E. C., Wrentham.
Ellis,-Wm. F., Ashland.
Freeman, Wm. T., New Salem.
Howe, Benj., Middleton.
Marvel, John C., Seekonk.
Miller, H. B., Coleraine.
Morse, E. M., Amesbury.
Nichols, R. C, Roxbury.
Norcross, A., Fitchburg.
Paker. S. E., Reading. ham.
Phelps. J., Marlborough. 
Poor, Eben S., South Danvers
Potter, Thos. T. Fall River
Riley, Patrick, Boston. 
Russell, James, Haverhill.'
Shaw, Geo. A., Boston.
Simmons, M.E., Marion. 
Taft, Gilbert C., Grafton.
Waters, P., South Hadley.
West, A. L., New Bedford
Williams, J. D. G., Raynham 
This result is in flagrant disregard of the feelings and desires of the people of Massachusetts.
<c05>
WISCONSIN STANDS FIRM.
The recent decision of the U. S. Supreme Court has received the prompt attention of the Assembly of Wisconsin. State Sovereignty is not to be surrendered. The following resolutions have been adopted in the Assembly by yeas 47, nays 37-a straight party vote. They will doubtless pass the Senate, and will certainly be approved by the people of the State: 
Where as, The Supreme Court of the United States has assumed appellate jurisdiction in the matter of the petition of Sherman M. Booth for a writ of habeas corpus presented and prosecuted to find judgment in the Supreme Court of this State, and has without process, or any of the forms recognized by law, assumed the power to render that judgment in a matter involving the personal liberty of the citizen, asserted by and adjudged to him in the regular course of judicial proceedings upon the great writ of liberty, secured to the people of each State by the Constitution of the United States: and
Whereas, Such assumption of power and authority by the Supreme Court of the United States to become the final arbiter of the liberty of the citizen, and to override and nullify the judgment of the State Courts declarative thereof, is in direct conflict with that provision of the Constitution of the United States which secures to the people the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus; therefore,
Resolved, the Senate concurring, That we regard the action of the Supreme Court of the United States in assuming jurisdiction in the case before mentioned, as an arbitrary act of power, unauthorized by the Constitution, and virtually superseding the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus, and prostrating the rights and liberties of the people at the foot of unlimited power.
Resolved, That this assumption of jurisdiction by the federal judiciary, in the said case, and without process, is an act of undelegated power, and therefore without authority, void, and of no force.
Resolved,. That the government formed by the Constitution of the United States was not made the exclusive or final judge of the extent of the powers dele gated to itself; but that, as in all other cases of compact among parties having no common judge, each party has an equal right to judge for itself, as well of infractions as of the mode and measure of redress.
Resolved, That the principle and construction contended for by the party which now rules in the councils of the nation, that the general government is the exclusive judge of the extent of the powers delegated to it, stop nothing short of despotism; since the discretion of those who administer the government, and not the Constitution, would be the measure of their powers; that the several States which formed that instrument being sovereign and independent, have the unquestionable right to judge of its infraction, and that a positive defiance by those sovereignties of all unauthorized acts done, or attempted to be done, under cover of that instrument, is the right remedy.
These resolutions have since been adopted by the Senate-13 to 12.
ARREST OF AN ALLEGED FUGITIVE SLAVE. The Philadelphia Bulletin, of Saturday, contains the following particulars of the arrest of a fugitive slave in Harrisburg, who was taken to Philadelphia for disposition:
'The alleged fugitive on his arrival in the city was taken to the office of the United States Commisioner, at Fifth and Chestnut streets, where we saw him this afternoon, with his wrists encased in handcuffs. He told us that his name is Daniel Webster, that he is about 25 years of age, and that he has been living at Harrisburg for nine years past, where he was employed at fence-making. 
Upon being questioned concerning his domestic relations, he said, with tears in his eyes, that he had a wife living at Harrisburg; that he had two children, the last of whom was buried yesterday week. He said that he had many friends at Harrisburg, and that if he could have been tried there, instead of being brought so far from home, he could have been able to proved his right to liberty; but at so great a distance from home, and among strangers, he had no chance. He states that he was arrested while attending market, at half-past 6 o'clock this morning, on pretence he had committed some crime.'
The officers who made the arrest say that there was a disposition to rescue the fugitive, and for that reason handcuffs were put upon him at Harrisburg. The gifts were removed in the cars, and again put upon him after their arrival at Philadelphia.
It is understood that the alleged fugitive is claimed by a party in Virginia, who say that he escaped from bondage six years ago. Daniel, upon the other hand, declares that if he was at Harrisburg, he could prove that he had lived there nine years. He is a good-looking, stalwart man, with an inoffensive countenance. This is the first case under the fugitive slave law in Philadelphia for several years.’
PHILADELPHIA, April 4. Before the United States Commissioner to-day, the case of the negro, Daniel Webster, an alleged fugitive from Athensville, Va., is being heard. On conducting the fugitive to the Commissioner's office this morning, a most exciting scene ensued. Hundreds gathered along the route, and there was every evidence of a forcible seizure being determined on. Marshal Jenkins made such a movement that left at doubt that the first man who interfered did so at the peril of his life. He thus succeeded in safely conducting Daniel before the Commissioner. The fugitive's counsel objected to the power of attorney of claimant's counsel as a mere transcript form, and not a full record of the Court of Louden county, Virginia.
The trial is progressing, and the Court room guard ed by a large force of police.
The evidence for the prosecution closed at 9 o'clock this evening, when the counsel for the defence asked for an adjournment of the case until he had time to consult with his witnesses. Mr. Brewster argued that the statute enforced summary proceedings, and opposed an adjournment. The public feeling was excited, and law demanded prompt action to shield the claimants from any disastrous results. That was the intent of the law. Finally, the Commissioner decided in favor of adjourning the case, for the reason that he was not perfectly satisfied with the identification of the negro, the witnesses not having seen him for seven or eight years.
Adjourned till to-morrow afternoon.
TO THE FRIENDS OF FUGITIVE SLAVES.-Three young men want places to wait and tend in public houses.
Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, or, by letter, to FRANCIS JACKSON.

RHODE ISLAND STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
An Anti-Slavery State Convention, for Rhode Island, will be held in the city of PROVIDENCE, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, April 21st and 22d, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. of the day first named, to which we invite all the friends of Human Liberty in the State to come, either in person or by their delegates.
The Convention will be held in FRANKLIN HALL, and will be attended by Wm. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, E. H. HEYWOOD, and others.
 The hour is critical. If any abolitionist, in the weakness of the flesh, seeks release and rest from the Anti-Slavery work, let him remember the solemn truth, that he who puts his hand to the plough, and looks back, is not fit for the kingdom of God; and that it is no time to rest while the open foes of freedom are pressing their measures of all conceivable iniquity, and while thousands of its fair-seeming friends are proving false and treacherous on every hand. Let the friends of freedom and the right crowd the Convention!
ALPHONSO R. JANES,
ASA FAIRBANKS,
THOMAS M. HATHAWAY,
ELIZABETH B. CHASE,
ANNA T. FAIRBANKS,
SUSAN R. HARRIS,
PELEG CLARKE,
WILLIAM CHACE, 
SOPHIA L. LITTLE,
Committee.
R. H. HEYWOOD will speak on the subject of American Slavery, in the State of Rhode Island, as follows:-
Arnold's Mills, Cumberland, Saturday eve'g, April 9. 
Pawtucket, Sunday, April 10.
Newport,' Monday, April 11
Newport, Tuesday, April 12
Middletown, Thursday, April 14. 
Portsmouth, Friday, April 15.
Tiverton, Sunday morn'g, April 17.
RHODE ISLAND.-SALLIE HOLLEY, on behalf of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak in WESTERLY, B.R. I., on Thursday April 14. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Boston, April 17, afternoon and evening, in the Melodeon. Subjects: Afternoon-Fact and Fiction in Religion.Evening The Living Present and the Deed Past.
WANTED-Situations in the country for colored boys and girls. Apply to WM. C. NELL, 91 Cornhill.
<c06>
THE MUSTEE.
487 pp. Price, $1.25.
WE beg leave, through this circular, to call your attention to a new work recently issued by us, and one that we are confident will occupy a high position among the many works that have been published within the last half century.
In point of interest and delineation of character we say, without fear of contradiction, that it is not equalled by anything that has emanated from the press for years.
Editors, clergymen, and literary men generally have vied with each other in bestowing upon it laudatory comments superior to those received by any work since the publication of •Uncle Tom's Cabin
The writer shows a command of language unequalled by novel writers of the age; while, at the same time, the intense interest which accompanies each and every page in the book is unsurpassed by any work of fiction. We annex a few extracts from the many hundreds of notices we have received in its favor, and will leave the public to decide for themselves, after having read the opinions of others:-
From Rev. T. Starr King
My recollections of the interest of the story (the Mustee,) the nobleness, of its purpose and sentiment, and the careful preparation and labor which the style and structure of the work evince, and which I owe to a perusal of the manuscript some months ago, are still fresh; and it is from the impulse of these that I heartily thank you for the copy you have sent me; and I commend the book, so far as my words can avail, to the community.,'
From Wendell Phillipe, Esq.
‘I have read the Mustee with an interest which deepens as the story advances. Mr. Presbury has made skilful use of his materials. His plot is excellent, and hi*s characters cannot fail to awaken, the heartiest sympathy.'
From R.Shelton McKenzie, Esq.
‘Very well written, with an interesting plot, and well distinguished characters. We hope to meet the author again.'
From the Taunton Gazette
'An extremely interesting tale, told with a good degree of art, and no waste of paper.'
From the New Hampshire Patriot.
'Equal in highly wrought interest and dramatic effect to anything we recollect in the range of modern fiction. Can be read only with bated breath,' eager curiosity, and thrilling emotion.'
From the Boston News.
'Written with great care, and possesses uncommon interest and value.
From the Salem Observer.
'As a work of fiction as well as one of superior moral aims, it possesses great value.'
From the Hartford Courant.

Powerfully written. The characters well drawn, and the incidents well told.'
From the New Hampshire Palladium
'A fascinating work, and does honor to the head and heart of its author. Its style is one of great force and purity'
From the Boston Post.
'The story is naturally told, and we heartily commend it to our readers and the public.'
From thsthe Providence Post.
'An excellent story.'
From the Boston Recorder.
Above the ordinary class of novels, and adjusted to the taste of numerous readers.'
From the Providence Tribune.
'The Mustee is a book that will go through the family before it goes to the library, and, when read, will not be forgotten. It will bear reading a second time.'
From the Schenectady Star.
'The author wields a vigorous pen, and the story cannot fail to interest.'
From the Christian Freeman.
'One of the best books of the season.'
From the Bangor Jeffersonian.
'A story of absorbing interest.'
From the Charlestown Advertiser.
'A novel of uncommon ability,-readable and entertaining in an uncommon degree.'
From the Bangor Whig and Courier.
'Attractive even to the mere lovers of something exciting.'
SHEPARD, CLARK & BROWN,
PUBLISHERS,
110 Washington street, Boston.
Copies mailed, postage paid, on receipt of the advertised price.
March 11. 3tis

THE OXYGENATED BITTERS.
Nature, in her great laboratory, has stored some remedy adapted to every disease which'flesh is heir to.' But it requires the investigation and research of the philosopher to discover and apply this remedy. Such research and investigation have succeeded in discovering a remedy for that most afflictive dispensation, the
DYSPEPSIA!.
with all its lesser and numerous evils; and it may be safely asserted, that until the appearance of the Oxygenated Bitters, a ease of Dyspepsia cured was a rare experience in medical practice. Now, under the influence of these Bitters, the rule is to cure, the rare exception, failure to cure.
Read the following, which the subscriber requests us to publish for the benefit of the afflicted: 
An Obstinate and Inveterate Case of DYSPEPSIA Cured by the Oxygenated Bitters.
The following, from a gentleman well known in the region in which he lives, ought to satisfy all those of little faith
WAERRTOWN, N. Y., July 28, 1858.
S. W. FOWLE & Co., Boston: SIRS-Nine years since, I was attacked by that curse of all diseases, Dyspepsia, which so affected me as to cause great oppression, fulness, and bloating of the bowels immediately after eating, accompanied with terrible pairs in the stomach, often occasioning nauses, vomiting, acidity, and headache, together with general debility and suffering, altogether rendering life a burden.
After having tried every known remedy without effect, and despairing of ever regaining my lost health, I was induced to make use of the Oxygenated Bitters, the good effects of which were immediately visible on my health and system. Before using a whole bottle, I was entirely cured; and I feel a pleasure in inducing ail like sufferers as myself to make use of this remarkable remedy.
THEO. CALDWELL.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. March 25-4tis.

The Boston Investigator
WILL commence its Twenty-Ninth Volume on, the 27th of April, in quarto form, and as hereto fore, will be devoted to the promotion of Universal Mental Liberty, and opposed to every form of Priestcraft and Superstition, whether under the guise of Modern Theology, or the pretensions of an ancient Divine Revelation. HORACE SEAVER, Esq., Editor. Now is the time to subscribe Prise. $2.00 a year. Address J. P.MENDUM, 45 Cornhill, Boston, Mass. A8 3t

MY PRICED
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE
-OF-
Choice Fruit and Flowering Trees,
SHRUBS, EVERGREENS. ROSES. BEDDING OUT PLANTS &c.,
Is now ready, and will be mailed to any adMass. Carriage of packages paid to Boston, or New York. M. B. WATSON,
Old Colony Nurseries, Plymouth, Mass.
March 18-6wis

FARMS.
GENTLEMEN, who wish to purchase Farms, or have Farms which they wish to sell or exchange for property in Boston or vicinity, would do well to call on the subscriber, he has superior means of effecting sales. 
R. A. WILLIAMS,
No. 4 Wilson's LANE, Room No. 8.
March 11-6w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator 
TO VERMONT,
On hearing of the passage of the 'Personal’ Liberty Bill.'
Brave and noble-hearted sister! our thanks to thee are due!
To Humanity and Justice we rejoice that thou art true!
The man-thief may no longer prowl amid thy North-land hills, 
Nor shall the bondman's blood e'er stain, thy clear and sparkling rills.
Within their mountain homes, to-day, thy sons may proudly claim, 
Without the blush of conscious guilt, the freeman's honored name; 
Where Warner, Stark and Allen fought, brave men the soil yet till;
Their fathers' voices echo yet from every wood-crowned hill!
Rest in your graves, old heroes now! they shall not be profaned,
Nor Freedom's altar-shrine ye reared by coward hands be stained: 
Your sons are worthy of their sires-can there be higher praise?
Hath Fame not wreathed those patriots' names with green and fadeless bays?
Thanks, that amid our kindred band, such sister we may claim!
Vermont! the slave's sad heart shall thrill to hear thine honored name; 
As from the prison-house he flies, the North star's guiding ray 
Shall beam along thy vales and streams, to cheer him on his way!
God speed the day when our Bay State shall place her hand in thine,
And pledge her faith to guard, with thee, Freedom's own hallowed shrine; 
When she the bondman's hand can clasp, saying, Oh, brother, stay! 
Thou'rt safe 'neath old Wachusett's shade-go not from us away!
Barre, Mass., 1859. CARRIE.

From the Albany Evening Journal.
THE AUCTION SALE. 
See! 'tis an auction sale
We follow the gaping crowd,
And we look on the precious human goods
That the crier is crying so loud.
Will you bid for a human life?
Will you barter a human soul? 
O, man with a mother, a sister, a wife,
Press forward, and offer thy gold!
Going! going! gone!
‘Tis nothing-that fearful cry 
That comes with such piercing clearness forth,
And seems to reach the sky.
'Tis only the cry of the child
That is torn from its mother's side;
'Tis only the desolation wild
Of her who was late a bride.
Going! going! gone!
Ay! separate that pair 
Who, hand in hand, thus far have come,
Soothing each other's care.
He is all that she has on earth,
And she is his heart's best pride;
But sever them! they are negro slaves,
And naught in the word beside.
What matters it that they weep,
That their hearts are rent with pain? 
They are only goods of the master's house,
To be sold for the master's gain. 
Lend her away from him!
Why do ye seem to care?
They are black-have they a right to feel,
Or to breathe the heavens' pure air?
Going! going! gone!
A mother now to thee 
Implores that her infant may be left,
In tones of agony. 
Why do you mind her cries?
Why listen to her voice?
She is a slave-what need that you
Should make her heart rejoice?
Going! going! gone!
The auction sale, at last, 
Is over; go tell that the mournful scene
You have witnessed here is past.
Tell of the broken hearts;
Of the agony and pain; 
Of bitter partings, uncheered by the hope
Of a meeting on earth again.
Tell of the sinking soul
That longs in vain for aid; 
Of the spirit yearning for Heaven's true light,
Deserted, alone, afraid. 
Tell of the prayer that now
Is rising from countless throngs, 
The burden of which is evermore,
How long, O Lord! how long?
Tell of all this, O man,
And then of thyself inquire 
If thou, to relieve this misery,
Hast ever had desire?
Then raise thy hands to heaven,
And let thy purpose be, 
That from our soil shall be rooted out
The curse of Slavery.

TOUISSAINT L'OUVERTURE.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Sleep calmly in thy dungeon-tomb,
Beneath <illegible> alien sky, 
Dark Haytian! for the time shall come,
Yea, even now is nigh-
When, every where, thy name shall be 
Redeemed from color's infamy;
And men shall learn to speak of these
As one of earth's great spirits, born 
In servitude and nursed in scorn,
Casting aside the weary weight 
And fetters of its low estate, 
In that strong majesty of soul
Which knows no color, tongue or clime, 
Which still hath spurned the base control
Of tyrants through all time! 
For other hands than mine may wreath 
The laurel round thy brow of death, 
And speak thy praise, as one whose word
A thousand fiery, spirits stirred-
Who crushed his foeman as a worm-
Whose step on human hearts fell firm:-
Be mine the better task to find
A tribute for the lofty mind,
Amid whose gloomy vengeance shone
Some milder virtues all thine own,-
Some gleans of feeling pure and warm,
Like sunshine on a sky of storm,-
Proofs that the negro's heart retains 
Some nobleness amid its chains,-
That kindness to the wronged is never 
Without its excellent reward,
Holy to human kind, and ever
Acceptable to God.

OUTWARD LIFE.
Though outward life is dark with dreams
Of want and care and scorning
Thank God! it ends with Angel <illegible>
Of <illegible> is the morning.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE ANTI-SLAVERY CAUSE IN NEW YORK.
POUGHKEEPSIE, (N. Y.) March 27, 1859.
FRIEND GARRISON-It has been my wish, for a long time, to receive the Liberator regularly, and I now hope to gratify it. I like its abolition principles-its position on matters of Religion, as well as its stand upon. Woman's Equality, Temperance, and Capital Punishment. Especially do I like its position upon the first and last of these, the two great crimes of our land. The one, a defiant denial of the manhood of man, and the womanhood of woman;-the other, with neither justice nor humanity upon its side,-with neither the highest good of society nor of the criminal in view, is a perfect embodiment of the law of vengeance.
Since your visit to this city, I have had occasion to test, in a measure, its anti-slavery force, by circulating a petition, praying that no slave might be sent back from the soil of New York. By many, the petition was graciously received, and signed; by some, silently refused; still another class objected, because it clashed with the national Constitution; and last, and lowest, were those who boldly denied the sinfulness of slavery, declared it in strict consonance with Christianity, and execrated all opposition to its rule. Concerning each of these, a word may not be out of place. Those who signed the petition were mostly our influential and upright citizens. Many of them were members of the ecclesiastical organizations of the place. This is a significant fact. It indicates the point toward which public feeling is tending. It shows that while the churches, as organizations, are in communion and fellowship with slaveholders, the individual members are beginning to awaken to a sense of the real position they occupy. If the body is yet contaminated by recognizing the Christian character of man-stealers, it is pleasing to know that a better sentiment is arousing among the laymen, which must aid materially in forming the Anti-Slavery Church of America. But I would remind them, that although they aid the fugitives, they still stand, by the requirements of their communion, the justifiers of slaveholders, by welcoming them as members of the Great Church. The churches of this city may not own slaves, nor permit slaveholders, to become members, but they recognize, as Christian, churches that do fellowship slaveholders,-that do acknowledge the honorable nature of slaveholding. They are still members of those great organizations, that reach far down into the tyrant's abode, and receive, as moral and virtuous men, the minions of the Slave Power. The influence of these organizations is still given to support those bodies which sanction slavery. In their Conferences and Synods they greet, as Christians, such as are apologists of the accursed system. Some professed abolitionists, who delight in the cry of' Infidel, 'Heretic,' &c., against such as do not receive their own ideas of a triune God, who declare them' better dead than alive,' who believe not in' everlasting fire,' with one hand upon a declaration of their sound Orthodoxy, will give the other to churches which boldly and unblushingly countenance slavery-apologizing ministers, as the Christian representatives of slaveholding churches; thus giving them credit before the world for a virtuous character. Such an anti-slavery principle would retain the shield of the Church around those pools of blood in which her garments are dyed. It is giving one hand to God, the other to Satan, if you only believe right. 
Those who refused the fugitive's plea in silence must have lost their sense of justice, or sacrificed it to some minor consideration. I would ask them, in Heaven's name, what they do mean by such silence, if it be not to yield consent to the slaveholder's claim?: Has their agreement with sin so benumbed their sense of right that they fail to abhor the crime of hunting down men? Or do they mean, by silence, to say that they feel no interest in the fugitive's behalf? If they are thus indifferent to crime, their ceremonial worship is an abomination; their profession, hypocrisy; their religion, a mockery. Do they respect justice? And then sit quietly down, and see even the meanest conceptions of justice outraged? Do they love humanity? How well they prove that love, by speechlessly allowing humanity to be robbed of its brightest ornament before their own eyes! Do they honor God? Admirably do they exhibit their honor by composedly countenancing kidnappers and murderers! In vain are their pretensions to abhor sin, when they thus quietly see it committed in its vilest forms. Perhaps they fear to array themselves with the enemies of slavery, because it is entrenched in high places! This is cowardice. In either case, they are negligent of their duty, regardless of the cries of the oppressed, and deaf to the pleadings of justice and humanity. And what shall I say of such as these? How safe is virtue in such hands? I can no more truly class them than with the supporters of the slave system, the silent observers of sin, the hushed spectators of villany, the abettors of all crime united.
I would also ask those who refused on constitution­al grounds, by what rule they regulate their conduct? They were earnest in their protestations of hostility to slavery and slave-hunting, but in vain, till they act more consistently, will their words be.' We hate slavery and slave-catching; but, O! the Constitution! that sanctions both!' What! their Constitution upholding slavery, sustaining the lowest iniquity, and they sustaining the Constitution! Thus shamelessly do they confess their complicity, and admit they are following a guilty course. Out of their own mouths I impeach them, and they arraign themselves as enemies of human freedom. They cannot accuse me of injustice, for they admit the whole thing themselves. They denounce slavery as wicked, as criminal, and yet declare their loyalty to a document which supports all this wickedness, this criminality. They array the Constitution and the Eternal Law of Justice against each other, and to one they must turn for guidance. Dare they tell me that they prefer the Constitution to the higher and better Law, written on their own souls, when that parchment, by their own admission, is dyed with blood? If that document is the highest law they recognize, then let them cease their preaching of the gospel, their Sabbath gatherings, their sacraments and prayers; for they are mockeries. Let them take this instrument, fresh from the slave pen, and preach from, pray over, and kneel to it. Let them regulate their estimate of human liberty by it, and since it holds slaves, let them hold slaves; since it returns the fugitive, let them, like thirsty hounds, join in the chase. But if they admit a law of right, of Christianity, that governs them, higher than Constitutions, and more binding than national corruption, I at once pronounce them apostates to that Higher Law, when they permit a Constitution, which they confess countenances inquiry of the deepest dye, to stand between them and their duty. They would rather defy the eternal law, than disobey a slaveholding, slavery-propagating parchment! Is this their Christianity-this their virtue? No wonder the nation reels in crime, when men so forget their sense of justice and morality as to prize more dearly the smiles and favors of slaveholders, than the approbation of conscience, the approval of every sense of right, and the smile of the Infinite Father, No wonder, when the plea of silence and affiliation with debauchery are put ahead of that justice and human right. It is thus, the slaveholder, crushes his victim, the tyrant rules the conquered. For my own part, I can see nothing which should prevent men from the performance of their moral duty. No consideration of present opposition; of love, of hatred; of Constitutions or Unions; of consequences, present or to come, should intimidate any true soul from sanctioning and upholding the right of all, black or white to liberty. The right is before all agree-
<c03>
ments, greater than all Unions. 'Only the right is acceptable with God. And he who yields a high principle to any Constitution, who sacrifices human freedom upon the altar of the Union, must yield his hollow pretence of being governed by any law higher than that document; and practically scoffs at the Infinite. He crawls at the foot of Slavery, its basest minion.
Concerning the open defenders of slavery, I have but little to say. They know its guilt, and stand self convicted whenever they claim liberty as their own birthright. The religion that upholds slavery is false; and when they learn the first elements; of genuine Christianity, they will find their assertions of its slaveholding nature to be false, utterly false. Their the­ology would hardly do to teach South-Sea Islanders morality, if it sanctions 'the' sum of all villainies.' They may scoff at abolitionists, but cannot safely deride the brotherhood of mankind.
Your visit to Poughkeepsie was highly pleasing to the friends of emancipation, so far as I know, and we all hope that you will come among us again ere long. We have Republicanism in its best form, but its supporters still shrink from the imputation of abolitionism. We want earnest, honest advocates of emancipation, and they can do a good work.
Yours respectfully,
JAMES M. DEGARMO.

H. W. BEECHER'S THEOLOGY AGAIN.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Before I read the criticism on Henry Ward Beecher which appeared in the Liberator a few weeks since, from the pen of the clear-headed 'C. K. W.,' it was my purpose to send you a very similar one; but the necessity of that is now superseded.
I regard Mr. Beecher as a noble-hearted man, in most respects, as I doubt not all his liberal critics do; and I am sure he is doing a grand and glorious work in the world. But there was a Calvinistic graft set in his magnificent nature in early life that did not grow much, for the want of congenial soil; but it nevertheless still feebly lives, and now and then bears bitter and unwholesome fruit-apples of Sodom. When he soars upon the wings of his own thought, and sings his own song, under the direct and genial influences of Heaven, how grand he is!-but when he returns to his catechism, how puerile he often is! He can hardly say, in truth, with the great apostle of the Gentiles' When I was a child, I thought as a child, I understood as a child, I speak as a child; but when I became a man, I put away childish things.' Some, however, think he will, ere long, attain to this manly state; but others doubt, so chained is he by early education and by present associations. All generous souls, however, appreciate him as he is, and are grateful both for him and his work-nor would they criticise him, save in good-will.
When the New York Observer said that 'Mr. Beecher's idea of God is far more offensive to the religious mind than any conception of him which Mr. Parker has ever expressed,' Mr. B. seemed to be quite restless under the impeachment, and went to work, rather disingenuously, I thought, -to make out a case against Mr. Parker, and in favor of himself. He made a fling at Mr. Parker, who, he said,' Employing the ideas of Ann Lee, speaks of God as Infinite Father and Mother of all. ‘He then asked:' Does the Observer embrace the (Shaker?) doctrine that God is male and female?' Was this ingenuous? I think it was unworthy of him-this sneering allusion to Mr. Parker as a disciple of mother Ann Lee. But let this point pass. It was inconsistent in Mr. Beecher, and on reading the passage, I at once involuntarily said, Physician, heal thyself; and' Out of thine own mouth art thou condemned'; for in' Notes from Beecher's Discourses,' he is represented as saying-' The Bible sets us an example of fashioning for ourselves a personal God to suit our needs. When I want love, I may make God my tender and loving father, or sister, or mother.' Does Mr. Beecher 'also' embrace the Shaker doctrine that God is male and female'? -that he is not only father and mother, but likewise brother and sister?' He who lives in glass houses, &c.
But Mr. B. tries also to make out a case against Mr. Parker on the Kingship of God; and for setting aside the views of' Augustine, Calvin, Basil, Gregory, Hop kins and Emmons." And with another shrewd fling he adds-' We shall hesitate a little before we walk with it [the Observer] into the camp of Naturalism, where Theology vibrates between Pantheism and Personality, and where it is declared that Atheism and annihilation are better than the Orthodox view. But this was all aside from the question at issue; for the Observer had not said it preferred Mr. Parker's criticism of the Orthodox view of God to Mr. Beecher's view itself, but Mr. Parker's own view, which Mr. B. did not quote, but professed an ignorance of! The Observer, we think, had him in a tight place, and he didn't get out.
But has not Mr. Beecher likewise said very strong things against that 'Orthodox view of God'-the view of Calvin and others-which Mr. Parker has repudiated, and criticised so severely? The first' time I ever heard Mr. B. speak, in Providence, R. I., he made it a special point of his address-a missionary address-to refute what he called the' monarchical view of God'; and, pray, whose view of God is it that he so often condemns in his sermons as a false and barbarous view, if it be not that of Calvin? Did any body ever have a more barbarous idea of God than that stern Genevan? Mr. B. would apparently have the Observer believe that he preaches the view of God held up by the grim theologians he names; but does, he? If he does not, again it may be said to him, as in the case of God as Mother' Physician, heal thyself; but if he does preach that awful view which he complained of Mr. Parker for saying is ' worse than atheism,' what does he really mean when he so often speaks of' imperfect views of God, derived from creeds and catechisms, and confessions of faith which were crammed into us at the expense of losing our dinners and suppers on Sunday'? Is not Mr. Beecher here opposing the same catechism. God which he condemns Mr. Parker for opposing? Most clearly; and hence Mr. Beecher is as much, a mother' Ann Lee', man and an anti-theological-monarchist as Mr. Par­ker is. Setting aside, then, the criticisms of both men on the old view of God, let the readers of both compare their real, and positive views, and see if the Observer be not right in saying that Mr. Parker is the highest and most Christian!
Mr. Beecher is grand and glorious when he speaks out of himself and heavenly inspirations; but when he goes to the catechism, he goes to the death.
W. H. F.

SOPHISTRY OF SABBATARIANS. 
We clip from one of those manufactories of superstition that call themselves 'religious newspapers,' the following statement 
THE COBBLER AND THE SABBATH. In one of the most densely peopled parts of New York, a gentleman lately visited the house of a poor, hard-working, infi­del cobbler. The man was busy at his last, and had scarcely time to look up on his unwelcome visitor.
That is hard work.
'It is, sir!'
'For how many hours of the day have you to labor here -twelve?'
'Yes, and more, sir! I am never off this seat under a fourteen to fifteen hours' spell of it.'
'That is sore toil for a bit of bread.'
'Indeed it is, sir, and very thankful am I when the week's end, comes. What would become of me without that rest?'
'And who, friend, think you, gave you that rest?
Came it by accident, or arrangement, or how?'
There came no answer to that: the cobbler hung his head; the man was honest, the skeptic was ashamed.
The setting up and knocking down of this man of straw is managed exactly in the style of the American Tract Society.
<c04>
Our acquaintance 'with' infidels' has been very limited, and the few whom we have known did not seem very intelligent or very wise. But the depth of folly and the density of ignorance reported by tract distributors as existing among this class are enough to excite ones pity. 
Since this honest and industrious cobbler did not know enough to reply to the question of his' unwelcome visitor,' that the weekly rest undoubtedly came, not by accident, but by arrangement-the. arrangement of men who found it desirable to alternate seasons of rest with their seasons of labor, whether of body or mind-fortified by the arrangement of priests, who, proclaiming them selves necessary mediators; between men and God, sought to monopolize the rest day, and make their living out of it, by representing regular attendance at their shop to be the special duty at that time-we say, since the infidel cobbler did not know enough to make this reply, it is a great pity, that some intelligent Christian bad not been present, who, by quoting the Bible against the false representations of the Tract Society, might have made its emissary hang his head; who might have asked by whose arrangement the Sunday's rest came, stopped his mouth by turning to the very passages of Scripture which he would quote, and showing their insufficiency, and then, by bringing forward those texts which the Tract Society are careful not to quote, demonstrating from the Bible the utter falseness of the hypothesis that that book enjoins upon Christians the observance of a Sabbath. C.K.W.
We heartily respond to the following just and reasonable appeal, in regard to the attempt to change the Constitution of Massachusetts, so as to bear proscriptively and invidiously against our naturalized fellow-citizens in the exercise of the elective franchise.
ADDRESS
Of the German Citizens of Toledo, Ohio, to the People of Massachusetts.
The citizens of Toledo, Ohio, of German birth, have heard with astonishment and indignation, that the Legislature of your State  has passed an Amendment to your Constitution, to the effect that no naturalized citizen shall hereafter have the right to vote in your State until he has resided there two years after receiving his certificate of citizenship. Not questioning the right of your Representatives to legislate on matters pertaining to the welfare of your Commonwealth, we still take the liberty, as fellow-citizens and as members of the Republican party, to express our opinions on this subject, now before you for final action.
We have hailed with delight the success of the Republican party in Massachusetts, and the election, as your Governor, of the late Speaker of the House of Representatives in Congress; whose elevation to that seat we watched with anxious solicitude. We always considered it a fundamental principle of the Republican party, that all citizens had equal rights before the law, without distinction of color or birth. But this action of your Legislature strikes at the very root of these eternal principles of equality and right. We had never expected that the Party of the Rights of All Men would signalize their accession to power in your State by enacting such clauses, discriminating between citizens and should this measure be approved of by the Republicans, and by the silence of their Press, then we, citizens of German descent, will have nothing more to do with such a party-we will never more lend our help to elevate a party to power to trample us underfoot. Nor will we be driven back into the other political organization, whose avowed purpose is the preservation and extension of American Slavery. We can never act with any party that does not recognize the eternal truth of the equality of all men, and the equal rights of all citizens; and should none of the existing political parties be able to elevate themselves to this standard, then we shall endeavor to promote and to advocate the formation of one that will stand up to the level of the framers of the Constitution of the United States.
We ask the People of Massachusetts to reject the proposed amendment to their Constitution.
P.LENK,
GUIDO MARX,
GEO. WEBER,
M. HOFFMAN,
GEO. TANNER,
Committee.

VOTE IT DOWN!
The Legislature of Massachusetts has lately proposed an amendment to the Constitution of that State, restricting the right of voting, among adopted citizens, to such as have been two years naturalized. The amendment is to be submitted to the people at the next general election. We hope that it may be voted down; and that the Republican party of the Commonwealth will be pre-eminent in its opposition to the proposed change. It is due to the integrity of our organization, composed as it is of the masses of the educated foreigners of all nationalities, that a measure in itself so unjust and unexpected-one against which they supposed that the Republican National Convention at, Philadelphia in 1856, had given them a sufficient guaranty -should meet with its quietus by Republican hands. Good faith and fair dealing with those who separated themselves from the bogus Democracy to assist the party of Freedom in the accomplishment of the results which it proposes-who have for the sake of principle been willing to fraternize with Know Nothings, their most deadly, enemies-and <illegible> who have, in their action on the national questions at issue between the parties, displayed a degree of patriotism and fidelity which many an American might imitate with advantage,-good faith to these demands that there should be no hesitation, no dodging, no compromise in this thing. It must be killed, or Republicanism in all the Northwestern and not a few of the Eastern States is needlessly and imminently imperilled!
While we speak thus decidedly, let not our Massachusetts friends understand that the Republicans of Illinois and the adjoining States, where the value of the aid of adopted citizens in the progress of Republican principles is recognized and appreciated, ask for a continuance of the naturalization laws as they are. Our Germans, Scandinavians, English, Protestant Irish and French, to a man, will not assent to, but gladly declare themselves in favor of an important change. They see as clearly is  Americans can the frauds which, under the existing law, may be and are perpetrated, and they will, we are assured, co-operate with whomsoever will take the lead in the legislation that may be necessary for greater security of their inestimable rights. They will cordially agree, that no man shall vote within two years of the date of his last papers, if those papers can be obtained by a three years' residence; or, what is perhaps better still, they will consent that five years may intervene between the date of the naturalization papers and the first exercise of the elective. franchise, provided that naturalization may take place within the first year's residence in the country. But they demand, and justly enough, that the law shall be a law of Congress, uniform in its action and universal in its application; and it is a wonder that the members of the Massachusetts Legislature could not so far respect their principles as to memorialize Congress for an enactment which all Republicans, native and adopted, might support, rather than throw the element of discord into our political discussions, which should now  he directed toward the best methods of releasing the country from the wicked rule of the sham Democracy.
It is time, however, that this question, misnamed Americanism, should be met, and that the abuses of the elective franchise, by which the Democracy of the North usually secure their triumphs, should be prevented: We are, not afraid, of the agitation which will follow are-opening of the whole matter. We know that the adopted citizens, working with the Republican party for the principles of Freedom are insincerely dormouse of adopting any just measures for securing purity in our elections, preventing the illegal naturalization of aliens, and guarding the perfect expression of the popular, will, as Americans themselves. The experience of the past, six years has taught them that they have nothing in the way of intolerance and proscription to fear from the American people; The bar of Know Nothing's has lost terrors and as might be expected of a body of men, who enjoy here the rational liberty they have been denied elsewhere, they grow more and more solicitous to preserve that liberty to themselves, and hand it down to their children unimpaired. Massachusetts owes it to these men to put under foot the injustice which her legislators have proposed Chicago Tribune.
<c05>
CHILD MURDER.
At the meeting in Warrington, (England) which welcomed Miss S. P. Remand, of Salem, Mr. Robson made the following, remarks on' the fallen national character of the Americans:'
Child murder, he said was practised more in the United States of America than in all the countries of Europe put together, and the people were rank in the depths of sin fearful to contemplate. There were thousands and tens of thousands of infants' lives murdered in America yearly, and yet the church took no notice, so corrupt was it. Infanticide he said, was common among the people, but there were exceptions, and those, were in the blacks; among them it was never practiced, except to snatch their babes from the grasp of the ruthless, slaveholders. They must not think he was jesting, or had overstated the fact. They could hardly take up a. newspaper, without finding in it plenty of evidence respecting this system of wholesale child murder, and plenty of advertisements of those who gave themselves to aid them in the diabolical practice.'
This is a very harsh accusation; but it is very true that the practice of abortion, which is probably what Mr. R. meant, is increasing here to an. extent which requires increased attention on the part of all who have any responsibility for the state of the public morals. The advertising affords us some clue to a judgment upon this point. People do not continue to advertise for any great length of time, unless their business will meet the expense. Our reason for judging that the dreadful trade of procuring abortion is a large and profitable business, is the constantly increasing number of advertisements, and the high rates which are offered for inserting them. Nearly every week, they are offered at our office, at almost any rate we might demand; and the ingenuity; of the artifices that are resorted to for the purpose of disguising the true character of the newspapers in the large cities, are almost entirely maintained by this species of advertisements, and those of a more gross and disgusting character-Salem Gazette. 
APPALLING CATASTROPHE.
Loss of Three Thousand Lives.
Near Taganrog, on the Sea of Azoff, a catastrophe occurred about the beginning of February last, which involved a loss of life unparalleled, except by memorable earthquakes or volcanic eruptions. It appears that some three thousand inhabitants of Taganrog, relying upon the promise of fair weather made by the genial atmosphere and the cloudless sky, proceeded to the Azoff Sea to indulge in the sprit of fishing beneath the ice-a favorite pastime of that region. The atmosphere continuing serene, the party were lulled into a feeling of security, and ventured further than usual upon the ice, in the hope of obtaining a good haul. Suddenly a breeze sprung up from the east, which, growing boisterous by degrees, whirled the loose snow and particles of ice in all directions, and before long succeeded in detaching the ice from the shore. The large ice field then broke into numerous pieces, and with their terrified and helpless human freight drifted towards the open sea. No assistance could be rendered the unhappy beings by their frantic relatives on shore, and within two hours not a sign of life was visible upon the surface of the sea. On the following day, a cake of ice drifted in shore upon which were five of the unfortunates, three of them dead, and the other two numb and insensible. The two latter, a girl and an old man, were restored by means of the usual appliances, the girl, however, surviving but a few hours; the man recovered, but lost the use of his tongue-a consequence, probably, of the fright caused by the scene he had passed through. He has pre­pared a written narrative of the occurrences of that fearful night on the Azoff.
By this catastrophe, at least three thousand per­sons found a watery grave.
CASTE SCHOOLS IN RHODE ISLAND.
George T. Downing has been defeated in his struggle for equal School Rights in Rhode Island. It was a dearly bought victory on the part of his opponents. It is something new in American History that a member of the Legislature of a sovereign State should occupy two hours of a session in vilifying and calumniating the character of a black reformer. It is something new also, in these times, for a Democratic paper to speak of the bill, which was prepared on this question, in the following terms:
'A large majority of the members seemed to be, and undoubtedly were, in favor of its passage. In­deed, looking upon the House as composed of honest, intelligent men, not as mere tricksters, or the easy dupes of mere' tricksters, its passage was certain; for nearly two-thirds of all the members had expressed their wish to vote for a measure of this character. But, in an unfortunate hour for the petitioners, the whole matter was a second time consigned to a committee, and the poor colored men were insultingly led to the door, and told to go out.
We have given our readers in, history of the movement which resulted in the defeat of the bill referred to. Mr. Flagg screwed his courage up to the sticking point, and ventured to assail, not the bill itself, not the petitioners, but a gentleman who had appeared before the committee as a friend of the latter. This man, who seems to us a head and shoulders above Mr. Flagg in moral integrity and intellectual ability, though " nothing but a negro " in color, was assailed in the most ungentlemanly and venomous language, until every decent man in the House felt like crying shame upon the retailer of such contemptible Bil­lingsgate.'- Providence Daily Post.
It is something in this nineteenth century, and under the reign of James Buchanan, the chrystalized negro hater, for a black man to wring from the Democratic press the admission that a 'negro' is a gentleman' head and shoulders taller in intellectual ability and moral worth' than a white legislator.

A BOLD AND SHREWD PUSH FOR FREEDOM.
The Oxford (Miss.) Mercury tells the following story:
’Saturday night, a man who appeared to be perfectly white, but who was really a negro, appeared at Mrs. Butler's hotel, and applied for lodgings for himself and servant-a negro man very black. He represented himself a traveler going "North, and, after eating supper with the regular guests, requested before retiring to be called up in time to leave on the 6 o'clock train next morning, which, was accordingly done. The black darkly was placed in the negro car, while the white one quietly seated himself among the white folks in the passenger car. Shortly after the train was in motion, a negro train hand passed through the negro car, and recognized our black passenger seated therein as an old friend. ‘Hello! Sam," said the hand, "where you gwine?" "I'se gwine Norf I belong to a gentleman, in deodar car." "Don't believe you is; you run-in' off, Sam." Sam flatly denied this, but the other! was still in doubt. He represented what had passed! to the conductor, who particularly noticed the gentleman in the "odder car," and came to the conclusion that ho was either an abolition emissary, or something else, that, was not right. When the; train reached the junction, he had them both arrested, and brought back on the return twin and placed! in the Holly Springs jail. The white darkly be­longs to W. B. Steen, a planter of this county living near Water Valley; and the black one to John B. Steel, a planter, near Banner in this county, They went up to Holly Springs on Tuesday, and brought the runaways home. It was the intention of the white negro, by passing himself off as a white man, to conduct himself and the other negro to a free State, but his plans were frustrated as above stated.'
REMARKABLE STATEMEMT.
A colored servant of Gen. Washington is living in Champaign, Co., Ohio, at the age of 112 years. We are indebted to T. S. McFarland, Esq., of Urbana, Ohio, for the following highly interesting facts, which are also substantiated by another gentleman of the same place:
EDS. GAZETTE: There is living in Concord Township, Campaign county, Ohio, a remarkable colored gentleman, named Richard Stanhope, now in his one hundred and twelfth year. He is very active, both in body and mind, for a man of his years, His head. is white as wool, and with the exception, of a slight defect in hearing, he retains to a surprising degree the use of all his mental and physical faculties. "He was born the first day of March, 1748, in Fredericksburg, Virginia, and is beyond doubt one of Gen. Washington's servants, as he has in his possession a certificate, in Washington's own hand-writing. He was with his
<c06>
master in several of the battles of the Revolution, and shows honorable sears received in the bloody conflicts for that day. He was also with the army in the last war with Great Britain, at the time of Hull's surrender. He was at the time of the surrender driving a team, and when ordered to drive to certain point, positively said he would not, but unhitched, his saddle horse, and made his way back to this country. He is now living with his third wife, who is eighty years old. He is the father of twenty-eight children, most of when are are living. Mr. Stanhope has been a citizen of Champaign county for 48.years, and has always sustained the character of an honest man and good citizen. He has been, a member of the Baptist Church for eighty-eight years.
T. S. McFARLAND.
URBANA, O., March 14th, 1859.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. Our readers will not be displeased to hear that a large stride toward the total abolition of capital punishments is expected this session, the Home-Secretary having announced in the Commons that Bills will be shortly for introduced the further improvement of the criminal law in England and Ireland. This is the more gratifying, when we remember the views of Lord Derby, as expressed in Parliament, not long prior to his accession to power. It is an instance of consistency by which a statesman loses nothing in public estimation. We do not mean that it is without president, recollecting as we do the valuable assistance rendered by Lord Brougham; and, at a later period by the present Chief Baron Pollock, then Solicitor-General, when he submitted to the Criminal- Law Commissioners reasons for abrogating the extreme penalty in certain cases. To Sergeant Jackson also then Solicitor-General for Ireland, now one of the Irish Judges, the cause of Romilly is indebted; as it is again, in an especial manner, to Lord John Russell, for the Acts of 1837. In all these cases, help came from official men, who had numerous coadjutors in one or other House of Parliament; names the country should gratefully remember. At the present time, the task devolves on Sir Fitzroy Kelly, Attorney-General, whose exertions succeeded in the last measure of mitigation, 1841.British Friend.
See page 91, fourth edition of the late Commissioner Phillips' Vacation Thoughts on Capital Punishments.
MR. EVERETT'S NEW LITERARY UNDERTAKIND.
The Hon. Edward Everett is, we take it, a weak man, notwithstanding his oratorical reputation. His assent to the proposition to give the <illegible>éclat of his name to an advertising scheme of the New York Ledger-a bloody-and-thunders, milky-and-waterish literary compound of ridiculous romance and Miss Nancyisms-shows that Mr. Everett has but little regard for his own dignity. It is much to be regretted that Barnum is in Europe; he would probably, by an offer of 20,000 dollars to he paid to the Mount Vernon fund, induce the Hon. Edward Everett to sing a comic song at his Museum three times a, week, and deliver his celebrated lecture on Washington every night.-Philadelphia Sunday Despatch

Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsa­parillas, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparillas is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strum us complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this com­pound will do it has been proven by experiment a many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints: -
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALCLA OR TIC DOULOUREUX, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPE LAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPRITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the had. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels? of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleans cut the vitiated Wood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sing in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular, disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Ex­tract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY

DR. J. C. AYER & CO. LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle, Six Bottles, for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral 
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relived on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Erysipelus, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dimer Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated.so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperients in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Fox; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion <Illegible> them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our <illegible>, in which they are given; with <illegible> descriptions of the above complaints, and the <illegible> that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with <illegible> preparations they make more profit on. Dem AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the <illegible> aid there is for them, and they should have it.
THEODORE METCALF & CO.
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston
BROWN & PRICE, Salem; H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine everywhere. 6m May 7.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON,
PRINTERS;
21 Corn hill. Boston.
