THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHIED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letter relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, VIZ:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.



WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 2.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1620.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
THE LAST EFFORT OF ABOLITIONISM MUST BE RESISTED.
 Abolitionism is making a last desperate effort to realize it insane project the success of which would be the rain of the institutions and material prosperity of the country. It knows that now is its last chance. Hence no effort is spared. Every influence it can command is brought to bear on the Executive and congress, and the military arm, to effect its purpose. The military is urged to force emancipation in every district under martial law. Congress is called on to decree universal and even unqualified abolition; or to do what would be equivalent to it. By one plausible plea after another, thousands who are not abolitionists have been persuaded into the absurd belief that emancipation is necessary to the restoration of the Union. The danger of its should be met with a resistance commensurate with the danger. 
 In the outset it is and obvious question, why is not every member of Congress, who proposes to abolish savery by act of Congress, not asked what right he has to commit congress to such legislation? Congress has repeatedly declared that it could not interfere with slavery in the States. That was the declaration in Corwin's proposed amendment to the Constitution, from the Republican side. Congress must act constitutionally. It would be monstrous to suppose any virtue in that body to transcend that instrument. This being settled, it would seem that every proposition of emancipation in Congress should be voted down the moment it is made there. *** In punishing rebellion, no animosity should be indulged against slaveholders, as such. Of the abstract character of the institution, which it has been their social duty to maintain, we will say nothing now. But let it be accorded to them, as truth and justice demand, that they have acquitted themselves well of that duty. The fruits of that productive industry, which they have trained and kept in motion, have been the staples of a commerce which has benefited the world—and no part of it so much as the North and West of the United States. See what <illegible> desolating results have followed the cessation <illegible>that commerce! The Western States of Europe are trembling under it. Our own North, momentarily benefited by a demand for army supplies, does not feel it, as it will by and by. But survey the West—with no choice of an outlet to Europe, save through New York—its products at half their former price, and all its purchases at double that price. In fact, the farmer of the West can scarcely raise produce at current prices. The gross yield of his farm would not pay the wages of the hands necessary to raise it. No part of the United States is more afflicted by the cessation of the Southern trade. Men now see the fallacy of all those theories, that belittled Southern industry, and the importance of Southern commerce with it, to the rest of the United States. Let us give some credit to the men who, while sustaining a system which, though legal, has been held up to unsparing odium, have made that system productive of so many and great benefits, that the withdrawal of them has sent fear and trembling through the nations. 
Now, if the Abolitionists should triumph, what is it but a decree of devastation against the South? What, when its full purposes are executed, will remain to us there but charred ruins? What will Union, with such blasted relies, be worth? How many years will it take to restore that country after it has been blighted by the deadly breath of this blast of sirocco? 
The truth is, the slave system should not be abolished—least of all, summarily. Everything should be done to avoid this catastrophe. Instead of inventing pretexts for freeing the slaves, every just means should be taken to avert that result. And this can be done without remitting any of the vigor necessary to the successful prosecution of this war. Up to a recent period. every sane man in the country—that is, all but the Abolitionists—exclaimed against the monstrosity of freeing the slaves on the soil. To overrun the country, which we still want to call the United States, with hordes of idle free negroes, was deemed the raving of a madman. It should still be so. 
This last tremendous effort of Abolitionism, by one means or other, to free the slaves, and bring upon us untold mischief, of which we have now only a small foretaste, should then be strongly resisted by every man in Congress, who would stand up for our Union in its integrity, and would every distresses and afflictions, from which the country would not recover for half a century. The time is now. Abolitionism is watching its chance, and leaving no stone unturned to bring this every movement be watched. If Abolitionism wins this, its last battle, the country is ruined. God avert such a calamity!—St. Louis Republican of Dec. 27th. 
COST OF ABOLITIONISM. "What Slavery is costing." says the Chicago Tribune, quoting Mr. Secretary Chase's Report, "is $897,732,802."
Nay, good sir, that is what Abolitionism is costing. Slavery was here at the birth of the Republic, and received the protection of the Constitution and of the laws of the United States; while Abolition is comparatively a new devil, born of lust and fanaticism, but for which the Union would be prosperous and happy. 
Therefore say that Abolitionism is now costing the country almost two millions of dollars per day, besides a bottomless ocean of blood.—Bergen Democrat. 
THADDEUS STEVENS. Mr. Thaddeus Stevens, of Pennsylvania, who is kicking up such a row in Congress about slavery, and wishes to free all the slaves at the South, in violation of the Constitution, at the expense of the loyal States—thus saddling us in addition to our probable annual expense of $105,000,000 for interest on our war debt in 1863, and $100,000,000 for ordinary expenses, making the snug total of $205,000,000,—in addition to this, we say, he would add to our direct taxes an interest on the money paid for slaves at least one hundred and thirty or forty millions more, leaving the honest, hard working men of the country enslaved by an annual expense of three hundred and fifty, or four hundred millions a year! But this proposition is an revolutionary as Jeff. Davis's Constitution, and those who sustain it are as much rebels against the Constitution of the Union as the army at Manassas, and deserve to be dealt with in the same manner. The former career of Stevens has qualified him for the violent course he is now urging upon his "confederates." We remember him as a rabid anti-mason many years ago, who, by his intrigues in Pennsylvania, embroiled that State in civil commotion to an extent that remember him as a rabid anti-mason many years ago, who, by his intrigues in Pennsylvania, embroiled that State in civil commotion to an extent that required the aid military force to sustain the constitutional authorities in opposition to Stevens and his abettors, when the "buck-shot war" left him in disgrace too deep for any party to reach him except ultra Abolitionism.—Boston Post. 
<c02>
Selections. 
THE OLD STATE OF THINGS NEITHER DESIRABLE NOR POSSIBLE. 
The following forcible and impressive suggestions are extracted from the very able speech delivered by Hon. M. F. Conway, of Kansas, in the U. S. House of Representatives, December 12, 1861:— 
Let this plan of the Administration for bringing back the seceded States on the old basis be realized, and we shall be precisely where we were at the commencement of this struggle. Slavery might possibly be satisfied with Mr. Lincoln's policy to-day, but what would not to-morrow inevitably disclose? It might possibly, while suffering from the disaster of secession, regard its situation tolerably satisfactory in the Union on almost any terms. But once, recovered from the shock of its defeat, would it not again develop its ambitious and aggressive nature with as much virulence as ever? No one can doubt it. Hence, should this policy prevail, nothing is more demonstrably clear than that the future history of this country will realize the very same troubles of which we so grievously complain in our past, and which culminated in the overwhelming calamity of civil war. After the lapse of a little time, when the strife of the present hour shall have composed itself to rest, the old monster will again come forth from his lair. In every State in the South, we shall have this measure and that for the benefit of slavery set up as a teal in all the elections for State Legislature, for Governor, for members of Congress, for presidential electors, for everything; and those candidates will, of course, be chosen who are most ultra in their proslavery tendencies. If Mr. Holt, or Mr. Johnson, or Mr. Carlile, or other men like them, do not the square up to the highest standard of Southern exaction, they will soon be set aside, and those who do will take their places. The presidential election will be controlled in the same way. It will be treason to the South to vote for a Northern man, unless he is a "Northern man with Southern principles." Their chosen candidate will be the one who gives the best proof of his devotion to the South. Here, then will again be generated that species of politician known as the "doughface." Those at the North who, in times past, ignominiously threw themselves down at the feet of the slaveholders as "mudsills," to pave the edifice of their power, will again pass into the service of that "oligarchy." Northern servility and servility and Southern arrogance will grow apace; and from one demand to another, from one concession to another, they will advance until the disorder again reaches its crisis, when another explosion will ensue, the anti-slavery element will rise into power as before by reason of excesses on the other side, the whole slave interest will be again imperiled, in consequence of which it, with, perhaps, its allies, will again fly to arms, (its natural resort,) and the country will again be involved in the horrors of civil war. This is the inevitable action and reaction of our present system. The movement, while slavery lasts, is one which proceeds upon natural laws, just as inexorable as the laws which govern the movements of the planets. They cannot be counteracted by any sort of political legerdemain.
Nor does it improve the case in the slightest degree that all this will be done through men and organizations heretofore dear to the people as representing a better cause. Circumstances change, and men change with them; but principles change not. Men may not see, or seeing may not believe. Again: men may be willing, for the sake of power, to discard the principles to which they once stood pledged. Or they may never, in fact, have been pledged to principles in themselves but only to certain applications of them.
The resolving force of the war may turn the spirit of slavery into a new body, with new head and feet and hands. The old personnel of the oligarchy may be entirely displaced. Hunter and Mason, and Slidell and Toombs, and Stephens and Beauregard, and Keitt and Pryor. and the whole array of the present, may pass into eternal oblivion, and new names be substituted in their stead; names, it may be, in many instances, which have been, and are even now, associated with our own in political action. But this will not improve the case. Slavery will be slavery still. Organizations cannot change it, though it may change them. Nor can men's names, nor party names, change it. It may enroll itself under the "Flag of our Union," and turn its face from Richmond to Washington. It may gather around the purlieus of the White House, instead of the Confederate mansion. It may bow down to Abraham Lincoln as the god of its idolatry, rejecting its present idol on the banks of the James river. But it will, nevertheless, be sure to come into our Senate and House of Representatives; it will be sure to come into our electoral college; it will be sure to come into our national conventions: and it will be sure to be felt wherever it is. It will vote for slavery. It will vote for slavery first, and for slavery last, and always for slavery. If Abraham Lincoln would be reelected President, he must secure the vote of slavery; for if he does not, somebody else will by its aid be elected over him. And it follows, as the night the day, if Abraham Lincoln secures the vote of slavery, that slavery must, in turn, secure the vote of Abraham Lincoln.
Indeed, the tendency of the Government, upon lf the principles which now control its action with respect to the war, is irresistibly towards such a transmutation of political elements as will restore the Save Power to its wonted supremacy in the Union, with the Administration for its representative and agent, however reluctant the latter might be to perform so ignominious a part. * * * *
I will not impeach the motives of the Administration. It is doubtless guided by a sincere desire to do, in all things, what will prove to be for the best interests of the country. But it is, nevertheless, acting upon a most deplorable policy in this respect. Principles control events; and its principles in this regard cannot fail to develop another woeful cycle of national contention and disaster, probably more violent, bitter, and fatal than anything in our past history. The very opposite course is the one it ought to pursue. To liberate the Government utterly and forever from slavery should be its first and paramount object. To accomplish this, it is only as necessary for it to discard an attenuated abstraction, and avail itself of opportunities which God has brought to our very doors. The simple act of changing in practice the relations of the Government, and pursuing the war according to the law and facts of the case, would, in a short time, make the United States as completely free from slavery as Canada, and place the institution at our feet, and under our feet. To recognize the Confederate States for their benefit is no part of our duty; but to shape our policy to accord with events, and enable us to fulfill a high purpose, is what we are imperatively called upon to do. The fiction upon which we are now proceeding binds us to slavery; and hence the national arms, instead of being directed against it, are
<c03>
held where they may at any moment be required to be turned to its defence.
The wish of the masses of our people is to conquer the seceded States to the authority of the Union, and hold them as subject provinces. Whether this will ever be accomplished, no one can, of course, confidently foretell; but, in my judgment, until this purpose is avowed, and the war assumes its true character, it is a mere juggle, to be turned this way or that-for slavery or against it-as the varying accidents of the hour may determine.
It is well that the bugbear of disunion has passed away, and can no longer be used to frighten timid souls from their propriety. Every one now sees that there cannot be any permanent separation of the States of the South from those, of the North; that they are wedded by ties of nature, destined to triumph over all disintegrating and explosive forces.
Should the belligerent sections settle down upon existing bases into separate political communities, the States in the Southern section, along the Northern line, would speedily become free, and eager to reunite with the North. Such slaves as could escape across the line would do so, and the rest would be conveyed by their owners to the distant South; and as these States became free, they would become, antagonistic to their confederates, and reconciled to the old Union; and no obstacle could prevent their  return. Thus the southern line of the United States would be brought down to the next tier of slave States, upon which the same effect would be wrought; and thus the process continued until the national ensign would again float unchallenged on the breezes of the Gulf. This would effect a restoration of the Union on an anti-slavery basis.
So that, even if the present war should cease, a new one would immediately begin. Moral forces would take the place of physical ones; and the antislavery editor and lecturer would appear instead of the dragoon and musketeer. The centre of Abolitionism would in time be transferred from Boston to Richmond; and we should see a Virginia "liberator," in the person of some new Garrison, come forth to break the remaining "covenant with death" and "league with hell."
The question may be fairly regarded, however, as in one sense a question of union. Estrangement and war will always exist while slavery survives. The extinction of this evil is the only final end of disunion. The question, therefore, is, whether our Union shall be a real or a pretended one whether freedom shall be its law and peace its fruit, or slavery its law and war its baleful offspring. A system based on slavery is essentially one of disunion. The war must, therefore, <illegible> Union are <illegible> and its end will be naught but evil.
Should it fail to do so, then let us cast it out as a wickedness and an abomination, and trust the cause of Union to other preservatives-to God's providence rather than to man's imbecility and treachery. War is obnoxious on general principles; and is only sanctified as a means to a noble end. It is a treacherous instrument at best; and in this case there is no little danger that it will turn into a thunderbolt to smite us to the earth, burying beneath the ruins of our constitutional liberty the hopes of mankind.
Eight hundred thousand strong men, in the prime of life, sober and industrious, are abstracted from the laboring population of the country to consume and be a tax upon those who remain to work. The report of the Secretary of the Treasury tells a fearful tale. Nearly two million dollars per day will hardly more than suffice to cover existing expenditures; and in one year and a half our national debt, if the war continues, will amount to the sum of $900,000,000.
This is the immense sacrifice we are making for freedom and Union; and yet, is it all to be squandered on a subterfuge and a cheat? For one, I shall not vote another dollar or man for the war until it assumes a different standing, and tends directly to an anti-slavery result. Millions for freedom, but not one cent for slavery.
Sir, we cannot afford to despise the opinion of the civilized world in this matter. Our present policy narrows our cause down to an ignoble struggle for mere physical supremacy, and for this the world can have no genuine respect. Our claim of authority, based on a trivial technicality about the proper distinction between a Federal Government and a mere confederacy, amounts to nothing. The human mind has outgrown that superstitious reverence for Government of any kind which makes rebellion a crime per se; and right of secession or no right of secession-what the world demands to know in the case is, upon which side does the morality of the question lie? Considered as a bloody and brutal encounter between slaveholders for dominion, it is justly offensive to the enlightened and Christian sentiment of the age. Yet the fate of nations, no less than of individuals, is moulded by the actions, and these by the opinions of mankind. So that public opinion is the real sovereign after all, and no policy can be permanently successful which defies or disregards it. The human mind, wherever found, however limited in development or rude in culture, is essentially logical; the heart, however hardened by selfishness or sin, has a chord to be touched in sympathy with suffering; and the conscience has its "still small voice," which never dies, to whisper to both heart and understanding of eternal justice. Therefore, in an age of free thought and free expression, the brain and heart and conscience of mankind are the lords who rule the rulers of the world, and no mean attribute of statesmanship is quickness to discern, and promptness to interpret and improve the admonitions of this august trinity.
Sad, indeed, will it be if those who, in this auspicious hour, are invested with the responsibility of command, shall continue to lack wisdom to comprehend or virtue to perform their duty. This is the great opportunity which God has vouchsafed to us to for our deliverance from that great curse which darkens our past. Let us not prove ourselves unequal to the destiny which its tenders. Oh! let us not attempt to rebuild our empire on foundations of sand; let us rear it on a basis of eternal granite. Let the order of justice, the harmony of God's benignant laws pervade it. And no internal commotions or outward assaults will afterwards beset it, against which it may not rise triumphant and enduring.
"Thou vampire Slavery, own that thou art dead!
* * * * * * * Yield to us
The wealth thy spectral fingers cannot hold ;
Bless us, and so depart to lie in state,
Embalmed thy lifeless body, and thy shade
So clamorous now for bloody holocausts,
Hallowed to peace by pious festivals."
Thus may the great Republic, so long perverted and paralyzed by slavery, stand forth, in the words of the Irish orator, "redeemed, regenerated, and our disenthralled by the genius of universal emancipation."
The negro boys about Annapolis have caught the "Army Hymn," and Old John Brown's "Glory, Hallelujah," from the New England soldiers. As for the latter, an Annapolis resident says, "the negroes are clear carried away with it."
<c04>
A REVERSAL OF THE CASE.
Extract from an able speech delivered by Hon. J. M. Ashley, at Toledo, Ohio, Nov. 26, 1861:-
Do you suppose that a Northern conspiracy against the government could have been as successfully inaugurated, and put into execution, as this Southern conspiracy has been-that we could have held Northern Conventions, elected Northern State Governors on the direct issue of dissolving the Union, or compelling the South to adopt such a National Constitution as we might dictate without the entire South being familiar with every movement, and unitedly prepared to resist it? In addition to all this, do you  believe the South would ever have been guilty of voting for Northern men who were her open and undisguised enemies; that they would ever have placed them, as we have done, in the most honorable and responsible positions in the Government? I ask you if you believe it possible for the North, with all her boasted knowledge, to have done as the South has done for the past twenty years, without every Southern representative, not only understanding every movement, under whatever party name or pretext they might have been disguised; but that their entire population would also have understood it, and directed their representatives boldly to meet the issue at the very threshold, and defeat it, not by compromising with it, but by meeting the question like men, and by an early and proper exposure of the designs of the conspirators, nipped their treason in the bud?
But this secession movement has been openly advocated for years, and its champions have been placed by Northern votes and Northern Presidents not only in the Cabinet, but in the most honorable and responsible positions of the Government. If able and true men pointed out the danger, as did John Quincy Adams, their voices would be drowned by the din of commerce and the cry of demagogues, who either for the sake of party or office, or the promise of office, would in proportion to their ignorance denounce with increased vehemence, all such statements as unqualifiedly false and only made to injure their party. For the sake of party and the hope of securing some petty office for two or four years, ignorant and corrupt men have usurped in the name of the people the management of political conventions, and the great interests of the country have been made subordinate to the ambitions of men whose whole lives gave assurances of their unfitness for responsible positions.
Because of this state of things the North, although superior in point of wealth, population and intelligence, have been made the "hewers of wood and this state of things shall forever cease? I answer that it will cease, as this rebellion will cease, whenever a united people earnestly wills it, and not before.
That the over prudent, the timid and the indifferent, with the trickster and the demagogue, will join with cowardly hunkerism in condemning the manner in which I am treating this subject, I do not doubt, and I do not object. In my opinion, this is no time for honied phrases, and I have therefore called things by their right names. This is a war about slavery, and you and I know it. The South declare that our unconstitutional interference with slavery is the cause of this rebellion. For this we are indicted at the bar of public opinion, and required to plead "guilty" or not "guilty." Instead of responding promptly, manfully, and truthfully, "not guilty," all Hunkerdom holds its breath for fear of offending its Southern brethren, and demands that we shall plead to anything else than that with which we are charged in the rebel indictment. Will any lawyer tell me how we are to defend ourselves? What shall be our reply to this charge? We may plead all our sins of omission and commission, but that will not do. Silence on the only distinct charge made in the indictment against us is an admission of our guilt. It is all any rebel can ask. It is substantially saying to the world that the South is right, and the North is wrong. Therefore, for one, I plead "not guilty," and "put myself upon the country." Suppose, instead of the charge of improper interference with slavery, the North were charged in the rebel indictment with unconstitutionally interfering with the rights of the South on the question of the Tariff, or Pacific Railroad, or the question of representation, or any one of the many questions which have divided political parties in this country-would prudent but timid friends be found then, as now, uniting with the political trickster and the demagogue in seconding the demand of Hunkerism, that we should not only not plead to that with which we were charged, but that we should not even dissent or publicly allude to the matter at issue? How can a statesman, who is guided by the principles of justice, or even by political expediency, demand of any rational people anything so irrational or idiotic as debate and answer to charges without any reference to the subject matter of the charges?
If this rebellion had resulted from a conspiracy on the part of the great body of Railroad corporations, or Banks, or Manufacturing interests, in the United States, because the General or State Governments had refused to comply with their demands, do you suppose there would have been any such hesitation on the part of the Government, as to their duty, there has been towards the present rebels? The old Bank of the United States had a capital of only fifty millions of dollars, and yet General Jackson thought its continued existence dangerous to the liberties of the people, because he knew it subsidized the public press, controlled party conventions, and, with its gold, corrupted statesmen, and divided the nation's chosen guardians and counselors. He thereupon crushed it out, and the nation applauded him. The number of rebel slaveholders in the United States does not exceed 350,000 men, women and minor children, all told. Of this number, not more than 200,000 are voters, and yet they claim that their capital in slaves is worth two thousand millions of dollars. If fifty millions of dollars in the hands of a bank were dangerous to the liberties of the people, how much more dangerous are two thousand millions of dollars in the hands of slaveholders, who are enemies to the Government? For the protection of this property, as they claim it to be, they have demanded special legislation and constitutional guarantees which, the people would not grant, and because of the refusal, this small but powerful clan have made this war upon the Government. Suppose the great majority of the bankers of the United States (and the bank stockholders are really a more numerous class than the rebel slaveholders) were to combine, and demand an amendment to the Constitution, granting them perpetual charters, with the right to suspend specie payment whenever, in their opinion, the interests of the banks demanded it; and suppose the people should refuse to give them such a dangerous grant of power, and, because of this refusal, they should unite in a conspiracy to destroy the Government by making war upon it as the rebel slaveholders are now doing, what would you, as practical men, do if they, instead of the slaveholders, were the rebels? I know what you would demand, and it would be done-the leading conspirators would be arrested, and their property confiscated to pay the expenses
<c05>
of putting down the rebellion, and thus make it impossible for them to get up another such rebellion. I would do the same with the Railroad conspirators, who have more wealth and more men interested with them than all the slaveholding rebels-I would do the same with any combination of men, under the same circumstances. The Banking, Railroad and Manufacturing interests of the United States each separately controls more wealth than all the conspirators now engaged in the rebellion, and their institutions are of more importance to commerce-to civilization and good government-than all the slaveholders, whether loyal or rebel; and yet, if any one or all of these interests were to combine against the Government, what would be their fate? Would there be any division among us on the question of conducting the war against them? Why then, as practical men, should we hesitate as to the course to be pursued towards rebel slaveholders?
THE BORDER STATES.
The leading obstacles which stand in the way of the Union cause arise from the views and course of the professedly loyal men in the bonier slave States, For all firm and sincere friends of the Union in those States, there should be exercised due forbearance and cherished earnest sympathy. But it is weakness for the people and authorities of the loyal States to allow the men of the border Slates to prevent the adoption of such action as will save them and restore the Union. As a rule, sick men cannot safely prescribe for themselves, especially if their condition is at all critical. Thus far the border States have hampered the limbs of the Government and the free States to a great extent. This condition of things cannot continue, if the Republic is to be saved. The free States furnish the men and the money, and their opinions must be properly respected. The Northern millions cannot be expected to pour out rivers of blood to blindly follow the advice of men whose eyes are greatly obscured by peculiar notions of negro property. If the border State Union men expect the Northern braves to save them from the ropes and bullets of their secession foes, they must allow them freedom of action. Samson was powerless when deprived of his hair. The Northern giant can restore the fabric of the Republic to its original beauty and strength, and beat back his ferocious enemies, only by being allowed to breathe the same air of freedom in which he was born and reared, and to have full liberty to act as exigencies and events overwhelmingly indicate. Let us sympathize with and defend our Union friends in Kentucky and Vir<illegible> sense will not sanction. If the Union is to be governed from Frankfort, it would be even worse than it was to allow the democratic party to be governed by Virginia. What better is a Frankfort Junto than a Richmond Junto? The dominant party that was, followed Richmond philosophy to its own destruction, and led the country into the bloody whirlpool of civil war. The dominant party that is, will take due care not to follow the Frankfort philosophy to its own defeat and death, and to the lasting injury of the country. Is the action of the Kentucky Legislature, requesting President Lincoln to break up his Cabinet at this critical juncture, weakness, insolence or treason? or a combination of the three?-Kennebec Journal.
TREASON.
The boast of the South that, in case of a dissolution of the Union, they would find active allies all through the North, though not realized to the full extent of their hopes, was far from being empty rodomontade. The events of the past year have conclusively shown that even the Northern States contain hosts of men who are secretly aiding the rebellion in every possible way. It is notorious that there are spies in Washington, spies in the army, and spies even among the clerks in the various executive departments. It is not by any means certain that all the army officers holding high commands are loyal. The rebels boast that we have now in service enough old army officers that are in favor of the South, to prevent our ever winning a decisive victory!
It has been suggested that the adoption of the emancipation policy by the Government would be followed by the resignation of a large proportion of the officers of the regular army. Such a result would, undoubtedly, give rise to much difficulty and confusion; but if it would purge the army of traitors, it would be far from unfortunate or inexpedient.
Much as has been said of the loyalty of Kentucky, and much as has been done to keep her in the Union, there is room to question the sincerity of her patriotism. Reluctantly ranging herself upon the strongest side, after months of sham neutrality, during which she aided the rebellion to the utmost of her power, she is hardly settled in her tardy allegiance before she seta up a long how! at the Secretary of War, and demands his removal because he is opposed to bolstering up slavery with one hand, while we fight the Slaveholders' Rebellion with the other! The Louisville Journal, the organ of her "loyal" men, has steadily opposed every warlike act of the Government; and especially denounced, with unmeasured violence, the first proclamation of the President, calling for 75,000 men.
What is true of Kentucky is true, to some extent, of other States. It is the worst feature of our case, that the Administration is almost compelled to pursue a time-serving, hand-to-mouth, undecided policy, for fear of alienating the loose and uncertain loyalty of so many whose adhesion seems of much importance. The South have the advantage of united counsels, and a pronounced, outspoken policy. The mob terrorism, which, for so many years, has been employed in driving from the South every man suspected of anti-slavery opinions, has made them a unit.
The time is coming, and may not be far distant, when something will be done. The logic of events -the stern arguments of necessity-will force the wavering to decide, and compel even the constitutionally timid to throw off all hesitation, and acquiesce, if they do not aid, in vigorous and decisive measures.-Delhi (N. Y.) Republican.
THE CASE OF MASON AND SLIDELL.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier:
If the dispatch of Mr. Seward, as has been remarked by an evening paper "took the community by surprise," the community has been still more surprised at its own equanimity. That Mr. Seward has made a masterly, and in some respects an incontrovertible argument against our own government, is undeniable. If these sentiments had been declared earlier, they would have savored more of magnanimity. His countrymen may now put whatever construction upon them they may please, but Englishmen will never think of them bat as uttered under? compulsion. We ourselves know the choice to have been that between humiliation, temporary at least, and the total loss of our national existence. England left but this alternative. She intended to
<c06>
leave no other-and her disappointment will be great indeed that her demand has been acceded to. When among civilized nations was ever an ultimatum thrown down in such peremptory style, without any primary proceedings which would justify even the use of such a word?
There is but one similar instance in modern times, and that is a precedent which England has herself afforded in her treatment of China. Her motives in both cases were similar. China had, by virtue of her own revenue laws, seized a quantity of opium smuggled into the country by Englishmen for the purpose of enriching themselves and of poisoning the Chinese, in whose moral and religious welfare that philanthropic nation has always taken such a deep interest. The choice was given-apology and restitution, or war. To the joy of England, the latter was accepted. She gained the victory, and crowded the hateful drug down the throats of an unoffending people,, and at the same time opened the ports for her cotton goods all of which was not in the programmer, but it was well understood to be one great object of the war.
Right or wrong in the affair of the Trent according to our own doctrine, we were right according to that of England,-according to that for which she waged against us the war of 1812, and which, although we carried it to a glorious end, was not so successful as to cause her to give up her pretensions. At any other time than this, who can doubt that England, if not acknowledging the right of search, as exercised on board the Trent, would at least have temperately discussed the affair and proposed an arbitration, rather than to provoke a war because we acted on her own previous interpretation of international law rather than upon our own? We may fairly presume that, under other circumstances, she would have given due credit to Capt. Wilkes for his generous blunder in releasing the ship, passengers, and cargo, for their advantage and his own detriment. Now, this conduct of his, proceeding from the purest of motives, is tortured into a technicality for the meanest of purposes.
"Times change, and we change with them."
Precedents change, too, and this new precedent which Mr. Seward congratulates the world upon will change when its change will suit England's convenience. It is the part of a bully to kick a man after he is down. We may think of ourselves what we please. England will consider us to be down, and her kicks will come faster and faster as cotton  becomes scarce. Cotton is more than king with her -it is the God for whose sake she has already cast away her black idol.
I do not intend all this to be understood as merely they "growl" of an old sailor, although this is a resource, but as a warning to look out for squats ahead, and not to disregard the black cloud which seems to have passed to leeward, but which may yet cant round and catch us aback. RINGBOLT.
THE TRENT AFFAIR.
By the Queen's Proclamation, she had solemnly enjoined her subjects not to transport officers, soldiers, or dispatches for either party in our internal struggle. Had not the Trent clearly defied this injunction? Had she not taken from a slaveholding neutral port, wherein hostility to the United States is rampant, distinguished emissaries of Jefferson Davis, with their suite and dispatches, fully aware that they had just eluded our blockade, and were then proceeding on an errand of signal hostility and peril to the United States? Can there be a rational doubt that the commander of the said Trent was conscious of the errand of those Commissioners, and deliberately promoting its success? Can there be a shadow of question that, had Canada or Jamaica been in rebellion, the Trent an American vessel, her captor a Briton, Mason aim Slidell emissaries of the rebels on their way to solicit recognition and assistance from the Courts of France and Spain, and the case properly brought before Sir William Scott or Lord Stowell for adjudication, he would have condemned vessel and cargo as lawful prize of war, and that the rebel emissaries found on board would have been sent to the Tower if not to the scaffold? For one, I have no more doubt of this than of my own existence.
But then, it is fairly if not forcibly urged, times have changed, and the extreme assertions of belligerent rights over neutrals which were current in British Admiralty Courts fifty to sixty years ago, are not now upheld in any quarter. What Great  Britain did to us in the days of our weakness and her maritime dominion, is no conclusive measure of what she must concede to us in the altered circumstances of l861.
Perhaps: And yet it seems hard that belligerent maritime rights, which were so broad and grasping when we were neutral and England a belligerent, should have "shrunk to such little measure" when we are at war and Great Britain a neutral. The rule works so unevenly that there is palpable ground for suspicion of jockeying or "prestidigitation" in the hand that holds and wields it.
For do but consider this special men of British logic:
The Daily News (London) is a Liberal journal, usually fair and even friendly toward this country. Yet even the News contrives this dilemma, and offers us the choice of its horns:
Mason and Slidell were either belligerents or they were not. But we have denied them the character of belligerents, regarding them simply as insurgents or rebels. But, in that character, we can only contemplate them on an English vessel as refugees from Justice at home, and Great Britain never surrenders political refugees. Our precedents, therefore, are all abroad, and our position untenable!
The answer to this is very simple:
Mason and Slidell were not refugees seeking a foreign asylum from our pursuing vengeance. On the contrary, they were enemies of the United States, bound on an important errand of hostility, wherein the Trent was their willing accomplice. Had they I been fleeing from our shores for refuge, intent only on escape and immunity from punishment, they would be justly entitled to British asylum and protection, as they now are not. But the assumption that, because we do not accord to our rebels belligerent rights, they may be aided by neutral powers to any extent, and may thus pursue with impunity on the high seas their projects of hostility to the country they have forsworn, needs but to be illustrated to be scouted. Were it tenable, a British merchant fleet might be employed is transporting rebel troops from Norfolk to Charleston, from Charleston to Pensacola, from Pensacola to Galveston, etc., etc., throughout the contest, and our ships of war must pass them without challenge, because we deny them the character of belligerents! Great Britain did wit think so when McNab burnt the rebel steamer Caroline at an American wharf, and her Government assumed the act with all its responsibilities. A nation's right to pursue and to protect itself against its enemies flows inevitably from its right to exist, and is not vitally affected by the character in which it regards those enemies. Refugees and active agents of a public enemy are quite distinct characters.-GREELEY.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States becomes the theatre of a war CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of  CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the beard, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of the armies have power to emancipate all the slaves is the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
OBJECTS OF THE WAR.
We have received, (says the N. T. Christian Inquirer,) the eloquent speech of HON. THOMAS D.ELIOT, on the above subject, in the House of Representatives, December 12th. Mr. Eliot represents the New Bedford district of Massachusetts, and his grave and sensible views, coming from such a quarter, coming from one who was born in a slave community also, are entitled to the most weight consideration:-
Why, sir, from the beginning of this rebellion, we have heard it stated by the traitors that they have a power peculiar to them in their institution of slavery. It was stated here in Congress. We have heard it from Mr. Keitt and Mr. Stevens here, and from Mr. Keitt and Mr. Stevens there. All their orators, statesmen, and politicians, are declaring how they stand upon this precise power. I have here an extract from one of the Southern papers, in which it undertakes to go into an argument to show that the South can sustain an army of six hundred thousand in the field, or one-tenth of their white population, without affecting their industrial pursuits at home:
"Let the stares work; we will fight. We will fight, and they will produce. We will consume, we will, protect, and they at home will give us the means of, carrying on this war."
Is it not so? Who are fighting our battles? Our merchants, lawyers, mechanics; our men of, business; our young men of all parties, and of every, avocation of life, are fighting our battles. What for? To put down this rebellion: to subdue this treason.
Why, sir, when the President called for aid-nay, before be called, upon the day the attack was made upon, Fort Sumter, who was there in the land that dreamed of the intense loyalty which lived in the hearts of, our people? We had been living for nearly fifty, year in peace: we had been divided among different parties; we had been carrying on the various pursuits of life; we had success and prosperity; cities had sprung from the ground in a day; no nation had prospered so much as we. Who knew of our loyalty? We had hated each other as politicians: who knew how we would love each other as loyal men? Here, in this House, a Democrat of the Breckinridge school said to me, last year, that he would pledge himself that there would be from New York no less than an army of fifty thousand men who would come from their homes to fight against the North. Yet what an echo that Sumter gun created! Why, sir, it sounded through the North and the East and the West, and their startled population jumped to arms. It sounded through our valleys, and over our plains; and the deserted plough was left in the half-turned furrow by the yeomanry of the land. It sounded through our towns, villages, and cities, and the mechanic left iris shop, and the merchant forgot his unbalanced ledger, and the lawyer left his cases untried, and, with his clients, hastened to the field, It sounded along the aisles of our churches, and pastors and people, their prayers and their patriotism working to one end, marched to the war. More than six hundred thousand men are now in arms. They have left their homes, and on the land and on the sea are upholding the flag, and sustaining the power, and defending the honor of the Government.
Mr. Speaker, the relation of master and slave, within the several States, in November, 1860, was safe from Congressional interference. The Presidential campaign had just closed. Slavery was not to be extended. To that extent the Republican party had been pledged. But the mad determination to rule or to ruin was carried into effect. South Carolina fanaticism hurried the South into this rebellion. And now the whole industrial interests of this generation have been overturned. Fortunes and business, houses, lands, and homes, and the lives of the best men in the land, have been thrown into this war; and yet, when we know that slavery has caused it, and when it is plain that in no way can their strength be overcome, and our peace secured so quickly and effectively as by striking down this power they use against us. we are found to hesitate, and timidly to halt and to consider!
Sir, if we have a right to argue of the ways of Providence, we might say without irreverence, that the hand of God points to us our duty. Our President may act, our Commander-in-Chief, within his province, and the officers under him in command, may act. and I believe are called upon to act, by every consideration of humanity and of patriotism; and, coming from the Commonwealth I represent, in part a State which has performed no small <illegible> expression of the judgment of this House as shall command respect. I am not here to boast of the bravery or the patriotism of Massachusetts soldiers from the port where I have my home, more than fifteen hundred men have been shipped for our Navy. From all our sea-board and island towns their skillful and hardy sons are found as masters upon the quarter-deck, and as seamen on board our ships. From our whole State her young men are with the army. More than twenty thousand of her sons are in the field, ready and willing, as you know, to shed their heart's blood in their country's cause.
In their name, and in their behalf, I pray you to call upon the military arm to strike that blow more effective for peace and for freedom than armies or victories can be, and convert the slave, who is the power of the enemy, into the freeman who shall be their dread. So shall the sword intervene for freedom! If I have read the history of Massachusetts aright, that is the intervention her fathers contemplated! In the early days of English freedom, when constitutional liberty was beginning to find a home in the hearts of Englishmen, after HAMPDEN and ELIOT, and their compatriots, had been working in the cause, in the days of CHARLES, a young man, in an album which he found in a public library, wrote these two lines:
"Haee manus, inimica tyrannis,
Ense petit placidam sub libertate quietem."
"This hand, hostile to tyrants,
Seeks with the sword quiet rest in freedom."
They called down upon his head the indignant rebuke of an offended king; but the monarch has died and Sydney has passed away; yet, while Massachusetts shall live, the lines he then inscribed shall be remembered. In after years, when our forefathers were seeking to find a motto for their State coat-of-arms, they could select none that seemed to them as pertinent as the last of those two lines: and there it stands-
"Ense petit placidam sub libertate quietem."
And now she asks, through the humblest of her sons, that the military power of our chief, hostile always to rebellion, shall thus with the sword find quiet rest in freedom.
ADDRESS OF GOV. ANDREW.
On Friday last, the annual Address to the Legislature of Massachusetts was made by Gov. John A. Andrew, and occupied more than two hours in its delivery. The following is that portion of it which relates to "Our National Cause":-
The ultimate extinction of human slavery is inevitable. That this war, which if the revolt of slavery, (checkmated by an election, and permanently subordinated by the Census.) not merely against the Union and the Constitution, but against Popular Government and Democratic Institutions, will deal it a mortal blow, is not less inevitable. I may not argue the proposition: but it is true. And, while the principles and opinions adopted in my earliest manhood, growing with every year in strength and intelligence of conviction, point always to the policy of Justice, the expediency of Humanity, and the necessity of Duty, to which the relations of our Government and People to the whole subject of slavery form no exception, so that I have always believed that every constitutional power belonging to the Government, and every just influence of the people ought to be used to limit and terminate this enormous wrong which curses not only the bondman and his master, but blasts the very soil they stand upon-I yet mean, as I have done since the beginning of the "Secession,"-I mean to continue to school myself to silence. I cannot suspect that my opinions, in view of the past, can be misconceived by any to whom they may be of the slightest consequence or curiosity. Nor do I believe that the faith of Massachusetts can be mistaken or misinterpreted. The record of her declared opinions is resplendent with instruction, and even with prophecy; but she was treated for years as the Cassandra of the States, disliked because of her fidelity to the ancient faith, and avoided because of her warnings and her testimory. And now, when the Divine Providence is leading all the people in ways they had not imagined, I will not dare attempt to run before, and possibly imperil the truth itself. Let him lead to whom the people have be authority and the power. One great duty of absorbing, royal Patriotism, which is the pub-
<c02>
lie duty of the occasion, demands us all to follow. Placed in no situation where it becomes me to discuss his policy, I do not stop even to consider it. The only question which I can entertain is what to do, and when that question is answered, the other is what next to do in the sphere of activity where it is given me to stand. For by deeds, and not by words,is this people to accomplish their salvation.
Let ours be the duty in this great emergency to furnish, in unstinted measure, the men and the money required of as for the common defence. Let Massachusetts ideas and Massachusetts principles go forth, with the industrious, sturdy sons of the Commonwealth, to propagate and intensify in every camp, and upon every battle-field, that love of equal liberty, and those rights of universal humanity, which are the basis of our Institutions; but let none of us who remain at home presume to direct the pilot, or to seize the helm. To the civil head of the National State, to the military head of the National Army, our fidelity, our confidence, our constant, devoted, and unwavering support, rendered in the spirit of intelligent freemen, of large-minded citizens, conscious of the difficulties of government, the responsibilities of power, the perils of distrust and division, are due without measure and without reservation.
The Great Rebellion must be put down, and its promoters crushed beneath the ruins of their own ambition. The greatest Crime of history must receive a doom so swift and sure, that the enemies of Popular Government shall stand in awe while they contemplate the elastic energy and concentrative power of Democratic Institutions and a Free People. The monstrous character of the crime has never yet been adequately conceived, nor is language able fitly to describe it. Groundless and causeless in its origin, it began and grew up, and continues, under the lead and direction of men who had received all the favors, and enjoyed all the blessings of our government, and who were bound by official oaths to maintan it. Reckless of consequences, and determined to ruin where they could not rule, they conspired against the welfare of nearly thirty millions of people, and their countless posterity; they plunged them, with inconceivable madness, into every danger, and suffering, and sorrow, which can be generated by domestic war; and they stand with souls blackened by the selfishness and audacious barbarity of the crime-red-handed and guilty before God and History, of the slaughter of the innocent, and the blood of the brave.
Whether right or wrong in its domestic or its foreign policy, judged by whatever standard, whether of expediency or of principle, the American citizen can recognize no social duty intervening between himself and his country. He may urge reform; but he has no right to destroy. Intrusted with the recious inheritance of Liberty, endowed with the gift of participation in a Popular Government, the Constitution makes him at once the beneficiary and the defender of interests and institutions he cannot innocently endanger; and when he becomes a traitor to his country, he commits equal treason against mankind.
The energies, wisdom, and patience of the People, their capacity for government as a corporate whole, and their capacity of voluntary obedience and subordination, whether in camp or at home, are now on trial. This is no merely local, accidental, temporary act of insurgency, to be treated by police measures, and civil correction. It is WAR, dreadful, solemn WAR. The influences, institutions, and adherents of despotic ideas and systems, reacting against the ideas of progression in liberal government, have arrayed themselves against the only people and the only national power where Democracy has a citadel and a home on the face of all the earth.
The despotic element in America, conspiring against our country's National Life, anticipated its own earliest demonstrations of force by trying to extend the conspiracy to the inclusion of all the "nations who feel power and forget right." Involved in this controversy for life, for freedom, and for honor, let Massachusetts in following the flag, and keeping step to the music of the Union, never fail to prove to all the world that in all the characteristics of her people, she is to-day as she was of old when she it was who first unfurled the flag and pitched the tune. Henceforth there will be no one to consider how to "reconstruct" the Union, excluding New England from the sisterhood of States. Wherever for treasure, or heroism or blood was the call they heard, the people of New England have responded by opening the lap of their industry, and by the march of their braves. And now <illegible> when her Lee, and Revere, and Rockwood, and Bowman lie in felons' cells, and hundreds of her sons wear out their hearts in sad captivity, victims of their valor and devotion to our Union, one irrepressible impulse moves our people and inspires our soldiers in  the  field-one prayer to see the day when  an army of  Loyal Americans shall hammer at the doors of their  prison-houses, with both hands pledged to the solemn task of war, and with neither hand averted to uphold the Institution which is the cause of all this woe; and that their bow shall turn  not back, and I  their sword return not empty, until the grand deliverance shall be accomplished.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1862.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
Though by the terms of the Liberator, payment for the paper should be made in advance, yet it has not only not been insisted upon, but an indulgence of thirteen months has hitherto been granted delinquent subscribers, before proceeding (always, of course, with great reluctance) to erase their names from the subscription list, in accordance with the STANDING RULE laid down by the Financial Committee. But, in consequence of the generally depressed state of business, this indulgence will be extended from January 1,1861, to April 1, 1862, in cases of necessity. We trust no advantage will be taken of this extension on the part of those who have usually been prompt in complying  with our terms-payment in advance.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.

ANNUAL MEETING
Of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
The twenty-ninth Annual Meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SALVERY SOCIETY will be held in Boston, at Allston Hall, (corner of Tremont and Bromfield Streets,) on THURSDAY AND FIRDAY, Jan. 23d and 24th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.  Three sessions will be held each day.
Though a great change, equally surprising and cheering, has taken place in  public sentiment at the  North, on the subject of slavery, since the "SLAVE-HOLDERS'  REBELLION"- broke out, yet the times demand of the uncompromising friends of freedom all the vigilance, earnestness, activity and generous cooperation, that it is in their power to give;  for upon them devolves the task of creating, deepening and guiding that  moral sentiment which is to determine the fate of the republic. Their work, as Abolitionists, will not be consummated while a slave-holder is tolerated on the American soil, or a slave clanks his letters beneath the American flag. Theirs is the truest patriotism, the purest morality, the noblest philanthropy, the broadest humanity. So far from having any affinity with, or bearing any likeness to the traitors of the South, there is an impassable gulf between the parties, as well as an irrepressible conflict. Now that, by the treasonable course of the South, the Government, by the exigencies in which it is placed, may constitutionally abolish slavery, and is solemnly bound to improve the opportunity, under the war power, the duty of the hour it to bring every influence to bear upon it, to induce it to exercise that power without delay, and thus to speedily crush the rebellion, and establish liberty and peace in every section of the country. In this work of humanity and righteousness, of reconciliation and union, it is obligatory upon all cordially to participate.
It is hoped that the members and friends of the Society will be present in larger attendance than usual. A strong array of able and eloquent speakers will be present, whose names will be duly announced.
By order of the Managers of the Society,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Sec'y
<c03>
A CHANGE OF POSITION, BUT NOT OF
PRINCIPLE.
The following paragraph, taken from the New York Journal of Commerce, is a fair specimen of the sneering spirit daily evinced by that worst of all the pro-slavery journals in the land towards the abolition movement and its advocates:- 
"The Liberator has taken down the ancient motto of Abolitionism which has so long graced, or disgraced, the head of its column, 'The Constitution of the United States is a league with Death, and a covenant with Hell. 'Perhaps we misquote it slightly, but we search in vain through the pages of the Liberator for anything to set us right. What has wrought this moral and political revolution in the Liberator office we cannot imagine, unless repentance is doing its work. For twenty years, while slavery has been quietly and peacefully cultivating the fields of the South, while the worst term of reproach that could be invented to apply to a slaveholder, or to a Northern defender of slavery, was UNION SAVER, anti-slavery has been boldly denouncing the American Union, and proclaiming that the only exodus of the slave would be over the ruins of the Constitution. Behold the change! So fierce and so complete is the overturn of opinions, that the anti-slavery men have not only hauled down their disunion flag, but are preaching the antagonistic doctrine that the only exodus of the Constitution from its present peril is over the ruins of slavery. Times change, and we change with them, but who would have believed that the Liberator would thus deny its old faith, and add to the denial the advocacy of the payment of money to loyal citizens as compensation for liberating their slaves! It does so now weekly, though very weakly!"
It is true that, for a few weeks past, we have made a change in the motto of the Liberator, as stated above; but how does that prove any inconsistency on our part, or indicate any alteration in our views of the pro-slavery features of the Constitution of the United States, as administered from 1789 to 1861 The Journal of Commerce says-"What has wrough this moral and political revolution in the Liberator office, we cannot imagine." We will try to enlighten it.
First, as to the position we have taken respecting the Rebellion. In the Liberator of Nov. 15 we said:-
"It is a SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION:- Whoever, now, is for protecting slavery, gives encouragement to treason, and his proper place is under the Confederate flag, on Southern soil. The Northern traitor is he, who, now that the Slare States have put the Constitution beneath their feet, claims for their slave property the old constitutional guaranties. No such claim have they the audacity to pretend as any longer in existence. They are under a Constitution of their own fashioning, and in boastful and defiant rebellion to uphold it. Is he not, then, doubly to be detested, who, while professing to be loyal, here at the North, insists upon giving them all those advantages which they enjoyed, while keeping step to the music of the Union'?"
 In the Liberator of Oct. 4 we said:-
"In declaring the Government to be wholly in the right, and the secessionists wholly in the wrong, as relates to the precise issue between the parties, the Abolitionists abate no jot or tittle of their testimony against a pro-slavery Constitution and Union. That Constitution, could it be enforced, as hitherto, would still be "a covenant with death," and that Union, could it be maintained as from the beginning, would still be "an agreement with hell." 
"When, in all the Southern Confederacy, it is made a treasonable act to avow loyalty to the old Union, to rally under the star-spangled banner in support of the Government, and to claim protection under the American Constitution; and when President Lincoln and his Cabinet are as completely outlawed in all the South, and would be as ignominiously dealt with, if caught, as the most radical Abolitionists; it is apparent that the relation of things has essentially changed, and a new definition of terms is needed. 
"Under these circumstances, therefore, with rampant treason thundering with its forces at the very gates of the Capital, it is not only the imperative duty, but the glorious prerogative, of the Government, under the war power, 'in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity,' to declare the immediate abolition of slavery throughout the land, and give freedom and protection to every loyal person found beneath its flag."
Not to multiply these extracts, in the Liberator of Oct. 11, referring to the Southern traitors, we said:-
"Having, then, not only forfeited all claim to constitutional protection, but subjected themselves to the  outrage and sought to <illegible> every injury in their power,-they can make no just complaint if the war power is exercised against their slave possessions (which are also stolen possessions) to the fullest extent. Did Heaven ever before vouchsafe to any government) in time of war, such an opportunity to strike its enemies in their most vulnerable point, without malice or cruelty, and for the grandest and most beneficent ends? And now we say to President Lincoln and his cabinet advisers- 
'When for the sighing of the poor,
And for the needy, God has risen,
And chains are breaking, and a door
Is opening for the souls in prison;
If then ye would, with puny bands,
Arrest the very work of Heaven,
And bind anew the evil bands
Which God's right arm of power hath riven'-
if, instead of delivering the oppressed and executing judgment, you would leave them in chains in the hope and with the design of renewing the ancient 'covenant with death and agreement with hell,' your damnation will be equally sure and just! To refuse, to deliver those captive millions who are now legally in your power is tantamount to the crime of their original enslavement; and their blood shall a righteous God require at your hands. Put the trump to jubilee to your lips!"
These declarations the Journal of Commerce finds it convenient to overlook or suppress, in order to render plausible its base and unfounded charge that we have denied our old faith, and turned recreant to the principles we have so long advocated "without shadow of turning." Had these been honestly laid before the readers of that paper, they would have seen the reason for the substitution of our new motto for the old one,-"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof," &c.-which, by the way, is just as distasteful to that shameless pro-slavery organ as the other! Before the rebellion, and while the authority of the Constitution was recognized and submitted to by the South, we denied the right of the Government to make any decree against her slave system, because of the limitation of its power; but now that she has withdrawn herself from the Union, organized a separate and hostile government, and thus can no longer appeal to the old constitutional guaranties for protection,-and as she has done this in avowed and deadly hostility to all free institutions,- it is not only the right, but plainly the solemn duty and exalted privilege of the Government, UNDER THE WAR POWER, in this terrible emergency, as a matter of self-preservation, to seek the utter suppression of the rebellion through the abolition of slavery, its murderous cause. Under these circumstances, with what propriety could we have continued our old motto, and at the same time consistently denounced the Government for not proclaiming emancipation? 
Since the foregoing was written, the Boston Courier comes to us with the following characteristic paragraph, evincing the same contemptible unfairness and moral stultification as displayed by the Journal of Commerce, and needing no other rejoinder:-
THE BLACK FLAG. A variety of our contemporaries, outside of the city, are noticing the fact, that the Liberator's old disunion flag, with its motto denouncing the Constitution as "a covenant with death, an agreement with hell," is struck. A New York daily paper things it now the turn of the Southerners, since the Northern disunionists have surrendered at discretion. But we doubt if the mere hauling down of the offensive flag of the Liberator will induce prudent men to confide in Northern disunionists any the more. In fact they are busier than ever; though with very little to encourage them in the pursuit of their evil objects. But we have an idea, that the hauling down of the flag in question could have been no voluntary act, or prompted by any deference to the patriotic sentiment of the community. Our readers must have seen, within a week or two, a statement of the presentation of a petition by Mr. Sumner, to secure protection to the freedom of the press. Putting this and that together it looks as if Mr. Garrison may have had some appropriate intimation; and that this it is which has stirred up Mr. Sumner and the sympathisers to make a move for the freedom of the press, which would be otherwise unaccountable.
The Courier is informed that Mr. Garrison has had no such intimation as it refers to, and expects to receive none; but he remembers that it is not long since the Courier required a significant popular intimation as to its seditious course, and hence its affected loyalty!
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN, who was executed at Charlestown, Virginia, Dec 2d, 1859, for an armed attack upon American slavery; with notices of some of his confederates. Edited by Richard D. Webb. London: 1861." pp. 453.
This valuable book-an attempt, by one of themselves, to give the British public a faithful portraiture of the life and character of Capt. John Brown-has well fulfilled its purpose. The object of the editor has been, with little comment or eulogy, to allow John Brown to speak for himself, in his conduct and conversation, his actions and familiar letters; and he has well performed this task, selecting its materials judiciously, from all accessible sources, arranging them in a clear and compact narrative, and adding, in an appendix, illustrative details and comments by the best informed American speakers and writers on that subject. The early and private life of John Brown, his steadfast purpose (which appears to have been formed as early as 1839) of attempting the deliverance of the slaves, his removal to Kansas in pursuance of that purpose at a time when the great battle for freedom seemed likely to be fought out there, his visit to New England in search of aid toward this end, his earlier and later preparations for a grand enterprise at Harper's Ferry, his failure in this attempt through the treachery of a confederate, the mockery of a trial to which he was subjected, the noble patience, courage and constancy which he displayed when a prisoner and in bonds, the skill and faithfulness with which he used the sword of the Spirit, when the carnal weapon would no more avail him, refuting and confounding the defenders of oppression, and especially those pro-slavery clergymen who had the presumption to offer their services in aid of his preparation for death, the details of the judicial murder perpetrated by the State of Virginia on this friend of the poor, and finally the solemn and affecting scenes of his funeral among the mountains of the North-all these are allowed to speak for themselves, and to make their own impression upon the reader. And most interesting additions to them are found in the remarks of Mr. McKim and Mr. Phillips at the funeral, and in comments elsewhere by Dr. Cheever, and Messrs. Emerson, Parker, Garrison, Johnson and Phillips, upon the life and character of John Brown, and upon the present and prospective influence of his great enterprise in Virginia upon the overthrow of slavery. 
The Appendix, with other interesting matter, gives letters and extracts of letters from Brown to his wife and children in years preceding the enterprise at Harper's Ferry, which answer the useful purpose of showing that his thoughts and expressions, written under the ordinary circumstances of daily life, were entirely consistent in spirit and tenor with those written from prison, and equally indicative of the religious, upright and self possessed character of the man.
A portrait of John Brown opposite the title page gives an accurate representation of his appearance in mature manhood, before he wore the beard which was conspicuous in his later years.
This book, prepared with good judgment and good taste, is not less interesting than valuable. It deserves a large circulation, both in Great Britain and here. A few copies yet remain for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office in Boston.-c. k. w.

THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for January, 1862. Devoted to Literature and National Policy. Published By J. R. Gilmore, 112 Tremont street, Boston.
This is the first number of a new periodical, published in Boston and New York. It is filled with important and useful articles, which are well written, in good taste and judgment. The first article is entitled "The Position," and contains a brief history of secession. There is an article upon Ralph Waldo Emerson, and one on "What shall we do with the Darkies?" Terms, $3 a year, in advance; two copies for $5; three copies for $6.

THE POSITION OF ENGLAND.
An able and enlightened Russian statesman and nobleman, M. Tourgueneff, exiled from his native land in 1825 for his philanthropic efforts to bring about that emancipation which the present Emperor has had the glory of measurably consummating, wrote thus in 1817 concerning England, in his memorial volumes, "La Russie et les Russes," vol. iii., pp. 270, 271:-
"The influence of England upon the rest of the world has been, in general, exceedingly fruitful, beneficent and useful; it is so still, in consequence of the commercial relations of that nation with every people on the globe. But the necessities of trade have also consequences by no means elevating. It is the force of things, it is God that makes commerce; and the relations between peoples the farthest removed from one hope another serve as a means of attaining the great end of human civilization. Men in general see in them only a means of satisfying their love of gain. When to this exclusive tendency is added, as in England, an excess to products which demands new markets at any cost, the most civilized commercial peoples end by caring only to sell as much as possible to every body; they thus come easily into a great indifference to the social and political welfare of the peoples with whom they traffic, and are readily disposed to enter into alliance with the most detestable governments, provided the latter allow them to despoil their oppressed subjects at their leisure.
"We may conclude that the influence exerted by a people placed in such conditions cannot hereafter have very important results for general civilization."
Judged by the present attitude of England towards this country, her evident desire to fraternize with the Southern Confederacy at the expense of four million blacks in bondage, the language above quoted bears almost the marks of prophecy as well as of philosophic discernment. M.Tourgueneff has lived to see the wish of his life realized in the action of Alexander II. in relation to the serfs of Russia; he may also today compare, with a melancholy satisfaction, his logical forebodings, fifteen years ago, of the future of Eng land, with the present deplorable exhibitions of that country.
THE FRATERNITY LECTURES. The lecture before the Fraternity, on the evening of Dec. 31st, was given by Rev. William S. Studley. His subject was "Down South," and he announced that his hour would be occupied in familiar gossip in regard to the experiences of a journey made just before the period of Southern secession, through the Atlantic slave States. This promise was fulfilled in an entertaining manner, and the experience of the traveller in regard to Southern hospitality, and the advantages attractions of Southern travel to a <illegible> man, was not unlike that of Mr.Olmstead, with which the public are familiar.
On Tuesday evening, the concluding lecture of the course was delivered by WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., to one of the largest and most brilliant audiences of the season. The lecturer's appearance on the platform was the signal for an outburst of enthusiastic cheers, which were renewed when he stepped to the front to commence his lecture. He spoke on "The Times"- now so sadly "out of joint." Reviewing the events the past ten months, he found nothing but incapacity in the Government, and defeat and humiliation to the national cause. He said he did not wish to blame the Cabinet unduly, but the inaction of the last ten months had exhausted his patience with them. If we had an American for President, instead of a Kentuckian, he should have more hope; but the danger was, that in the effort to save Kentucky, the Union would be lost. Unless, within ninety days, a decisive victory should crown our arms, the Confederacy would be acknowledged by the European powers, and the nation would be divided, and the North doomed to all the woes that would spring from such a division. A victory would save the Union; but the stake was too great to be hazarded on the doubtful issue of a battle. In this emergency, it was the duty of the people to urge upon Congress the emancipation of the slaves, and thug checkmate the European governments, and save the Union by drawing to its side the friends of justice and freedom.
We hope to give a full report next week.
<c05>
GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ. ON AMERICAN
SLAVERY AND THE PRESENT CRISIS.
On Friday, 20th ult, George Thompson, Esq., late M. P. for the Tower Hamlets, delivered, in Surrey Chapel, Blackfriars road, an oration "On American Slavery and the Present Crisis." The audience was numerous and highly respectable, and the chair was occupied by the Rev. Newman Hall, the respected pastor of the chapel. 
The Chairman, in introducing Mr. Thompson, said, the present crisis was of the very highest importance. They might be on the brink of an unnecessary, and therefore of a wicked war. (Applause.) He regarded war either as the greatest of crimes or the sternest of necessities, and they ought all to labor strenuously in order that it might be averted. They had not, however, assembled to hear him, and, therefore, he would at once give place to their eloquent friend, Mr. George Thompson. Mr.THOMPSON, who was received with the greatest cordiality, said he appeared before them in the interests of truth, humanity, and Christian civilization. All these were involved in the fratricidal conflict which was now raging in America. It was a horrible and appalling spectacle, and in this country the greatest ignorance of the causes which produced it existed. The reasons which had been assigned for it by our leading public men were entirely erroneous. He had been twice in the United States, he had made the institutions of the country his special study, and, therefore, he had enjoyed the fullest opportunities for forming an impartial judgment on the question. In opposition to all the theories put forth on the <illegible>, he would say that slavery was the sole, simple, and exclusive cause of the trouble. (Cheers.) But for slavery, the States of America would have remained united, and whatever had menaced their harmony had proceeded from the same cause. What sort of thing, he asked, was this slavery? To be a slave was to be a thing, a chattel, to be ranked in the catalogue of sale with horses, breeding-cattle and swine. Such it was as it now existed in the seceded States of America, and it was declared to be the chief corner-stone of the new confederate edifice. He did not say that every slave was subjected to all the horrors of slavery, but he would maintain that every slave was liable to be subjected to them.
Mr. Thompson, having depicted with great vividness the wretched condition of the four millions of slaves in the Southern States, went on to say, that with the man who claimed the right of enslaving another man, he could hold no parley. Such a man was a man-thief. (Applause.) It was preposterous blasphemy for any man to say that he could possess a fee simple in the body of his equal. We reason too much about the matter. In the court of conscience, one verdict, "Let it be accursed!" had always been returned against slavery. (Cheers.) "Human beings might be inconsistent, but human nature had always been true to herself, and she had uttered her testimony against slavery with a shriek ever since the monster had been begotten." (Loud applause.)
Mr. Thompson then rapidly sketched the history of slavery in America, and the legislation in regard to it, from the time when the first cargo of slaves had been landed on the soil of Virginia, in the same year that saw the Puritans land on the bleak shores of New England, up to the election of Mr. Lincoln as President. He pointed out that, when the Americans threw off the British yoke, and asserted their independence, they proclaimed that all men had an inalienable right to liberty; and he showed that, if this principle had been fairly carried out, it would have swept slavery from the face of the whole country. But, in the Revolutionary Congress of 1776, Mr. Jefferson's original draft of the Declaration of Independence was altered through the <illegible> of the <illegible> and in the Articles of Confederation, adopted two years later, the topic of slavery was carefully and advisedly excluded. (Hear, hear.) Fatal compromises had been introduced into the Constitution, and from them had resulted that hideous host of evils. which, for seventy years, had covered the body politic with "wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores."
Mr. Thompson then proceeded to discuss the question whether secession was justifiable, and said the right claimed by South Carolina and her rebel confederates to secede under the Constitution was a palpable absurdity. (Cheers.)The revolutionary right of secession was undeniable, but then it was to be recognized by the people, the nation, and not by the sworn servants of the Constitution. No government provided for its own dissolution; so that, while there was always a revolutionary right of secession, there could never be a constitutional right. If the suggestion of Kentucky had been adopted, it would have been competent for a convention to have allowed South Carolina and her confederates to secede; but, as the offer had been declined, nothing was left to the President but to uphold the Constitution which he had sworn to maintain.(Cheers.)
The lecturer having shown how the South had always maintained an ascendancy in the councils of the State, and having described the circumstances under which Mr. Lincoln had been elected, contrasted his opinions on slavery with those of Jefferson Davis. Davis believed in the divine right of treating the negroes as an inferior race, and of keeping them in bondage. Mr. Lincoln, on the other hand, had declared that slavery was immoral. The worst charge that had been brought against Mr. Lincoln was that he had suppressed his own predilections in favor of freedom; that, having taken an oath to maintain the Constitution, he had adhered to it, and had not sacrificed the prerogatives of his position to carry out his own benevolent intentions. The truth was, that he would have rendered himself  liable to impeachment if he had proclaimed the abolition of slavery. Besides, the proclamation would have been impracticable; and, even if it had been practicable, he was not sure, under the circumstances of the country, that it would have been the most Christian thing to have issued it.
Mr. Thompson then argued that, although the war was not carried on by the North for the abolition of slavery, yet that the triumph of the North would great conduce to that sublime result. (Cheers.) The Union, he observed, was nothing to him; but the abolition of slavery was of the very highest importance. (Cheers.) He would not, he said, decide under what circumstances war might be justifiable, and he simply recognized the existing war as a fact. But, inasmuch as he believed that the cause of freedom would be benefited by the success of the North, he hoped it might conquer, and he wished it God speed. (Loud public cheers.)
Mr. Thompson then adverted to the affair of the Trent, and said that, on the abstract merits of the question, it would be presumptuous for him to offer a decided opinion. As the highest legal minds were at work on the question, he would not lay down any dogma of his own; but it seemed strange that those who were so anxious to go to war with America, were so ready in their gratuitous condemnation of the North for going to war with the South. (Cheers.) Our flag had been insulted, it was said. But no blood had been shed; the two men, who were notorious traitors to the Government, had been seized and taken out. The ship had been allowed to go on with the cargo and the passengers. By this act, it was said our flag had been insulted; and the Times of that very day told them that war was the only alternative, if the Americans did not apologise, and surrender the prisoners-that the dispute was quite out of the category of arbitration. Well, if that was so; how could they deny to the North the right of maintaining its Constitution, and of defending the honor of its flag? (Cheers.) We had not got Mr. Lincoln's answer, and yet the newspapers day by day were predicting war, and saying everything which was calculated to bring it about. (Applause.) America had good reason to be offended at the tone of the articles which appeared in our journals. What, he would ask them, had been the conduct of the North to the South? For a long period, to her disgrace, she had considered the South the petted child of the Union, and conceded demands which had been utterly
<c06>
undefensible. When she was menaced with secession she did not arm; when the secession was an accomplished fact, she did not arm; nay, when her customhouses, her arsenals and armories were seized she did not arm. But, at last, when the Star of the West was fired upon, and when South Carolina would not allow a bit of Union bunting to float over her fortress, then the twenty-two millions of people had determined to arm and to defend their Constitution. (Cheers.)
Mr. Thompson then showed that the secession, had been long contemplated, and he condemned Mr. Buchanan for his conduct in favoring the designs of the South. He next glanced at the present position of the anti-slavery party in the North, and said it had of late greatly increased.(Loud cheers.) He regretted that, in this country, the minds of the public had been corrupted by the untruthful and one-sided articles which had appeared in some of the journals, and expressed an opinion that if it had not been for this circumstance, a universal feeling of sympathy with the North would have been manifested. (Cheers.) He earnestly prayed that war might be averted, and he hoped that the clergy would use their endeavors, as Mr. Hall had done, to promote the continuance of peace. He trusted that the sorrowful event which had clothed them with mourning outwardly, and for which, too, they all inwardly and sincerely mourned, would have some effect in allaying the war feeling, and in promoting good will between the two countries. Most sincerely did they all sympathize with, her Majesty in her great affliction, bereaved as she was of <illegible> friend, and counselor, and husband. He trusted <illegible> event would be fraught with issues in favor of peace, and he thought the Minister of the day would incur a heavy, a criminal responsibility who advised that lone, sorrowing woman to put her sign manual to a declaration of war against America. (Loud cheers.)
Mr. Thompson concluded his most eloquent address, which occupied one hour and three quarters in the delivery, by reciting the following verses, which he had composed when the misunderstanding about the Oregon boundary had occurred with America.
The first stanza had been written for the tune of "God save the Queen," and the others for the most popular national air in America:-
O! may the human race
Heaven's message soon embrace,
Good will to man!
Hushed be the battle's sound,
And o'er the earth around
May joy and peace abound
Through every land!
O' then shall come the glorious day
When swords and spears shall perish,
And brothers John and Jonathan"
The kindest thoughts shall cherish.
When Oregon no more shall fill
With angry darts our quiver,
But Englishmen with Yankees dwell
On the far Columbia river.
Then let us haste these bonds to knit,
And in the work be handy,
That we may blend "God save the Queen,"
With "Yankee Doodle Dandy!"
(Great cheering.)
The Rev. W. H. BONNER moved that a vote of thanks should be given to Mr. Thompson for his most eloquent lecture. He confessed he was afraid, however, that the progress of the anti-slavery party in the North was not as rapid as Mr. Thompson, supposed He also paid a high compliment to the chairman for the efforts he had made to promote peace.
Dr. M’Gowan, in seconding the motion, related some interesting reminiscences of Mr. Thompson's visit to the United States in 1834. He eulogized the efforts Mr. Thompson had then made to spread anti-slavery principles, remarking that New York had then been as pro-slavery as Liverpool was now <illegible> gave him pleasure to confirm Mr. Thompson's statement, that the anti-slavery party was becoming <illegible> in the Northern States.
The motion was carried with acclamation.
Mr. THOMPSON briefly acknowledged the compliment, and a vote of thanks having been given to the Chairman, the proceedings terminated.

DIPLOMATIC JESUITRY.
EDITOR LIBERATOR,-I desire to caution Abolitionists against joining the cry of demagogues and traitors against England. When the whole facts come to be known, and the case is stripped of all diplomatic glosses and of all the disguises which timid and false men have thrown around it to cover their own blunders, we shall find that it has been the absurd theory of our own Government that has brought upon us this humiliation.
The right of search is a "belligerent" right. For fifty years, it has been universally recognized as settled international law, that neutral ships can be searched only by "belligerents"-that is, by one of two parties at war. A state of belligerency involves two parties, both, as towards other nations, "belligerents." Our Government has uniformly assumed that there is no war; of course, that there are no belligerents; of course, again, that neither party has "belligerent " rights as towards other nations. Then, surely, we had no right to stop and search the Trent.
In his letter to Lord Lyons, Mr. Seward speaks of the existence of an "insurrection," a "domestic strife," and says that an arrangement was entered into with the British Government in reference to this local strife,"-thus treating it as exceptional, and not governed by the laws of nations as applied to war: and yet his whole letter assumes for the United States "belligerent" rights. 
Let me refer briefly to one of the absurdities of his theory. He says-"Mason and McFarland are citizens of the United States, residents of Virginia Slidell and Eustis are citizens of the United States, residents of Louisiana." It follows, then, that Jeff Davis and Yancey are also citizens of the United States. Mason and Slidell, then, are only private citizens bearing private letters from Jeff Davis, one citizens of the United States, to Yancey, another citizen. Most clearly, on this theory, Capt. Wilkes had no more right to seize Mason and Slidell than he would have to seize any passengers on board of any of the British mail steamers leaving Boston or New York every week. And yet Mr. Seward gravely discusses his five questions, the first of which is-"<illegible> the persons named and their supposed despatches contraband of war?" Their "despatches," on Seward's theory, were only private letters, and the law of nations does not know "contraband persons."
I only throw out these hints. The fact is, Capt. Wilkes had no right to search the Trent. We had not the manliness to say so, except under threat Hence our humiliation. F.W.B.
The Courier, referring to the lecture of Mr. Phillips on Tuesday evening last, at Tremont Temple, with owl-like gravity asks, "Is not this Treason!" Is the interrogator a fool? Or, rather, is he not a fool? The sole object of the lecture was to stimulate the Administration, by sharp and merited criticism of its indefinite and timorous policy, to show more energy and decision in putting down Southern treason, by availing itself of the only method of success-namely the proclamation of freedom to all who will rally under the national flag, without regard to race or color. Of course, secession in spirit and purpose as the Courier is, to the full extent of every demand of the rebellions slave oligarchy, (though whipped into assumed loyalty as a matter of cowardice and necessity it is nothing better than rank "treason," in its opinion, for Mr. Phillips, or any one else, to urge the Government to do something effectual to put down this "slaveholders' rebellion." The loyalty of the Courier consists in doing what in it lies to drug the Government with opiates-to discourage and resent every proposition for more decisive action-to recommend and applaud a do-nothing policy-to basely malign every uncompromising friend of freedom at the North, who is at all prominent, and to pass unnoticed all the atrocities of the Southern conspirators, no matter, to what extent their treachery may be carried. The "treason" of Wendell Phillips is true loyalty- the loyalty of the Courier is rank treason.
JANUARY 10.
THE LIBERATOR.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MEETING AT WORCESTER.
The Annual Meeting of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society was held in Worcester on Saturday evening, Jan. 4th, and Sunday, day and evening, Jan. 5th. On account of the sudden severity of the weather, the attendance was not as large could have been desired; still it was quite respectable, and the audiences were of the most interested and attentive character, so that the meeting was one of hopeful encouragement to the members and friends of the Society.
The absence of the venerable President, JOSIAH HESSHAW,(detained by family illness,) whose customary presence has heretofore aided and cheered the younger workers, was noticably felt by the other members, as was also the absence of SAMUEL MAY, Jr., (unavoidably detained by business,) who for more than twenty years has hardly before been absence from our annual gatherings.
The chair was occupied by JAMES A. WHIPPLE, one of the Vice Presidents, and the time of the various sessions was occupied by earnest addresses and discussions from Parker Pillsbury, Charles L. Remond, Stephen S. and Abby K. Foster, and Joseph A. Howland. The pro-slavery character of the Government and its subordinates in their position and conduct of the present war was properly criticised, and while all the speakers urged the duty and necessity of immediate emancipation, all united in denouncing any call for emancipation predicated upon the selfish issue of safety to the whites or to the government, as also any scheme that proposes to compensate or to give a "a fair pecuniary award" to those mythical personages, the "loyal slaveholders," as in violation of our fundamental principles and ancient testimonies, that have so long demanded unconditional emancipation as measure of justice to the slave, a slight recognition of his God given rights, and a denial of the right of property in man. The duty of the nation to repent of and put away her great sin, because of its sin, without waiting for her dire necessities to compel the righteous act, was clearly and forcibly set forth; and the fear was expressed that the day of repentance and reform might come too late to save the nation from the doom of utter destruction which its fearful guilt merits.
Quite a number of resolutions were offered and discussed, and the following were adopted:-
Resolved, That there is nothing in the present aspect of our public affairs to warrant any abatement of our zeal and efforts in the anti-slavery cause. On the contrary, although the times are full of hope, they are also full of the most imminent peril to the interests of both races, and demand of us the utmost vigilance and the most untiring efforts for the unconditional and entire eradication of that root of national bitterness which is the ultimate cause and only sustenance of the present alarming rebellion.
Resolved, That it is a sad and dangerous mistake to suppose with Mr. Everett and other prominent statesmen, that this stupendous rebellion is the result of sectional pride or disappointed ambition. On the contrary, it has manifestly sprung from no such temporary or arbitrary cause, but is the result of two distinct and necessarily conflicting states of society, one of which must inevitably waste and eventually destroy the other. Hence every attempt on our part to end the war without either exterminating the Slave Power or acknowledging the independence of the Confederate States, exhibits a degree of mental stupidity and moral blindness alike derogatory to the head and heart of a civilized community.
Resolved, That the proposition which is made by some to compensate the loyal slaveholders in case of the abolition of slavery by the Federal Government, makes it imperative on us to renew the testimony which we have uniformly borne for more than a quarter of a century against compensated emancipation, as a practical recognition of the right of property in man; as a dangerous precedent of compounding with felony; as grossly unjust to the innocent parties who must necessarily be taxed to reward the guilty; as a gratuity to those who sacrifice no real interest, pecuniary or otherwise; and as imposing additional burdens upon the country; already overwhelmed with debt, for the benefit of those, who, equally with all other slaveholders, have nourished and sustained that system which is the guilty cause of all our national troubles.
The following were chosen as officers for the ensuing year:-
President-Josiah Henshaw, of West Brookfiled.
Vice President-Samuel May. Jr., Leicester; Adin Ballon, Milford; Moses Sawin, Southboro'; Adeline H. Howland, Worecester; Clark Aldrich, Upton; Moses Buffum, Oxford; Adams Foster, Holden; Jas. A. Whipple, Worcester.
Treasurer-Sarah E. Wall, Worcester.
Auditor-Alfred Wyman, Worcester.
Secretary-Joseph A. Howland, Worcester.
Executive Committee-Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah F. Earle, Sarah M. Whipple, Issac Mason, Worcester; Abijah Allen, Esek Pitts, Millbury; E. D. Draper, Milford; Maria P. Fairbanks, Millville; Nancy B. Hill, Blackstone; Sylvester C. Fay, Southboro'; William Doane, Charlton.
It was voted to request the publication of the proceedings in the Liberator and Standard.
JAMES A. WHIPPLE, Vice President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y.

ANTI-DESPOTIC MEETING.
Pursuant to public notice for a meeting to take into consideration the case of the Rev. George Gordon, now in Cleveland Jail, the people of the town of Savannah and vicinity met in the Baptist Church in that place, on Monday evening, Dec. 16th, 1861.
On motion, Mr. D. Hart was appointed Chairman, and John D. Wright, Secretary. The meeting was then opened with prayer by Rev. W. Bruce. Dr. J. Ingram was called upon, who made a brief statement of the object of the meeting. A series of resolutions was then read, and on motion to adopt, the Rev. I. N. Carman, pastor of the Baptist Church, responded to a call, and supported them in a brief and able address, followed by the Rev. J. McCutchen, pastor of the Congregational Church, Ruggles, Rev. A. Scott, pastor of the Presbyterian Church, and Rev. W. Bruce, of the United Presbyterian Church, Savannah, each in brief and eloquent addresses, at the close of which, the following resolutions were adopted:
Whereas, the Rev. George Gordon, President of Iberia College, extensively and favorably known to this community, and pastor of the Free Presbyterian Church of this place, has been tried at the recent session of the U. S. Court on a charge of "obstructing process under the Fugitive Slave Act," and convicted, as we believe, and as the facts prove, upon testimony wholly one-sided and vindictive, sentenced to pay a fine of $300, costs, and six months' close confinement within the walls of a common jail; and believing that the proceedings in his case have been marked with a degree of barbarism that disgraces the enlightenment of the age, enclosing a pitiable sycophancy to that power which is now in arms against our Government, threatening its very existence; and furthermore, that the prosecution has been characterized by a degree of bitterness we did not anticipate from the former relations of the man, has followed him to his prison cell, assailed his character, hitherto above reproach, and while sweeping with one fell swoop of fine and costs the little property which would have brought the comforts of life to his declining years, has essayed to strip him of character, and thus render him poor indeed; therefore,
Resolved, 1st, That we tender to the Rev. George Gordon our heartfelt sympathies for the deplorable issue in his case; and whatever may be our individual difference of opinion with regard to complicity or non-complicity in the charge, we hold that such a proceeding in our present national crisis is a gratuitous concession to that power to which we have not yet had the courage to rise superior.
<c02>
2d. That from a long and favorable acquaintance with Mr. Gordon, we hare confidence in his veracity as a man, his piety as a minister, his practical philanthropy, and his earnest efforts in the cause of truth.
3d. That the Fugitive Slave Act is contrary to the Constitution of the United States, contrary to natural justice, to reason, to the precepts and teachings of the Gospel of Christ, and therefore by all Christian jurists is declared null, and imposes no legal or moral obligation on the citizen.
4th. That with his case we hope may terminate a long line of humiliating concessions, many from citizen of the North: embracing in the catalogue, the frequent surrender of cherished principles; compelled to suffer without redress unmitigated cruelties, brandings, whippings, prisoners' tears, and martyrs' groans; that the cell now hallowed by his presence may witness the solitary pinings of the last victim of the Slave Power.
The meeting was large, and conducted with singular unanimity of feeling and interest to the close.
DAVID HART, Chairman.
John D. Wright, Secretary.

LETTER FROM MR. PILLSBURY.
LEOMINSTER, Jan. 7, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON-It seems long since I have written for the Liberator. The little I have sent in the last two years to the public, through the inkstand, has been via the Bugle and the Standard. Through the former, while it continued and the latter, since; and my field of labor has been mainly New York, and the States farther west.
Now, I am where I ever love to be, in my own old native State of Massachusetts. Sometimes, when in Old England, I would wish I had been born there; but of late, unlike the Scripture estimate of wine, I am induced to say, "the New is better"! True, we in the New have, hitherto, little claim on Old England for grace or favor, on account of any superior antislavery excellence; though, bad as we are, it seems to me we do not deserve worse than the Confederate States. Great Britain, however, appears to think otherwise. Sometime, perhaps, she may change her mind.
But what are we to think of Gov. Andrew at such a crisis as this? "Schooling himself to silence," on questions involving all the interests of two hemispheres, for the two existences, temporal and eternal! And we are to do the same, or violate his official counsel and private example. Washington wisdom has not yet won my respect to that high degree; nor do the revelations of the Potter and Van Wyck Committees persuade me that honesty and integrity are more a monopoly there, than wisdom and statesmanship, or military skill. And so, with all due deference to Gov. Andrew, I do not propose to "school myself to silence "for some time yet.
One year ago, Mayor Wightman and his mob endeavored to "school" the Massachusetts Anti Slavery Society "to silence," by a system not strictly Lancasterian nor Pestalozzian; and he succeeded so well, that I could have wished the Governor had left that branch of the "public education" in hands that have proved themselves so fully competent to their work. To their work, I repeat; for, surely, such work, at a time like this, should be wholly theirs, if done at all.
Mr. Remond and myself have had excellent meetings in several of the best towns in Essex county, within the last month, and in several instances have been urged to repeat our visits. Instead of "silence," the people, as well as God, and all Holiness and Humanity, demand of us, that we "cry aloud, and spare not"- which, in obedience to all these voices, as well as the call of conscience, I, for one, am still impressed to do. And it almost seems to me, (though I would not <illegible> persons who deem their work done, and that now they have only to "stand still and see, and sing the salvation of God," had better, perhaps, "school themselves to silence" about it, (if they can)-and then we, who, less fortunate than they, have still an important work to do, can labor to far better purpose. We work for millions of slaves yet in bonds; while the government at Washington is determined to hold them thus, should it cost seven hundred thousand brave men's lives, and the moneyed and moral bankruptcy of all the rest of the nation!
PARKER PILLSBURY.
PHYSICAL CULTURE. "Lewis's Gymnastic Monthly, and Journal of Physical Culture," comes to us in a new and improved form for the January number, and is even more elegant than before. It opens with practical lessons in the use of those peculiar assistants in physical development which are the inventions of Dr. Lewis, the bag of beans, the ring, and the gymnastic crown. These are illustrated by very faithful wood cuts, which give very accurate ideas of the various positions and motions which have been found best adapted to the end in view. This number also contains a report of the commencement exercises of the first class in the new system, at which President Felton of Harvard College presided, and delivered the diplomas. These graduates are highly commended as able teachers of physical health in any institution, and we are told that all entered at once into lucrative situations in this capacity.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for January, is received, with the following table of contents:- I. The Sword in Ethics. II. Bernay's Chronicle of Sulpicius Severus. III. The Mind's Maximum. IV. Mrs. Browning. V. Milman's History, of Latin Christianity. VI. Passages from the Life of Schleiermacher. VII. Review of Current Literature.
The Examiner is published on the first of January, March, May, July, September, and November, by the proprietor, at Walker, Wise & Co.'s Bookstore, 245 Washington street, Boston, in numbers of at least 156 octavo pages each, at four dollars a year, payable in advance.
RELIEF OF FUGITIVES IN CANADA. An Association has been formed in the town of St. Catherine's, Niagara District, Canada West, to relieve such fugitive slaves as may be suffering from sickness or destitution. It is called-"The Fugitive Aid Society of St. Catherine's." The officers are the following :- 
Charles H. Hall, President; Benjamin Fletcher, Vice President; Christopher Anthony, Secretary; H. W. Wilkins, Assistant Secretary; William Hutchinson, Treasurer.
Committee: Harriet Tubman, Mary Hutchinson, John Jones, Win. H. Stewart.
This Association may be relied on as worthy of confidence by those who wish to help the fugitives in Canada, many of whom are undoubtedly in need of such aid. Contributions, either in clothing or money, may be sent to ROBERT F, WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston, or to REV. WILLIAM BURNS, St. Catherine's, Canada West.
"In MEMORIAM." Testimonials to the Life and Character of the late FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq., by William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and Samuel May, Jr., as delivered at the funeral obsequies; and also by Rev. William R. Alger, L. Maria Child, and the press; just published in a neat tract of 36 pages, by R. F. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street. Boston. Price 5 cents. No doubt there are many who would like to obtain it.
The Discourse on "England and America," by Rev. Dr. Furness, of Philadelphia, which we have printed entire on our last page, is exceedingly pertinent to the hour, and admirable in its treatment of the subject. We are glad to see it in pamphlet form.
Friends of the godlike Anti-Slavery Cause, remember that the Twenty-Eighth National A. S. Subscription Anniversary, under the auspices of the Ladies, is to be held at Music Hall, on Wednesday evening, Jan. 22d, and be ready to give your attendance and donations, to the extent of your ability. It will unquestionably be a very interesting occasion. "Remember those in bonds as bound with them."
<c03>
SLAVES USED FOR INSURRECTIONARY PURPOSES.
The following is, in full, an order of Gen. Halleck, of which a telegraphic summary has already been published :-
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE MISSOURI,
St. Louis, Dec. 18,1861.
Col. B. G. Farrar, Provost-Marshal General, Department of the Missouri, St. Louis:
COLONEL : From your verbal statements, and the written communication submitted by you yesterday, I am informed that there are some sixteen negro men confined in the city prisons in your charge, and advertised for sale under a statute of this State. You have stated the facts of the case, as you understand them; have called my attention to the statute of this State on the subject, and to the Law of Congress of last session, and have asked my orders as to how you shall proceed in this matter-whether to release these men from custody, and to place them outside of your particular jurisdiction, as a military officer in charge of the prisons, in accordance with General Orders, No. 3, of this Department, or whether the Sheriff, who, as I understand, is now under your orders, is to proceed and sell the said negro men, as he has advertised, and as is directed by the statute of this State, if said statute has not been modified or changed by the law of the last session of Congress.
As I am informed, most of these negroes came with the forces under Major-General Fremont, from South-Western Missouri, and have either been used in the military service against the United States, or are claimed by persons now in arms against the Federal Government; but that none of them have been condemned in accordance with the act approved August 6, 1861, and that, no proceedings for such condemnation have ever been instituted.
As I understand the matter, the statute of this State creates the presumption that these men are slaves, and if not called for within three months from the date of the advertisement of the sheriff, they are to be sold as slaves. It would seem that the act of Congress approved August 6,1861, if constitutional, overrules this statute so far as this presumption is concerned. This act of Congress cannot be regarded as unconstitutional until decided to be so by the United States Supreme Court.
It results, then, as it seems to me, that these negroes are held in custody without the authority of law, and contrary to General Orders, No. 3; and you are hereby directed to release them from prison. It appears, however, that they have received from the Quartermaster's Department certain articles of clothing required for their immediate and pressing necessities, with the promise that they would pay for the clothing so delivered to them with their labor. They will, therefore, be turned over to the chief of the Quartermaster's Department in this city, for labor, till they have paid the United States for the clothing and other articles so issued to them at the expense of the Government.
This order will in no way debar any one from enforcing his legal rights to the services of these negroes. Such rights, if any exist, can be enforced through the loyal civil tribunals of this State, whose mandates will always be duly respected by the military authorities of this department. Military officers cannot decide upon rights of property or claims to service, except so far as may be authorized by the laws of war or the acts of Congress. When not so authorized, they will avoid all interference with such questions.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H. W. HALLECK,
Major-General Commanding.
In pursuance of these directions, the Provost-Marshal General issued an order in respect to these negroes, of which the material portion is as follows:- 
"Being the property of rebels, and having been used for insurrectionary purposes, it is ordered that they be released from prison, and placed under the control of the Principal Quartermaster of this Department, for labor, until further orders."
General Halleck lays down the correct principle, which the House has voted to have added as a new article of war, that army officers have no right to adjudge the question that one man is the slave of another, and no right to deliver up persons claimed as slaves.

LETTER OF GEN. HALLECK TO MR. BLAIR
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF MISSOURI.
HON. FRANK P. BLAIR, Washington :
Yours of the 4th inst. is just received. Order No. 3 was in my mind clearly a military necessity. Un authorized persons, black or white, free or slaves, must be kept out of our camps, unless we are willing, to publish to the enemy everything we do or intend to do.
It was a military and not a political order. I am ready to carry out any lawful instructions in regard to fugitive slaves which my superiors may give me, and to enforce any laws which Congress may pass, but I cannot make law and will not violate it.
You know my private opinion on the policy of confiscating the slave property of rebels in arms. If Congress shall pass it, you may be certain I shall enforce it. Perhaps my policy as to the treatment of rebels and their property is as well set out in order No. 13, issued the day before your letter was written, as I could now describe it.
Yours, truly,
H. W. HALLECK.
FROM PORT ROYAL. A correspondent of the New York Times writes from Port Royal on the 23d ult., stating that, in the district of Beaufort alone, which is but a small portion of the territory occupied by our troops, there are 16,000 slaves whose masters have fled and left them to their own management. From all quarters along sixty miles of coast, and farther interiorly than our troops have penetrated, the negroes are struggling to escape from bondage, and flock in crowds to our lines, and in small boats around our ships. The correspondent says :-
"I have talked with drivers and field-hands, with housemaids and coachmen and body-servants, who were apparently as eager to escape as any. I have heard the blacks point out how their masters might be caught, where they were hidden, and what were their forces. I have seen them used as guides and pilots. I have been along while they pointed out in what houses stores of arms and ammunition were kept, and where bodies of troops were stationed. In a few hours, I have known this information verified. I have asked them about the sentiment of the slave population, and been invariably answered that everywhere it is the same.
"The slaves have, in various instances, assisted in the capture of their masters-have also, several times of late, asked to be armed, which was not originally the case. Colonies of them have been established, not only at Hilton Head, but on Otter Island, in St. Helena Sound, and at the mouth of Edisto Inlet. At all these places, they are protected either by gunboats or by the guns of the batteries put up by the rebels, but now occupied by Union forces.
"Gen. Stevens is pursuing a very good plan with the negroes who come to him for protection. He makes them all work, which they do cheerfully and readily, upon the promise of receiving wages. Instead of allowing them soldiers' rations, as is done at Hilton Head, he gives them bacon and corn, just such fare as that to which they have been accustomed, although in larger quantities. They appear to be well satisfied with the arrangement, which has the advantage of being much more economical."

MASON AND SLIDELL GIVEN UP. Mason and Slidell, the arch traitors, have been given up to the British authorities. On Wednesday, last week, at 11 o'clock, A. M., they, with their Secretaries, were quietly put on board the steam-tug Starlight, at Fort Warren, and conveyed to Provincetown, where they arrived at 5 o'clock in the afternoon. There they were transferred to the British 18 gun sloop of war Rinaldo-which had arrived from Halifax-and in the course of an hour, they were seeding across the ocean.
On taking leave of Col. Dimmick, Mr. Mason, somewhat affected, said, "God bless you, Colonel, God bless you!" and cordially shook hands with him. Mr. Slidell shook hands with the Colonel, and said, "Under whatever circumstances and in whatever relations in the future we may meet, I shall always esteem you as a dear friend."
During the morning many rebels thronged the rooms of Messrs. Mason and Slidell to get their autographs, and Mr. Mason's hand was so unsteady as to be noticed through the window outdoors. Some of the political prisoners said to Mason: "We hope when you get to England you will represent our case, imprisoned on this island for no offence save differing from others in political opinions." He replied that if ever he arrived in Europe, he would faithfully represent their case.
The weather on that day was very mild, but between six and seven o'clock in the afternoon, there was a sudden run squall. From that time, the wind continued to increase and the temperature to fall, until it blew almost a hurricane, which continued through the night. In this city, chimneys were blown down, many windows broken, slates torn from roofs, signs blown down, awnings torn, buildings partially unroofed, trees torn up, &c. About 180 feet of the roof of the Eastern Railroad freight depot, East Boston, was dislodged, and some damage done to a portion of the goods stored therein. In Salem, one building on Essex street was partially unroofed, a chimney on the Lawrence building blown down, &c.
Similar disasters are reported from all the towns around Boston; but the wind being off shore, there were probably but few marine disasters.
It appears, therefore, that old Boreas and Neptune, on receiving the rebel commissioners in trust, treated them in accordance with the medical prescription,
"When taken to be well shaken." Though bound for Halifax, the Rinaldo has not been heard from.
<c04>
THE LECTURE OF WM. WELLS BROWN. This gentleman gave his lecture on "Wit and Humor." at the Congregational lecture-room last evening, to an appreciative audience. We do not hazard anything in saying, that those who failed to attend lost one of the richest treats of the season. Never have we seen any number of people better amused or more thoroughly interested. Until the close of the lecture, those gathered were kept in a state of anticipated suspense as to what was next coming! The lecture was so full of hits and amusing reflections on affected and hypocritical foibles, that the crowd were kept in a grin a from the opening to the close of the affair. After the lecture was over, a number of gentlemen interested themselved in an endeavor to secure the repetition of the lecture, or another from the same individual, and we learn that the talented gentleman will return on Christmas, and lecture in Continental Hall. No doubt a large audience will greet him there, for he richly deserves a great success for his pleasing efforts.-Daily Guardian, Paterson, (N. J.)
It will be seen, by a notice in another column, that Mr. Brown is to give a lecture on "The Black Man's Future in the Southern States," in the Meionaon in Boston, on Sunday evening next. He deserves and we trust will draw a crowded house on the occasion.
MR. GREELEY'S LECTURE. Horace Greeley delivered a lecture last week in Washington, at the Smithsonian Institution, his subject being "The Nation." He said the misfortunes of our country had been caused by its reluctance to look its antagonist in the eye. Slavery is the aggressor, and has earned a rebel's doom. Save the Union, and let slavery take is chance! He was opposed to compromise, because it implied concession to armed treason; and expressed his belief that the present contest would result in enduring benefits to the cause of human freedom. President Lincoln, Secretary Chase and several Senators and Representatives were on the platform. The lecturer was frequently applauded.-Washington corr. N. Y. Tribune.

HON. OWEN LOVEJOY'S SPEECH. At a serenade in Washington lately, Mr. Lovejoy used the following language:-
"A certain individual, in the olden time, who was head and shoulders above his contemporaries, was made king, and who, by refusing utterly to destroy his enemies according to the divine command, lost his crown. I hope that no gentleman of Later days, resembling him in height and station, will, by following his example, share his fate."
THE "OLD DOMINION" Virginia, during the usurpation of Cromwell, declared herself independent of his authority, when the usurper threatened to send a fleet to reduce the colony. Fearing to withstand such a force, the colonists despatched a messenger to Charles II.-then in exile in Flanders-inviting the royal outcast to be their king. He accepted the invitation, and on the very eve of embarking for his throne in America, was recalled to the crown of England. In gratitude for Virginia loyalty, he quartered her coat of arms with those of England, Scotland and Ireland, as an independent member of the British Empire, and the coin establishes these facts. Hence the origin of the phrase, "Old Dominion."
TREASON AT WASHINGTON. A telegram from Fortress Monroe says the arrival in this country of a British bearer of despatches in connection with the Mason and Slidell affair, was known in Richmond on Tuesday morning. How did they get the news?
Through the same channel they get news from the loyal States every day, viz: the three hundred secession clerks, who, according to the Potter Investigating Committee, are now criminally employed by the heads of Departments at Washington! The names of five hundred were reported by that Committee, and only two hundred have been dismissed! In case of a war with England, will the British subjects now in the service of our Government be retained in the same manner to betray the country?-Transcript.
Commander Williams, of the Trent, has had a dinner given him by the Royal Western Yacht Club, and "improved the occasion" to make one of the fussiest and most foolish speeches ever made after dinner in England. In regard to Miss Slidell's conduct at the arrest of her father, the Commander talks more like an enamored Orlando than a British seadog. "She did strike Mr. Fairfax," he said; "but she did not do it with the vulgarity of gesture attributed to her. * * In her agony, she did strike him three times in the face. I wish that Miss Slidell's little knuckles had struck me in the face. I should like to have the mark forever!" So it seems that the Commander's ill-feeling toward Fairfax is envy, after all.
GOVERNMENT AGENT AT PORT ROYAL. Edward L. Pierce, Esq., of Milton, has been appointed by Secretary Chase, Agent at Port Royal to collect cotton and care for the contrabands. Mr. Pierce's experience and success with the negroes at Hampton attracted the attention of Government, and he has accepted the appointment, at the solicitation of Mr. Chase, not without reluctance. His stay there cannot, however, be extended beyond a period of three months.
General Sherman, writing from Port Royal to a Senator, says, that if he had issued a proclamation immediately on landing, offering protection to all slaves that should enter his lines, he might have had ten thousand about him by this time; but he expresses the conviction that the course he pursued was the best, and says the time has not yet come for such a proclamation to have its full effect, and will not come, perhaps, for two or three months yet. [Bosh!]
The troops at Port Royal are losing more of their number by sickness than would have fallen in battle, had they been employed to fight one. They have to work hard in a climate little favorable to Northern men, although there are thousands of negroes ready to do their work at low rates. But it would be an infraction of the Constitution to hire them, and so the soldiers' constitutions are spoiled. Nice way to operate, that!-Traveller.
The Charleston Mercury has a despatch, stating that a large force of Federals had landed on the North Edisto, and the seizure of railroad station No. 4 on the Charleston and Savannah railroad.
Sixteen war vessels are reported at Ship Island.
A destructive fire had occurred at Richmond, burning the Theatre and other valuable property.
Civil war has affected St. Louis like a stroke of palsy. More than 60,000 inhabitants have left that city within a year; an immense number of houses and stores are vacant, and all business, except government contracts, is at a dead stand.
The law for the protection of slave property in New Mexico has been repealed by an almost unanimous vote of both Houses.
The threat to hang Col. Corcoran raised a serious emeute among two Irish regiments in the rebel service at Charleston, who became so excited that they had to be removed to Sullivan's Island. The lovely and amiable ladies of Charleston's first families only are anxious that Colonel Corcoran should be hanged. They say he is a fit subject for the rope, and for nothing else. The gentlemen are not quite so virulent as their wives and daughters.
SWEARING ALLEGIANCE TO THE REBELS. The Norfolk Day Book of the 12th ult. says-"Fifty or sixty of the Federal prisoners confined at New Orleans have taken the oath and joined the Confederate army for the war. There were 500 in all."
Nearly one hundred emigrants from Missouri, with their households and negroes, have reached Texas.
General Lane, of Kansas, is making preparations for the active campaign on which he will soon enter. The government has been prompt in giving directions for all the necessary supplies.
The greater portion of Greenville, Alabama, was destroyed by fire on the 17th of December. The loss is estimated at $50,000.
A Fortress Monroe letter in the Philadelphia Inquirer states that one of the prisoners who recently arrived there from Richmond says that four Federal prisoners were shot at various times by the rebel sentinels for amusement! Private Buck of the New York Thirty-Eighth was shot while removing his blanket from a broken pane of glass in the window, where he had put it to keep out the cold air. The wounded prisoners now held by the rebels have all been released unconditionally.
The Richmond Examiner says: "An almost general stampede of slaves on the eastern shore is said to have taken place, in consequence of the enemy's invasion into Accomac and Northampton. It is estimated that there are about ten thousand slaves in those counties-out-numbering, as they do, the whites in Northampton-and this large amount of property is, of course, at the entire mercy of the enemy."
It is stated that contrabands are arriving daily at Frederick, Md., and are sent to Gen. McClellan's headquarters. At least one third of the slaves of Loudon county have made their escape, and some from Fairfax, Farquier and Culpepper occasionally turn up.
All the Federal prisoners, including Col. Corcoran, formerly at Charleston, were removed to Columbus the 1st inst. They were met at the depot by the guard of the city, and conducted to the jail.
A special despatch to the Chicago Tribune from Cairo says that 600 sub-marine batteries have been planted by the rebels between Columbus and Memphis. A gentleman who witnessed their experiments says they were entirely successful.
Real estate in the vicinity of Washington sold last week at an advance of one hundred per cent. upon prices offered a month ago.
<c05>
GOOD!-Senator Wilton has introduced the following bill from the Military Committee of the Senate:-
Whereas, Officers in the military service of the United States have, without the authority of law, and against the plainest dictates of justice and humanity, caused persons claimed as fugitives from service or labor to be seized, held and delivered up; and whereas
such conduct has brought discredit upon our arms and reproach upon oar government; therefore.
Be it enacted, &c., That any officer in the military or naval service of the United States, who shall cause any person claimed to be held to service or labor by reason of African descent, to be seized, held, detained, or delivered up to, or for any person claiming such service or labor, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be dishonorably discharged, and for ever ineligible to any appointment in the military or
naval service of the United States.
MEETING IN OBERLIN. John Brown's death was commemorated in Oberlin by a meeting of the citizens, held in the College Chapel on the 2d Dec. The meeting was also called to consider the case of the Rev. George Gordon, recently sentenced in the U. S. District Court for obstructing United States officers, whose speech we published. Hon. James Monroe acted as Chairman, and R. Brown as Secretary. The meeting was largely attended. Speeches were made by Principal E. H. Fairchild, T. B. McCormick, J. M. Fitch, Samuel Plumb, Esq., and J. M. Langston, Esq. Resolutions were adopted commending the bravery of John Brown, and pledging sympathy and aid to Gordon. A collection of nearly fifty dollars was taken up for the relief of the prisoner, a large portion of which was contributed by the whilom "Oberlin Rescuers."-Cleveland Leader.
A SLAVE TRAGEDY. A Louisville correspondent! of the Chicago Times writes that at Nashville, Tenn., on the morning of the 14th of last month, a brisk, sprightly negro woman, the property of Mrs. Polk, and a servant in her house, procured a sharp knife, and having proceeded to the bed in which lay three of her own children, from two to six or seven years of age, cut their throats, and when they had breathed their last, placed them decently beside each other, called to a fellow-servant to come and see what she had done, and then cut her own throat. The true reason of this tragedy was that Mrs. Polk had threatened to sell the woman "down South."
AN OLD OFFENDER. Wm. H. Ross, a well-known colored man of this city, was hailed by the night
watch Thursday night, and responded by running off. He was caught, however, and the Mayor yesterday ordered him thirty-nine, and to be confined till Tuesday. The negro in question is called "an old offender" by the police; and has, through their instrumentality, been ordered 1,000 lashes in the course of a not very extended life.-Richmond paper.
UNSETTLED. The question of the status of Edward S. Gentry, who is claimed to be both a white man and a darkey, was still further argued before Judge Wm. H. Lyons, yesterday, but no decision was rendered. The Mayor condemned Gentry to some penalty as a colored person, and he appealed to Judge Lyons to determine his standing.-Richmond Examiner.
TO BE SOLD INTO SLAVERY. Alec Taylor, an emancipated slave, was brought before the Mayor yesterday for remaining in the State contrary to law; and it being proved that one year since be had been tried and allowed one month to vamose the ranche, the Mayor sent him before the Hustings Court, which tribunal will, no doubt, in pursuance of law, order him to be sold into perpetual slavery. The prospect before the darkey is gloomy or gay, as he may choose to regard it.-Ibid.
A YANKEE CAPTAIN. When Capt. Lyon, of the brig Daniel Trowbridge, was taken on board the Sumter, his private effects, quadrants, charts, &c., were demanded. He said quietly to his captor-a rather shabby looking officer-that he supposed he must give up these things, and that he could give him a clean shirt, if he wanted it. For this offensive remark, he was put in irons for thirty-six hours. He was obliged to give his word of honor not to tell any thing regarding the force of the Sumter, &c., and he is keeping his word better than the rebels would do.- New Haven Palladium.
THE BLACK FLAG. The Memphis Avalanche advocates the "Black Flag" idea in the following ferocious language:-
We unhesitatingly say that the cause of justice, that the cause of humanity itself, demands that the black flag shall be unfurled on every field: that extermination and death shall be proclaimed against the hellish miscreants who persist in polluting our soil with their crimes. We will stop the effusion of blood, we will arrest the horrors of war, by terrific slaughter of the foe, by examples of overwhelming and unsparing vengeance.
A Massachusetts firm, engaged in the manufacture of shoes, is now filling an order for three thousand pairs of brogans, to he forwarded to Fortress Monroe for the use of the contrabands at that station. The sizes for men range from eleven to sixteen, and in one instance, a special order was given for a pair of twentys.
There are now more heavy guns in position in New York harbor than there were at Sebastopol when attacked, or than are now in the world-renowned fortifications of Cronstadt. The fire of two hundred and fifty guns can be simultaneously concentrated at one point upon a fleet attempting the passage of the Narrows.
The rebels propose to confiscate the estates formerly owned by President Thomas Jefferson, now in possession of Uriah P. Levy, an "alien enemy."
General Phelps, of Ship Island, is, we under stand, a native of Vermont, was graduated at West
Point, and has served for many years in the army in the Southern States and elsewhere. In the Mexican war, as a captain, he distinguished himself by his bravery, and won commendation from General Scott. He has through life been noted for his oddities.
The Charleston Mercury calls upon the cotton planters and factors to destroy all the cotton they possess in the regions likely to be visited by their Northern invaders. It assigns two reasons for this sage advice-first, that it can be of no earthly use to themselves; and second, that it might be made of use to the Federal Government.
Gen. Price promised his army that it should take its Christmas dinner in St. Louis. This promise was fulfilled, but not exactly in the sense he in tended. Thirteen hundred of his soldiers were in St. Louis on Christmas day, as prisoners of Gen. Pope, but none as victorious rebels.
On Friday night of last week, the residents in the neighborhood of Newtown Creek, Brooklyn, N.Y., were startled by a loud report, resembling thunder, succeeded by a glare of light, caused by an explosion at the immense Kerosene Oil Works at Newtown Creek, near the Flushing Plank road. There were, at the time, over three thousand barrels of oil on the premises, and these becoming ignited, exploded, scattering the fire in all directions. The works were built about five years ago, and were the largest in the country, costing, when finished, over $400,000.
ERUPTION OF MR. VESUVICS. The following, from Naples, Dec. 11, is the latest reference to this event which we find in our foreign files:-
"The village of Torre del Greco is in imminent danger of being destroyed by the burning lava. Shocks of earthquakes continued to be felt, and chasms have opened in the earth, forming perfect gulfs.
The houses are falling in Torre Greco, and all communication between the places in the vicinity of the mountain is interrupted.
In the Bay of Naples, the sea hat receded to a dis­tance of 50 metres (160 feet.)"
DEATH OF PRINCE ALBERT. His Royal Highness Prince Albert, consort of Queen Victoria, died in London on the l5th ult., after a brief illness of typhoid fever, which was not considered dangerous until two days before it resulted in death. He was more illustrious by his virtues than by his position. For twenty-one years he was in the eye of the English nation, and in every respect he sustained himself as few men in his situation have ever done. Forbidden, by his position, to interfere in politics, he occupied himself in superintending the education of his children, nine in number, all of whom are still living to mourn the loss of their father.
Ward Eleven, by the retirement of Charles W. Slack, Esq., has lost the services of one of the moot valuable of the School Committee, who, during his term of office, has won the respect of all his associates and the regard of the various teachers who have been brought in contact with him. The teachers of the Everett District, of which Mr. Slack was Chairman, availed themselves of New Year's Day to send him a beautiful floral tribute of their respect, accompanied by a letter which was justly complimentary.-Boston Saturday Gazette.

COLLECTIONS BY A. T. FOSS.
Weare, N. H., 1 65; West Randolph, Vt, $1 70; Randolph Centre, 2; East Bethel, 2 17; Path. 50c; Snowsville, 1 20; Milo Spear, 1; Jacob Spear, 2; W. Brook field, 4 60; J. M. Coburn 50c; West Roxbury, 2 38; Northfield, 1 75; Barre col, 1 40; Rev. Mr. Bliss, 1; Montpelier (over expenses of hall,) 48c; Danville Green, 75c, Peacham, 3 50; St. Johnsbory, (over expenses, 1 90; E. Whipple, 25c; Luke Buzzell, 5; WestConcord, 2 28; Melndoes Falls, 1 30; Ryegate, 1 26; Topsbam, 3 56; Washington, 75c; Newbury, 70c; Bradford, 1 40; Croyden, N. H., 75c; Bratteboro', Vt, 4 25; Keene, N. H., 6 20.
<c06>
THE TWENTY EIGHTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION
ANNIVERSARY.
The time for the ANNUAL SUBSCRIBTION ANNIVERSARY again draws nigh, and we look forward to it with pleasure, as the means of meeting familiar, friendly faces, and listening to earnest words of counsel and encouragement. Some say that other agencies are now in such active operation, that "the old Abolition­ists," as they are called, can well afford to rest upon their oars, while others carry forward their work to its completion. We cannot view the subject in this light. Our mission is the same now that it was thirty years ago. Through many and strange changes, we have slowly but steadily advanced toward its fulfilment; but there are many indications that our work is not yet in a state to be safely left to other hands. We have been, and we must still be, a fire to warm the atmosphere of public opinion. More than a quarter of a century ago, the fire was kindled with generous zeal, and year after year it has been fed with untiring industry and patience. Not all the cold water that politicians, merchants, and ecclesiastical bodies could throw upon it has sufficed to extinguish the flame, <illegible> even to prevent it from spreading. The moral thermometer can never again fall to the old freezing point. In view of this, we thank God, and take courage. But who that observes passing events, and reflects upon their indications, can arrive at the conclusion that the fire is no longer needed?
All those who have faith in the principles of freedom, all who believe that the effect of righteousness would be peace and security for our unhappy country, are cordially and earnestly invited to meet as at the
MUSIC HALL, IN BOSTON,
On Wednesday Evening, Jan. 22.
Contributions, and expressions of sympathy, from at home or abroad, in person or by letter, will be most thankfully received; for we have great need of both at this most momentous and trying crisis.
L. Maria Child, Mary Willey,
Mary May, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Louisa Loring, Sarah P. Remond,
Henrietta Sargent, Mary E. Stearns,
Sarah Russsell May, Sarah J. Nowell, 
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth Von Arnim,
Anna Shaw Greene, Anne Langdon Alger,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Eliza Apthorp,
Caroline C. Thayer, Sarah Cowing,
Abby Kelley Foster, Sarah H. Southtcick,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Augusta G. King, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Mattie Griffith, Abby Francis,
Mary Jackson, Mary Jane Parkman,
Evelina A. Smith, Georgina Otis,
Caroline M. Severance, Abby H. Stephenson,
Elizabeth Gay, Abby F. Manley,
Katherine Earle Farnum.
GROVELAND AND HAVERHILL-In consequence of the inclemency of the weather, when Mr. PILLSBURY gave his lectures, two weeks since, in Groveland and Haverhill, he has been invited to re-visit those places, and will again lecture in Groveland on TUESDAY EVENING next, (14th inst.) and on WEDNESDAY EVENING, 15th inst., in Haverhill; lectures commencing at 7 o'clock.
LECTURE AT THE MEIONAON-WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will deliver an address on "The Black Man's Future, in the Southern States," at the Meionaon, (Tremont Temple,) on Sunday evening next, Jan. 12, to commence at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission 10 cents, to defray expenses.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON will deliver a Lecture on "THE ABOLITIONISTS, AND THEIR RELATIONS TO THE WAR," in the Cooper Institute, New York, on TUESDAY EVENING next, Jan. 14th.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak on "The War," in
Cummington, Sunday, Jan. 12.
Johnstown, N. Y., Sunday, Jan. 19.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at Neponset, Sunday evening, Jan. 19.
MARRIED-In this city, Dec. 30, Charles H. MORSE, Esq., of the War Department, Washington, D. C, formerly of Cambridge, to Mrs. Laura A. HASKELL, of Boston.
Dec 31st, by Rev. A. G. Laurie, Mr. JESSE D. HAWKES, of Boston, to MISS AUGUSTA A. STONE, of Charlestown.
In Washington, (D. C.) Sept. 5th, Mr. WM. AUGUSTUS GIBSON TO MISS KATE MARSHALL.
In Auburn, N. Y., Dec 26th, Mr. ALVAN WALLACE to Miss ANNA CORA BARRETT.
DIED-In Durham, N. H., Jan. 1, Miss MARGARET BLYDENBURG, in the 74th year of her age. 
The deceased was very early in giving her sanction and assistance to the Anti-Slavery cause, and she adhered to it with rare fidelity to the She was among the first to dissolve her connection with the church, for the slave's sake and as a matter of conscience. Although almost completely isolated from society-partly as a matter of choices, and partly for want of sympathy and unity with her in the circle of her acquaintance-she kept her mind thoroughly informed as to the events of the day, and watched them with anxious interest as to their bearings upon the liberation of those in bondage. In her Will she has generously remembered the cause of the oppressed-in what manner, and to what extent, will be mentioned in due season. She possessed rare business talent, a strong, clear and active mind, great decision of purpose, and remarkable independence. We shall lose an old and appreciative subscriber to the Liberator by her removal.
In Brookline, Mass., Dec 20th, EMMA WILLARD, wife of John C. Wyman, and daughter of the late Dr. George Willard, of Uxbridge, Mass. There may not be many among our readers to whom this announcement will be a grief, so strictly private was all of the life which has just closed, and so secluded had its later years been made by long and slow disease. The few, however, who had the happiness of knowing Mrs. Wyman, will feel a pang to think that a spirit at once so true, so tender and so strong has passed away forever from earth and earthly communion. A character of uncommon equipoise of qualities, a well-cultivated mind, a refined taste, a heart full of sympathy, and swift to go forth to meet love and friendship, joined to great personal beauty and an irresistible charm of manner, the fitting abode and expression of the soal within, secured to her the admiration of all who knew her slightly, and the warm affection and tender friendship of all who knew her well. From her girlhood she made herself one with the Anti-Slavery movement, and her interest in it remained fresh and warm to the last. Her life, hastened by away sorrows, and made heavy by long years of suffering, was solaced and sustained, as it passed and at its close, by every tender office that love and friendship could bestow. And she dwells in the memory of those that knew her best sad loved her most as an example of complete and rounded womanhood, who, while she yet walked on earth, was but a little lower than the angels.-A. S. Standard.
In Aurelius, N. Y., Nov. 29, Mary daughter of Isaac T. and Abby G. Chare, aged one year, 10 months and 15 days.
"Fold her, O Father! in thine arms.
And let her henceforth be
A messenger of love between
Our erring hearts and thee."
PRIVATE TUITION.
IT having been deemed advisable to suspend, temporarily, the Hopedale Home School at the expiration of the present term, announcement is hereby made, that Mrs. A. B. Haywood, one of the Principals, will be pleased to receive a few Young Ladies into her family for Instruction 
in the English, Branches French, Drawing and Paint­ing, and Music. The term will commence on WEDNESDAY. Jan. 1, 1862, and continue FIFTEEN WEEKS.
For particulars, please address
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., Dec 19, 1861.
JOHN S. ROCK,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW
No. 6 TREMONT STREET, - BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
LIBERTY.
BY DANIEL PARKER.
Up your hats, now! bondmen, shouting!
Your relief no longer doubting!
<illegible> are breaking, fetters falling, shout for freedom evermore!
Shout your, hallelujahs stunning,
Now you see your master running,
And you feel your chains are broken, to be fastened never more.
Courage, now! long-suffering mother!
Patient, father, sister, brother!
Read your freedom-proclamations in the blazing war torch light!
See the cannons blazing—roaring!
Up your freedom's stars are soaring!
How the morning light has broken through your long and gloomy night.
Spite of Pharaohs or devils,
And all like besetting evils,
Through red seas of blood and carnage yon to liberty must
come!
Courage, now! your sun shines brighter!
Friendly hearts are beating lighter,
And to promised land they bid you, God and freedom welcome
home.
From his Northern mountain eyries,
On a wing that never wearies,
Swoops the eagle to the swamp-land, pouncing on the venomed snake:
With the Monster bold be battles,
Fearless both of fangs and rattles,— 
Firm he grips with beak and talons—grips that only death can break.
Out from bondage that life crushes,
Scarred with whips and bull-dog tushes—
Hope ne'er quenched by wounds nor failures, you shall come to light and life.
Truth, though crushed, stands by forever,
Fires and failures quell it never,
Always bright and brighter rising through grim war's
mad, bloody strife.
Latent through long decades waiting,
Hope survives its worst belating,—
Now it rises, glows and brightens, like a jewel in the sun;
Angels on the war-blasts riding— 
O'er its destinies presiding—
Swear by God there's peace no longer till to you there's justice done!
Powers above the work are doing,
Long this storm has there been brewing,
Now a God-send down it showers chances grand and glorious.
Now, you men in highest station!
If you 'd avoid a just damnation,
Render justice! free the bondman! Thus salvation! only
thus!
Clear your throats, and speak like heroes!
Stoop no more to knaves and Neros!
Drop your eyes and pale no longer, putting manhood all
to shame!
Never had men better chance;
Onward as the race advances,
In immortal verse and story to secure a deathless fame!
In this land was Freedom planted,
Here its natal hymns were chanted,
Here its destiny is onward till its work all know and do.
Men and fame may vanish ever,
All else go, but that go never!
Of this God's truth, ye mindful, and to God and man be
true!
Courage, now! no longer falter!
Bring the traitors to the halter!
Slavery must now be banished, live or die, from shore to shore.
Bitterly shall all repent it,
Who are working to prevent it:
Sure as God lives shall this monster vanish here forever
more,
Billerica, Dec, 1861.
For the Liberator.
WAR.
Air—"America" What blast blows o'er the land,
Through every isle and strand,
Sounding afar—
Booming through every vale,
Borne on the midnight gale,
Reading each hill and vale?
'Tis Civil War!
Our Country, 'tis for thes,
Land of the brave and free,
In this dark hour,
That War's load trumpet bray,
Men meet in deadly fray;
Arms clash from day to day,
Mid—cannons' rear.
They are no common foe,
Banded to everthrew
Fair Freedom's fane:
Rebels from "Dixie's Land,"
A traitorous, coward <illegible>
Wasting with ruthless hand,
Greedy of gain.
What prompts this rebel crew
These wanton acts to do?
Who will reply?
Slavery! that fiend from hell,
Suffered on earth to dwell,
God's image buy and sell,
None can deny.
Shame on a nation's guilt,
Where this dread scourge is felt,
Draining its blood;
Come to the rescue then,
From every mountain glen,
Acquit yourselves like men,
Trusting in God!
Congress has power to-day
For aye to wipe away
Slavery's foul stain;
In God's name, then, we say,
Do it! without delay,
Strike the blow while you may,
Break every chain!
<illegible>N.H., Dec. 25 1861.
G.W ROGERS
For the Liberator.

TRUTH'S MARTYR.
BY R. BURGESS, V.D.M.
I dare encounter common ill,
And mingle in the battle's din,
To give me nerve, to give me will,
For sorrow is life's discipline.
I dare to battle for the right,
I dare proclaim unwelcome truth;
To be myself a MAN, and fight
Till earth regain her sinless youth.
I dare the battle! let it come!
I give my name, my toil, my life!
O for a voice to wake the dumb,
A mightier arm for such a strife!
O for some power to stir my soul,
To make each sense a rushing host,
And cause the tide of battle roll
From heart to heart, from coast to coast!
What though our blood in torrents flow,
Our ashes mingle with the clay?
From cut that dust shall harvests grow,
That blood produce an arm'd array!
That harvest shall the millions feed,
That host eternal warfare hold,
Till ev'ry fettered slave is freed,
And tyrants sink to depths untold!
O ye whose hearts are cased in steel,
Go, suffer with the tortur'd slave!
Go, bleed and die, and ye will feel,
And bless the shelter of the grave!
<c02>
I love the freshness of the Spring,
I love the Poet's magic page,
I love the rocks, and flowers that eling,
Like youthful memories on age;
But, far above, I love the man
Who dare obey what conscience tells,
To free the outcast from his ban,
Though worlds oppose, though Fate rebels.
Boston, Jan. 1, 1862.

 The Liberator.
ENGLAND AND AMERICA.
A DISCOURSE
DELIVERED BY
WILLIAM H. FURNESS,
Minister of the First Congregational Unitarian Church,
Philadelphia,
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 22d, 1861.
James 3:11—"Doth a fountain send forth at the same
place sweet water and bitter?"
In the great voyage upon which we and all that we hold dear are embarked, we have suddenly drifted on to a storm-tossed sea, where the billows rage and battle with one another, a perfect maelstrom; for here and now two deep, strong currents, running in opposite directions, have met, and the foundations of the world are trembling with the violence of the concussion. The one current clear and sweet with the imperishable and life-giving element of Freedom, the other thick and bitter with the foul corruption of Human Bondage,—both sent forth from the same spring. Two hundred and forty-one years ago this day, the first company of Christian freemen landed at the North. Two hundred and forty-one years ago this very year, the first company of slaves was brought to the Virginia shore, and the blessing and the curse came from the same source. England is the fountain of Northern Freedom and of Southern Slavery. Eng land is the spring that has sent forth sweet water and bitter.
This December day is, indeed, a most memorable anniversary. We may well pause, and ponder the events which it recalls, insignificant as they were at the time of their occurrence, but momentous in the consequences which are now flowing from them with such fearful activity as we witness, involving revolutions, broad and deep, in human affairs, the extent of which no human wisdom can foresee. We naturally turn to the events which the day calls to mind, and revert to their origin.
England, I repeat, bestowed these two gifts, Liberty and Slavery, on this new world. Liberty she gave reluctantly. The men who brought it hither were driven by persecution from her shores. And that they were enabled to preserve the sacred gift amidst the horrors of the wilderness was owing to no fostering help of hers. She cared not if they perished, Not until they began to grow in numbers and in strength did she take any notice of them, and then she extended her arm only to make them feel its oppressive weight, and to crush the liberty which her out cast children had brought to these shores.
But that other and fatal gift of African bondage she fastened on this Northern continent with a willing hand, in opposition to the wishes, the conscience, and the humanity of these then infant colonies. In the original draft of the Declaration of our National Independence, it was formally stated, as you know, as one of the causes justifying that Declaration, that the British King had insisted upon establishing this accursed interest upon this soil; accursed in deed, because, while it brought material wealth, its inevitable effect was from the very first to corrupt the hearts of the people by so inflaming the lust of gain and of power as to deprave their natural sense of justice and humanity.
Such is briefly the record of the past in regard to the relation to this country of British power acting through its civil organization. And now, after two centuries and a half, England is again, to all appearances, preparing to assume the position of protecting the bondage of the African in this land. Flinging be hind her the great pledges she gave of her obligations to the cause of human freedom by the abolition of the slave trade, more than fifty years ago, and by the emancipation of the West Indian colonies thirty years ago, she is committing herself to an alliance with the flagrant rebellion against God and man, which threatens, not only the existence of this nation, but Human Rights everywhere. Already her influence has wrought to infuse into this atrocious treason against mankind the strength which alone has enabled it to live to this hour. Long before this, the slaveholders' revolt would have come to a miserable end, had it not been animated by the hope, that with the rich bribe of Southern cotton, it would soon be able to purchase the powerful help of English recognition. This was one of the two grounds of reliance upon which the Southern leaders dared to commit the overt act of treason. Who believes that they would have ventured to perpetrate the outrage, save in the confident expectation of Northern sympathy and foreign recognition, the recognition of England most especially? The hope of the first, of the sympathy of a Northern party, was blown to atoms by the first gun discharged against Fort Sumter. And the hope of the other, the recognition of England, would have been shivered in like manner, if England, true to her grand position as the abolisher of the slave trade and the emancipator of slaves, had held herself grossly insulted by go much as the faintest hint of a proposition to recognize as a sister nation a community formally planting itself upon the lawfulness of buying and selling human beings. She should have scorned the idea, as she would the proposal to reinstate the Algerines, or to acknowledge the independence of any colony of buccaneers. This, and nothing less than this, she owed instantly to her own fame. Let it be that she had no love for us of the North, that republican institutions looked weak and vulgar in her eyes, and that the spectacle of our Northern prosperity had made no impression upon her; let it be that she was utterly insensible to the enthusiastic hospitality with which the whole people of the free States had just received her young Prince; still she owed it to herself, to every event in her great history which has attested her love of liberty, and which has given her so commanding a position in the affairs of mankind,—she owed it to God and man to; repel with instant and crushing contempt the insulting suspicion that she could give countenance to a movement which, under the thinly woven pretexts which any child could see through, of an alleged right of secession and of the sovereignty of States, undertakes to reverse the eternal law of natural right, and to make human beings, not what God Almighty made them to be, but chattels and brutes. Had she done so at the very first, had she given the world to understand, at the very first symptom of this outbreak, that for no material consideration could the Southern attempt to nationalize human bondage receive from her any tiling but her most emphatic condemnation, that attempt would have been overwhelmed with speedy and signal failure.
Indeed, if, immediately upon the emancipation of her West Indian colonies, England had made it the condition of the continuance of her friendly relations with these United States, that we should follow her example and in like manner emancipate our bonds men, it would only have been in accordance with the noble stand she had taken as the champion of human rights. But this, I suppose, was too much to be expected. The least, however, she could do, standing where she stood, was to see to it that no new effort was made to perpetuate the bondage of the African. Identified as she was with the cause of the slave, she should bare frowned down at once the idea of receiving into the sisterhood of Christian nations a community deliberately basing itself on the violated rights of man. And bad she done this, the attempt, I repeat, would have been crashed in the bud.
<c03>
But this England did not do. On the contrary, at the breaking out of the Southern rebellion, wholly untouched by the fact of twenty millions of people rising up as one man against the outrage, England at once began to contemplate the idea of giving the hand of national fellowship to the slaveholding confederation as something more than a possibility, and forthwith placed herself in the posture of waiting and watching for an opportunity to put the idea into execution. And she has availed herself of the short­comings of the North to excuse herself for her own dereliction from the duty which she owed, not to us, but to herself and to mankind. Because this Government, instead of dosing the Southern ports, blockaded them, and thus virtually conceded to the Southern conspirators a belligerent character, England pleaded that she only followed our example in regarding them in the same light And because the free States have not even yet ventured fully and squarely to assume the anti-slavery position to which the South has driven them in the great struggle, England and Englishmen ask, with an air of the greatest innocence, "How can you of the North expect us to sympathize with you? You are not, you say yourselves, contending against slavery." Whatever we of the North are contending for or against, however imperfectly we may state our side of the case, there cannot be the shadow of a doubt as to what the one purpose of the slave States is. That purpose is just as plain as it is barbarian. Although the English people know nothing else about our part of the world, they cannot be ignorant of that. And if they cannot sympathize with our policy or no-policy, much less can they sympathize with the aim of the South; that is, if they have any true sympathy to bestow or to withhold. Although they have no love to give us, they can have nothing but abhorrence for the unholy enterprise of the Southern slave masters, if their hatred of slavery be as strong as they profess, and as their whole history justifies us in supposing it to be.
But, instead of manifesting any opposition to the Southern movement, instead of evincing the slightest repugnance to it, England takes without a blush the ground of neutrality; a ground which, in a contest like the present, is an absolute impossibility. Neutral­ity between Freedom and Bondage! That is, in plain words, England, that she may get the cotton that she has learned how to turn into bread, claims to be neither for God nor for the Devil. O, friends, it is no more possible for nations, though they have ruled the seas for a thousand years and girdled the globe with the ensigns of their power,—it is no more possible for them than it is for individual men to take neutral ground between freedom such as ours, and the inhuman bondage for which the South contends; between the eternal law of natural justice and the violation of that law, without incurring the guilt of complicity with the violator. "Whoso is not for the Right, which is now so ruthlessly assailed, is against it. And England may profess and protest as much as she chooses, her influence is working, and will continue to work as it has already worked, to strengthen the blood-stained hands which are striving to rend in pieces the God-written charter of Human Rights. In form, she may stand aloof; in fact, she is making herself an accomplice in the crime. Blinded by her commercial interests, she has taken a false and most perilous step, perilous to her own character; a step which it will be no easy thing for her to retrace, because as it is with individuals, so it is with nations: when once they commit themselves to a position, their pride instantly blindfolds them to their error, binds them to it as with chains of iron, and then goes before them and drags them to their fall.
That we should see things as they are is the imperative necessity of the hour; and therefore, for the sake of the truth, to which, now when every thing else threatens to fail us, we can alone look for guidance, the position of that nation, our amicable relations with which are in peril of being interrupted, must be seen and understood. We must not be misled. We must not be blind. We must see things as they are.
In what I am saying, I have not the shadow, of a desire to stir up any animosity against our mother country. I have never yet heard of any other people from whom I could wish in preference that we had been descended. I have and can have no national prejudice to gratify. I share in common with millions of the people of the North in the sentiment of veneration for England, which we drew in with our mother's milk, and which one lineage, and one language, and one priceless literature have tended to strengthen with our growth.
Neither have I the slightest disposition, in view of the present state of our relations with England, to act the part of an alarmist. I do not believe that the great majority of the people of this country have any desire but to remain at peace with every other nation. I do not believe that one particle of disrespect towards the flag of England had share in the act which has just kindled the Old Country into a flame; and therefore, I do not believe that any thing that has yet occurred will be recounted or appealed to as a justifying cause of war. But I cannot help seeing that England has taken a false position, false to her own honor, a position nominally neutral, but in fact and from the necessity of things, committing her to an alliance with a rebellion against the Rights of Humanity. She has placed herself, however vehemently she may disclaim it, in an attitude hostile to the North. It forces her at this moment to be the protector of rebels and slaveholders. Had she taken the high ground upon which it was due to her own his­tory that she should stand, no rebel commissioners would have dared to set foot upon a deck of hers; or when they had, and had been taken as they have been, she would have shared our satisfaction in the seizure of traitors to God and man, and made a special acknowledgment to our Government for the rescue of her flag from dishonor. Thus false, I say, is her position, that she is forced, whether with her will or against it, to take sides with this great treason. Although nothing that has as yet occurred may be considered to justify war, so long as England stands where she is, there is perpetual danger that we shall be brought into bloody collision with her.
Notwithstanding all appearances to the contrary, up to the present hour there has existed far and wide throughout these free States, a love of England, strong and deep, second only to the love we bear our country. How could it be otherwise? England is the native soil, the birthplace of this American nation. Thence, as from its original fountain, we drew our national life. Our intellectual being has been built up out of the strong and costly material of English thought. The soil of that country is our classic ground.
Nothing more decisively reveals the deep interest we have in England than our extreme sensitiveness to English opinions of us. Men care little for judgments passed upon them by those whom they neither respect nor love, to whom they are wholly indifferent. What travellers from other countries, France or Germany, coming among us, say or write about us, receives little of our regard, however wise and just it may be. But the remarks of English travellers instantly attract our attention, and an importance is attached to them out of all proportion to their worth. It is true, we have become a little hardened to English criticism, as it was very desirable we should be. The time has been when it seemed as if the American character were losing all pretensions to dignity or self-respect, so sensitive were we to what Englishmen and Englishwomen said of us, and into such unmanly exhibitions of chagrin and indignation were we driven by any word of slight or ridicule from English lips. It seemed at one time as if we depended for our very existence upon what was thought of us in that quarter. I do not think that in all history can be found any parallel to the strong affection of the people of this free North for England. It is native to us. Two wars and occasional misunderstandings, such as will sometimes occur among the nearest of kin, have not been able to extinguish it.
And of late years, we have been insensibly growing in the belief that the affection we have so long and so fervently cherished for the old country was reciprocated;
<c04>
that, as we had so long looked with admiring eyes upon England, England was beginning to regard this country with a new and kindly interest. We flattered ourselves that our rapid growth and unexampled prosperity, and the many and valuable contributions which this country has made to the arts of life, were beginning to tell in our favor, and win for us her cordial respect, and that she was really learning to regard us with something of the affection which we cherished for her; that she was finding out that life in this quarter of the world was not altogether mean and vulgar. And when she sent her young Prince to visit us, we took it as a signal token of her respect. With what heartiness he was received, you all freshly remember. So far as his reception by our people was concerned, there was nothing, until he entered a slave State, to remind him that he had passed the boundaries of the dominions of his mother. Indeed, so hearty was that reception, that some of us were so romantic as to expect that the Prince and his attendants would carry back such a report of the goodwill towards England, so cordially expressed by these Northern States, that a marked advance would instantly be made by the people of the old country in their regard for us, and that we should soon thereafter find that they were at least improving in their geographical knowledge, and were finding out where Washington stands, and New York and Boston. But it seems now that the Prince and his attendant noblemen took all our attentions as the due of their rank, and never interpreted them as the signs, which they simply were, of our veneration, not for their tinsel stars and ribbons, but for the great English nation, whose representatives these persons were. In fact, some of the leading political writers of England sneeringly attributed the enthusiasm with which the Prince was welcomed here, not to any regard for England, but to an American fondness for shows. 
Not only the slight impression which the warmth of that welcome made upon the English mind, but much that has occurred since: the interpretation of our legislation, as though it were intended to put an affront upon her, and as if England, in all her laws of trade, had always been studiously careful of the interests of other nations; and particularly her bearing towards us since the breaking out of our present great national trouble, forces upon us the mortifying conviction that England does not love us, that she has never dreamed of reciprocating our fervent regards. While our evident and rapidly growing power has awed her into bating her breath in the expression of her contempt, she has not been able to conceal not only that she has not loved us, but that she regards us with secret dislike. She has not been able to hide her desire that this Republic should be broken up.
We need not have waited for a state of things like the present, to disclose to us the feelings with which the English people have looked upon us. We might very safely have inferred their dislike of us from the ignorance in which they have persisted in wrapping themselves up in regard not only to our political institutions, but even to the most obvious facts of our geography. When we have committed any offence against good manners, and betrayed any vulgarity, they have been quick to note and to publish it, but English eyes have been studiously averted from the map of the United States. They have been too much annoyed by its size to bear to examine its details, or to take note of those features of it which, with our institutions and our blood, make it the map of One Nation, One and Indivisible. The English are preeminently an enlightened people. They ransack every department of human knowledge. What is there that escapes them? Their gross ignorance of this country, then, can be accounted for only upon the supposition that it is a subject for which they have no fondness, but a positive aversion. 
And when we pause over this English dislike of us, the reason of it soon becomes apparent. Although it may be creditable to our good nature, it is mortifying to our sagacity that we should ever have overlooked it. How could it possibly have been otherwise than that England should regard us as she has done? The existence of a populous and prosperous Republic,—of a great successful country, without a throne, without a nobility, without an established church,—how could we ever have been so foolish as to imagine that such a spectacle could be pleasing in the eyes of those, in whose very blood it is to believe that without kings, lords, and bishops, any decent civilization is impossible?
My friends, the prosperity, the existence of this country, with its free, democratic institutions, is a standing menace to every form of monarchical government Christendom, and it furnishes all living under such forms, who feel their oppressive power, with an impregnable ground of opposition. Why, if it were not for the horrible bondage which we have cherished within our borders, the like of which for barbarity exists in no other Christian country, even the most despotic, and which has palsied our influence, we should long since have revolutionized every nation in Europe; and this not by any active interference in their affairs, but by the bare fact of our existence. What oppressive mode of government could have stood before the fact of millions of human beings living here, in such freedom and unprecedented activity and rare harmony as our social institutions foster? Is it any wonder that England does not like us? How thoughtless in us to imagine that she should; or that the prospect of our overthrow could fail to give her satisfaction! Of all the nations of the earth, she is most susceptible of our influence, because we both have one language, and are of one blood. It is impossible that she should regard us have with the cordiality which she would be sure to feel for us, were we upholding, a form of society like her own. The more we have loved and revered England, thus showing that neither wars nor differences of any sort have been able to extinguish our goodwill towards her, and in this respect proving that our liberal institutions do not encourage the growth of national prejudices, the more difficult has it been for her to return our friendship. 
I have dwelt thus somewhat at length upon the relations in which we stand to our mother country, because the perils and portents of the hour render them deeply interesting. It is well to know our friends. We are threatened with war by England. It would be a great calamity. And although, as I have already remarked, I do not believe that the special circumstances that occasion the threat are sufficient to justify its execution, it is needful that we should understand the temper of that country towards us. England occupies, as we have seen, a false position towards these Free Northern States. And in relation to us, we have seen she has no goodwill to spare. That she has, with all her mighty armament, a growing aversion to war, we may believe. If such a long and terrible experience of bereavement and debt as she has had in the bloody art has been lost upon her, we may well despair of the education of nations. At least that England will not precipitate a war, we may reasonably trust. But we are not permitted to put any reliance upon her kindly feeling towards us. It will become our government to use the utmost caution, because we can count upon no goodwill of hers to put the best construction upon any indiscreet word. Having no love for us, England will be slow to believe that we can have any consideration for her. Already the English Press is talking as if we had an intention of picking a quarrel with her! as if, whatever might be our intentions at other times, we could entertain such unutterable folly now, or have any but the most anxious desire, at this most painful juncture, to maintain friendly relations with all foreign governments. Such being the spirit of the English people, although the present cloud may pass, God only knows how soon another and darker cloud may arise, especially in such a stormy time, and so long as England maintains her present ground, which, however strenuously she may affirm to be a ground of peace, commits her to the side of the Rebellion.
It must also be fully seen by us, that the fierce and terrible conflict which has arisen on this soil concerns not so much any local tad temporary interests of ours
<c05>
as those sacred principles of Justice and Liberty, which, in the eternal nature of things, most deeply concern all nations, every human being. Our Maker has so fashioned us, that nothing takes so mighty a hold upon us as Justice and Freedom. They meet the deepest and most essential want of our nature. These it is that only give attraction to human history, value to human life. And since the world began, never has there been a conflict in which the purest Right and the blackest Wrong have been so directly opposed to one another, with scarcely any side issues to complicate the bloody controversy, as in this struggle in which we are now engaged. It must needs be that it will, as it proceeds, command the attention of mankind as no other war has ever done. It cannot be otherwise than that men will hold their breath as they look on, and see the powers of darkness and of light in deadly conflict. That other nations should altogether stand aloof seems hardly possible. We have the deepest interest in the strife, but it is profoundly interesting to the whole race of man. The well-being of the world is at stake, and it is not impossible that the world may plunge into the strife. It must be borne in mind, too, that the impression has gone abroad among the ignorant foreign masses, that the Republic, never strong in manhood, never so worthy of honor as at this hour, is tottering to its fall. Every foul bird of prey then will be whetting its beak. Where the carcass is supposed to be, there the vultures will be gathered together.
And, therefore, the responsibility that is laid upon us, who are summoned to do battle for God and human liberty, is unspeakably solemn; and we must see to it that we do not belittle and dishonor the great Cause in the eyes of the world by any short-sighted policy, by any time-serving expediency. It is no time to postpone and evade. We must confront the sacred issues, and rise, every soul of us, to the height of the great argument. Especially, before it will be too late, we must, as we can, make England see the false position she has taken, and retreat from it. Sore as may be her need of the Southern staple, and blind as she now seems to be to everything but that, and savagely as, from recent accounts, her old thirst of conquest and power is beginning to stir her proud people, she cannot yet be prepared to assume deliberately and in form the Protectorate of African bondage. We may at least hope that she will range herself, where alone she properly belongs, on the side of human freedom, when the great North, standing erect now in its strength, shall, with a bold hand, fling out into the heavens the glorious banner of Universal Emancipation. In the meanwhile, let no man of us be blind to the solemnity of the time. It calls for all our thoughtfulness and all our manhood. We need the inspiration of faith,-faith in God and in man; we need faith in prayer that, beyond the power of words, should kindle an undying flame in our hearts. May God prepare this offering now, the spirit of self-sacrifice, of holiness, and of humanity, upon the altar within, and keep it burning there forever!
COMMEMORATIVE MEETING.
A meeting in commemoration of the martyrdom of John Brown was held at the house of Dr. Knox, 59 Anderson street, Boston, on Monday morning, Dec. 2d. The meeting was organized by the choice of J. H. Fowler, of Cambridge, President, John Oliver, of Boston, Vice President, and Dr. Knox, Secretary.
REMARKS OF DR. KNOX. 
Mr. President,-I rejoice that so goodly it number have met to pay homage to the memory of the good old Puritan, the hero of Harper's Ferry, and the martyr of Virginia's Charlestown, the firing of whose gun has evoked a better hope for the down-trodden slave of America, and in fact the world over, than the <illegible> of the first gun at Concord; therefore, keep the day! And now that he who was chairman of the Senate Committee of Inquisition is foiled, notwithstanding that most ignoble star of the Star Chamber is safe at Fort Warren, notwithstanding that Bunker Hill and Faneuil Hall are now laughing in the day of his calamity, keep this day sacred!
If the army are singing the name of John Brown, it is only an incident growing out of the preservation of the old Union, cemented with innocent blood. The Government has never intimated the heart-love for African liberty as is now demonstrated in the border slave States. But this is not the time or place for this train of thought. The theme on this occasion is the martyrdom of John Brown. Why is it that such general indifference to holding this meeting prevails, that a public building cannot be obtained for it? Is it because such a meeting was mobbed, one year ago, by the Mayor of this city? or is it became the government is fighting for emancipation? If the latter, how can the greater be contained in the less?
I have but one regret. I regret that this meeting is not held under other auspices. Faneuil Hall should be thrown open, and the most able minds and eloquent should speak commemorative words. All periods of the world's history have witnessed martyrs, and the cause for which they died has partaken of a brighter light and hope proportionate to the great laws of human progression. The scene closes with John Brown in the ascendant; for where or when did a braver or more loving heart case to beat on the scaffold? Not a murmur escaped his lips.
In conclusion, I only proposed to say a few words, expressive of my good will; to throw a few of memory's fresh and fragrant flowers on the grave of the martyr at North Elba.

REMARKS OF MR. OLIVER.
Mr. President-,I did not come here to speak, but to hear what might be said in honor of the brave old martyr of Harper's Ferry. I am happy to pay my homage to the memory of John Brown, and I wish, in a special manner, to express my thanks and gratitude to Dr. Knox for holding this meeting, as it forms a connecting link in this important history.
I feel that John Brown is worthy of homage for this reason, if for none other-that he gave his life for a different race and another people, with which I am identified. This, sir, makes his memory more dear to the hearts of the colored people.
Remarks were made by Henry Williams, who had been for thirty years slave. He expressed his heart-felt thanks for the privilege of the meeting. He loved the name of John Brown, and loved to hear people speak and read about him; for he truly felt that he had done great good to his people that were in bondage.
Miss Williams made a few interesting remarks, and then the meeting was closed by Leslia Knox, aged eight years, repeating an original hymn, written on the martyrdom of John Brown.
The meeting was adjourned to meet in the same place one year from to-day, unless some public building could be obtained.

ENGLISH FEELING TOWARDS AMERICA.
The following resolutions were passed at a meeting held in Glasgow City Hall, (Scotland,) 12th Dec., 1861, moved by Rev. Fergus Ferguson seconded by Mr. John Knox:-
Resolved, That as friends to the universal abolition of slavery, who have at all times sympathized with the advocates of impartial liberty in the United States of America, we express our deep sympathy with them in this time of severe trial; and we earnestly entreat the citizens of the Federal States, agreeably to the principles set forth in the Declaration of American Independence, to concede the just claims of four millions of people holden in bondage in the Southern States, and now proclaim them FREE.
Resolved, That deploring the existence of civil war in the United States of America, we fervently pray that wisdom, forbearance and a just appreciation of international right may be given to the Governments of Great Britain and America, so that friendly feelings may continue to subsist between nations so identified by lineage and language, and by whom so much may be accomplished for the advancement of the best interests of mankind.
<c06>
ANOTHER REMARKABLE PROPHECY.
The following extract is taken from a volume pub­lished in Boston by Bela Marsh, in 1859, entitled Twelve Messages from the Spirit of John Quincy Adams." It is the Spirit of Washington speaking:-
We are able to discern the period rapidly approximating when man will take up arms against his fellow-man, and go forth to content with the enemies of Republican Liberty, and to assert, at the point of the bayonet, those rights, of which so large a portion of their features are deprived. Again will the soil of America be saturated with the blood of freedom-loving children, and her noble monuments. those sublime attestations of patriotic will and determination, will tremble, from base to submit, with the heavy roar of artillery, and the thunder of cannon. The trials of that internal war will far exceed those of the War of the Revolution, while the cause contended for will equal, if not excel, in sublimity and power, that for which the children of '76 fought. But when the battle-smoke shall disappear, and the cannon's fearful tones are heard no more, then will mankind more fully realize the blessings out flowing from the mighty struggle in which the so valiantly contended! No longer will their eyes meet with those bound in the chains of physical slavery, or their ears listen to the heavy sobs of the oppressed child of God. But over a land dedicated to the principles of impartial liberty the king of Day will rise and set, and hearts how oppressed with care and sorrow will rejoice in the blessings of uninterrupted freedom.
In this eventful revolution, what the patriots of the past failed to accomplish, their descendants will perform, with the timely assistance of invisible powers. By their sides the heavenly hosts will labor, imparting courage and fortitude in each hour of despondency, and urging them onward to a speedy and magnificent triumph. Deploring, as we do, the existence of slavery, and the means to be employed purge it from America, yet our sympathies will culminate to the cause of Right and Justice, and give strength to those
Who seek to set the captive free,
And crash the monster, Slavery.
The picture which I have presented is indeed, a hideous one. You may think that I speak with too much assurance when I thus boldly prophesy the dissolution of the American Confederacy, and, through it the destruction of that gigantic structure. Human Slavery! But this knowledge was not the result of a moment's or an hour's leaning, but nearly half a century's existence in the Seraph Life. I have carefully watched my country's rising progress and I am thoroughly convinced that it cannot always exist under the present Federal Constitution, and the pressure off that most terrible sin, Slavery!
You, respected friend and brother, have been called to many important office in the Councils of the Nation. With the spirit of unflinching firmness have you sought to guide it aright and to maintain the honest, well-intended principles of the Founders of the Government. Persecutions you dared, threats you defied. Fearlessly you strove for the triumph of Humanity's principles, for which a just reward will be meted out to you in this your everlasting home, and glory and unalloyed happiness will ills-mine your celestial pathway through the spheres of progression.
Let us hope and pray for the deliverance of our beloved country; and also, while we hope and pray, let us remember to act! Let us enlist in this war of principle, and, with unswerving fortitude and devotion,-the spirit of love reigning in our hearts,-carry it forward, until we have attained a conquest over slavery, and every evil which follows in its train.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe whether & Wilson, and Grover & Baker and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massac<illegible> Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machines is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their machines, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably. viz: there is no wheel-below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge up
the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with title objection sometimes urged on that account."
PARKERS SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its tension easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather and
the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal facility. The stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee State Fair for its superiority.-Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the parker sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine
Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines-first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have heretofore been made is Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and
also the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machine now in market South Reading Gazette, Nov. 24, 1860.
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead in the market. For beauty and finish of its workmanship, it cannot be excelled. It is well and strongly made-strength and utility combined -and is emphatically the cheapest best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it and when consulted, invariably give Parker's machine the preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE E. LEONARD, 188 Washington street, Boston, has a large number of orders for these machines, and sells them as fast as they can be manufactured, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufacturers have almost wholly suspended operations. This fact, of itself, speaks more strongly in for its superior merits, it would have suffered from the general depression, instead of flourishing among the wrecks of its rivals. What we tell you is no fiction; but go and buy one of them, and you will say that "half of its good qualities had never been told you." Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of these machines to assist her in lessening life's toilsome ask.-Marlboro' Gazette, July 13, 1861.
