THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING.
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN
DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters
relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND
QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 7 BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1521.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Boston Post.
DEFEAT OF TREASON IN MASSACHUSETTS. The defeat of the Personal Liberty Bill, in the Legislature, is the first fruits of a reaction in public sentiment going on in the Northern States. Thus far, in almost every Northern Legislature, every demand which Abolitionism has made tending towards treason, has been conceded by the ruling party desiring to retain its votes. For once, the disunionists of Massachusetts have been foiled.
Last year, they came up to the Legislature with their infamous demand for the removal of Judge Luring, and at such imperious dictation the deed was done-the very worst political deed which the annals of the State can supply. This year, petitions from about one hundred and thirty towns applied for the passage of the new Personal Liberty Bill, on which we have so largely commented. It proposed to punish, by imprisonment in the State prison, legal claimants of fugitive slaves; or persons who should, under laws of the United States, attempt to obtain their legal rights. It was a bold denial of constitutional obligation; flat treason to the country; a direct step in the direction of a violation of the public faith, and towards civil war.
How did the Republicans receive and treat this in the Legislature? Their most important representative there is the Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary; the law officer of the House. The community have a right to look to him, if to any body, to guard jealously every law measure; and more especially to narrowly scan measures having a national bearing. Now, here was a proposition implicating Massachusetts honor-affecting her public faith-bearing relation to her sacred connection of country-and palpably violative of the Constitution. Did this representative of the Republican party-its legal spokesman in the House-stand up and arraign it as such? Did he unfold its true character? Did he call upon the House to trample it, as a Benedict Arnold proposition, under its feet? No such thing. The champion of the Constitution was Hon. Caleb Cushing. To show the tone of Republicanism, we clip the following from one of the speeches of Mr. Wells, of Greenfield, the Republican Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary, in reply to Gen. Gushing:-
Talk of civil war! said the speaker; the only danger of that kind which has been imminent existed upon the plains of Kansas; and the administration of Franklin Pierce was responsible for the horrors there enacted. (Applause.)
Mr. Wells thought that, in spite of either of the proposed laws, the United States Government, if it set about it, could carry back slaves, and he had some desire to make legislation constitutional, if possible. He would rather act treason than enact it. The sentiment of Massachusetts, as a whole, undoubtedly is, that no slave shall be carried out of her borders; but this sentiment can never be safe from violation until we get a Supreme Court that is up to the sentiment of Massachusetts.'
This is the velvet-footed way in which the party affinities of this high official compelled him to approach the direct treason proposition; and, to cap the climax, when the time came to vote on such a bill, he actually rose in his place, and ASKED TO BE EXCUSED FROM VOTING! What a position for such an officer to put himself in! When a proposition is before him to palpably violate the Constitution which he had sworn to support, which would eternally disgrace the Suite whose honor he was bound to protect, he asks to be excused from doing his duty. Why did he desire to be excused? Why did he shrink from the boldness of recording his name with the ONE HUNDRED AND NINE MEMBERS who voted NAY? Because the ultra men of his own party-the men who forced Charles Sumner, Henry Wilson, the previous Personal Liberty Bills, the removal of Luring, and now this treason law-were describing those who halted as' traitors to freedom and humanity.'
The House declined to excuse the chairman of such a committee from voting on a bill of such magnitude, and as a lawyer he knew that it was a palpable violation of the Constitution and laws of his country. He voted against the bill.' He would rather act treason than enact treason.' If the words of this legal spokesman of his party are any indication of what his party mean to do, their immediate next labor will be to get a Supreme Court that is' up to what Mr. Wells alleges is the sentiment of Massachusetts'! Judge Shaw is not ready to act the treason which this Republican law officer counsels!
According to this representation of Republicanism, the sentiment of Massachusetts' undoubtedly' is, that the law of Congress shall never be executed in Massachusetts; and this is precisely what the Liberator says of the seventeen thousand petitioners for the trees on bill:' Unquestionably they represent
the great mass of the people of Massachusetts, whose names could readily have been obtained to the petition.' We believe these Republicans libel the patriotism of Massachusetts. We often hear even those who feel it a duty to vote the Republican ticket, aver that they would not deprive Southern citizens of a single constitutional right, but would give them all the law allows; they only go against an extension of slavery. But is this flat opposition to a compliance with plain provisions of law, for sooth, only opposition to extension of slavery? Is it not a plainly courted conflict with the United States, and for the purpose of withholding rights to the South which all the courts recognize? This is the cause which Massachusetts would have in case these Republicans act treason! Is this the entertainment to which the people desire to be invited?
No! this is a libel on the intention of the people of this State, and the majority who rejected this infamous bill represented its sentiment. And the
good sense and patriotism of the State will hail the defeat of this bill as an event auspicious alike to its honor and to its interests. It is the victory of the Constitution over fanaticism; and let us hope that it is the harbinger of better days for this noble revolutionary State.
Paid for by a profligate, perfidious, usurping and satanic national administration.]-Ed. Lib.
DEFEAT OF THE PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL. The Legislature of New York have done one good thing, and we will give them the credit of it; that is, so many of them as assisted in the enterprise,-we mean the strangling of the Nullification Bill, called by its friends the Personal Liberty Bill; the design of which was, to annual a law of Congress, enacted to enforce a solemn stipulation of the National Compact. Every Democratic vote, we are proud to say, was given against the Bill, and also 21 votes by Republicans and Americans; thus making up a sufficient number to save our State from the disgrace which was impending over it. But still it is to be remembered that a large majority of the Republicans went for the Bill, and that it would have passed into a law, had it not been manfully resisted by the small number of Democrats elected to the Assembly.-N. Y. Jour. Com.
<c02>
SELECTIONS.
SLAVE-HUNTING IN NEW YORK. The following impressive and eloquent Address to the Legislature and People of New York, by Rev. A. D. MAYO, of Albany, in reprobation of the license granted to slave-hunters, is as applicable to Massachusetts, and to every other nominally free State, as it is to New York:-
A bill is now pending in the Legislature of New York, which provides fur the protection of personal liberty in this commonwealth; it has been framed in response to numerous petitions from the people, and a deep and widely spread feeling against the operations of the Fugitive Slave Law of the United States. As a citizen of this State, I ask the attention of its legislators and people to some considerations in favor of the enactment of a law for the protection of freedom in New York.
The petitioners, whose prayers our Legislature is urged to consider, are not concerned about an imaginary grievance; neither do I plead for any visionary theory, or excite indignation against any fancied evil. We ask the protection of the greatest Republican State in the world in behalf of her 45,000 colored citizens, whose liberty is imperiled by an unjust and despotic law of the United States; of 3,400,000 white citizens, who, by the same law, are reduced to the alternative of becoming kidnappers of human beings, or criminals before the statute; of the cause of human freedom, which is outraged and abolished in New York by the existence of the Fugitive Slave Law of September 18th, 1850.
This law is too well known to require a minute analysis; but nobody who has attentively studied its provisions will accuse my of exaggeration when say, that here is a law under which any colored citizen of the State of New York may be arrested, and tried before a court of one man, on the charge of being a slave, his own testimony refused in the case, the testimony of his persecutor admitted, and, unless he can prove to the satisfaction of this one man that he is free, he may be sent to perpetual slavery; the whole power of our national and state governments being used, if necessary, to consummate the crime. Under such a law, no colored person is safe in the State of New York. All the safeguards which this commonwealth throws around her citizens are rudely trampled under foot in the case of 45,000 people, who have committed no crime against the State. This entire portion of our population is subject to the persecution, insult and indignity of a trial for personal liberty; that personal liberty hanging on the will of one man, chosen, as such official always is, from his known willingness to execute this infamous statute' with alacrity.'
Such is the exposed condition of our entire free colored population; and any one of the 9,000 colored voters of this State-yea, the man whose
vote in a contested election has chosen your governor, may at any time be compelled to prove his freedom before any man who can get himself appointed United States Commissioner, on the charge of any man brazen enough to come to this commonwealth, claiming one of her citizens as his property!
By this law, the State of New York and all her citizens are forbidden to harbor or assist any person flying from slavery to freedom. Any such person may be arrested on her soil, outraged or murdered in the arrest; if secured, hurried before a Commissioner of the United States, and, on the testimony or affidavit of one claiming to be his master, sent into perpetual bondage.
Under this law, every citizen of New York is forbidden to perform the common offices of humanity: feeding the hungry, curing the tick, succoring the
innocent, if the object be the one most loudly appealing to every benevolent heart for such aid-a man, woman or child fleeing from a bondage that converts a human being into a chattel-on penalty of a fine of $1,000 and six months' imprisonment, with liability to pay the alleged worth of the chattel if lost. This is a provision which presents, to every citizen of our State, the monstrous alternative of becoming an a better and adder of slave-catchers, or a criminal exposed to the indignity of the prisoner's cell.
Now, I am not a statesman-not even a politician; but, unless I am destitute of the common perceptions of morality, and the common feelings of humanity, I am competent to pronounce this Fugitive Slave Law an insult to the dignity of this sovereign State; a conspiracy against the peace of her unoffending citizens; a law that violates every principle of natural and revealed religion; a law which degrades every man who obeys it; which dishonors the commonwealth that tolerates it; a law framed expressly to insult and override every cherished and sacred principle that makes New York a free, Christian State. I ask your attention to the moral aspects of this statute, as shown in its practical application. I desire you will see that this is a wicked law, which carries destruction, anarchy and sin wherever it is enforced. And if proven to be such a law, I suppose there will be no question that it is not binding on this sovereign State or any of her citizens, and that it is the duty of our Legislature to throw around the people a safeguard against its iniquitous operation. For I am sure I address those who acknowledge that no legislation can elevate that which is essentially inhuman and wicked into a thing proper for good men to do, or even to wink at. I acknowledge that if I were an unbeliever in the existence of God, or a law of eternal justice, to which all human enactments must conform, I should have no basis for such an appeal as I propose to make. I am willing to give the friends of the Fugitive Slave Law all the advantage they may gain from the fact that I argue this question as a Christian to the Citizens of a Christian State, on the everlasting premises of Christian Morality. I shall not descend from this impregnable position to conciliate or hold controversy with the enemies of liberty on any lower ground, but show what an outrage on Humanity and a Christian Civilization this statute is, and then ask you to do your duty as guardians of liberty in the commonwealth.
First. Consider the indignity cast upon the entire free colored population of New York by this law. There are 45,000 free colored persons in this State; on 9,000 of these persons the State has conferred the highest privilege of the freeman, the right of suffrage. Now read the Fugitive Slave Law carefully, and tell me what protection the State affords those citizens against the claim of any slaveholder? Remember this law is operative in respect to slaves, who may have escaped at any time previous to its enactment. It also claims the posterity of any female slave who may have escaped at any period, though that woman may be the daughter of the most chivalrous Senator in Congress; as white as any woman in New York, and the wife of any man, in your State; this law claims her posterity as slaves. If the slaveholder comes or empowers his agent to come to this State, and in the regular mode testifies before a United States Commissioner that any colored citizen is his property; that he escaped from his service at any previous day; that his mother or grandmother escaped from service; what protection is given to the victim of this persecution?
<c03>
His own mouth is shut in his own defense by the law. The State cannot take him out of the hands of the United States Marshal on any pretence; the claim may be so made as to render it next to impossible for the captive to produce testimony; the examination is to be made summary, and may be made in secret; the one commissioner is chosen for his willingness to enforce the law, is open to all corrupting influences from the prosecutor; and as if this were not enough, the American Union steps in and sets the example of bribery, by offering him a fee of ten dollars if the negro is sent into slavery, and only five dollars if he is declared a freeman. If under such a pressure this commissioner declares any colored citizen in New York a slave, though he were the richest, wealthiest, most honored man of his class, there is no remedy in New York. The only remedy is, an appeal to the courts of a slave state, and a long process in which a free commonwealth is beheld pleading the cause of her free citizen before a power that has subjugated him and his posterity to the doom of perpetual oppression.
Do not say this hazard is imaginary. It is real. Again and again have free colored persons been persecuted under this statute in Free States; it is one of the most common features of the enforcement of the law. Again and again have Commissioners sent away free colored people as slaves. We have not yet forgotten that Commissioner Ingra ham sent Adam Gibson into slavery, in most indecent haste, and Mr. Knight, of Maryland, refused to accept him as his slave. Other cases have occurred where, witnesses have sworn to falsehood, and the Commissioner decided, in the face of justice, a free man a slave. We have only to read the history of the cases under this law to learn how many such attempts have been made; how often they have succeeded; how a few victims have been rescued by great effort. But who can tell how many free men and women have been spirited away in secret by the facilities afforded through this infamous edict of despotism? The Fugitive Slave Law is really a law to encourage kidnapping; for it leaves the whole free colored population without defense against that power which proclaims the black man the natural slave of the white man.
Is it said that there still exists a power by which any abuse of this kind can ho rectified? that, after a free man is dragged into slavery, the appeal may be made for his liberty before the courts of the Slave State into which he has been carried? But do those who make this plea reflect on the degradation thus brought on the Empire State? We charge that 45,000 free citizens and 9,000 voters, whom New York is as truly bound to protect as her Sewards, her Fillmore's, her Dickinson's, are daily exposed to the indignity of being caused to prove they are men before a court of one man and deprived of all voice in this awful trial; that this one obscure official may declare the victim no man, but a chattel, and the Suite has no redress on her own soil; and we are comforted by the assurance that the State can go chasing this person from the coast of Maryland to the mountain passes of Arizona, and if he can be found in any portion of the two and a half million square miles of Slave States or Territories, a suit may be instituted for his freedom! Suppose there were a law of the United States by which our Livingston's, and Clintons, and Van Burens could be thus dragged, at any moment, before a Commissioner, and tried on the charge of being a chattel, their own mouth shut in the case, and their liberty suspended on the whim of such men as slave-catching Commissioners have often proved to be; would not the lawyer who should tell us we could seek our abducted citizen anywhere over two and a half million square miles of territory, and institute a suit to prove Mr. Seward or Mr. Van Buren a man, be mobbed on any platform? And who is the advocate so shameless as to assert that the State of New York is bound to throw a protection around her noblest white man which she denies to the humblest colored voter-the poorest child of the black mother born on her soil? I have been accustomed to think that the government of New York was instituted especially for the protection of the weak. I have supposed that a State that could protect a Seward, a Fillmore, a Dickinson, and leave the colored man unprotected because he was of a despised class, would be a Despotism and not a Republic. It is accounted the deepest disgrace in society for a gentleman to insult his inferior in position who can have no means of redress; but what shall we say of a State that elevates 9,000 men, of an oppressed class, to the high privilege of suffrage, and then insults them by saying:' I have no protection to offer you against any miscreant who is willing to perjure himself before another miscreant; yea, am ready to stand by and see you dragged away into the hell of oppression, lending my whole power to the atrocious act.' This is now the position of the Empire State. Two years ago, the Legislature voted to amend the Constitution in a manner that would admit the colored man to the right of suffrage on the same basis as the white man. But should the State do this justice, would it not be forced to say:' I make you a voter, but I can't protect you against the kidnapper; you may be a citizen of New York, but you may be carried off to the slave pen in chains, and I cannot present the process!' Away with our pretence to freedom while this great commonwealth is compelled to hold her breath and stand mute as an idiot whenever the crack of the slave whip in heard on her soil!
If this law is so iniquitous in its operation against the free colored citizens of the State, what shall we say of the fleeing bondmen whom it pursues over our hills and valleys? If there is any point of practical morality on which all good men in civilized lands are agreed, it is the right of the oppressed to fly from his oppression. I suppose no man could be found so opposed to the right of self-defense as to deny to the subject of American Slavery the poor resort of running away. The most thrilling episodes in the world's history have been the adventures of innocent men escaping from their oppressors. Whatever theory we hold about those unable or unwilling to throw off the yoke, it is infamous to say that a man who has forced his way out of such a bondage as prevails in our Southern States, and has come as far as New York, guided by the North Star and the irrepressible longing for liberty, is not entitled to his freedom. And to succor the oppressed, fleeing from his bonds, has always been held the most sacred duty as the noblest privilege of mankind.
We see ho difficulty in the application of this principle to the case of white emigrants flying from political punishment abroad to our shores. Numbers of young Germans have fled from home to escape service legally due in the armies of the German governments; we receive them and make them citizens; and President, Congress and People would breathe out war at the bare suggestion of an application from the despotism they left for their rendition to military service. We receive men escaped from the political prisons where tyrants bury the patriots of Europe, and defend them with the whole power of the Republic. We received John Mitchell, a fugitive from service in Botany Bay, and would have made a freeman of him, had he not insisted on making himself a servant of the worst tyranny on God's earth. From every land on the face of the globe come flocking hither the flying fugitives from oppression; and we glory in accepting them, and
<c04>
lifting them to companionship with ourselves in all the privileges of the Republic. The President of the United States holds his seat by the votes of fugitives from abroad. But what claim have these men on our sympathies and justice which the American fugitive from American despotism has not? Is the bondage from which the black man has fled easier to bear than the discipline of the camp, the prison, or the penal colony? Has the slaveholder any title to the service of his subject which the Emperor of Austria has not? Does the fugitive Irishman love liberty more than the fugitive Negro? Show me any particular in which the claim or the fugitive slave is not superior to the claim of any emigrant that seeks these shores. He is an American; born, reared in America; the State has been enriched by his unrequited toil; he is not necessarily a savage, but may be intelligent and a Christian; yea, may be as white as half the inhabitants of the Republic, and more worthy protection than thousands of voters in the elections of the State.
And surely if sufferings endured and heroism displayed in pursuit of liberty be any claim on our humanity, his right is pre-eminent above all other men. Within the last year, a woman was brought within sight of our Capitol, who had escaped from slavery nailed in a box, escaped through tortures and privations almost beyond human endurance; she came into our capital city bruised, maimed, crushed almost to a pulp, in her dreadful prison. Thank God, there were found citizens better than the State, who saw that her face was set towards the North Star! Again and again do we behold men, women, little children, who have wandered like wild beasts for months, been hunted with dogs and guns, shot, bruised, starved, frozen, perhaps carried on the shoulders of their companions through the storms of winter, encountering for liberty what no white citizen of New York ever endured. Indeed, I wait to see the white man who can show so well earned a title to freedom as any such man who has reached our soil on his journey due north; as I have listened to the narratives of these men and women, and heard of their perils and achievements, I have said that heroism has fled from the white race, and lodged with them, as if to mock our vain-glorious pretensions of superiority. Everybody knows that there is more courage, tact, persistence and wisdom displayed by these heroes in flying from the shadow of the American flag than is shown by us in upholding its proud folds. Are we then sunk so low in New York that a courage almost miraculous, and heroism past imitation, shall not claim our protection? Must we say that as soon as an American becomes a martyr for liberty, we shall make him a slave? Must we sit in our rocking chairs in our warm houses, and must our legislators wrangle over trivial affairs in our Capitol, and shall our courts drone on the bench, while the soil of New York is tracked from Manhattan to Niagara with the blood of men flying towards liberty, and every month sees a score of fugitives skulking away from the capital of a Republic to claim the protection of a Queen?
Are we told there is no help for this-that we must see those whose bravery and sufferings, recounted by the historian and novelist, have set the world's heart beating with sympathy, hunted over our soil like stray cattle? Let us not confess to this degrading necessity till we have searched through every nook and corner in the great magazine of Constitutional Liberty to draw forth the instrument to abolish this scandal to the human race. Every step in the emancipation of man has been met by the plea: There is no law for it; you can't do it. But a way has been found out of every oppression in which man has groaned, and New York can find a way out of her present guilty complicity with this crime against human nature. Let the people command every Legislature to find such a way; sacrifice every public man that can't find such a way; proclaim that whoever would occupy a post of honor in this State shall find the way out of this conspiracy against these fugitive martyrs and heroes of the age; and, depend on it, our servants will find that way-find it as easily as they now grope in a legal labyrinth, unable to discern any precedent for protecting man, in his last extremity, against the worst oppression that now insults Christendom.
(To be concluded.)
Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.
THE SLAVE CASE AT HARRISBURG. Arrest of a Negro supposed to be a Fugitive Slave
from Virginia-Great Excitement in the State Capitol.
HARRISBURG, APRIL 2, 1859.
At an early hour this morning, Assistant United States Marshal Jenkins; of Philadelphia, aided by Officer Tuggart, attached to Recorder Evan's office, and James Stewart, a Police Officer, all of Philadelphia, arrested a black man, about 35 years of age, near the Market-House, on a charge of absconding from his master, a planter residing in the State of Virginia. He made a stout and vigorous resistance, and cried out lustily for help to save him, but no attempt was made to rescue him, notwithstanding there was a large crowd of people present attending market. The officers proved too much for him, and finally succeeded in putting the' nippers' upon his wrists. The officers instantly took their prisoner down to the railroad, and, it is said, got him into the Philadelphia railroad train, without molestation. There being no United States Commissioner here, and being fully equipped with the necessary official documents, to say nothing of the' six shooters,' the officers had no difficulty in securing their victim. Jenkins and the slave-owner had been here all the previous day on the look-out for Daniel Webster. Daniel has resided here several yean, and was well known to be a runaway slave. He has a wife and two or three children, one of whom was buried last Sunday. He was a peaceable, honest, and industrious laboring man, and had been in the service of Senator Rutherford four or five years. This event has created great excitement not only among the citizens of this borough, but also in the Legislature, as will be apparent from the subjoined statement of what took place in the House of Representatives this morning:
Mr. Irish, of Allegheny, having obtained leave to make a statement, said-When I came down to breakfast this morning, the first thing I heard was that a great outrage had been committed within a hundred yards of where I slept. That a man who had lived here for over seven years had been seized in the market-house.
while baying some fish for his family, by a party of armed ruffians, ironed and band-cuffed, and dragged through the principal streets of the city, in broad daylight, struggling with all the strength and energy of a desperate and outraged man, and crying for' HELP!''HELP!''HELP!' But there was no help. A thousand cowards stood by, and saw this thing perpetrated. Saw the victim's frantic wife, wailing and pleading, at the depot, to save her husband, and not a hand was lifted to save him.
Mr. Fleming of Clarion, inquired of the gentlemen had been there himself, whether he would have interfered or assisted to save him. Mr. Irish said-Whenever I shall fail under such circumstances to help the helpless, may I be desert
<c05>
ed should I ever be so unfortunate as to have occasion to call upon a fellow-man for help.
Several gentlemen inquired whether this discussion was in order.
The Speaker intimated that he thought the gentleman would be out of order in continuing his remarks further.
Mr. Irish then naked leave to make a statement for the purpose of bringing this matter to the notice of the House-if I am out of order in proceeding further with my remarks, I will move that the House suspend the rules, and proceed to the consideration of House bill No. 432, entitled' An act for the Better Security of Personal Liberty,' &c., and will only say, in conclusion, that if we bad been presented this morning with a petition signed by every man, woman and child in the Commonwealth, it could not appeal more loudly for us to act in this matter than the occurrences which have this very morning transpired almost within the shadow of the Capitol.
Mr. Kinney of Bradford rejoiced at having an opportunity of voting for the resolution, and denouncing the infamous and gross outrage that had been committed upon the dignity and against the peace of this Commonwealth, and that, too, under the very shadow of the windows of this Capitol.
Mr. Neal of Philadelphia doubted the truth of the story, and said he was not to be led away by such stuff as that. He was happy to place his vote on the record, and that in the negative. 
The question being here taken on the motion to suspend the rules, it was lost-the vote standing, Yeas 41. Nays 33; not two-thirds.
Mr. Rouse of Warren offered the following resolution, which was twice read, as follows, viz:
Whereas, Daniel Webster, a citizen of Harrisburg for the past seven years, a husband and a father, was this morning, in the broad light of day, in the presence of hundreds of the citizens of this borough, and with the aid and connivance of its officials, captured by a band of armed kidnappers, and taken away without any of the forms of trial by law, and without a hand or voice being raised in his behalf. Therefore, Resolved, That House bill No. 1,148, entitled' Resolutions relative to the removal of the seat of Government from Harrisburg,' be made the order for this morning.
Mr. Evans moved that the further consideration of the resolution be indefinitely postponed.
Mr. Thorn of Philadelphia remarked that although their feelings had been outraged by the statement of the arrest of the poor and wretched negro, he trusted there was more dignity and decorum among them than to permit themselves to be carried away by this story of the arrest of a negro, which might prove not to he true, or if true, under circumstances of a very different character from those alleged. He trusted the members of that House would deport themselves with propriety, coolness and dignity.
Mr. Rose of Mercer remarked that if they were the representatives of a sovereign people, they must see to the protection of the rights and liberties of the people, and especially those residing at the seat of the State Government. Therefore, in his opinion, they were bound to take notice of this outrage upon the feelings of the members of the Legislature, and of the citizens of Harrisburg.
The question on Mr. Rouse's preamble and resolution was taken, when they were negative.
The discussion was continued in a very violent and desultory manner-most of the Republicans participating in it, and some three or four Democrats. Finally, Mr. Byard offered a resolution, making the House bill for the better protection of personal liberty, &c., the special order for Wednesday evening next, and until disposed of. It was agreed to, and then the excitement cooled down, and the House adjourned shortly thereafter. QUI VIVE.
Proceedings in the Fugitive Slave Case.
Great Popular Excitement-Ladies in the Crowd-Lively Scenes about the United States Grand Jury Room-The Examination.
The alleged fugitive slave, Daniel Webster, an account of whose arrest at Harrisbnrg, on Saturday morning, and arrival in this city, appeared in the Bulletin of the same day, had a preliminary hearing before the United States Commissioner J. Cooke Longstreth, on Saturday afternoon. He was claimed as the property of Mrs. Simpson, of Athens Ville, Va. Benjamin H. Brewster, Esq., appeared us counsel for the claimant. George Earle and E. H. Hopper, Esqrs., appeared for the alleged fugitive. The gentlemen last named asked for a continuance of the case until this (Monday) morning, in order to obtain the attendance of other counsel and witnesses. Mr. Brewster objected to this course as being contrary to the provisions of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, which requires the rendition of a slave on the testimony of his claimants. After some discussion, the case was continued over until this morning, at 10 o'clock, and the prisoner was taken to Moyamensing.

THIS MORNING'S PROCEEDINGS.
This morning, at the time fixed for the hearing, the prisoner was taken to the office of the Commissioner, a very small apartment. The room was densely packed, and it was with the utmost difficulty that Daniel and the officers, with a bobtail of reporters, could work their way into the office. The crowd outside was very large, and the appearance of the prisoner caused a great commotion. One excited man called out,' Shame!' This remark gave rise to a small wrangle with a volunteer United States officer; but the latter was glad to get inside of the office, so decided was the anti-slavery sentiment outside. Among the crowd in the office was a number of ladies, among whom we saw the benevolent countenance of Mrs. Lucretia Mott. Some of the ladies were in tears.
It was soon discovered that it would be utterly impossible to proceed with the bearing at the office of the Commissioner, and the latter announced that the case, would be adjourned to the United States Grand Jury Room, at the corner of Fifth and Chestnut streets. This announcement was followed by a rush, and as the crowd poured down Chestnut and Sansom streets, and across the Square, the rumor got afloat that the prisoner had escaped.
EXCITING SCENES OUTSIDE THE GRAND JURY ROOM.
There was a regular popular tumult at the U. S. Court, Fifth street, below Chestnut, when it was understood that the case would be held there. The crowd which had surrounded Mr. Longstreth's office, at Seventh and Morris streets, rushed streets from Seventh to Sixth street, and then through the Square, to the U. S. Court building. In a moment, the passage-way leading to the Grand Jury Room in the basement, to the U. S, District Court, on the main floor, and to the U. S. Commissioner's office, just opposite, but also on the main floor, were crammed with an immense mass of people.
The reporters were in the van, but were not allowed to enter the Grand Jury room, which was kept closed until it could be cleared up. In the mean time, the crowd momentarily increased, and when the alleged slave was brought into the building, and hurried into the U. S. Commissioner's of-
<c06>
fice, there was every symptom of an attempt at ressue. 
The officers, however, were numerous and alert, though they manifested an unusual degree of roughness in keeping the crowd back. The crowd, however, took it tolerably easy, and scraps of conversation somewhat as follows were bandied about:
A tall Abolitionist-What's the matter?
Man with Red Beard-The Jury room is being cleaned out.
Another Man-It's too small.
Indignant Individual-Why don't they try the case in Independence Square?
More Indignant Voices-Let'em hold the trial in the Hull of Independence.
Police and Doorkeepers-Gentlemen, stand back! Are you a witness? What business have you here? &c. &c.
There were thirty or forty ladies, mostly dressed in' Friendly' garb, being hustled up and down the stairways, but bearing it with perfect good nature, and occasionally expressing their sympathy for the alleged slave.
Finally, however, by the influence, we think, of Mr. Brewster, (who had taken shelter from the fuss and turmoil of the Commissioner's office,) the ladies present and several reporters were admitted to the Commissioner's office. Here the poor fellow, who was the cause of the trouble, was sitting quite calmly in unarm-chair, showing but little distress, except through those eloquent interpreters, his eyes.
About half-past 10 o'clock, the negro was taken down stairs into the Grand Jury room, and the ladies attempted to follow. Here again the tumult was renewed, although the main door of the edifice was closed, and guarded by about thirty of the city police. The ladies were, however, admitted with great difficulty.
Mr. Brewster then had great trouble in forcing his way in. His clear voice was heard-
'Gentlemen, I must pass in here to do my duty. This is an administration of justice.'
Indignant Voice-There's no justice about the business.
At last, however, Mr. Brewster got in, and the passage was closed by the police.

THE SCENE IN FIFTH STREET.
Outside the edifice, hundreds of people lined the side-walks, looking with intense interest at the blank doors and windows of the building, after the fashion of most in general.
The weather being intensely hot, the windows of the Grand Jury room (which open on a level with the pavement) were opened wide, and guarded by a number of the city police. From the pavement the proceedings could be seen and heard.
At the time the trouble became serious, the sixteen lieutenants of police were making their morning returns to his Honor Mayor Henry. They were
all instantly called down to the Mayor's office, and put on duty until a detachment of Lieut. Godey's men could be summoned to take their places.

THE EXAMINATION.
Some delay was caused by the necessity that existed for clearing out the Grand Jury room, and by the confusion incident to the crowd. When the doors were finally opened for the admission of the prisoner, the rush was frightful. Mrs. Mott took her seat beside the prisoner. The latter was represented by Edward H. Hopper, Wm. S. Pierce, and George H. Earle; and Benjamin H. Brewster, Esq., appeared on behalf of the claimant. The last named gentleman, before getting into the room, put his head to a fractured pane of glass, and announced that he would not come in through such a crowd; but he insisted that the Marshal should bring a force, in order that justice might be administered properly. This speech was followed by an effort to clear the passage, but the crowd was too dense to be easily moved.
Finally, Marshal Yost appeared at the fractured glass, and announced that the room would be cleared of all persons who had no business in it.
Mr. Pierce objected to this course, and while a number of policemen were endeavoring to clear the room, the Commissioner stated his willingness to allow all to remain who could be accommodated after the parties interested were provided with places. Very little progress was made in clearing the room, although U. S. District Attorney Vandyke insisted that the room should by cleared. Mr. Brewster then entered the apartment, and the examination commenced.
Mr. Earle stated that there was a number of witnesses outside who could not be got in. He desired that some place should be obtained where accommodation of a decent character could be procured. Mr. E. did not want to see the infamous star-chamber practice of excluding the public introduced. Mr. E. objected to the presence of the city police to prevent the admission of parties. The right to do this would be inquired into hereafter. The gentlemen employed to report the case could not be accommodated. Mr. E. protested that justice could not be administered. He objected to going on in such a place.
The Commissioner said that all the Courts of justice were liable to the objections named. Every facility should be afforded for getting witnesses into the room.
The counsel for the defense asked to examine the record upon which the warrant was issued, and insisted upon their right to inspect it.
The Commissioner said he had no record in his possession.
Mr. Brewster said the warrant had been issued under the authority of the act of 1850. He appeared on behalf of Elizabeth Simpson; of London county, Va., who claims that Daniel Daingerfield, a slave, had escaped into Pennsylvania. That complaint having been made to the Commissioner, the warrant was issued, and the fugitive was arrested. Mr. B. read the act of 1850, which provides that the owner, or attorney of the latter, may pursue and take the fugitive, take him before a Judge or Commissioner, who shall dispose of the case in a summary manner. Mr. Brewster read the power of attorney which authorizes Sanford P. Rogers to pursue the fugitive.
Mr. Brewster also offered in evidence the will of French Simpson, the husband of Mrs. S., the claimant.
Mr. Earle objected that it (the will) was not the whole record. He also contended that letters ancillary should have been taken out in this State to make the paper admissible. The will must be clearly proved, and the death of the testator must also be clearly proved to establish the right of Mrs. Simpson to make a power of attorney.
This Commissioner and Mr. Brewster agreed that objections to any of the papers would be admissible in any stage of the proceedings.
Mr. Earle asked the Commissioner to note that there are other papers of record which should be presented, which are referred to in the transcript of the will, but which are not presented. The letters of administration are wanting. There are also erasures in the document of which no note is made.
Mr. Hopper also reminded the Commissioner that unless there was evidence that the estate of Mrs. Simpson was duly administered, the will could not
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union, can be a compensation, for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
be given in evidence. There may be debts for which this Daniel Dangerfield. whoever be is, may be liable. There must be evidence that the estate was properly administered, and the debts of the deceased paid. 
Mr. Earle read from the 16th S. and R., 98, to show that a portion of a record could not be read, even on an application to discharge on bail, much let! in a case of the importance of the present one.
Mr. Pierce read an authority to show that letters testamentary shall not be grantable oat of the county in which the deceased resided. Counsel asked that the objections made should be noted. They made them at the outset of the case in order to prevent misunderstanding, and to avoid the danger of their being stopped at a later stage of the proceedings.
Mr. Hopper objected that there was no seal in the record itself, as was indispensably necessary to its validity. This objection was admitted by the Commissioner.
Mr. Earle read an authority to show that the whole record should be produced. 
Mr. Brewster said that he did not deem the will absolutely necessary in his case. All that has been said thus far was irrelevant to the purposes of the prosecution. The act of Congress overrides any legal statute. Mr. B. contended that a sufficient portion of the records had been produced, and that they were sufficiently indicated under the act of Congress of 1790. As such, he offered it.
Mr. Peirce contended that the paper put in evidence was not in accordance with the act of 1790. All that was presented was a ' transcript from the records of the Court.' The act requires a proper certified copy of the records, and not a mere transcript from the record. How much of the record is this? Is it a half, a fourth, or a fifth? How much and what portion of the record is it? Mr. Peirce asked the Commissioner to sieze hold of this opportunity to deliver the oppressed from the fangs of the oppressor. This is not a favored claim under the law, and let him abide by its letter.
The Commissioner considered the fact, that the paper was not a full record, was fatal to its admission, and it was therefore excluded.
This admission caused a demonstration of applause, which was promptly checked.
Mr. Brewster read the 10th section of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, and under its provisions he offered a record of the court of Virginia to prove the escape of a certain slave.
Mr. Hopper objected to this document; it only purported to be a transcript from the records, and not a full copy of the record. The seal is to the Judge's name, and not to the record itself. The same objections apply to this paper as to the copy of the will.
Mr. Brewster dwelt upon the 10th section of the Fugitive Slave Act, which he contended made the record admissable. He urged that the paper was sufficiently full, and that it is properly authenticated.
Mr. Earle referred to the importance of the case. He had known Mr. Brewster heretofore as full of the emotions of humanity and manliness, and he knew there was a conflict going on in his breast.
Mr. Brewster objected to the remarks of Mr. E. There was no conflict in his breast; be wanted no sympathy and no applause. He was there to do his professional duty, and he desired to do it in a professional way. He wanted no personal reflections.
Mr. Earle then urged that the evidence of Mrs. Simpson tended to swear money into her pocket, or the man into the rice swamps of Mississippi. Her evidence should be strictly scrutinized, and, if illegal, should be discarded. Mrs. Simpson was not here to be cross-examined; but there were two or three men here who properly look like drivers. There was one with a Legree countenance, who had boon here, but be was glad he was not here now to blast his sight.
One of the agents of the claimant took offence at this remark, and said something, in an excited manner, we could not understand. The Commissioner hoped the case would be conducted without personalities, or the display of angry feeling.
Mr. Earle eloquently maintained his position, and was greeted with a round of applause, which was checked by some of the city police, who acted as tipstaves in the court-room.
Mr. Earle then proceeded, with much warmth and eloquence, to maintain that the documents presented were not legal, and the preliminary steps were all based upon insufficient grounds. Mr. Earle argued very closely to sustain this assertion, and he maintained that the papers were imperfect and insufficient.
During the progress of the argument, Messrs. Earle and Brewster again had a personal discussion upon the position of the latter in the case. Mr. Brewster, with considerable warmth, protested against any personal allusions, and stated he was in court as counsel for a citizen of the United States, and, so help him God, he would do bib whole duty as a lawyer.
The Commissioner urgently requested both gentlemen to avoid personalities, and to discuss the matter with sole reference to its merits.
Mr. Earle then continued to discuss the insufficiency of the papers, and with much warmth and eloquence maintained that they were not formal and authentic.
The Commissioner said he would require time to consider the point raised, and for that purpose he would adjourn the case until half-past 3 o'clock this afternoon.
A general scramble among the spectators to get out of the room followed this announcement, and as much eagerness was evinced to get out of the sweltering atmosphere of the room as had before been exhibited to gain admission to the apartment. The crowd from inside the building passed away through double lines of policemen, of whom a great number had been telegraphed for. On the steps of the Philadelphia Library building, and wherever else a good look-out could be obtained, crowds were clustered. The excitement exceeds that attending any fugitive slave case we ever recollect in Philadelphia.
Among the spectators present were Mrs. Mott, Mrs. Wright, wife of David Wright, Esq., of Auburn, N. Y.; Mrs. Longstreth, aunt of the Commissioner, and other ladies belonging to the family of the latter; Mrs. McKim, Miss Davis, granddaughter of Mrs. Mott; Miss Anna Hallowell, Mrs. Geo. H. Earle, Rev. Mr. Grew, Dr. Furness, Mrs. Nathaniel Randolph, Miss Peabody. sister-in-law to Horace Mann; Miller McKim, &c &c.
Passmore Williamson, Robert Purvis, and other well known anti-slavery people, were outside.- Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, April 4.
PHILADELPHIA, Wednesday, April 6, 1859. The evidence to show that the alleged fugitive slave, Daniel Webster, confessed to the officers who conveyed him to the city, and others, that this was his first visit to Philadelphia, was admitted after a long argument by counsel. This testimony completely overthrew the most important evidence of the defence. At midnight the evidence closed, and counsel summed up the case, occupying six hours, The Commissioner reserved his decision until this afternoon.
The Court House was crowded this afternoon to hear the decision of Commissioner Longstreth on the Fugitive Slave case. Crowds of whites and blacks were also gathered outside.
The Commissioner said his duty as an officer was a plain and simple one, laid down by law. He discountenanced all attempts of Counsel to appeal to private sympathies. At an early stage of the case, he was satisfied that it was intended more as a shew case, but he believed in the largest liberty of speech. After explaining his connection with the case before the arrest of the Fugitive, which was merely in accordance with law, he said there were three things to be proven by the claimant, to wit, debt of labor, the escape of the Slave and his identity. He reviewed the testimony on both sides, and believed that the two first points were satisfactorily proven. He disagreed with the counsel of the claimant on the matter of the time of the escape. It was material in the case, and is evidence, that the claimant says that the escape was made in November, 1854, while it was proven that Daniel was in Harrisburg at least in the Winter of 1853 or the Spring of 1854. The power of attorney was also defective. In the point of the height of the negro, there was a difference of three inches. He confessed he was not satisfied with the identity. The prisoner was discharged. The decision was greeted with immense <illegible> It was somewhat unexpected from the tenor of the opening remarks of the Commissioner. Daniel was carried on the shoulders of his friends through the streets and a large crowd. Intense excitement <illegible>in the city. Abolitionists propose a public <illegible>
<c02>
The Philadelphia North American, announcing the liberation of the kidnapped man, says:-
The last sellable of the decision of the Commissioner had not fairly left his lips, when a burst of applause was raised throughout the entire court room. The officers, of course, attempted to suppress it, but they might as well hare attempted to ' sup- press' the Rocky Mountains. Up went the cheers, round after round, female treble mingling with the bass of the male voice, rendering the Marshal's otherwise stentorian tones as inaudible as would have been the rustling of a lady's handkerchief.
In an instant the tidings were communicated to the multitude in the street, and the welkin rung and rung again from the thousands who blockaded the street. The cheering outside was so great that proceedings inside could not have been beard. The shouts and hurrahs were long continued. They lasted until Daniel-now a freeman-was brought down into the street by his counsel-until he was taken upon the shoulders of a colossal colored man, and borne up Fifth Street, out of sight, towards a place of hospitality prepared for him.
Before he left the court room, nearly every one in it personally congratulated him upon his freedom. Subsequently a carriage was procured, and being manned by two long lines of colored people, with ropes attached, Daniel was drawn through the streets in triumph.

THE PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL.
All the pro-slavery conservatives and some very politic Republicans were much opposed to the personal liberty bill; the former because they have devoted themselves to the guardianship of slavery, and the latter because they thought it would ' hurt the party.' You cannot reason with pro-slavery conservatives; they understand cursing better than reasoning, and call you hard names when you ask for arguments. 'Ephraim is joined to his idols; let him alone.' Time which overcometh all things will re- move the defences of slavery, break the stubborn neck of this ugly conservatism, and sweep away all the respectable supporters of kidnapping and human chattelism. The Future will be better than the past; and in the clear brightness and higher humanity of the future, slavery will be thought of only as a lost barbarism, which, while it lasted, and especially when fighting its last battle for existence, gave rise to some very monstrous fashions of human nature and developments of the human intellect. All the relics of it will be studied, then, as we study the fossil remains of antediluvian monsters; and the carefully preserved remains of these pro-slavery conservatives, who defend slavery with such eminent gravity and invincible dullness, will be the topic of many a lesson and lecture.
That any Republican should oppose the personal liberty bill, especially that form of it proposed by Mr. Griffin, is to be regretted; and it is still more to be regretted that any Republican should be so weak and cowardly as to suppose the party can be 'hurt' by manly and downright opposition to the slave-power. Nothing can hurt us so much as cowardly cringing before that black and arrogant institution, and skulking from the position of manly action against it under all circumstances. Even the slaveholder, who is also a man with a man's estimate of character, cannot fail to despise the Billy poltroon who gets upon his knees, eats his own principles, and humbly begs his pardon. Slavery never begs pardon, never cringes or skulks; never appears to be ashamed of itself; never allows its throat to be cut by any fear of hurting its party. It always declares itself without fear or favor, and steers right onward to its aim, defying right, law, constitution, and whatever else may stand in its way. Its audacity is matchless, and almost magnificent; and therefore it rules the country, revives the slave-trade, and teaches that nothing is so patriotic as kidnapping.
And there are divers leading men and following men in the Republican party, who allow themselves to believe that this lordly and most audacious power can be overcome by cringing to its ruffianism, and by being ashamed and afraid of sincere and consistent opposition to its outrages. They say it will not do to be so sternly in earnest against it; they insist that we must be very soft and civil when it curses and gnashes its teeth-that we must do nothing to make it howl and foam at the mouth-that to soothe its rage and win it to something of the mood of jollity, we must from time to time be very severe against all the anti-slavery radicals; and the assurance is, that if we are very careful in all these particulars, the Republican party will become very strong, and carry the next Presidential election.
It seems to us very important that all should understand clearly that the success of the Republican party, without a success of Republican principles, is nowise desirable. On the contrary, it would be a calamity; for it would debauch and destroy the organization, and fling away both the means and the hope of such a triumph as we ought to seek. If the slave power must continue to rule the general government, and deal with us as our rightful lord and master, let it do so by means of the instruments it has already subdued and fashioned to its purpose. Let the waste of manhood be as small as possible, The old instruments will serve well enough, until the people are ready to overthrow that lower, and transfer the government to hands that will make it truly free; and, meanwhile, instead of being industrious to show what will ' hurt the party,' let us all seek to heighten its moral power and advance its professed aims.
The people of Massachusetts do not believe in that impudent, arrogant, unconstitutional rascality, the Fugitive Slave Act; they never will believe in it; and the action of the Legislature on the personal liberty bill does not represent the popular thought and feeling. Our people do not mean to tolerate man-hunting; it cannot become an established custom here. One or two more Burns cases would transform most of the conservatives of Boston into radical anti-slavery men. "With all their conservat-1 ism, they do not mean to be slave-hunters and kidnappers; and it dues not please them to see Boston put in a state of siege in order that one poor fellow may be caught and carried off by slavery, and that, too, not so much to recover a slave as to insult Massachusetts. None of us mean to reverence and glorify the Fugitive Slave Act. We despise it, scorn it, spurn it. And if we would have the respect, even of the loudest supporters of slavery, let us truly respect ourselves, and be manly enough to say precisely what we mean, and maintain it consistently on all occasions.- Worcester Spy.

THE FREEDOM BILL.
"We find it difficult to understand why a Republican Legislature of Massachusetts repudiated a bill to make its soil forever sacred to the liberty of man, and to prevent the kidnapper from dragging back into slavery any one who, having the soul to dare and the energy to accomplish an escape from bondage, hoped to find protection, repose and liberty on her soil. The Representatives who rejected this bill know well that the people of Massachusetts do not believe in any obligation, moral or legal, to obey the unconstitutional enactment known as the Fugitive Slave Law. They know that almost to a man the people despise, repudiate and defy that monstrous stain upon the statute book, and have asked in large numbers for the passage of a law securing freedom to every man within our borders. They have before them the examples of Vermont, which has already passed such a law, of New York, which will undoubtedly do so, and of the Supreme Court and Legislature of Wisconsin, which both defy the usurped jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States. Each of these States stands firm upon its rights as an Independent community. It is not for Massachusetts to go backward. Our representative were not sent to Boston to dilly dally with the subject of slavery, nor to give forth uncertain sounds, and pretend that they express the sentiments of the people of Massachusetts. They were not sent to weaken the tone of the sincere Republicans of Massachusetts, in order to gratify the ambition of an individual.
The influences which brought about this result are well enough known, but it is not necessary to allude to them particularly at present. We remember that the people asked for the removal of Judge Loring time and again, and that they finally obtained what they asked for. We remember, too, the effect of hostility to that measure upon some who opposed it.
We shall yet have a freedom law in Massachusetts. It may be delayed one session of the Legislature, or two, or three, out it is sure to come at last. There is no retreating in the anti-slavery sentiment of the people of Massachusetts. We honor the men who oppose us in an open and manly manner, bat we cannot say so much for those who pursue & more Insidious coarse. Upon them the stone of anti-slavery shall fall, and shall grind them to powder.-New
Bedford Republican Standard.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEOLDERS.
BOSTON. APRIL 15, 1859.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society will be held in the city of New York, in the City Assembly Rooms, Broadway, on Tuesday, May 10th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.; and continued, by adjournment, at the same place, on Tuesday evening, and Wednesday forenoon and afternoon. 
The sublime and beneficent object for which this Society was organized yet remains to be fully con-summated. No matter how numerous the difficulties, how formidable the obstacles, how many the foes to be vanquished-slavery must cease to pollute and I curse the land. No matter, whether that event be near or remote, whether the taskmaster willingly or unwillingly relinquish his arbitrary power, whether by a peaceful or a bloody process-slavery must die. No matter, though, to effect it, every party should be torn by dissensions, every sect dashed into fragments, the national compact dissolved-still, slavery must be abolished. If the State cannot survive the Anti-Slavery agitation, then let the State perish. If the Church must be cast down by the strugglings of Humanity to be free, then let the Church fall. If the Union cannot be maintained, except by immolating human freedom on the altar of a bloody tyranny, then let the Union be dissolved. If the Republic must be blotted out from the roll of nations, by proclaiming liberty to the enslaved, then let the Republic sink beneath the waves of oblivion, and a shout of joy, louder than the voice of many waters, fill the universe at its extinction. Against this declaration, none but traitors and tyrants will raise an outcry. It is the mandate of Heaven, and the voice of God. It has righteousness for its foundation, reason for its authority, and truth for its support. It is simply asserting the supremacy of right over wrong, of liberty over oppression, of God over man.
There must be no compromise with slavery-none whatever. Nothing is gained, every thing is lost, by subordinating principle to expediency. The spirit of freedom must be inexorable in its demand for the instant release of all who are groaning in bondage, nor abate one jot or tittle of its righteous claims. By one remorseless grasp, the rights of humanity have been taken away; and by one strong blow, the iron hand of usurpation must be made to relinquish its murderous hold. The Slave Power cannot be conquered by compromise, stratagem, or bribery. Its dying throes will convulse the land. The conflict admits of no parley. No flag of truce must be sent or received; no quarter must be given or taken.
Animated by these sentiments, let there come up to this anniversary a large and spirited gathering of the members and friends of this Society, resolved upon a fresh consecration, and still more effective efforts to accomplish their mighty undertaking.
A strong array of able and eloquent speakers may be expected on the occasion. [Particulars hereafter.] In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
Sydney H. Gay, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.

PROPOSED COMBINATION OF IMMEDIATEISM WITH GRADTUALISM.
The Secretaries of the (National) American Tract Society in New York, and of its Auxiliary of the same name in Boston, arc publishing rival manifestoes, and diligently pushing the manufacture of branch societies, with the hope each of rivalling the other in the number of its adherents at the coming anniversary meetings in May. These Societies have been precisely alike in spirit and character through the greater part of their course. Within the past few years, however, a division of sentiment, feeling and desire has occurred in each of them, in regard to slavery, a minority of the members of each seeing reason to wish, and to propose, that their Society should change its accustomed policy so far as to seem to oppose slavery. This question was brought to a distinct issue in the National Society at New York, at its annual meeting in 1857, when the movement party was seen to be but a small minority of the Society, and promptly voted down. A considerable number of the defeated party (without relinquishing their life-membership in the National Society) then proceeded to ally themselves to the corresponding party in the Auxiliary Society at Boston, whose numbers were thus swelled to a majority in the annual meeting of 1858. The movement party in the Boston Society, having gained an unquestionable majority, though not a very large one, carried matters exactly as they pleased; and the things they pleased to do were the following:-
1st. To turn out the Secretary of the Society; the man who had been most active in upholding its original policy of letting slavery alone, in appearance as well as in reality; retaining all the others who had united with him in that policy.
2d. To adopt as their new rule in regard to slavery the very same rule which had been adopted by the New York Society, (prepared by a Special Committee of Fifteen,) and under which, authorized by one of its two sets of antagonistic phrases, that Society pursued its accustomed policy of refusing to publish tracts on slavery.
3d. To explain their theory of the requisitions of this rule (which, being self-contradictory, and being interpreted and acted on at New York in a way exactly opposite to their wishes, decidedly needed explanation) as follows: 1. That under it they would fraternally discuss those moral evils which slavery is known to promote. 2. That they would not be an Anti-Slavery Society.
4th. Formally to decline separation from their principal, the National Society at New York, and with equal formality to disclaim alienation of feeling from it, and express the purpose to avoid all rival movements.
5th. To continue, as heretofore, to circulate the tracts and newspapers prepared by the National Society, for the main part of their operations, only declaring their right to add to these such others as they might deem desirable, both on slavery and other subjects.
6th. To print but few things in regard to slavery, and to make those few adverse to immediate abolition.
7th. To say less and less, as time advanced, about the original source of complaint against the New York Society, (its pro-slavery position,) and to dwell more and more upon a certain financial consideration as having mainly moved them, namely, an alleged economy in hiring tracts printed, instead of printing them.
8th. To cause their new Secretary to hold meetings and take collections in the principal towns and cities where other auxiliaries of the National Society existed, about a week or ten days before the customary time for the annual meetings of those other auxiliaries, thus ingeniously intercepting some of the funds that would otherwise have gone directly to New York, and been reckoned to its credit it.
These last movements, if founded on the Golden Rule at all, seem to adopt Mr. Jones Chuzzlewit's version of it, namely, 'Do others, for others would do you!' How they are compatible with the pledge of the Boston Society to its principal at New York, to avoid all 'rival movements,' it is difficult to say, unless, indeed, these two parties honestly differ in their understanding of the import of the term 'rival movements, as much as in their interpretation of the intent and meaning of the Report of the 'Special Committee of Fifteen,' which both <illegible.>
<c04>
their rule of action, only interpreting it to authorize action in two opposite directions.
Such is the relation of the Tract Society at Boston to its principal at New York, and such are the relations of both these to slavery; the former choosing to seem to oppose slavery, the latter preferring entirely to ignore that subject.
A new Society has just been- formed at Worcester, under the title of the 'Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States.' This association, both by name and proposed action, declares itself thoroughly anti- slavery; on the other hand, it votes, in relation to the publication of tracts, to confer with the Boston Tract Society, which as distinctly declares itself not to be anti-slavery. We wait, therefore, with intense interest, to see what such a partnership will bring forth; to see whether the Boston Society will draw the Worcester one into mere seeming, or the Worcester draw the Boston into practical energy; to see whether both will join in the disclaimer, or both in the hearty adoption, of anti-slavery.
To show some of the difficulties to be overcome in any cooperation of these two Societies, and the real interest of such & case to the student of human nature, we shall present a bird's-eye view of the present position of both, giving, in parallel columns, the most characteristic utterances of each, on the subject of slavery, up to this lime.
Church Anti-Slavery Society (at Worcester.)
PREAMBLE. 
'Under profound convictions of the inherent sinfulness of slaveholding,
we solemnly pledge ourselves to do all that we can for the utter destruction of that atrocious system of chattel slavery which is maintained in United States'.
American Tract Society (at Boston.)
Address of Exec. Com., July, 1858. 
'We are not an Anti-Slavery Society.' p. 3.
Statement of Israel P. Warren, Secretary for New York, in the Independent. March 31, 1859: 'IV Purposes and Plans. 2. Not to be an abolition society.'
CONSTITUTION, Art. 3.
'The duties of the officers and committee shall be to induce action by the churches with reference to slavery, and to inculcate the duties of civil government, of civil rulers, and of citizens, in respect to its overthrow."
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES, Art. 8.
'The church and the ministry to form the conscience of the nation in respect to slavery, and to make it loyal to the Higher Law, against all unjust judgments of Courts and unrighteous legislation of Congress.'
ANNUAL REPORT for 1858, p. 4.
Resolved, That the political aspects of Slavery lie entirely without the sphere of this Society, and cannot be discussed in its publications.'
The same statement appears also in the 'Address' above cited, p. 2; and in a Circular letter of the new Boston Secretary, dated 'Tract House, 28 Cornhill, Boston, February, 1859,' and also in the 'Statement' in the Independent, above cited.
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
'2. Property in man impossible, as being without grant from the Creator and equally contrary to natural justice and to revealed religion.
'3. The system of American slavery and the practice of slaveholding essentially sinful and anti-Christian, and to be dealt with, therefore, as such, by Christian churches and ministers.
'4. The utter inadequacy and impossibility of any remedy or relief from slavery but one that insists upon its inherent wrongfulness, its total intrinsic baseness.
'6. No compromise with slavery allowable, but its total extinction to be demanded at once, in the name of God.
'9. The Word of God our charter to freedom and our armory against slavery, and any assertion that the Lord God sanctions slavery practical infidelity.'
'DUTY OF MASTERS: a Sermon by Rev. John C. Young, of Danville, Ky.;' being the second publication of the Boston Society in regard to slavery, issued in February, 1849. This sermon describes itself as addressing 'the master who holds the servant in involuntary bondage,' and as referring to, the servant who 'lacks that greatest natural stimulus to exertion, the knowledge that he will himself enjoy the fruit of his labors.'
'The moralist and the Christian defend the practice of holding human beings in bondage only on the ground that they are incompetent to govern themselves.' p. 14.
This sermon further speaks of the master as-
'The master who owns slaves': p. 9: it says of these slaves-
'They are God's unfortunate children, whom He has placed under our special care': p. 29: and it says to slaveholders-
'You are God's trustees, to whom, in His providence. He commits these souls, for their temporal and eternal good.' p. 42.
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES
'6. No compromise with slavery allowable, but its total extinction to be demanded at once, in the name of God, who has commanded to loose the bands of wickedness to undo the heavy burdens and to let the oppressed go fee, and that ye break every yoke.'
'5. The duty of one family or section of the Christian Church to rebuke and refuse fellow-ship to another section of the visible Church that denies the rights of man and the common brother-hood of humanity by defending slavery, and folding to its bosom slave-sellers, slave-buyers and slave-holders,
SLAVERY AND THE BIBLE: BY Rev. Enoch Pond, D.D.: being the third and last publication of the Boston Society in regard to slavery.
By one class, the Bible is appealed to in justification of slavery; by another, in condemnation of it; and the question seems yet unsettled, what ground the inspired writers designed to take on the subject. P.1.
The writers of our sacred books, and more especially of the New Testament, do not often refer to slavery; but when they do, they always speak calmly and considerately; note in a way to give needless offence, but rather to insure confidence and respect. P. 2.
We find the inspired writers suffering the existence of slavery; yet, while suffering, regulating and restraining it: checking it in its onward course of usurpation, and softening its harsher features; p.4.
The manner in which the inspired writers aimed at the ultimate extinction of slavery was very like that in which they sought to accomplish other great and needed changes. Not suddenly, and by positive enactment; but gradually, by apostolic example and influence; and by the evolving genius of the Christian faith; so that little violence was done to existing prejudices were not, rudely broken up.; p.6.
The tracts upon which two societies such as these can agree will be curiosities indeed. The only practical question in relation to these two is-Will the Worcester Society now, in deference to the Boston Society, shrink from the fulfilment of its pledges, and wrap up in a napkin its principles of immediateism, and of the duty of open rebuke to apostate churches?-C.K.W.

CORRECTION.
Having learned from Rev. George B. Cheever, that he never held and never uttered the sentiment which I attributed to him in the Liberator at the 1st inst., namely-that the voting that all children of slaves should be born free after forty years would be the simplest remedy of the whole iniquity that could be conceived of-I have no doubt that I misunderstood his language at the public meeting in question, and did him injustice, to that extent, in my report of it. I therefore willingly retract the statement that he used such an expression, and hope that all who saw the erroneous charge will see this correction.-C. K. W.
The Personal liberty Bill has been lost in the -New York Assembly by a very close, vote-no doubt in consequence of the cowardly action of the Massachusetts Legislature. Bead the eloquent and stirring appeal of Rev. D. A. Mayo, of Albany, on this subject on our first page.
<c05>
LETTER TOOK GEOBGE THOHPSOK. ESQ.
The following letter from Mr. THOMPSON. Giving assurance of his steady progress toward complete recovery from his long protracted and most dangerous illness, will be reed with the highest gratification by his numerous. friend, on this ride of the Atlantic.
1 Fentiman Bed, South Lambeth London, March 24, 1859. 
Mr. DEAR GARRISON-Your letter, dated the 9th inst reached me on the 21st. It. contents awakened in my mind sentiments of the deepest gratitude towards yourself and your beloved coadjutors in the Anti-Slavery cause.
My much loved and venerable mother ended her days, on earth, on the 2d of January of the present year. Her end was peace. She had long had her conversation in heaven, and long to be unclothed,' and clothed upon' with immortality. Down to the moment when, like an infant sinking into a deep sleep, her spirit escaped with an almost imperceptible sigh, her mind was clear, her memory unimpaired, her discourse characterized by the animation and fluency which always distinguished her; and her thoughts as far as they related to the affairs of earth, were absorbed by the tendered regard for the happiness of those she was about to leave. Among the last words she was able to articulate were,
Jesus, lover of my soul, let me to thy bosom fly;
and the words of Pope in the Dying Christian to his Soul,'
Cease, fond nature, cease thy strife,
And let me languish into life.'
What was mortal of my mother rests in the same cemetery where lies my son, named after you: and my sweet daughter, whom you so much admired, (named after Elizabeth Pease) when you were with us in Whitehead's Grove, Chelsea
I have much improved since I saw Mr. May. The use of my hands is gradually returning. I can much better sustain any mental effort. The excessive nervous irritability, with which I was for a long time. I afflicted, has greatly subsided. A fortnight ago, I went into the Tower Hamlets to a great meeting on the Reform question, and was able to speak for about: half an hour, without damage to my health. I expect to repeat the experiment before long in the North J of England, and should I find my strength equal to the task, I shall take a part in the Reform movement until the question is settled.
This letter will. I expect, be closed before the great debate on the new Reform Bill, now going on in the House of Commons, is concluded; but the papers of Saturday, the 26th, may bring you the decision of the House upon the motion for the second reading. As the question stands, Lord' John Russell has a resolution, in the shape of an amendment, calling upon the House to recognize two principles-one in reference to the votes of freeholders, in Counties; and the other, in favor of the lowering of the electoral qualification in Boroughs, with a view to the extension of the franchise:-which principles are at variance with J those upon which the government measure is founded. I should this resolution be affirmed, it not necessarily follows that ministers should abandon their bill. The House might still proceed to read the bill a second time, and it might be reconstructed in Committee of the Whole; in conformity with the previous resolution, Lord Stanley, however, speaking doubtless the mind I of the united Cabinet, has declared that, if the amendment be carried, ministers will regard the decision as a defeat of their measure, and will proceed with it no further. What positive course the government may take, in the event of such a defeat, it is impossible to say. They may, as a Cabinet, lay the Reform question on the shelf, and proceed to other business, leaving it to Lord John Russell, or John Bright, or both, in conjunction, to bring forward a Reform Bill of their; own; (each has a bill already prepared;) or, they may dissolve Parliament, and take the chances of a general election, promising to introduce, in a new Parliament, another and improved bill; or, (and this last is the! moat probable result,) they may tender their resignations to the Queen, and Lord Derby may advise Her Majesty to send for Lord John Russell, in which case it is possible an agreement might be come to between Lord John Russell and Mr. Bright to amalgamate their bills, and introduce such a measure as would unite in its support all the liberal elements in the House; and such a measure as, if defeated in the Lords, would recommend itself to general acceptation throughout the country, and in the event of a dissolution, lead to the sending to a new Parliament, of such a majority of pledged reformers as would compel the Peers to swallow the second Reform Bill as they did the first.
A few months will solve all these problems. Meanwhile, the country is profoundly quiet. There is little enthusiasm, and would be less, were it not that a few men have exerted themselves to produce a partial demonstration in favor of a revision of the measure of 1832. I do not believe there are forty men in the' I House of Commons who care anything about the question, save for party purposes. The thing, however, has become a necessity, and roust be settled one'
The leading speakers in the debate now progressing! have been Lord John Russell in opposition to the Bill; Lord Stanley (the son of the Premier) in its defence; Mr. Sidney Herbert, a liberal conservative of the Peel! school; Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton, Colonial Secretary; and Sir Hugh Cavins, Solicitor General. The debate is proceeding while I write. The greatest speeches are to come. They will be those of Mr. Bright, Mr. Gladstone, Lord Palmerston, and Mr. Disraeli.
It is indeed a subject for deep regret that, at this advanced period, such active- exertions should be j making for the revival, in various quarters, and under various names, of the accursed Slave Trade. We have I our immigration scheme; France has hers; and the slaveholders of your country are greedy, even to madness, for new acquisitions of territory, both insular and continental, with a view to the indefinite extension! and perpetual maintenance of slavery; and with it, j the carrying on of a foreign slave trade, commensurate with the demand for agricultural labor.
The necessity for anti-slavery effort, instead of diminishing, increases daily. Nothing but the abolition of your Domestic Institution' can arrest the march of wicked men in their progress towards the subjugation to slavery of countless millions of the human race, yet unborn. Your system of slavery is the key-stone of the arch of oppression which spans the Western hemisphere. Dislodge that, and the en tire fabric falls; support it, and woo to the human race! Never, at any time, has the cause in which you have ten thirty years battling presented an aspect of greater magnitude, or more solemn importance, or such urgent necessity a now. May God support you in it, and grant you the glorious privilege to see it triumph before you exchange labor on earth for rest in heaven!
I was glad to see that your late Congress refused to grant to Mr. Buchanan the thirty millions which he asked, to enable him to negotiate the acquisition of Cuba. The next Congress, I trust, will do better still.
I am anxious to learn the nature of the Report of the Committee of your Massachusetts Legislature on the subject of the rights of fugitive slaves coming, of their own will, or otherwise brought, into the Old Bay State. I read your speech before The Committee, and that of Mr. Sewall. From the tenor of both, I anticipate that the report will be what you wish. If it is, I hope the Legislature will adopt it, and Massachusetts be, for evermore, the impregnable asylum of the hunted slave.
I shall give Miss Remond a warm greeting, and the offer of a home, when she visits London. Rev. S. J. May and his ton are, I suppose, enjoying themselves under the blue skies of Italy.
Yours ever devotedly
GEORGE THOMPSON.
<c06>
BEFUBLICAN VICTORY IN ST. LOUIS!
Sr. Louis, April 5, 1859.
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
The city election yesterday resulted more favorably to the emancipation party than even its friends predicted. The wisest of them had fearful misgivings of the result; they could not forget the last August election. They met every day noisy but efficient men, who were declaring that though they voted for Filley and the emancipation candidates last year, they were profanely sorry they, had done so and this year they would vote the slave ticket. They the know-nothing candidate, who is a great friend of schools, would take off many votes. The whole Catholic vote of the city would naturally go for Bogy. You may safely count on nine-tenths of the Irish Catholics in favor of any villany that involves tyranny in its exercise; for, as a class, with honorable exceptions, they have no peers in whisky drinking fighting, lying, small stealing, and true national democracy. These powers, if not acting in concert, were yet all to he encountered, and who could predict the results On the other hand, we have in our city, among our best and most enlightened citizens, many who hail from Ireland; but these are mostly Protestants. Then we have a large German population. A heavy fraction of these are Catholics, and their morals are taught in the same school with the Irish. They are of course, National Democrats, and in favor of tyranny, box by far the greater part of our German population, including their learned and I confess with shame that they are a more honest and reliable class than our native citizens. This, every election proves. While I have had full faith that the leaven of emancipation was at work, I have also felt quite sure that at this election we doomed to defeat. We are all most happily disappointed. The Emancipation ticket has increased some two thousand votes in one year. The know Nothing candidate, Mr. Wyman, received over three thousand votes yesterday, and although a very good man in many traits, he committed an error some years ago that it will be hard to retrieve. I will relate it, as a warning to all doughfaces, in such case made and provided.
Some six or eight years ago, the Hutchinson engaged of Mr. Wyman his hall-the best then in the city-in which to give concerts. Perhaps they sung, one evening; when, however, the congregation assembled for another musical entertainment, Mr. Wyman appeared before them on the stage, and commenced telling them how he had come among them poor and unknown, how they had aided him, and lifted him, not only above poverty, but from obscurity to a very respectable fame; that he could not insensible of the great debt he owed them, which was so great, he could never repay it; that when he agreed to, hire his hall to the Hutchinson Family, he was totally ignorant that they were Abolitionists, but that having become advised of that startling fact, he had hastened to make all the reparation in his power by breaking his contract with them, and forbidding them to sing again in his hall. The Hutchinson family were then compelled to leave the city without giving, another" concert. There are now as many as many as five halls in they city, equally good, either of which, I presume, the Hutchinsons can have to sing anti-slavery songs in, and I have no doubt they would now be patronized in a manner that would be flattering to them.
I should like to see Theodore Parker announced for a sermon on the slave question in our large hall His courage would make him the most proper man, for he would attract a congregation of kindred spirits, who would be equally at home in his congregation or on Bunker Hill. I fear we shall never see him here.
But to return to the election. Should Missouri become a free State, and should no one be more enraged at it at it than Mr. Bogy, the National Catholic Democratic candidate for Mayor, the equanimity of the people would not be disturbed. He is no mean northern doughface, but he may well be compared to your south side Doctors of Divinity, who pray meaning no good, while Bogy curses the Abolitionists, meaning no harm. They both act from habit; Bogy being by far the best and most benevolent man. Well, Filley is elected!
RELIGION AND POLITICS. We have received, ARD read with inexpressible pleasure, a printed sermon (just published) entitled ' Religion and Polities- Discourse delivered in the First Congregation! [Unitarian-Church, on Sunday, March 20ih, 1859, by WILLIAM H. FURNESS, Minister,' ' of Philadelphia. It 's worthy of the head and heart of one of the best of men: who combines in himself all good and noble qualities; whose spirit is world-embracing in its sympathy, charity and love; and whose presence is ever a benediction. It is, moreover, a timely and effective rebuke of the unprincipled outcry raised by demagogues against those who, in their pulpits, dare to call this guilty nation to repentance for its manifold sins. especially its unparalleled sin of slavery.
MUSIC-NEW PUBLICATIONS BY OLIVER DITSON Co., Washington Street, Boston:-
I. Bassini's Art of Singing: an Analytical physiological and Practical System for the Cultivation of the Voice. By Carlo Bassini. edited by R.<illegible> Willis. A large and handsomely printed volume, containing a large amount of instruction and illustration. with reference to articulation, breath-taking, change of the voice, execution and expression, every variety of the exercise, hygiene of the voice, mechanism of the vocal organs, phrasing, qualifications of the singer, scope of voices, time, varied exercises on the chromatic scale, vocal accomplishments, &c., & c .m A very desirable work in every musical family.
II. One hundred Songs of Ireland. music and words. A choice collection in a very convenient like that of the One Hundred songs of Scotland. A great variety of musical gems is thus suitable at a very reasonable price.
III. The Pocket Melodist: a Collection of songs and Ballads, for the voice only. upwards of sixty favorite pieces are embodied in this exceedingly to pocket edition, with the words. It only needs to be examined to obtain a wide and rapid sale.
IV. Catalogue of Sheet Music and Music books, published by Oliver Ditson & Co., including Catalogues formerly published by Atwill Jollie, Dubois Riley, waters, Dagget, Jacques & brother, of NewYork; Premiss &. Clark, Wade, A. &J. p. Ordway, Martin & Beals, C. Bradley & Co., Howe Keith, and Marsh, of Boston; Fiot, Gould and Bellak, of Philadelphia Hewitt, of New Orleans; Oliver Shaw, Providence; Jones, of Indianapolis. & c. Also, Catalogues now published by S. F. Gordon, of New York and Beck and Lawton, of Philadelphia.
Every tiling published by firm is highly creditable as to its typographical execution and judicious arrangement.
LETTERS FROM REV. THEODORE PARKER In the music hall, on Sunday last, letters from Mr. and Mrs. Parker were read. Mr. Parker writes that his health is materially improved. He bathes in the sea and rides on horseback. He remarks that he had heard that the outside of a horse is good for inside of man," and his experience has proved it true. He sleeps well, and his strength has perceptibly increase.
EXCITING MEETING IN PHILADELPHIA.A lived meeting was held at Sansom-street Hall in Philadelphia, on Friday evening, by the Abolitionists, to celebrate the emancipation of Daniel Webster. An attempt was made to overawe it by vociferation and violence by rowdies, but the police were called in who made some arrests and quelled the disturbance. The meeting was addressed by Robert Purvis, Passmore Williamson, and Mary Grew. A vote of thanks was passed to the police; and a little supper given them, as a more substantial expression of gratitude, by the proprietor of the Hall.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM ANDREW T. FOSS.
TROY, Granger county, O., April 1, 1859.
I see my last report was dated at Fremont, Illinois; it should have been Indiana. I was at that time domiciled with my good friends the Farnums, whose large hospitalities I had often enjoyed before, and many a toiling, persecuted laborer in life's great work can testify the wicked cease from troubling, and weary are at rest.' I never needed rest more, or enjoyed it better, than then. I had been in the cars all night, and at about nine o'clock the next morning, in the mids of a falling I got into a miserable, open, two-horse buggy,-dignified with the name of stage, miserably crowded, with a miserable team of two overworked, half-starved horses the road deep with mud, and a part of the way, of that most horrible of all styles of road, the corduroy. we were nearly the whole day making sixteen miles. Now, just imagine a large, well furnished house, with an open fire place-blessings on the dear old relic-and well-remembered, warm, open-hearted friends, ready to receive you with welcome greeting, and I submit the case for decision to all anti-slavery agents, if a tired, wet, and hungry fellow-tired and hungry all over-wouldn't feel happy on reaching such a home?
On Saturday, I was taken to Angola by the younger Mr., in an excellent carriage, with a fine team and though the roads were still bad, I made the journey of seven or eight miles in excellent spirits and with much comfort. Here I met a hearty welcome from those true friends of the slave, the Morses, the, and the Gales. In consequence of the badness of the roads, we had but few of the from the neighboring towns at our meeting on Sunday; still, we had a good meeting, and the friends seemed encouraged and strengthened.
On Tuesday, Dr. Morse took me fourteen miles, to Orland. Here I had meetings appointed for Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. Our friends, C. A. Fox and wife with other friends of our noble cause, gave me a real warm anti-slavery greeting. I first visited this town in company with Charles and Josephine Griffing. The pro-slavery spirit of Orland Christianity had been previously roused by the labors of Stephen and Abby Foster and the Griffings. In consequence of this, and a bad reputation which two lying priests had given me in the place, both of the houses were closed against us. We, however, held a very crowded meeting in the Academy, and fully exposed the falsehood of these wily priests. The next time I visited the place, both of the meetinghouses were open, and I spoke in both of them. But now, under some new stimulus, or from that death torpor which makes one insensible to surrounding influences, or from that dying agony which itself in the last spasmodic kick, or from some cause unknown, both these house were closed against the slave. We, however, had our meetings in a very convenient school-house, which was filled with attentive listeners, and we all felt it was good to be there.
Since I was in Orland last, death had done his work upon the part mortal of one of the most devoted and earnest friends of the slave, whose influence and labors have ever blest our cause. I refer to our excellent friend, Mr. Carlton. It was sad to miss his cheering presence and his -speed.' His pecuniary aid we did not miss; for the usual sum, which I never knew him to fail of giving at an anti-slavery meeting in Orland, was presented, from her own earnings as a teacher, by his noble daughter. All who saw him in his last moments speak of his death as calm, peaceful and beautiful. But, greater and better to contemplate than this is the brave, noble honest life which he lived.
Friend Fox took me some fourteen miles to Brunon, where I took the cars for Adrian. Here I held two good meetings on Sunday, and our friends seemed much encouraged, and said to me, the friends we are going to work. My next point was Ann Arbor. Here also I had two good meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. the politeness of young Reid, the son of Thomas and Mary Reid, of Waukegan, Ill., who is here in college, I was, with our friend Robert Glazier, shown through the University buildings. The library is large, and no doubt contains many valuable books, with a vast amount of rubbish, that better
never have been written or printed. The geological department is superb. For variety and beauty, I have never seen so good a collection. They have also some very good paintings This is a very pious institution, so of course it has a military company among the students, and they have the usual complement of guns and swords, and every day, when it is fair,' Sundays excepted,' they parade and drill.
This institution will soon be opened to women, not withstanding the determined opposition of its President, who would not sign a temperance pledge when presented by the studentsone of whose number had died drunkbecause it did not except wine and beer.
Here our friends have engaged the services of Giles B. Stebbins for three months,' to speak unto them all the words of this life.' He is succeeding admirably. Their house is crowded with attentive hearers. They hope to keep him in their service during the year.
My next point was at Livonia. Here I had a meeting appointed for Sunday, which, in consequence of the deep mud, was not largely attended. Still, we had a good meeting. On Tuesday and Thursday evenings, I held meetings in Farmingtonthe last in company with Eli Lapham, of Battle Creek, a Friends' Preacher. He is a man of excellent native talent, and has progressed out of sectarianism into the broad land of humanity. He gave us excellent instruction and counselI was taken to Wayne by Alfred Lapham and wife and daughter, where I took the cars for Detroit, and from thence down the lake by boat, in a heavy storm, to Cleveland, and from thence down the Mahoning road to, where I was met by our good friend, chester Nash, with his team, ready to take me eight miles to his hospitable home. I knew well where I was coming, and the welcome I was to receive in Troy, for I had been here twice before. Every earnest worker for humanity will be sure of a hearty welcome and of efficient co-operation from the Nashes, Kingsburys, and, and other friends in Troy On, I held a good meeting in Troy. It was not large, in consequence of the falling rain.
On Wednesday evening, I held a meeting in Newbury. Chester and Joseph Nash, with Caroline and Julia Nash, and Benjamin and Lucy Kingsbury accompanied me. Here reside our friends D. M. Allen and wife, recently from Massachusetts, who with Mr Penderson and wife, gave us their valuable sympathy and aid. The meeting was well attended. It was held in the Congregational church. The minister was out, and Church members in large numbers. I did not spare. They heard me with deep silence. I heared some grumbling after the meeting. The friends were quite anxious I should speak once more but a previous engagement and a sore throat forbade my compliance.
Next Sunday, I am to speak in Parkman, and during the week, in Middlefield and Mesopotamia. On the following, I go to New Lyme, Ashtabula county.
Yours, truly,
A. T. FOSS.
ONE HUNDRED DOLLAR PRIZE. The Church Antislavery Society, at its meeting held in Worcester, 29th of March, passed a resolution offering $100 for the best tract, showing that the Bible gives no warrant or allowance for chattel Slavery. The Committee of Award are Rev. Samuel Hunt of Franklin, Richard P. Waters, of Salem, and Deacon J. Washburn, of Worcester. Manuscripts are to be sent by the 1st of June, to the Rev. Henry T., of Jewett City, <illegible>
<c02>
OLD COLONY ANTI- SOCIETY. A meeting of this Society was held, according to appointment, at Union Hall, North Abington, on Fast Day, April 7th; the President, Bourne Spooner, in the chair.A business committee was appointed, consisting of Nathaniel H. Whiting, Henry C. Wright and E. H. Heywood. 
Briggs Arnold and Elbridge Sprague were appointed a committee on Finance.
N. H. Whiting, from the business committee, reported the following resolutions for discussion:- 
Resolved, That whatever may be the claim of Books or of Constitutions, we deny and utterly repudiate' the wild and guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man. 'Resolved, That Massachusetts can never justly claim to be a free State, so long as she allows slavehunting upon her soil; or her people to be just, brave, humane, or even decent men and women, while they aid the kidnapper in his nefarious business, stand coldly by, and allow his hounds to run down their victims in our midst, and carry them back into the hell of slavery; or content themselves with placing the hunted fugitive in the cars of the Underground Railroad, on their way to Canada.
Resolved, That those Representatives who opposed the Personal Liberty Bill, recently defeated in the State Legislature, have shown that they either have no just appreciation of human nature, or the inalienability Of human rights, or are too dishonest to maintain them when they are supposed to conflict with the interests of party, or stand in the way of official patronage and power.
Resolved, That such men need never expect again to receive the votes of the honest and intelligent freemen of this Commonwealth; and we advise them speedily to bring forth fruits meet for repentance, 'for the great wrong they have done to freedom and their constituents, or else take up their line of march for the cotton fields of Carolina, or the sugar plantations of Louisiana and Texas, where they properly belong. 
The following resolutions were offered by H. C. Wright:
Whereas, the fundamental law of the State of Massachusetts is, that it is a self-evident truth that all men are born free; therefore,
Resolved, That the people of Massachusetts owe it as a duty to themselves and their posterity, to protect every man, woman and child now on her soil, or who shall hereafter be on her soil, from being seized and tried before any tribunal on the issue,' Was he born free or a slave a man or a chattel?.
Resolved, That no government outside the State has, or can have, the moral or political right to come into the State, and on this fundamental law of the State government.
Resolved, That slave-hunting or no slave-hunting, on the soil of Massachusetts, should be the only political issue of the State, until every slave-hunter, by whomsoever sent, or under whatever authority he may act, is forever driven from the State.
Resolved, That it is the duty of the State of Massachusetts to seek, by such means as shall be deemed right and expedient, the overthrow of the government of the United States, and the dissolution of the American Union.
Resolved, That resistance to slaveholders and slavehunters is obedience to God, and a sacred duty to man. 
Resolved, That insurrection against the slaveholder is the right of the slave, and his sacred duty, by such means as he shall deem right and expedient, and at such times as he shall deem most favorable to a successful issue.
Resolved, That it is the right and duty of the North whenever the people shall deem success attainable, to instigate the slaves to insurrection against slaveholders and to aid them in such insurrections by such means as they shall deem right, and best adapted to insure success.
Resolved, That no slave, as such, can owe obedience this master; and we owe it as a sacred duty to Humanity to scorn and to resist any power in Church or State that enjoins such obedience.
Resolved, That slaveholders, as such, have rights which men and women, black or white, are bound to respect; for, as slaveholders, they have forfeited all right to respect and sympathy in regard to life, liberty, or the pursuit of happiness.
The above resolutions were discussed during the morning, afternoon, and part of the evening sessions by Messrs. Wendell Phillips, E. H. Heywood, H. C. Wright, Nath'l H. Whiting, Lewis Ford, L. McLauthlin, and others. No action was taken on them.
The conduct of one of the Representatives from Abington, relative to the Personal Liberty Bill, was brought up for consideration M. H. Pool in the chair. The following resolution was offered, and adopted, with only one dissenting voice:-
Resolved, That the vote of one of our Representntives in the State Legislature, dooming Massachusetts still to be open ground for the slave-hunter, was a foul betrayal of his constituents, an open and gross breach of his repeated pledges, a disgrace to a town which furnishes no dogs for a slave-hunt, unless it be their treacherous representative; and we pledge ourselves to justice and the slave, that no future mistake shall leave us again to be so utterly and foully misrepresented.
A collection was taken, amounting to 17.96, $4.45 of which was paid for expenses of meeting; the balance $13.51 was paid Mr. Heywood for the Mass. A. S. Society.
Voted, That the proceedings be published in the Liberator and Abington Standard. Adjourned, sine die.
S. DYER, Sec'y.
MR. garrison:
The first part of the following communication was sent to the Boston Post, (in reply to an article that appeared in that paper about a since,) at the time of its publication, but it was not allowed by the editor to appear in that journal. I will thank you to publish the communication now in your paper. April 9, 1859. W. S. A
I perceive that a writer in the Boston Post, some weeks since, quoted the opinion of Judge Shaw in the case of the Commonwealth vs. Aves, decided some twenty years since, in regard to this and the other States having the right to become parties to a stipulation in the National Constitution to return fugitive slaves to their masters. In that opinion, Judge Shaw says: 'That such a stipulation would be highly important and necessary to secure peace and harmony between adjoining nations, and to prevent perpetual collisions and border wars. It would be no encroachment upon the rights of the fugitive, for no stranger has a just claim to the protection of the State against its will, especially where a claim to such a protection would be likely to involve the State in war; and each independent State has a right to determine, by its own laws or treaties, who may come to reside or seek shelter within its limits, and to prescribe the termNow, admitting this principle to be sound, as laid down by that learned Judge, I would respectfully inquire, does it sanction the provision of the Constitution upon this subject? This provision does not say that slaves shall not come from any other State into the bounds of Massachusetts, and that, if they do so they shall be compelled to leave the State; and, by doing, treat them as the members of another political community, whom the State has a right to forbid from coming or remaining within this limits But it recognizes the right of one portion of the people of another State to hold another portion in slavery, and provides that the former shall assert and main<c03>
tain that right within the sovereignty and jurisdiction of Massachusetts, all whose laws, principles and feelings are hostile to this institution; and that the slave shall be delivered up within this State to be returned to the State whence he had fled, again to be plunged into slavery. This provision of the National Constitution the binding force of slave laws, within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, the relation of master and slave, and the right of property in And it does this in opposition to the 1st article in the Bill of Rights, that all men are born free and equal, and have certain natural, essential and inalienable rights, among which may be reckoned the right of enjoying and defending their lives and liberty.' This article was considered by the Court, in this very case, as abolishing slavery in Massachusetts. And yet, notwithstanding this, the Court recognizes the right of one man to consider another man as his slave within the bounds of Massachusetts, and, as, to remove him from this State. If the Constitution of Massachusetts declares that 'all men and equal,' it declares, in effect, that no man shall be considered and treated as a slave within its boundaries; and it is in direct conflict with the provisions of the National Constitution authorizing the return of fugitive slaves as slaves.
If it was considered against the welfare and sound policy of Massachusetts and the other free State, that slaves should be allowed to come from the slave States, and reside among them, this object could have been effected by a simple prohibition to this effect in the National or State Constitution. And in this way they would have been prevented from coming or remaining here. In such a case, when they made their escape, they could have sought refuge in some more congenial and hospitable State, where they would have been protected, and allowed to remain. Or if they came here, and were not suffered to remain, instead of being delivered up to their master, they could have been allowed to betake themselves to Canada, or some foreign territory, where such a law or provision is not in operation.
It is well known that two constructions have been put upon this provision of the National Constitution, in regard to the source whence the law should proceed, intended carry out this provision. By the Supreme Court of the United States, it has been decided that the national government has jurisdiction over this matter, and that the law should proceed from them. By many other jurists, and among them Mr. Webster, it has been held that the States only in their independent capacity have the right to pass such a law, and that it is incumbent on them to do it. Now, in the latter case, the State of Massachusetts would be called upon in its sovereign capacity, by its own Legislature, to pass a law, and by its own courts and executive officers to execute a law, directly conflicting with our Bill of Rights, that 'all men are born free and equal.' It would be called upon to pass a law, which it says in its own Constitution it has no right to do, and which it has thus deprived itself from doing. Here then there is a direct conflict between the National C institution, upon this construction of it, and our State Constitution. And as the latter was framed and adopted first, Massachusetts, by so doing, debarred herself from becoming a party to this provision in the National Constitution. 
Thus much in regard to the difficulties in the way arising out of the conflict of the two Constitutions. I will now proceed to consider it, in an equitable point of view, on the ground of right and justice. To make the case a very clear one, I will suppose that at the time the Union was formed, piracy was an authorized and legalized practice in the Southern States that a large number of vessels were permitted by law to engage in this enterprise, and that the vessels and cargoes taken by these piratical expeditions were considered by the law of these States as the legal property of the captors, and should be adjudged such by their legal tribunals. It is now proposed by them to form a Union with the North. And, in doing this, they maintain that it is necessary that the North should recognize this right in them to engage in these piratical expeditions, and the right of property in the vessels and cargoes they should capture; and that if any of these vessels and cargoes should find their way into the Northern States, and be claimed by those from whom they were captured they should not be given up to them by the North, but to the pirates who had captured them; and they should insist upon a provision in the National Constitution making such a stipulation would the North, I ask, feel justified in making such a stipulation, and if they did make it, in observing it? Would they feel justified in countenancing the doctrine, that property obtained in this way should be considered and treated in the same manner as property obtained in any other manner, and to be given up, not to its real and bonafide owner, but to those who had no other claim upon it than that founded upon piracy? I do not think that they would be brought to consider it in this light, or to make such a constitutional stipulation; or if they did make it, that they would carry it into execution. I believe that the State would decide that it was a that it never had a right to make that it was a clear violation of the rights and property of others, as founded in justice and the laws of all other countries of the civilized globe, except these piratical governments; and, having so decided, they would proceed to declare this provision of the Constitution null and void, leaving in full operation all other parts of the Constitution which were considered moral and just.
Now, this view of the subject will apply equally well to slavery. This institution here at the North is viewed as criminal as piracy, and property held under it as wrongful and unjustifiable; and even more so, as the one is the asserted right of property in the souls and bodies of our fellow-men, and the other in mere inanimate matter, as goods, wares and merchandise. Why, then, entertaining these opinions, have we any more right to recognize the right of property in slaves, than in vessels captured by piracy? And why have we any more right to stipulate to return slaves to their masters, as their just property, than to return vessels and cargoes, captured by pirates, to the latter, instead of their true owners? And why is the State any more bound to carry this constitutional stipulation into effect, than such a stipulation in regard to pirated property? W. S. A.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE VIGILANCE ASSOCIATION.
MONEY NEEDED, AND AID SOIJCITED.
In September, 1850, the Executive Committee addressed a circular to the churches and religious societies of New England, and also made application to many individuals, soliciting contributions to create a fund for rendering pecuniary assistance to such fugitive slaves as reached the Northern States in a destitute condition. These unfortunate men and women all needed food, clothing and shelter; moreover, they all needed protection, since in every part of New England, the law (as administered by the courts) was their enemy, and many individuals in every town were known to be mean and base enough to co-operate with such a law; some of these fugitives also needed medical aid and careful nursing; and almost all of them needed the means of transportation to a safer place than New England.
The amount thus raised from all these sources was $6028, and this sum has been expended for the relief of fugitives, some in one, in another, and some in all the above-mentioned departments. The result to reported to the public is, that more than four hundred fugitives have been aided by their beneficence, and that the Treasurer's purse is now empty.
Those who wish to help these poorest of the poor with money or aid of any other sort, are requested immediately to communicate with the Treasurer or some member of the Finance Committee. 
SAMUEL E. SEWALL, HENRY I of Finance
JOHN A. ANDREW,
ROBERT MORRIS,WENDELL PHILLIPS, 
FRANOIS JACKSON Treasurer.
<c04>
AN INSTRUCTIVE FACT. It is often said that the ministers and churches stand aloof from the Anti-Slavery movement, not because they were wanting in earnest hostility to slavery, but on account of the prominent champions of the cause. If this were indeed the reason of their refusal to cooperate with us, should we not find them prompt to rally around such a man as Cheever, whose orthodoxy is unimpeachable, and who has never identified himself with the Abolitionists in any other way than by a bold avowal of uncompromising Anti-Slavery principles? And how do they treat Dr. Cheever? A single fact will indicate the answer. A few days since, Dr. Cheever went to Albany to deliver an Anti-Slavery discourse in the Assembly chamber. Of the clergy of all denominations in that city, the only one (so at least a friend informs us) who even cared enough about the matter to go and hear him was Mr. Mayo, the Pastor of the Unitarian Society! Presbyteriana. (Old School and New), Dutch Reformed, Baptists, Methodist, Congregationalists, all 'passed by on the other side.' Dr. Palmer, Pastor of an Orthodox Congregational Church, found time to come down to this city lately to sit with an ex council, called by notorious pro-slavery men, to counteract Dr. Cheever's influence, but he did not show his face in the Assembly Chamber on the occasion above mentioned. Are not facts like these instructive A. S. Standard.
AN well The N. Y. Legislature on Tuesday elected Rev. Geo. B. Cheever, D. D. of this city, a Regent of the University. The ancient office has been held in days past by such men as the Clintons, the Livingstons, Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, Washington Irving; & The Board of Regents now numbers among its members Gulian C. Verplanck, James S. Wadsworth, Rev. Dr. Campbell, Gov. Morgan, E. C. Benedict and eighteen others. It has charge of all the Colleges and Academies in the State, the State Library, the Normal School, and the various publications of the State.
The votes given for Dr. Cheever (viva voce) were as enthusiastic as they were deserved. In the Senate he received 15 to 11, and in the Assembly 88 to 25, or 103 of the 139 in both Houses. This flattering vote was peculiarly significant, following as it did a demonstration against Dr. Cheever's views of slavery made the previous evening in the Capitol by Judge Nott, at the invitation of the pro-slavery members of the Legislature.-N. Y. Anti-Slavery Standard.
MASSACHUSETTS AND THE NATURALIZATION LAWS. Everywhere the Republicans are speaking out manfully and indignantly against the recent action of the Massachusetts Legislature, in submitting to a vote of the people of that State a proposed amendment of the Constitution, whereby foreigners are to be deprived of the right to vote for two years after their naturalization. There is no divided opinion upon the subject in any of the free States of the Union, and it is our deliberate conviction that even in Massachusetts, the Republicans will vote in solid phalanx against it.
We notice that the Republican State Central Committee of Wisconsin have issued an address, in which they disclaim, in behalf of the Republican party of that State, any sympathy with the Massachusets movement, and quote from the Republican platform of that State to show that they are pledged against it. They conclude by saying:
Standing firmly upon these principles, we do not hesitate to declare in behalf of the Republican party of this State, that we condemn the passage of the sachusetts law to which we have referred, as a departure from our settled rules of action; we protest against it as being in addition uncalled for and unwise; and we earnestly entreat the people of that State to review the action of their representatives, and to efface the single stain upon that escutcheon, which the Republicans of Massachusetts have o nobly borne. 
This is well done, and we hope to see the Republicans of every State in the Union uniting in a solemn and emphatic protest against the Massachusetts proposition.-Chicago Tribune.

HOW THE FIRST FAMILIES OF VIRGINIA MAKE THEIR MONEY.-A writer from Virginia gives some idea of the profits of negro raising. One man engaged in this business told the correspondent of a woman he owns, named Fanny. she was just sixteen when he bought her, and had a boy child soon after. She is hired out at 3 per month. Her first child is now five years old, and in fifteen years will be worth 1,000 to $2,000. The owner goes on with his story:
I am thus paid for the trouble of raising him, about $100 a year: and I have no trouble either, for the mother takes care of him until he is old enough to hire, and then he will begin to bring me wages. She has had a child every spring since, and now she sends me word not to hire her for May, for she expects to have another! That will be five in a little over five years, and in twenty-five years from this time, if they all live, which they are very likely to do, the youngest will be twenty years old, and, if a man, worth at least $1,500. There are now two boys and two girls, and they will be worth at least 5,000 in the aggregate at that time, to say nothing of the one that's coming. And the mother will not stop there; she will have a good many more. If she keep on as she has done, and has as many boys and girls, she will bring me 20,000 worth of niggers before she stops.
HARD TIMES IN CLAY CO., INDIANA The Evansville Inquirer draws a dreary picture of the condition of some portions of Indiana. It says:
'In passing recently through the central portion of the State, we heard men everywhere complaining of the hardness of the times; every department of business is suffering more or less from the pressure occasioned by the scarcity of grain and provisions in the country. In Clay county, in particular, and in other parts, many people are actually suffering. Stock of all kinds, horses, cattle, sheep and hogs are lying dead in the fence corners of almost every farm, and are constantly dying from starvation. We heard of some men who were glad to furnish cord wood on their own lands, cut and pile it, and sell it on the ground for forty cents a cord, and take pay in grain and provisions, in order to live until another season. Horses and cattle were never known to be so poor at this season of the year.

NEGROES EXCLUDED FROM THE PUBLIC LANDS The Pittsburg Gazette says that about a month ago a company of colored people in that city desired to form a party to emigrate west ward, and settle upon and preempt public lands Their counsel communicated with the Land Department at Washington, and received in reply the following flat refusal:
GENERAL LAND OFFICE March 7, '59.
John M. Kirkpatrick, Pittsburg, Penn.:
Sir-In reply to your letter of the 24th ult., I have to state, that under the now settled ruling of this office, which has been sanctioned by the Secretary, colored persons are not citizens of the United States as contemplated by the preemption law of September, 1841, and are, therefore, not legally entitled to preempt public lands.
Very respectfully, your ob't serv't,
J. S. WILSON, Acting Commissioner.
JOHN AROHIBALD, Lord Murray, one of the legal celebrities of Scotland, is no more. He died in his own house in Edinburgh, on the 9th of March, aged 81.
His generous charities and numerous plans of public usefulness were not confined to his own country, but extended, with his friendship, to foreign lands, where his benignant countenance became known to friends of our great cause as that of one whose moral sense knew no geographical limitations. Early and late his name was associated with liberality and freedom in youth with the creation of the Edinburgh Review in age with the support of the American Anti-Slavery Society, on whose roll of Edinburgh subscribers it was one of his last year's acts to place his name.
He it was whom FRANCIS HORNER honored by an appeal for sympathy, when, half a century ago,' the liberties of England were mouldering away, and the institutions of Europe stiffening into barbarism. 'Write to me often, my dear Murray, said Horner, at that time, 'for the gratifications of private affection are untouched by these revolutions; and though they give a sadder cast to one's conversation, they cannot impair our confidence and freedom.'
A deeply interesting sketch of Lord Murray's life may be found in the London Daily News of March 14.
DIED on the 11th of February, at his residence, 74 Rue Fauborg St. Honore, Paris, Rear-Admiral BOYLE.
It is with pain that we make announcement for it records the decease of a friend of the anti-slavery cause.
An Englishman of distinction, he sought, in foreign lands as well as his own, the society of all who were distinguished as the friends of freedom; a man of rank, he felt rank to be an obligation to elevate the downtrodden and the oppressed; a man of the world, he felt it to be indispensable to the world's welfare that slavery should be abolished; and he advocated a union of the moral power of all nations for the accomplishment of the work. A communication from him in behalf of joint international efforts of English and American influence, for the extinction of slavery, is now in our hands, and we watch the opportunity to publish it hereafter, as the union of nations for the abolition of slavery goes on standard.
<c05>
Dr. DOY and son, who, as our readers remember, were kidnapped from Kansas, and taken across the Missouri line, have had a hearing before their captors. Charles, the son, was released from custody, no charge being sustained against him, which is certainly a cause for surprise, seeing that trumped up charges are not an unheard of thing among the Border ruffians of Missouri. The father was held to bail in the sum of $5,000 for trial at the next term of court, though we confess our inability to imagine what he is to be tried for.
The Washington Slates rubs its hands over the success non-intervention policy' in New Mexico,, instead of being a sickly exotic, slavery will take root in a congenial soil, and flourish of its own inherent vigor.
'Could the most zealous propagandist of Slavery desire any other result? And not only does Slavery thus secure a firm foothold in the Territory of New Mexico-almost an empire in itself but the position affords the South every facility of expansion in the very direction most inviting to its institutions. Not only are Arizona and Nevada destined to fall under the sway of the South, hut the contiguous States of Mexico will be subdued to the uses of Slavery, when in the fullness of time they shall be released from the impotent grasp of the central Government.'
NO RIGHTS A very little blood goes a great ways with our Southern brethren. It was decided at Jan. term of the Supreme Court of Alabama, that a person whose grand-mother was the daughter of a mulatto, by a negros, is not a competent witness against a white person, although his father, natural grandfather, and great grandfather are white men.

TRACTS FOR THE TIMES.
We ask the particular attention of the friends of the Anti-Slavery cause to the following new series of tracts, just issued by the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies. They afford an excellent opportunity and means of aiding the cause, and of disseminating its great truths and principles. A little money expended in them may be made to accomplish a great good. These tracts may all be had at the following low prices: by the hundred, $2; dozen, 30 cts.; single, 3 cts. Apply at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 21 Cornhill, Boston, and 138 Nassau street, New York.
GREAT AUCTION SALE OF SLAVES AT SAVANNAN GEORGIA Reported for the Tribune.
PRESENT CONDITION OF THE FREE COLORED PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES By Rev. James Freeman Clarke.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, before the Committee on Federal Relations of the Massachusetts Legislature, in behalf of the Petition for a law against Slave-hunting. 
No FETTERS IN THE BAY STATE. Speech of William Lloyd Garrison, on the same occasion. SPEECH OF CHARLE C. BURLEIGH at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, 'No Slave-hunting in the Old Bay State.' SPEECH OF REV.HENRY BLLEBY, Missionary to Barbadoes, on the Results of Emancipation in the British West India Colonies.
SLAVERY AND THE AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR FOREIGN MISSIONS By C. K. W. THE AMERICAN TRAT SOCIETY By C. K. W.

FAIR IN AID OF THE PRISONER'S FRIEND.
A Fair will be held in the Music Hall, Boston, commencing April 25th, and to continue five days. The direct object will be to obtain means for the establishing Rooms to aid the poor, discharged prisoners, and to carry out all the various objects connected with the Prison Mission. Rooms are now occupied for this purpose in the building well known as Boylston Hall, corner of Boylston and Washington streets. These are used for offices, for meetings, and as a home.
Those friendly to the work are requested to aid us. Flowers, refreshments, clothing, and various articles are wanted, or donations in money to meet the expenses of the Fair.
Among other features of the Fair will be specimens of convict labor in prisons. Persons having any curiosities made in Dartmoor prison, or in any prison, are requested to furnish them for the Fair.
Works of art to adorn the Hall are respectfully solicited. There will also be exhibited a fine collection of paintings in connection with the Fair. The Germania Band will perform each evening.
Any one desirous of attending one of the tables, is requested to send immediate word to the Rooms, or address Rev. Charles Spear, or Mrs. Spear.

AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Bequest.
Elliot W. Brown, Esq., executor of the Will of Squire Stone, of West Newark, N. Y., by Rev. Samuel H. Hall, of Oswego, N. Y., $13 27
Donation.
From the Warrington, (Eng.) Anti-Slavery Society, through its treasurer, Ann Robson, 100 00
Collections by Parker Pillsbury.
In Mass., 11 17
North Abington, 7 08
Milford, N. H 15 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, April 12, 1859.

E. H. HEYWOOD acknowledges the following sums received by him for the Anti-Slavery Cause:
Montague, $6 31 North Sunderland, $2 38
Deerfield 2 00 Ashburnham.1 42
Kenee. E. A. Webb. $5, others 5 68; Northampton,
Seth Hunt, 3 42, others, 2 48.
PARKER PILLSBURY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak in Hopkinton, in the Church at HAYDEN ROW, on SUNDAY, April 17, afternoon and evening.
NOTICE.-The Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society propose holding a Fair in that city, about the 1st of June next, and would respectfully solicit contributions for the same. Please direct to the care of the President, Mrs. WM.IVES, Eesex st., salem, Mass. April 11.

RHODE ISLAND STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
An Anti-Slavery State Convention, for Rhode Island, will be held in the city of PROVIDENCE, on Thursday and Friday, April 21st and 22d, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. of the day first named, to which we invite all the friends of Human Liberty in the State to come, either in person or by their delegates.
The Convention will be held in Franklin Hall, and will be attended by WM. LLOYD GARRISON, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, E. H. HEYWOOD, and others.
The hour is critical. If any abolitionist, in the weakness of the flesh, seeks release and rest from the Anti-Slavery work, let him remember the solemn truth, that he who puts his hand to the plough, and looks back, is not fit for the kingdom of God; and that it is no time to rest while the open foes of freedom are pressing their measures of all conceivable iniquity, and while thousands of its fair-seeming friends are proving false and treacherous on every hand. Let the friends of freedom and the right crowd the Convention!
ALPHONSO R. JANES,
ASA FAIRBANKS,
THOMAS M. HATHAWAY,
ELIZABETH B. CHASE,
ANNA T. FAIRBANKS,
SUSAN R. HARRIS,
PELEG CLARKE,
WILLIAM CHACE,
SOPHIA L. LITTLE,
Committee.
Rev. ANTOINETTE L. BROWN BLACKWELL, of New York, will deliver a discourse at the Music Hall, before Rev. Theodore Parker's congregation, on Sunday morning next, at the usual hour.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on the subject of American Slavery, in the State of Rhode Island, as follows:
Portsmouth, Friday, April 15.
Tivrerton, Sunday morning, April 17.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Boston. April 17 afternoon and evening, in the Melode on. Subjects: Afternoon Fact and in Religion. EveningThe Living Present and the Dead Past.
<c06>
'HE, BEING DEAD, YET IF the above can with propriety be applied to any man of modern times, that man is Dr. WM. A. ALCOTT, whose recent death has sent a pang of sorrow through thousands of hearts; but he yet speaketh,' and his works do follow him. Perhaps no man has done so much for the cause of Physical Education as he. Feeble in, yet ever active with a heart overflowing with benevolence and love for universal man, he wrote, and lectured, and the young and old and those of middle life, with untiring perseverance for a long series of years; and tens of thousands, who have been made wiser and happier by his teachings, will ever fondly cherish his memory.
His last three and most popular works are the following:
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF MARRIAGE COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE,
-AND-
THE LAWS OF HEALTH:
Or SEQUEL TO THE 'HOUSE I LIVE IN.'
The prices of the first two are 75 cents each, and the last $1.
THIRTY THOUSAND COPIES
of these books have been sold, and the demand is increasing from day to day.
A copy of each should be in every household. We can offer uncommon inducements to TRAVELLING AGENTS, both, to engage in the sale of these valuable You can not only make money, but do good. Copies sent, post paid, by mail, when the cash or postage stamps are sent to us, covering the price of each book.

JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 Washington Street,. Boston.
P.S. We shall put to press, immediately, one or two volumes, which Dr. Alcott had been many years in preparing, one of which will contain and embody his experiences from childhood to (we may almost say) the day of his death, for he died with his harness on. This will be an Autobiography of uncommon interest and value. April 15. 3wis
BLAKE;
Or, The Huts of America.
A of the Mississippi Valley, the Southern United States, and Cuba.
BY MARTIN R. DELANY.
THIS interesting Story, unique in character, and unsurpassed in thrilling interest of historical and real incidents, is now being published in
THE ANGLO-AFRICAN MAGAZINE.
The scene is laid in Mississippi, the plot extending into Cuba; the Hero being an educated West Indian black, who, being fraudulently deprived of his liberty when young, and brought to the United States, in age, at the instance of the maltreatment of his wife, who, being sold from him, he sought revenge through the medium of a deep-laid scheme and secret organization for rebellion.
THE ANGLO-AFRICAN MAGAZINE
Is published monthly, at the low price of One Dollar per year. It is the exponent of the rapidly growing and advanced intelligence of
THE COLORED RACE
of the present day, and should be in every family in the country.
THOS. HAMILTON, PUBLISHER 48 Street, New York.
April 15.

THE OXYGENATED BITTERS.
Nature, in her great laboratory, has stored some remedy adapted to every disease which' flesh is heir to.' But it requires the investigation and research of the philosopher to discover and apply this remedy. Such research and investigation have succeeded in discovering a remedy for that most afflictive dispensation, the
DYSPEPSIA!
with all its lesser and numerous evils; and it may be safely asserted, that until the appearance of the Oxygenated Bitters, a case of Dyspepsia cured was a rare experience in medical practice. Now, under the influence of these Bitters, the rule is to cure, the rare exception, failure to cure.
Read the following, which the subscriber requests us to publish for the benefit of the afflicted:
An Obstinate and Inveterate Case of DYSPEPSIA Cured by the Oxygenated Bitters.
The following, from a gentleman well known in the region in which he lives, ought to satisfy all those of little faith:
WATERTOWN, Y., July 28, 1858.
S. W. FOWLE & Co., Boston: SIRS-Nine years since, I was attacked by that curse of all diseases, Dyspepsia, which so affected me as to cause great oppression, fulness, and bloating of the bowels immediately after eating, accompanied with terrible pains in the stomach, often occasioning nausea, vomiting, acidity, and headache, together with general debility and suffering, altogether rendering life a burden.
After having tried every known remedy without effect, and despairing of ever regaining my lost health, I was induced to make use of the Oxygenated Bitters, the good effects of which were immediately visible on my health and system. Before using a whole bottle, I was entirely cured; and I feel a pleasure in inducing all like sufferers as myself to make use of this remarkable remedy.
THEO. CALDWELL.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. March 25-4tis

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) term of this thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 4th, and continue ten weeks. For Circulars, containing full information, address
W. S. HAYWOOD, Principals.
A. S. HAYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., April 4, 1859.

The Boston Investigator
WILL commence its Twenty-Ninth Volume on the 27th of April, in quarto form, and as heretofore, will be devoted to the promotion of Universal Mental Liberty, and opposed to every form of Priestcraft and Superstition, whether under the guise of Modern Theology, or the pretensions of an ancient Divine Revelation. HORACE SEAVER, Esq., Editor. Now is the time to subscribe. Price, $2.00 a year. Address J. P. MENDUM, 45 Cornhill, Boston, Mass. A8 3t

MY PRICED
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE
-OF-
Choice Fruit and Flowering Trees,
SHRUBS, EVERGREENS, ROSES. BEDDING-OUT PLANTS, &Is now ready, and will be mailed to any ad-Mass. Carriage of packages paid to Boston, or New York. M. B. WATSON,
Old Colony Nurseries, Plymouth Mass. March 18-6wis

FARMS.
GENTLEMEN who wish to purchase Farms, or have Farms which they wish to sell or exchange for property in Boston or vicinity, would do well to call on the subscriber, as he has superior means of effecting sales. R. A. WILIAMS,
No. 4 Wilson's Lane, Room No. 6.March 11-3w 

John Quincy Adams.
JUST PUBLISHED, by, BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield Street, Boston, in one large handsome octavo volume of 459 pages,' Twelve Messages from the Spirit,' through Joseph D. Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy in the peculiar handwriting of Mr. Adams.
This unique work contains the autographs of Mr. Abigail Adams, and George Washington-first, as recorded by themselves when in the body-and second, as written by them through mediumistic agency.
Price $1,50. Jan 9
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the liberator.
THE ONLY SLAVE NATION.
Alone, Yes, alone on the pages
Of History America stands;
Alone, as a mark to all ages,
Stands the nation that Slavery brands.
When shein the annals of story
Might lead of all nations the van,
Might stand on the summit of glory,
Why shrinks she from History's ban!
The tribes of the earth are all waiting
To see the great nation awake
In its strength, and leave all debating,
The slaveholders' letters to break.
Oh, where are America's preachers,
So silent when Slavery cries?
Oh, where are her lecturers, teachers?
preachers, lecturers, teachers, arise!
There are some who already are pleaders
For justice, for truthfor the slave:
Join, join ye the ranks of these leaders!
Hasten also the wretched to save!
Oh! that 'neath the Atlantic's blue waters,
Where the bones of their drowned brothers bleach'
America's freed sons and daughters
Sunk their chains deep below plummet's reach!
And America, crowned with glory,
For justice and truth nobly brave,
Stand high on the pages of story,
For breaking the chains of the slave.
Tenterden, (England.) JANE ASHBY.
From the New York Independent.
PIERCE BUTLER'S SLAVE SALE.
Who would not be in Savannah to-day?
Out by the Race-Coursethere is the play
The edies, comedies, all together
Shaking hands in the wild March weather. 
There are hundreds of actors, the programmes tell,
And some at each scene are to say farewell;
<illegible>me, 'twill be a marvellous play,
For this is Pierce Butler's Benefit' day.
Mark them! See with what eager eyes
They watch and wait till the curtain rise
Some from the rice-fields broad and green,
That stretch the swamp and the shore between,
And some from St. Simon's Isle that lies
A league away where the land breeze dies;
St. Simon's Isle, where the sea-wave flows,
And the fairest and finest cotton grows.
Parents and children, every one,
Have toiled for others since life begun;
But then, each man at his cabin door
Could sit in peace when his work was o'er,
And the same roof covered them all, though slaves,
And the same moon rose on their fathers' graves,
And they laughed and sung, and hoped to rest
One day in the soil which their young feet prest.
What does it mean that they tremble here,
Waiting the call of the auctioneer:?
Scanned and handled and led about
As if they were brutes at a market rout?
What does it mean? 'Tis a common tale-
Their master's funds were about to fail;
Mister Pierce Butler has debts to pay,
And this, good friends, is the only way.
Generous souls! For his lordly sake
They ought to be willing their hearts should break,
And rejoice to be anywhere, anyhow sold,
To fill his coffers with needful gold!
For what is the grief of such as these,
Compared to a gentleman's moneyed ease?
And then, when the little arrangement's made.
And he feels quite sure 'twas a gaining trade,
He'll give them a dollar! that will heal
Every sorrow a slave can feel-
Scores for the master, and one for his tool-
Thus he'll follow the Golden Rule,
That reads, To others I'll do what I see
Will bring the most money to mine and me!'
Eleven o'clock, and the sale begins,
Now the best man is the man who wins
Hand and brain at the lowest price,
For his fields of cotton and cane and rice.
Buyers are there from the far Southwest
To the Georgian isles on the ocean's breast,
And from Florida jungles gay with vines
North to the woods of the Carolines;
And higher and higher the bidding goes,
And wilder without the March wind blows,
As one and another, faint with fear,
Are led to the block, their doom to hear.
There is Elisha, with children and wife,
O, how anxiously watching the strife! 
A mild-faced man in the crowd they spy,
Can he not, will he not, all of them buy?
And he weeps and pleads, but the man denies,
For he sees where a closer bargain lies,
And their courage sinks, and their tears come fast,-
But what of this! When the sale is past,
They'll have a dollar! and that will heal
Every sorrow a slave can feel-
Scores for the master, and one for his tool-
Thus is followed the Golden Rule.
That reads, 'To others I'll do what I see
Will bring the most money to mine and me!'
The wind blew strong, and the rain was cold,
And Daphney's babe was but two weeks old,
And, to guard them both from the driving storm,
A shawl was over her trembling form;
'Off with it! What is the matter?'. they shout;
And the jest and the oath are passed about,
And she droops and shivers, and wonders why
It was not hers and her child's to die.
But what of this? When the sale is done,
And the papers are signed, and the profits won,
She'll have a dollar! and that will heal
Every sorrow a slave can feel-
Scores for the master, and one for his tool-
Thus is followed the Golden Rule,
That reads, 'To others I'll do what I see
Will bring the most money to mine and me!
Jeffrey has neither father nor mother,
But Jeffrey and Dorcas love each other,
With a love that never can change or fail,
And he tells his master the simple tale,
And begs him to buy her with earnest tone-
But Dorcas cannot be sold alone:
He goes to the swamp lands, drearily parted,
And she to the cotton-fields,-broken-hearted!
But what of this, Tis a trifling thing;
Did they not excellent prices bring?
Give them a dollar! that will heal
Every sorrow a slave can feel-
Scores for the master, and one for his tool-
Thus is followed the Golden Rule,
That reads, 'To others I'll do what I see
Will bring the most money to mine and me!'
<illegible> they follow them, one and all,
Till none are left in the farthest stall-
The play is over, the farewells said,
The curtain dropped, and the actors fled;
And the stars shine out, and the breeze goes by,
Sweet with the bloom of the fruit-trees nigh. 
A hundred <illegible> dark and still.
And the wind and the moonlight may work their will,
For those who sat by the open door
Will never return to its shelter more!
But this is nothing-their master paid
For all the ruin and wreck he made;-
Each had a dollar! and that will heal
Every sorrow a slave can feel-
Scores for the master, and one for his tool,
Thus he followed the Golden Rule,
<c02>
That reads, 'To others I'll do what I see
Will bring the most money to mine and me!'
God of the weak and the poor! how long
Shall their cries be drowned in the victor's song,
And body and brain and heart be sold
For the white man's ease and the white man's gold?
Hast thou not heard them? Dost thou not say,
There shall come at the last a grander play,
When the searching Eye shall the actors see,
And Love the coin of the realm shall be?
Woe to those who've but gold that day,
When the vengeance is thine, and thou wilt repay!
DEAN.
The Liberator.
THE TREATMENT OF ELDER SHILTEY BY
HIS RELIGIOUS BRETHREN.
[Extract from an Unpublished Anti-Slavery Work.]
Cuttlefield is a beautiful little village about twelve miles distant from the city of B- It has the regular number of meeting-houses deemed necessary to represent the state of religion, and complete the symmetry of a country village, in this enlightened age. In the largest temple, a convention has just assembled -a prayer has been offered, and a President chosen. The settlement of preliminary matters consumed the greater part of the day; it being very necessary to have it well understood who were, and who were not, members proper- having, or not having, a right to vote. A goodly number were allowed, as Christian brethren, to participate in the deliberations, but not to vote upon any question that might come before the body. Among the disfranchised was Elder Shiltey, who represented no church in particular, and was not furnished with the missive ending with, 'Done by order of the church.' Things progressed in apparent harmony until the opening of the session on the second day, when the subject brought up for discussion was, the terms of membership in a new missionary enterprise about to be organized. The clerk read:-Resolved, That any person paying into the treasury the sum of-a year, shall be considered a regular member of this Society.
'I move  the adoption of the resolution defining the terms of membership,' said Dr. Groos.
'I object,'said Elder Shiltey,' because the resolution makes no distinction of character. The rumseller, prostitute, or even the slaveholder may become members, and fellow-laborers in this Society, with the professed disciples of Christ. I object to such fellow-workers in the cause of God and human redemption. First objection-Because God hates robbery for a burnt-offering. Second-Because the reception of money, knowingly obtained by crime, makes the receiver a partaker in guilt. And third-Because we may not rebuke the sinner while we fellowship the sin. I will have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, and therefore object to the terms of membership.'
When Mr. Shiltey took his seat, there was silence in the meeting for half a moment, when a brother of goodly presence arose and said, 'Men and brethren, I was sorry, very sorry, to hear the remarks made by our, good brother Shiltey. There are some dear brethren very unfortunately constituted, who can only see through one pair of specks, and they happen to be of a very magnifying and telescopic character, looking far  beyond Mason and  Dixon's line, and swelling mole-hills into mountains.' 
'My telescopic spects look further,' said Shiltey,' away, far away, beyond every geographical line, into the profound deeps of the eternal world. The day of doom, the judgment-seat of Christ, is the limit and boundary of my vision.'
The interrupted speaker did not sit down, but, looking at his watch, said, I move that there be no further discussion on the article defining the terms of membership, and that a vote be now taken.'
'Again, I object 'said Shiltey: this question ought to be fully and fairly discussed. For one, I wish to know whether slavery be considered sinful by the churches and ministry of the free North, or whether it is sanctioned. I wish to know if we may, without guilt, knowingly receive the price of blood to sustain the ministry, and help convert the heathen.
'Brother Shiltey,' said the Moderator, 'you are a little excited upon this subject. I am persuaded, when you think more calmly on the matter, you will withdraw all your objections. You cannot be ignorant, Br. Shiltey, of the anti-slavery  character and position of the northern church. I presume there is not a single brother present who is not an Abolitionist  at heart.' "Not one, said a dozen members at once.' I presume there is not a church represented here to-day that is not an anti-slavery body. Not one,' was again heard from all parts of the house.' 'I presume we all love the slave as sincerely as our good brother Shiltey, and if it be sinful to love the master, some of us must plead guilty. The fact is, we are all Abolitionists; we only differ upon minor points,  such as the most proper mode of managing the evil. Now I think the best way to keep men from doing wrong is to get them into the way of doing right. Should we close the door against the funds of the -slaveholder, -prevent him from doing good with his money, -then, the evil he would do with that money would in some sense rest upon us; so it appears to me. Besides all this, I do believe in my heart that there are a great number of liberal- hearted and devoted Christians all over the South, whose membership would do honor to any society. If a mysterious providence has forced upon them the evils of slavery, we ought rather to sympathize with than to denounce them.'
'God never forced any man to trample upon his brother, and rob him of all on earth, and all in heaven,' said Elder Shiltey. 'It is a libel upon Jehovah.'
'I have a letter in my pocket,' said the Moderator, 'from a very dear and worthy brother, now travelling at the South, as agent of-Society. I will just read a short paragraph. He says-" I spent the night with a deeply pious member of Dr.-'s church, a man who greatly loves the cause of our common Master. In the morning, he carried me over his extensive plantation. My mind went back to paradise of old, while viewing the beautiful fields and groves of this Eden, blooming in all the summer glory of flower and fruit. But. the most lovely spot of all-at least to my eye-was about two acres carefully enclosed and highly cultivated, not for show, but for profit. This, said the worthy proprietor, is the Lord's portion, -the Lord's consecrated field. This is the best land on the whole plantation, and I cultivate it with great care, giving the yearly proceeds for the adrancement of the Redeemer's kingdom among the dark and dying nations of the earth.'
'Now,' said the Moderator, folding up the letter, 'I would ask brother Shiltey what objections he can bring to the reception of such a man's money? Sureiy, that man is a Christian.'
'Does the writer inform you who ploughs, plants and reaps the Lord's field?' said Mr. Shiltey. 'If he gives any light upon that point, I may be more able to determine respecting the pious brother's piety. Is that field cultivated carefully under the lash of the driver, who may manage the plantation of this humane master and model Christian? Or does the pious brother plough and plant with his own hands, or pay the hire of the laborer? Does your correspondent throw any light on this part of the subject?'
'My correspondent,' replied the Moderator with some warmth, 'went South, I presume, to attend to the business of his mission, and not to furnish texts for Abolitionists.'
'Very likely,' said Shiltey. 'But he has furnished a text from which many a pro-slavery sermon will be preached, and many an editortal wrtiten. Such com-
<c03>
munications are too valuable to remain a mere matter of private correspondence. Let me ask, however, what you would have us to understand by this extract? Are we to wink at the damuing sin of slavery, provided the avails are given for missionary purposes? Is it the doctrine of the church that evil may be done in order that good may come?'
'Brethren,' said the Moderator, 'the business of this convention cannot, and shall not, be interrupted in the manner. Will some brother more?'
Deacon Carpo said,'I am sorry that things have taken just such a turn, but I have feared it all along; and in looking at the matter pro and con, I would move the adoption of the article without further debate. I don't care,' said the deacon, 'how much anti-slavery we are among ourselves; but we must be careful, and not let our good be evil spoken of. I love brother Shiltey, but would be glad to see him a little more careful. I think we had better move on in Christian harmony with the regular business of the meeting. Slavery will be done away, by and by, whoever lives to see it. The good Lord, in his own time, will make all things right; and I hope he will overrule the doings of this meeting to his own name's glory, I do.'
'I am sorry,' said Dr. Groos, 'for Mr. Shiltey, and for the course he has thought proper to adopt in this meeting. I think it unbrotherly, and very disrespectful to the feelings of many present. I think the good brother might very properly be reprimanded for the introduction of matter entirely foreign to the; business before this convention. You are well aware, brother moderator, that a set of reckless abolition wolves made sad work among the sheep of Christ's fold, devouring and scattering. Those men went about like fiery-flying serpents, denouncing every, one who might not choose to fiery- fly with them. The friends of Zion wept between the porch and the altar; and it was soon evident that the Lord hearkened to the voice of their supplications. Some of those disturbers of Israel are no more; some are become open and avowed infidels; while others have slunk back into their original insignificance. Well, sir, the true friends of God and the slave stood firm, and were guided by more than human wisdom to adopt measures that calmed the storm, and gave peate to Zion. We passed resolutions, wisely framed, in our conventions, associations and synods, which soon produced nearly perfect stillness amid the vast membership of our churches; and for the last few years, even resolutions have not been called for. I have examined, within a few days, the minutes of forty-seven Associations, all dated inside of eighteen months, and while I find many resolutions against intemperance, Sabbath-breaking, Sunday mails, dancing, and other sins, I find only two short bungling scraps against slavery. All this, sir, shows a hopeful state of things -shows that the churches are getting to be sound and healthy upon this subject. I would say to brother Shiltey, he has begun too late in the day to throw abolition fire-brands, arrows and death, into the camp of Israel. I know he may have some few sympathizers yet; but he must be worse than blind if he does not know that the great body of the evangelical ministry is against him, and the most pious of our churches will not tolerate abolition preaching. I am told that our good brother himself is not at present the pastor of any church. I could tell him of twenty more abolition preachers who are hors due combat.
'But I rose to speak on the terms of membership. The article that has been objected to is the same, substantially, that is adopted by all the associated benevolent enterprises of the day.  Our missionary societies, home and foreign, our Bible and tract societies, all follow the same rule, as far as membership is concerned. And, sir, I would add, it is a proper rule,
founded in true wisdom; for all the silver and the gold belong to the Lord, wherever and with whomsoever it may be found. It is the Lord's money, sir, and if found in the hands of Satan himself, I should get hold of it, if I could, without smelling round I about it for fear of brimstone. I advocate the adoption of the article; and if every slaveholder in the South should become connected with this society, I say, Amen, -bring on the Lord's money.'
'Amen,' said the moderator, and Amen,' said twenty more; and the Doctor took his seat, feeling that he had done his duty.
In the midst of some confusion, Elder Shiltey again took the floor, and said: 'I have listened with attention and interest to the speech of Doctor Groos. He has given a graphic and truthful description of the present position of both church and ministry; they are just what he represents them to be, with here and there an exception. On some points, however, I think he is mistaken. It is not true that all societies make their terms of membership the same as that contemplated by the article now under consideration. There is certainly one exception. The terms of membership in the Free Mission Society are very different, none being received but such as are of acknowledged Christian character, and are not slaveholders nor rum sellers, but believe that slavery, under all circumstances, is sin, and treat it accordingly.'
'Does that society require a treasurer?' said Dr. Groos.
'Yes, 'replied Shiltey, 'does Dr. Groos want an office? A Free Mission office might not meet his expectation; the pickings are poor; the slaveholder cannot throw into its treasury a little negro, now and then, to help its funds.'
'I call the gentleman to order,' said Dr. Groos.
'Order, order, 'shouted half a dozen at once.
'I am not out of order, 'said Shiltey. 'I simply answered the brother's question, as plainly as I could. Gentlemen should never ask questions, if they don't wish to have them answered. I repeat, this Society cannot receive the price of negro blood to pay its officers, or convert the heathen.'
'Brother Shiltey will please to sit down,' said the moderator. 'Such language cannot be tolerated. Will some brother move?'
'Brother moderator, with leave of the chair,' said Rev. Mr. Pulper, 'I would ask Mr. Shiltey a few questions, that I am not afraid to hear answered. Are you, Mr. Shiltey, the pastor of any church, at the present time?'
'No, sir.'
'Was you dismissed, or did you resign?'
'Dismissed, sir, by the voice and vote of the chief rulers of the synagogue.' 
'Will Br. Shiltey please to state the cause of his dismission?'
'Because I called upon all men to repent, and bring forth fruit meet for repentance, by breaking every yoke, and letting the oppressed go free. Such preaching was considered unprofitable, and calculated to destroy the peace and prosperity of Zion.'
'A pretty serious charge, brother Shiltey. The peace of Zion ought to be sought for, and labored for, by all her watchmen. Br. Shiltey, we are all your. friends; we love you, and I understand you are like most ministers, a poor man. Now, if we could find you another church, a new field of labor, do you think you could promise to'
'To wear the chain?' said Shiltey.
'What chain?'
'The inglorious chain of the lower and the lowest law-the infamous chain, that binds to blood-guiltyness two-thirds of the American church-the damning chain that is dragging down to a dark destiny a hypocritical nation. Do you understand, now, what chain I mean?'
'Why attempt to reason with a tornado? 'said Dr. Groos. 'The man has got but one idea; no wonder he was an unprofitable preacher. I should not feel justified in recommending him to any church. I have no desire to become, a partaker in other men's sins,' 
'Only when the blackest sin on the whole catalogue is concerned, 'retorted Mr. Shiltey. 'Let not the brother give himself any trouble on my account-I can dig.'
<c04>
'This discussion must stop, right where it is,' said the moderator, in a pretty decided tone.' Will some brother move?'
'I move the adoption of the article under consideration,' said Dr. Groos. About twenty seconded the motion, and the terms of membership were settled by a strong vote.
During the afternoon session, many resolutions were received and adopted, strongly denouncing various sins and shortcomings. Deacon Carpo said, as resolution after resolution was being adopted-'Thank the Lord for that blow! That makes the old adversary reae! That tells upon the kingdom of darkness!'!
'The old adversary,' said Mr. Shiltey, and his lip curled, we will not say with contempt, but something like it,' the old adversary understands this game. Conventional resolutions don't frighten him at all. The fact is, the devil loves this kind of blows; they make him strong, and advance his kingdom. Dr. Groos has told us that, by the passing of resolutions, the anti-slavery spirit of the church has been blotted out, while the sin which called forth that spirit grows stronger and more terrible every day. Pass your resolutions,' continued Shiltey, and give each member a copy, so. that when the Judge shall say,I was hungry, naked, and in prison," you shall say, 'Here is a resolution we passed, that you ought to be fed, clothed and visited; have we not done well? are we not good and faithful servants?" If the apostle James should happen to be present at the time, he might say something aboutfaith and works.'"
'Brother moderator,' said Dr. Groos, ' it is a great misfortune to have a mind diseased. Dogs bark at the moon, and yet onward she shines in her path of beauty, cheering the benighted traveller, and flooding the world with an ocean of silvery light. Yes, Mr. Moderator, onward she moves; and onward moves the sacramental host, preparing the way for the glory of the Lord to cover the earth as the waters cover the sea." I would say, in the language of the apostle, 'Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing." I therefore offer the following resolution: Resolved, That with the Bible in our hands, and the light of the nineteenth century pouring in upon our minds, we are still unable to discover that slavery is a sin per se," but would rather view it as one of those mysterious allotments of a wise providence, that may only be understood by the issue. And be it further Resolved, That we have no sympathy with the disorganizing spirit of ultra Abolitionism, which, while seeking to secure a doubtful good to the few, would quench the hopes and happiness of the many.'
The resolution was quickly moved, seconded, and adopted by a large majority.
'I rejoice,' said Rev. Mr. Pulper, 'that so great a degree of harmony prevails, -that so many manifest a growing desire for the peace of Zion, and the good, the best good of the human family. But,' he added, 'I am sorry that there should be found here one dissenting voice, -that there should be found a single man in this honorable body bent on self-destruction. A minister's reputation is something like a bell; a small crack will spoil the tone for ever. Our good! brother Shiltey, I fear, like a great many others, has'-
'Cracked the bell,' said Shiltey", by preaching truth.'
'There is a way of preaching the truth in love,' said Pulper.
'I know it,' replied Shiltey, 'and a way of preaching only truth that it loved. I have not so learned Christ.'
'Brother Shiltey, I cannot allow  this  disorderly conversation to be carried on. You have spoiled your prospects, and usefulness in the ministry. I fear, Still, we would try to do you good. If,' he added, after a pause,' if you would only'-
'If I would only work in the chain-gang.'
'You have a family, Mr. Shiltey.'
'For which I thank God,' said Shiltey.
'They require bread.'
'And the Lord has promised to provide.'
'He hath a devil,' whispered the careful Deacon Carpo, 'why hear ye him?'
'I move an adjournment,' said Dr. Groos.
'Resolutions being very much approved of,' said Mr. Shiltey, 'I would beg leave to offer one or two more, and would move their adoption without discussion:-Resolved, That we, as Christians, look with horror upon the dark and damning sin of slavery, and will, by every righteous means, seek its entire overthrow.'
This resolution was quickly laid on the table, never to be taken from it.
'I have another,' said Shiltey. 'Resolved, That as Christians, we look with pleasure upon the mysterious, Heaven-appointed institution of slavery, and will labor to let it alone, until the purpose of God in its establishment be fully known.' 
'A gross insult, Mr. Moderator, a gross insult,' said Mr. Pulper. 'I move, sir, that this maniac be expelled. I know what is due to myself. I did not come here to be insulted.'
'Nor I to insult, 'said Mr. Shiltey. I'am here determined, if possible, to act in harmony with the brethren. I offered a resolution that was promptly laid on the table,-the same as rejected; from this circumstance, it was natural for me to suppose that something of an opposite character would readily be received. I therefore presented a second resolution, directly the antipodes of the first, for which I am charged with a design, to insult this body. I have piped, and you won't dance; I have mourned, and you won't lament. Will brethren tell me what I must do to please? Slavery must, indeed, be a peculiar institution: if you condemn it, you are blamed; if you praise it, you are condemned. Will some good brother tell me how the strange thing must be handled?'
'Carefully, carefully,' said Deacon Carpo; it cannot be handled at all, with safety to the church; it must be let alone in the hands of God; it is too dangerous an element for poor weak flesh and blood to meddle with. Brethren, you see what it has done here to- day in raising bad feelings, and disturbing the peace of Zion. Now, do take my advice, brethren, and let the thing alone altogether. We can all have our thoughts upon the subject, but up let us follow after things that make for peace. Our strength, as saith the prophet, is to sit still.' Just be careful and say nothing and by and by the Lord will bless his people, for he hath spoken good concerning Israel.'
'Amen,' said the moderator. 'It is moved that we adjourn.'
'I have one more request to make,' said Mr. Shiltey, and not for myself. I wish to lay before this convention of ministers, deacons and laymen, the painful circumstances in which the worthy daughter of a New England clergyman is placed, by the natural workings of the patriarchal institution. The father of the lady of whom I speak was for a long life the true rand tried friend of the church and of the rising ministry. He was known to many in this assembly, and his ashes rest within sight of this church, 'continued the Elder, taking a letter from his pocket, 'whose husbands is now confined in a Southern jail,
for obedience to the commands of the great Head of the Church, -for feeding the hungry, and giving shelter to the outcast. This beloved sister, this wife and mother, is plunged into deep sorrow. She writes, imploring Christian sympathy and aid on behalf of her imprisoned husband. I will read her letter'-
'If the letter,' said Mr. Groos, 'be a communication addressed to this convention, or in any way connected with the business of this meeting. I would move it be read and referred. But, if it be simply a part of Dr. Shiltey's private correspondence, I think
<c05>
the reading would be out of order, as something not connected with the business of this meeting.'
'I agree with brother Groos,' said Mr. Pulper,'if we have any thing to do with Mr. Shiltey's correspondence, if it is any matter with which this convention has to do, I, of course, am willing the letter should be read.'
'The letter,' said Mr. Shiltey,' has some connection with the religion of the Bible, -the cause of Christ, -the well-being of poor suffering humanity; but,; really, I cannot affirm that it has much connection with the business of this convention.'
Mr. Shiltey was about to read, when a vote was called, and the meeting adjourned, sines die.
INDIAN AID ASSOCIATION. 
BELOVED FRIEND, WM. L. GARRISON:
The maligners of the anti-slavery agitation used to call us men and women of one idea; but facts have proved that there is no real reform in the land that Abolitionists, like the primitive rock, which is found at the peaks of the mountains and the bottom of the sea, are not found at the alpha and omega of it. I often say to our friends who have withdrawn from the old order of Friends, and instituted the infinitely broader and more catholic association of Progressive Friends, that we are indebted to the anti-slavery reformation, as our blessed mother. Well, I only took the pen in accordance with instructions to send the Liberator a brief report of an Indian Aid Association.
Pursuant to public notice, a large convention assembled at Longwood, Chester county, Pa., on the 13th of the 3d mo., 1859, for the purpose of hearing the venerable John, Beeson explain the plan of the American Indian Aid Association, for the prevention of the utter annihilation of the Aborigines of America.
After an able address from the speaker, who has visited the Indians even as far West as the basin of the Rocky Mountains, sat with  them around their camp-fires, and listened to their expressions of grief at the treatment they are receiving at the hands of the white man, the Convention united in appointing the following Committee, for the purpose of cooperating with the Indian Aid Associations in New York and Philadelphia, and to call other conventions when they deem it necessary to do so, viz:-Lewis Marshall, Joseph A. Dugdale, Simon Barnard, William P. Tomlinson, Mary P. Wilson, Lizzie M'Farlan, Ruth Dugdale and Ellie T. Mendenhall.
The meeting was briefly addressed by William P. Tomlinson, of Bucks county, late Kansas correspondent of the New York Tribune. He depicted some touching scenes of outrage committed by border-ruffians on the defenceless Indians, and also spoke of the hospitalities he had himself experienced at their hands, while a wandering stranger in the wilds of the West. Several interrogatories were submitted to friend Beeson by persons present, all of which were satisfactorily answered.
His object, and that of the Association, is to inform the public mind in regard to the Indians, to insure such action on the part of the government as will tend  to their preservation. That instead of permitting the horrible atrocities which have been recently perpetrated upon many of the tribes who are far advanced in civilization, they shall receive the protection of law; and that to rob and murder an Indian shall be punishable in the same manner as though the crime was committed on an American citizen.
Friend Beeson anticipates holding conventions during the summer in New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore, to be addressed by delegates from the Indian tribes, in order that the injured red man may speak for himself, and make a final appeal for justice to the 'American people.
During the winter, we held a large and highly instructive Anti-Slavery Convention at Longwood, and were visited on the occasion by Lucretia Mott and J. M. McKim, who did excellent service to the cause. We have had quite a revival also on the subject of Temperance. Our Quarterly Meeting of Progressive Friends appointed a Committee, who held several meetings, and finally passed it over into the hands of the people, who are now holding conventions in the surrounding country. Thus reforms are held together by golden links, and the chain is fastened to the throne of the dear God, who is drawing us all closer and closer to His own heart.
Hastily, but very truly, thy friend,
JOSEPH A. DUGDALE.
Longwood, Chester co., Pa., 3d mo. 28, 1859.
A SOUTH-SIDE VIEW OF ESSEX-STREET 
PULPIT.
Mr. Choate's recent endorsement of Rev. Nehemiah Adams's position on the slavery question elicits comments from various quarters. It is hard to believe that at this day, when all Christendom is discussing the enormities of American slavery, a clergyman can be found in Boston to accept commendations bestowed upon him because of his silence in the pulpit upon this giant sin of the people-the' sum of all villanies.' But, alas! such is the fact. If, however, Mr. Choate lauds this omission as a virtue, the enlightened conscience of the people eondemns Mr. Adams for his many sins of commission out of the pulpit, in various ways; not the least of which was his publication, ' A South-side View of Slavery,' containing chapters apologizing for and sanctioning the system, abounding with sentiments revolting to humanity, and at war with every requirement of Christianity. For instance, he says, ' Let us not insist that the slaves shall never be separated, nor their families broken up.' Would not this Christian pastor insist against his family being broken up? If not, is he not worse than an infidel, for not providing for his own household? And if he would not thus defend them from slaveholding lust and avarice, and resist the claims of others, does he not reject the New Testament injunction, ' Inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye did it not unto me'?
But it is not our present intention to cull out and comment upon the pro-slavery passages in his book, though they are plenty as' leaves in Valambrosa. 'If Mr. Choate bears truthful testimony in regard to the 25 years' pulpit service of Mr. Adams in Boston, (and no worse thing can be said in this connection than that the tribute is too well deserved,) the lamentable fact is well illustrated by an anecdote I heard, when a boy, told by a colored man of an itinerant preacher who carried every thing with him but religion and money. A colored anti-slavery lecturer, now deceased- Andrew Jackson-once said,' A minister who can preach and pray twelve months without speaking for the slave, must be college made, money called, and devil sent.' I commend the saying of this colored prophet, once a slave in Kentucky, to the admirers of south-side views of slavery. W. C. N .
Boston, April, 1859.
THE NATURE OF THE CHIMECRIME.
What slavery, war and alcohol do to men, women and children, they do to God, in the same sense in which the Jews did to God what they did to Christ. Is this true? When the Jews crucified Christ, they crucified God. So says Christendom. I am willing to accept it. God was' manifest in the flesh,' or' made flesh and dwelt among men in Christ.' In the sama sense, though it may be not to the same extent, is not' God made manifest in the flesh,' made flesh and dwells among us,' in every slave, and in every man and woman? I believe He is. What the church and clergy, the politics and religion of the land do to the slave, do they not do to God, just as the Jews did to God what they did to Christ? I think they do. So war, drunkenness, and every wrong done to man, woman or child, is done to God. in the same senses When the slave is tied up and scourged, sold and hunted, God is tied Up, scourged, sold and hunted, in the same sense in which God was crucified in the crucifixion of Christ.
<c06>
Why, then, are the people of New England so horrified at the Indignities and outrages done by the Jews to Christ, and yet so utterly indifferent to the indignities and outrages they themselves do to the slave, and to men, women and children by war and alcohol? Simply because they do not associate God with the slave, and with living men and women, as they do with the dead Nazarene; for, as a visible presence of God, Jesus is dead. His spirit and his principles live, and will live for ever, though, in the hearts of few, and that few branded is infidels. So far as Christ lives, as a law of life, to most of his followers, he lives but to sanction the crimes of slavery and war, he lives but to sustain the and perpetuate every wrong  and outrage. As a stimulant to truth, justice, mercy, love and foriveness, he is dead, and laid in the sepulchare. He is called forth by the church and clergy and government but to act as a hangman, a slave-trader, a slvaedriver, a slave-hunter, and as the Commander-in-Chief of the armies and navies of Christendom.
H. C. W.
FOR WHAT PURPOSE TO BE USED.
In the Massachusetts House of Representatives, the bill for a new regiment being under consideration, Mr. Hincklcy, of Barnstable, proposed the following novel amendment:-
Sec. 8. Whenever it shall appear to the commander of such regiment, battalion or any company therein,  upon an affidavit duly subscribed and sworn to, whether by an atheist or otherwise, that any person has been arrested on the ground that such person owes labor or service to any other person as a slave and is to be tried, or has been tried, and is held in arrest under the laws of Congress for the rendition of persons escaping from slavery, it shall be the duty of such commander, forthwith and without delay, to muster into service such regiment, battalion or company, and forthwith to march to the rescue of any person so arrested or held; and for this purpose said regiment, battalion or company shall have power, and it shall be their duty under the orders of their commanders, to surround or enter any place, or place, or if need be demolish any structure within the justification of the Commonwealth, wherein such person may be ascertained to be, and to take any measures or do any act which may be deemed necessary for the rescue of such person; and when such person shall have been rescued, he shall he protected and  escorted by such military force, and he delivered up to the supreme Judicial Court of the Commonwealth for trial by jury, according to the Constitution of the United States and the laws of this Commonwealth.
Sec. 9. Any officer, commanding or otherwise, who shall neglect or refuse to perform the duties required by the preceding section, shall be imprisoned in the State Prison for not less than one year, and any private so refusing, not less than six months.
Sec. 10. The military force provided for by this act shall be known as the' Guards of Freedom.'
The question recurring on the passage of the bill to be engrossed, it was rejected by a vote of 104 to 51. So the bill, which had passed to its third reading in the Senate, was lost.
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to a produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para sara parilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFLOUS COMPLAINTS ERUPTIONS AND ERITTONS AND ERCUPTIVEERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCHES, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALED HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCRIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NERALOGLA OR TIC DOULOURECX, DERILITY, DUSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ESTSIPE. LAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expuision of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spart themselves from the endurance of foul empties and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse cut the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleaning the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarasparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of a Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and chest. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intened to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken recording to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unncessary for us to recout the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughtout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Constivenness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Ersipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin diseasesDiseases, Liver Compalint, Dorpsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rhetus, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cants per Pox; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYERS'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO.,
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING,}Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m May!
J. B. YERRINTON & SON,
PRINTERS;
21 Cornhill-. BOSTON.

