THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 11. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1675.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
ABOLITION BLASPHEMY.
The Boston Courier endeavors in vain, by constant ejection, to relieve itself of its superabounding proslavery venom. Here is the latest discharge:-
Beecher and Cheever blaspheme, and the whole <illegible> of anti-slavery zealots, whether in prose or verse, outrage the very elementary principles of Christian faith and doctrine, by their extravagant and impracticable theories, and by their wilful refusal to submit to the will of Heaven. Since the word of God furnishes no countenance for their foolhardy and wicked attempts to change the social state of millions of human beings, by carnage and the commission of the whole dark catalogue of crime, they either reject entirely the revealed counsel of God, or wrest it to their views. The first class are avowed infidels, like multitudes in the abolition ranks; or they make a God for themselves, to be the exponent, not of his decrees, but of their own desires, in as true a sense as the ancient Pagan had his idols to represent his own depraved appetites, or as the African of to-day creates the object of his grovelling worship out of the bones of inferior animals, and clay, and rags. And it is only too true of many of those of a higher class of sentiment, among the devotees of anti-slavery delusions, that their religion, if they possess any, is not that of Christ, but would have become them just as truly if they had lived in the old heathen times, and had worshipped at the shrines of Apollo, Mars and Venus, or even now, if they bowed in the temples of Hindoo devotion. In a word, their religion is not that which has lifted “a world lying in wickedness” to the standard of Christian civilization, and by disciplining, purifying, and elevating the spiritual nature of man, has
“Raised a mortal to the skies,”
but it is one that marks the retrograde progress of the race, and its lapse into the vices and crimes of a barbarous age.
Take, for example, those lines of the verses of Dr. Holmes, which have been bruited abroad through abolition newspapers, with glowing eulogiums, as we believe they were first pronounced by the writer himself, at some public gathering, and received with indiscriminating applause. No matter whether it refers to slavery-a species of service which has existed unrebuked, and sometimes has been specially warranted, under every biblical dispensation-or to the rebellion, in relation to which we may say, that the Lord did not always give the victory to his chosen people; but, on the other hand, frequently rebuked their sins and vain-gloryings by giving them up to defeat and slaughter by his enemies and their own-the idea of the lines in question is simply impious. It says in terms, “We cannot of ourselves ‘strangle the monster,’ and if thou, Lord, do not do it for us, the very gospel of peace proclaimed for us from Heaven is a mockery.” Shall vain and mortal man-
“Rejudge his justice-be the god of God!”
Referring to the liberation and employment of the slaves of rebels by the Government, the Courier raves in this crazy manner:-
Apart from the natural repulsiveness of the measure, and its contemptible meanness, it may well be characterized as “the sum of all villanies.” To pursue the “policy,” as now authorized by the War Department, and commended by the abolition press, is an enormity of unparalleled magnitude, before which all other crimes in the history of mankind sink into comparative insignificance. It will lose us our cause, if pursued, and expose us justly to the contempt, as well as the execrations of the whole human race. It cannot be carried out;-but if the revolting sentiment and principle of the North did not rise up against it, and hurl the perpetrators of such an infernal outrage from their stools, we might well expect the vengeance of an offended Heaven, perhaps to make the now smiling North as desolate as the “Cities of the Plain.”

THE NEW YORK ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
One of the smallest and snuggest institutions in the land is the New York Anti-Slavery Society. The audiences are invariably small, the speakers are not giants intellectually, and everything is on the most limited scale, except the opinions which the orators entertain of themselves, and the impudence with which they set up doctrines for the guidance of the rest of mankind. The session of this society just held at Albany, seems to have been fully up to the old standard, judging from the reports that have reached us. The speakers, whose names are known to us, are the same men and women that have harangued to diminutive audiences in this city, and elsewhere in the State, annually, for any number of years back. The war, which makes gaps in other professions-gaps that are felt in society-does not do society the favor of taking away one, even the least of these valiant talkers. Should the war last ten years, these men, being prodigiously able-bodied as a class, would still be found at their annual reunion, making their same old “philanthropic” speeches in the same old misanthropic way. The Associated Press reporter very sensibly abstained from sending a word of the speeches this year, but he thought the resolutions worth telegraphing. Perhaps they are, because they exhibit, in new brightness, the spirit and temper of this little knot of ultraists. After a congratulation to the “friends of freedom” on the cheerful course that things are taking, the society promises to “sustain the Emancipation Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln.” There may be people so delightfully unsophisticated as to dream that the hour has at last come when these original abolitionists would shoulder their muskets and go to the war. The word “sustain” means anything but fighting, in the vocabulary of these men. It means spouting about it, and passing resolutions about it, 500 miles from the battle-field. This is the way that they “sustain” the proclamation. But they do not say that they will “sustain” the President even to that extent. They are very careful not to put in a word of commendation for him. It is not their game to commend anybody but themselves. The very idea of the society-the only idea that would satisfy the cynics who make speeches at its annual meetings-is to quarrel with all the white part of mankind. Like most radical reformers, they fight with the most unyielding ferocity against those who come nearest to their notions. Hence it is that the President and his Cabinet, and some of the leading members of the Republican party, come in for the ugliest tirades of these unhappy philosophers.
They do not call the President hard names in their resolutions; but the absence of all praise of him, and of expressions of confidence in him, shows how hard they are to be suited. All measures but their own are only “half-way” measures with them.-New York Journal of Commerce.
<c02>
Selections.
REBELS AND COPPERHEADS.
SPEECH OF
HON. HENRY WILSON,
OF MASSACHUSETTS,
In the Senate of the United States, Feb. 21, 1863.
Mr. Wilson, of Massachusetts. Mr. President: It is hard, indeed, to sit here in silence and listen, day after day, to such speeches as have just fallen from the lips of the. Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Powell.) That Senator rises here to-day, and, before the Senate and the country, pronounces a high-wrought eulogium upon a body of men calling themselves Kentucky Democrats, who have put forth an address, in this hour of public danger, which the loyal heart of America instinctively pronounces treasonable to the nation. Sir, the clear vision of loyal patriotism, which strips pretension of its disguises, sees that this address was inspired by the sweltered venom of repressed treason. Yes, sir, the unclouded reason of men, whose hearts throb with emotions of patriotism -men whose souls are unstained-see and feel and realize that an address which now demands an “armistice” with treason, which “instructs Senators and Representatives to oppose any aid in the further prosecution of this war” for the existence of the nation, by “furnishing either men or money,” was conceived by traitor brains and penned by traitor hands. The Senator from Kentucky desires that this treasonable address shall go upon the records of the Senate, as an honor to the men who penned it, and as an evidence of the infamy of the government of the United States. I, too, desire to have it go upon the enduring records of my country, for those records will bear to all coming generations the damning evidence that the men who conceived that address, the men who penned that address, the men who signed that address, the men who issued that address, and the men who applaud that address, are traitors to their country and its Democratic institutions. (Applause in the galleries.)
The President pro tempore. Order! The Chair will be obliged to order the galleries to be cleared forthwith, if this offence be repeated. It is in contempt of the body to commit demonstrations of applause or disapprobation. It is not admissible, and will not be allowed.
Mr. Wilson, of Massachusetts. Yes, sir, I desire that this disloyal address shall go upon the records of the Senate of the United States. Let those enduring records carry down to the coming ages the infamous fact that the Democracy of Kentucky, whose hearts are sweltering with the poisoned venom of baffled treason, arraign and denounce the gallant sons of the Northwest, who rushed to save that State from traitor hordes, for “overrunning the State,’ “destroying houses, and fencing of farms and lots,” “sacking houses of peaceful citizens,” and “robbing them of their silver-ware, stock, and provisions.” Let those records, too, transmit to aftertimes the evidence that these Kentucky Democrats denounce the Chief Magistrate of the Republic for “permitting his wagon masters and others, with armed soldiers, to seize the corn, oats and hay of our citizens for the use of his armies.” Yes, sir, let these records bear evidence that the Senator from Kentucky causes to be inscribed upon the archives of the nation this wicked arraignment of the President of the United States, this bitter and slanderous denunciation of the brave men of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, of the great Northwest, who for many weary months have traversed that Commonwealth to protect her loyal sons from the sabers and bayonets of her apostate sons-her Buckner, her Breckinridge, her Marshall, her Morgan, and their compeers in treason. Let this evidence of the gratitude, aye, and the justice, too, of the Democracy of Kentucky and their Senator, for the toils, sufferings, and deaths of the brave soldiers who have borne the cause of United America upon their boyonets over the hills and fields of “the dark and bloody ground,” go upon the record; let the eulogium pronounced to-day by the Senator from Kentucky go also upon the record; and let the loyal heart of America decide whether that address is loyal to the Union and the rights of man, and whether that eulogium is worthy of a loyal American Senator.
Mr. President, when rebel batteries opened their consuming fires upon Fort Sumter, and its few heroic but starving defenders, till the glorious old flag of United America came down, and the banner of armed treason waived in haughty triumph over its battered walls and its scarred and smoking ruins, patriotism summoned the loyal men of the Republic to forget party obligations, and remember only that they had a country to serve and to save. Loving my country, my whole country with intense, vehement, and passionate affection, as the land in which were garnered up the highest hopes of the present and of the coming generations of toiling millions, I resolved to do all I could by word and by deed to unite the loyal people of America in one mighty effort to preserve the unity of the Republic, maintain the authority of the government, and perpetuate the national life. And, sir, amid detraction, obloquy and reproach, I have striven to keep that vow made to my country and my God, when armed treason plunged the nation into the fire and blood of civil war, to eternize human slavery, and perpetuate the ascendency of man-owners in the councils of this Christian and democratic Republic. To-day, twenty-three companies of volunteers are in the field, battling for their country, organized mainly by my efforts, and officered chiefly by my selection, and never did I think of the political sentiments of the gallant men commissioned upon my recommendation. More than two hundred gallant soldiers have entered the field bearing commissions in the volunteers or regular army, secured to them by my efforts.
Never have I paused to ask, what were the party relations of men who were ready to bare their bosoms to shot, shell, and steel of armed traitors. Some of them now sleep in their bloody shrouds on stricken fields; others lie maimed in hospitals, or bending beneath the diseases of the camps, are away among kindred and friends, while their comrades still live to battle for their country. But Republican and Democrat alike, among them, will ever bear witness that their party relations never commended them to my regard or to my support. Here, in this Chamber, I have ever striven to keep the vow of patriotism imposed upon loyal men of every creed, when the storm of war swept over the land. Measures of transcendent importance have engaged the attention of, and nearly four thousand eight hundred names of military officers, from second lieutenants up to major generals, have passed before the Committee on Military Affairs, and that committee, four Republicans and three Democrats, upon all these measures and all these candidates, has never given a party vote. No, sir, never has my committee divided as Republicans and as Democrats upon either measures or men. My Democratic associates upon 
<c03>
the committee, I am sure, can say of me and my Republican associates, what I take pride in saying of them, that we have inquired, not what were the partisan opinions of candidates, but only, can they render service to their endangered country?
That patriotism, which embraces the whole country, comprehends the mighty interest of the present and the future of the Republic, bids us all subordinate the temporary claims of party to the enduring interests of our country. The needs of our country, the pressing exigencies of this hour of profound anxiety, when the heart of the patriot throbs heavily for the uncertain future of the Republic, bid us forget, forgive, unite, lock step, and move on, shoulder to shoulder, to the rescue of our periled land. I am and ever have been ready, in obedience to the voice of patriotism, to go as far as he who would go furthest in burying the idle feuds engendered by the contests of the past, and in binding together the men of every creed in one mighty host, moved by one overmastering impulse. But, sir, my ear is pained, and my soul is made sick, by these fierce, bitter, and malignant assaults of men who heed the claims of mere partizanship rather than the lofty demands of an all-embracing patriotism. Day after day, for month after month, the nation has had dinned into its weary car, these bitter, false, and unreasonable criticisms of men whose petty prejudices against men with whom they differed about questions of administration in other days-men whose attachments to and sympathies for the rebel chiefs, their late trusted and honored leaders, make them forgetful of the lofty claims of their country. Duty to our periled country, to our brave men whose manly bosoms are bared to the shots and shells, the sabers and bayonets of rebel battalions, demands that we should no longer be silent, that we should unmask these factionists, strip the disguises from off these rebel sympathizers, and let them stand forth in all their nakedness to the indignant and withering scorn of a betrayed and insulted nation.
Sir, these malignant factionists, these rebel sympathizers, emboldened by the charity and silence of loyal men, forget who they are and what they are. If these men who have only tender words for treason and traitors whose hands are reeking with the fresh blood of our friends and kindred fallen in the cause of our menaced country, while they pour out bitter reproaches upon their own government, and heap their maledictions upon the heads of patriotic men who give their days and nights to their country, have forgotten who they are and what they are, the nation has not ceased to remember who and what they are. Yes, sir, the nation remembers the associations, the words and acts of the Senator from Kentucky and his confederates, in and out of Congress, who have no words of rebuke for armed treason, who send to our brave soldiers battling for their country no word of cheer or hope. I tell the Senator from Kentucky, I tell his associates in these chambers, I tell the malignant factionists of the East and of the West, that the nation, in its magnanimity, may forgive, but never can forget it.
History will write it down for after times, that these malignant slanderers of the government, these factionists, who pronounce the President a tyrant and a usurper, who decry the credit of the nation, discourage enlistments, counsel desertion, threaten resistance to legal authority, plot in the dark, secret councils of the Knights of the Golden Circle, and demand an armistice to negotiate an inglorious peace with the rebels in arms, were the trusted associates and ever obedient followers of Jefferson Davis and his rebel compeers. History will write it down that these sympathizers with rebels were ever swift to obey the commands of the rebel chiefs, when they were the leaders of Africanized Democracy, whether those commands were to repeal the Missouri prohibition, to seize the ballot-boxes of infant Kansas, murder brave free State men, frame and support the Lecompton constitution, stuff ballot-boxes, applaud filibuster raids upon border nations, approve Dred Scott decisions, misrepresent and slander patriotic men for clinging to the principles and policy of the Republican fathers, or to give assurances that the incoming administration would not be permitted to enforce the authority of the nation in the seceding States. Yes, sir, history will record the fact that Davis and his abhorred compeers in treason left these chambers with the assured confidence of conviction that these men, who now brand Abraham Lincoln a tyrant and a usurper, would divide and distract the North, throttle loyal men in their tracks, and thus shield the traitors in their dismemberment of the Union. History will record the fact that when the old flag of the Union went down at Sumter, beneath the devouring batteries, and the confederate flag of treason went up, the nation, inspired by the fires of outraged patriotism, rose in sublime majesty, forced the unwilling to raise the national flag, and the government to defend with all the nation’s resources its menaced life. History will record, too, the fact that these sympathizers with rebels bowed before the majestic uprising of the people, bided their hour, villified first the supporters of the government in measured phrases, and then, when misfortunes came upon the nation, when the high-wrought expectations of the people were doomed to disappointment, when mourning was in many homes, and anxiety for the loved and the absent filled the hearts of many households, they broke the silence and inaction imposed by the people in the first bright ardor of insulted patriotism, pronounced the President a usurper and a tyrant, the government a despotism, demanded peace on any terms, and sent words of hope and cheer to the rebel leaders, whose hands are red with the blood of our murdered countrymen.
Sir, these men and these presses that are now assailing the President and the government in measureless and vituperative phrases, decrying the credit of the nation, proclaiming that the subjugation of the rebellion by armed force is an impossibility, demanding peace at the cost of a broken, dismembered, and dishonored Union, predicting the disruption of the now loyal States, thus sowing seeds that may ripen into the bitter fruits of alienation, hatred and strife, are playing the role in this drama of civil war marked out by the rebel chiefs ere they left these chambers to raise the standard of revolt. Do these men and these presses believe they can delude and deceive the American people? Sir, the intelligent patriotism of the people will not permit the Democracy of Kentucky, nor of the Free States, to play the role of secession under the thin disguises of Democracy. Does not the Senator from Kentucky and his confederates know that this abhorred and accursed rebellion, born of the fell spirit of slavery, was plotted by Democrats, organized by Democrats, and inaugurated by Democrats? Do they not know that Democrats raised the banners of revolt, and dragged their cowardly and reluctant opponents in the confederate States into civil war? Do they not know that this is a Democratic insurrection? Do they not know that Stephens and Toombs and Clingman and Benjamin had to turn Democrats before they could plot treason? Do they not know that a man must turn Democrat before he can be a traitor? Do they not know that every willing leader of this rebellion would this day vote the Demo-
<c04>
cratic ticket? Do they not know that every traitor in arms hails and welcomes Democratic victories? Do they not know that every vituperative phrase they utter against the administration in these chambers, in State Legislatures, in Democratic Conventions, before the people, or in their presses, excites rebel hopes, fires rebel hearts, and nerves rebel arms?
Sir, I should think the. Senator from Kentucky, and the men who unite with him in these wicked denunciations of the administration, would feel the blush of conscious shame mantling their cheeks when their words are hailed and applauded by the men they once followed, whose counsels they shared for so many years, whose souls are stained with treason, and whose hands are red with the warm blood of our murdered countrymen. The land resounds with the tread of half a million of rebel Democrats, ready to pour their murderous fires into the living bosoms of our kindred and brothers, who have left their homes to uphold the cause of their country. You hear the sound of rebel cannon, you see the flashing of rebel guns, and you rekindle the zeal of these Democratic rebels, and dampen the ardor and the hopes of your loyal countrymen by renewed assaults upon the administration in whose hands are the issues of the struggle, so far as they depend upon human agency, by proclaiming the hopeless character of the contest, by demanding compromise and peace dictated by rebel bayonets.
Sir, we are often reminded that the land is dotted over with the graves of our countrymen who have fallen in this rebellion. Who filled those graves with the bodies of our murdered countrymen? Every bullet fired in this unholy rebellion at the hearts of our loyal countrymen, battling beneath the old flag of United America, was fired by a disloyal Democrat; for a man has to be a Democrat before he can be a traitor. Sir, the brave and devoted men who have followed to the field the flag of their country, who stood by that flag with unswerving fidelity through sunshine and storm, amid the diseases of the camp and the dangers of the battle-field, and who now sleep in their bloody shrouds, went down by the shots and shells fired by disloyal Democrats. The brave men who fill the hospitals, or linger among their kindred and friends, maimed by wounds, were maimed by bullets fired by rebel Democrats. Tens of thousands of fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, wives and children, are mourning for the loved and the lost who went down in the storm of battle or by the fatal diseases of the camps in this Democratic rebellion. Fathers and mothers who are mourning over lost sons, were made childless by rebel Democrats. Wives made widows in this war were made widows by the bullets of rebel Democrats. Orphan children were made orphans by Democratic shot and shell. The flags of the Republic, riddled and torn by shot and shell, were riddled and torn by the shot and shell aimed by rebel Democrats.
Let the fathers and mothers, the brothers and sisters, the wives and children of loyal America remember that these sons and brothers, husbands and fathers, have fallen in an accursed rebellion, born of the dark spirit of slavery, and plotted, organized and inaugurated by Democratic leaders, and fought by rebel Democrats who howl with fiendish joy when their Democratic sympathizers hurl their fierce maledictions against the government, or win a victory over the supporters of the administration. Let the heroic men who are bearing the cause of United America and of the rights of human nature in the land of the rebellion, ever remember around their camp fires, on their weary marches, on picket duty, in storm and darkness, and on the perilous ridges of battle, that the foe around them and before them, pouring leaden rain and iron hail into their bosoms, are traitor Democrats fighting to dismember the Union, and blot our native land from the map of nations. Let them remember that these rebel legions who are hurling death into their ranks are listening with hungry ears to the maledictions hurled at the President by rebel sympathizers in the loyal States, and watching their action and shouting over any Democratic victories won against the administration as the triumph of friends and allies. Let them remember, too, that in the loyal States the apologists of treason and of traitors, the vituperators of the government and the intriguants who would baffle the policy of the administration and sacrifice the unity of the Republic by an inglorious and dishonorable peace, are Democrats, who give to party what should be given to their country, rent and torn by civil war.
Sir, with the damning fact plain to the full comprehension of mankind, that Democratic leaders plotted for years this wicked rebellion, that they inaugurated and proclaimed it, that they have for nearly two years put forth the most gigantic efforts to dismember their country and blot the Republic of the United States from the list of nations, men in these loyal States, calling themselves Democrats, denounce the government and the acts of the government, defame the men who are struggling to carry the country through the impending contest, encourage men not to enlist, and to leave the ranks of the country’s defenders, demand peace at the certain cost of the integrity of the Union, and call upon their Representatives to withhold men and money from the government.
Sir, spies and traitors fill the land, and skulking neutrals everywhere abound. But the other day, a convention of men calling themselves Democrats, rather than secessionists, met at Hartford. Much doubt has existed concerning the purposes of the Hartford Convention that assembled during the war of 1812, but no one will ever entertain a doubt of the purposes of the Hartford Convention assembled amid the throes of fratricidal strife. This convention reflected the opinions and sentiments of Toucey, Seymour, Eaton, and other men tainted with the leprosy of moral treason. The resolutions adopted by the Convention are tainted with treason, and the speeches before the convention were inspired by that fell and malignant partizanship which extinguishes the generous and ennobling spirit of patriotism. The master mind of this convention of the Connecticut Democracy denounced the war as “a crusade against a portion of the country and its institutions.” He declared that “the Democracy of Connecticut will defy Abraham Lincoln in all his unconstitutional acts. We will say to him, pass militia bill after militia bill; but when you undertake to take away from the captain general of this State the command of the guardians of the State, we will say to you, you shall not go one step further.” Another orator spoke of “the arrests made by this tyrannical administration,” and in connection with the subject said, “we shall say to the government, ‘lay hands on a citizen of Connecticut, and, by the gods, you shall die, or I will!’ ” He said, “a friend of mine asked me what I would do if Marshal Carr should undertake to arrest me. I said, ‘I would kill him, damn him! I would kill him!’ And I say to you, if one of these infamous whelps should attempt to arrest any of you without due process of law, kill him, damn him! kill him!” And this convention of New England Democrats responded, “kill him, damn him! kill him!”
Sir, we have heard much said during the past few
<c05>
weeks about leaving New England out in the cold but I am quite sure the men who so flippantly talk of leaving New England out in the cold, would not leave out the man who uttered that sentiment, nor the men who responded to it. He and they are quite too much in harmony with the assailants of New England to be thrust from them. Perhaps these avowals of the Democrats of Connecticut may soften the hearts of the Puritan haters who conceived the idea of thrusting New England from the pale of the Union. Perhaps this brutal threat to murder the Marshal of the United States or any of his “whelps,” may appease the wrath of those chivalric men to whom her puritanism is a rock of offence. Who knows but that this manifestation of profanity and pugnacity of the copperheads of the East may have been only a Yankee trick to commend puritanic New England to the copperheads of the West, who prate about leaving New England out in the cold?
Mr. TURPIE. If the Senator from Massachusetts will allow me, I do not think that any person has seriously contemplated anything like a secession of the East or of the South. I believe, as far as this talk of leaving New England out in the cold is concerned, it has only been to allow Massachusetts to have the benefit of the draft.
Mr. WILSON. Mr. President, the Common wealth of Massachusetts needs no defence in these halls. There was a time when men of acknowledged capacity and character dashed their heads against Plymouth Rock; but they were hurled back then as the old rock dashes back the waves of the Atlantic. I have no explanation or defence to make for Massachusetts or for New England against the assaults of men tainted with moral treason. No son of New England should deign to defend her against the puny assaults of the men who are proud to echo the slanders of King James and his courtiers upon the Puritans of his age. The man who would weaken the bonds of the Union, who would sow the seeds of alienation and distrust between this people, bound together by the associations and memories of the past and the hopes of the future-by a thousand ties of interest, kindred, and affection-is in his heart disloyal to the country, and he would be a traitor were he not a coward.
The President of the United States has been denounced here, day after day, as a tyrant and usurper, and the Senator from Kentucky talks about the usurpations of the President. The history of these days of trial will prove to all who come after us that never in the history of mankind has it happened that any Government has been so charitable, so humane, so forgiving to traitors in arms, or to men in sympathy with traitors in arms. The President has a heart as soft and as tender as a mother sitting beside the cradle of her sick babe. Throughout this fratricidal war, the President, oppressed by day and by night with anxieties and labors enough to break down any man in America, has ever been charitable, kind, forgiving to the men who are striving to destroy this splendid fabric of free government, and the not less guilty men who are plotting to aid this foul and wicked work of treason. And yet this man, this Chief Magistrate of whom history will say he had too much heart, too much of the milk of human kindness in him to do inflexibly the stern duties that belong to his office in these days of lawlessness, violence and blood, is denounced here and elsewhere, day after day, as a usurper and a tyrant, and his mild and humane administration is denounced as a crushing despotism. These utterances are in every sense false, unjustly, wickedly false, and this will be the judgment of the country and of the Christian and civilized world of the present and of coming generations. As I have witnessed his tender mercy, his charity, his considerate kindness toward these men whose hands are dripping with the blood of our loyal countrymen, I have prayed for one hour of Andrew Jackson. Instead of being a tyrant and a usurper, Abraham Lincoln has dealt too gently with the wickedest rebellion the world ever saw. Never has history written in its immortal pages of any chief magistrate in all the ages, such forbearance, such leniency, such considerate tenderness for howlers and treasonable conspirators as Abraham Lincoln has shown during this causeless insurrection. Humanity can never summon Abraham Lincoln before the bar of the nations, or before the throne of the living God, to answer for deeds of cruelty or injustice to his fellow-man.
But, sir, all these cruel assaults upon the President of the United States develop the animus, the intention, the purpose of the men who make them. But their poisoned arrows fall harmless at the President’s feet. Sir, this class of men are rapidly defining their unpatriotic purposes. The intelligent patriotism of the country will not fail to see and to condemn this blind, unreasoning fanaticism of Democratic partisanship. The loyal men of the Republic, in the light of passing events, are coming to understand the relations of these unscrupulous Democratic partisans. They see that these men are now playing the parts Jefferson Davis expected they would play in favor of rebellion, by distracting and dividing the people of the loyal States. As their unpatriotic purposes are disclosed to the comprehension of the country, the fires of patriotism blaze up anew in the East and in the West. The currents of public sentiment are setting now in support of the National Government, and these mighty currents will roll over and carry under rebels and rebel sympathizers. Our heroic men in the field, by battalions, regiments and brigades, are sending home to these sympathizers with armed traitors their stern and scathing condemnation. The heroic Rosecrans utters the general voice of our armies when he tells these advocates of “peace on any terms,” that “he who entertains the sentiment is fit only to be a slave; he who utters it at this time is, moreover, a traitor to his country, who deserves the scorn and contempt of all honorable men.” Yes, sir, the brave men who are fighting our battles in the field, who are pouring out their blood for their country like autumnal rains, whose bosoms are bared to the balls and bayonets of Southern Democratic traitors, are turning for a moment their faces from the foe to denounce the wanton and reckless Democratic partisans in their rear who sympathize with the armed traitors who are shooting them down in front. These men, who for months have had nothing but soft words for traitors and bitter reproaches for loyal men, are quaking and cowering before the rising patriotism of the nation. Yes, sir, these men, who with proud and haughty mien have hurled their defiance at the President, and heaped reproaches upon patriotic men struggling to save their endangered country, are shrinking under the indignant reproaches of the heroic men who are bearing upon their bayonets, in the land of the rebellion, the authority of the Government and the perpetuity of the Republic.
No wonder the fires of patriotism are rekindling in the hearts of the people, as the unpatriotic purposes of Democratic sympathizers with rebels are disclosed. No wonder that our gallant soldiers send from around their camp fires, and from the fields of bloody conflict, the words of stinging rebuke that now ring in the ears of these Democratic apologists of slave masters’ treason. Patriotism sees and feels
<c06>
and realizes that every word uttered against the Government, every vote given against the Government, every act performed tending to thwart the efficiency of the Government, fires the heart and weapons the hand of the rebellion. Brave soldiers in front of the rebel legions know that every Democratic word of apology for or sympathy with traitors, every word uttered against the war policy of the Administration, every Democratic victory over the men in the loyal States, who never fired upon their country’s flag or its brave defenders, electrifies rebel camps, raises high rebel hopes, and nerves the rebel arms. The soldiers of the Republic, in the face of rebel armies, see and feel and realize that the blind zeal of Democratic partisans, who give to party what is due to their country, prompts the rebels to put forth the most gigantic efforts for the dismemberment of the Union, gives that courage to their councils and that vigor to their action, which can only be baffled by the sacrifice of the blood and the lives of their comrades in arms.
But a few days ago, the Senator from Iowa placed in my hands a letter from a gallant Admiral now on the coast of the Carolinas, in which he said that the first news they had of the election of Horatio Seymour last autumn was from the pickets of the enemy, who taunted our soldiers with the defeat of their friends in the Empire State. These victories over the Administration, these denunciations of the President as a tyrant and usurper, these violent propositions in legislative assemblies, these sympathizing resolutions and speeches in Democratic conventions, these plotting of men who mourn over our victories and rejoice over our defeats, carry joy into rebel councils, and raise cheers of triumph around rebel camp fires. The army sees all this, the people, too, see this, and thousands who were ready to “let erring sisters depart in peace,” seeing the tone and temper of the army, and the loyalty and devotion of the men of the army, and the rising hopes and patriotism of the American people, are pronouncing that the war must be fought to a successful conclusion. I tell the men whose words and deeds are quoted and commended by rebel presses, rebel leaders and rebel armies, that they will go down beneath the withering scorn and stern condemnation of the American people, from whose verdict there lies no appeal.
I have no disposition Mr. President, to reproach loyal men of Democratic faith who have stood by their country with unfaltering fidelity. I thank God that there are Democrats in public life and in private life whose every word and every act has been given to the cause of their country. Tens of thousands of men who voted in 1860 for Douglas, many who voted for the apostate Bell and for Breckinridge the traitor, are now periling their lives for their country. I am, sir, for my country, and for my whole country. I am for constitutional government and for republican institutions; and I am for the man, no matter with what party he may have acted, who is ready now by word or by deed to support the country and its free institutions, now menaced by this Democratic slaveholders’ rebellion.
We are told, sir, that we have departed from the doctrines of the resolution introduced into the House of Representatives by Mr. Crittenden of Kentucky. Sir, I voted for that resolution in good faith, and I stand by it to-day in good faith. I believed then the sole purpose of the Government to be the suppression of the rebellion and the establishment of the constitutional authority of the Government of the United States; and I now believe that purpose to be the suppression of the rebellion and the establishment of the constitutional authority of the Government of the United States. But, sir, this rebellion was born of slavery, and the experience of nearly two years teaches us that slavery is a source of power to the rebellion. The breaking down of slavery insures the triumph of the country, and saves the precious blood of its brave defenders. Patriotism and humanity alike demand that we should strike down a system that plunged the nation into the abyss of revolution and civil war-a system that has been a potent instrument in the hands of the rebel leaders. It is the physical power of the rebellion; it has sown and reaped, planted and gathered, two crops to feed the rebel armies. Sir, I would strike down slavery because slavery is the source and power of the rebellion, and thus insure the enduring triumph of the country. I would take the slave, and I would use him to save the labor, the blood and the lives of my countrymen in the field. You can take the father from the children that bear his name and inherit his blood; you can take the son from his parents, from the father who begat him and the mother that bore him; you can take the brother from the brothers and sisters who love him; you can take the husband from the wife of his bosom, and send those fathers and husbands, sons and brothers, to the battle-field, to be torn and maimed by shot and shell, or to perish by disease; but Democratic Senators tell us that we must not, shall not, take the slaves of rebel masters to lighten the toils of our soldiers or to fight the battles of the Republic. The slaves of rebels, or rather the rights of rebels in slaves, are more sacred in the eyes of Democratic Senators than are the lives of the fathers, the husbands and the sons of our ever loyal countrymen. Senators would not use the slave for military purposes. I would. I would use every man in America to put down this unhallowed rebellion, and to secure peace and repose to our now distracted and bleeding country.
The Constitution of the United States empowers the Government to suspend the writ of habeas corpus in times of insurrection or rebellion. My judgment tells me that the President of the United States has the power in time of insurrection or rebellion to suspend the writ of habeas corpus. The power by the Constitution is confided to the government, to the President or Congress, or both. If there is no law upon the statute book, and insurrection or revolution is sweeping over the land, and Congress is not in session, has not the President of the United States, in an hour like that, the power to suspend the writ of habeas corpus? If he has not that power, he ought to have it. The Executive should be clothed with that power; and I am among those who believe that our fathers made a Constitution and endowed it with power enough to carry the country through sunshine or storm, victory or defeat, peace or war.
When this insurrection swept over the land, when men were plotting everywhere to destroy their country, the President assumed that the possessed this power, and in obedience to the voice of patriotism and the demands of a loyal people he exercised that power. The exercise of that power saved Maryland in the early days of the rebellion. Plotters and spies and smugglers, and men ready to give aid and comfort to treason, were arrested. Mistakes may have been made, were made, but they were unintentional and accidental. I know that the President and his Cabinet made these arrests with reluctance; that they never desired to punish the innocent or oppress even the guilty. Whenever these men were willing to cease plotting against their country, whenever they were willing to take the oath of allegiance and fidelity, or whenever the occasion for their ar-
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. . . . It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
rest had passed, they have been discharged from arrest, and some of them who persistently refused to take the oath of fidelity to their country were discharged without even giving that pledge. Some of these men, like Calhoun Benham, after their release consummated their treason by joining the armies of the rebellion. 
I assure Senators that when the evidence now in the Departments of the plottings and treasons of men who have been arrested, aye, sir, and of men who have not been arrested, goes before the world, the country will be astounded at the dark plottings and unpatriotic sad disloyal words and deeds of men in the loyal sections of the Union. It will be amazed to find that the deadly poison of secession is in the very veins of our society; that here in the capital are men and women who furnish information to the enemies of their country; that our cities are filled with men swift, to give evidence against the country that protects them, and to furnish weapons and the munitions of war to the rebels in arms. We have men ready to discourage enlistments, to counsel men to desert their flag in the face of its enemies, to conceal and protect men who turned their backs upon their comrades in the field. We have men who weep over our successes and rejoice over our misfortunes. Within a few miles of my home, when the news came last spring that General Banks was retreating, pursued by Jackson up the Shenandoah Valley, one of these Democratic sympathizers with armed traitors shouted for joy over the defeat of his countrymen. Sir, we have such men everywhere—men who so long and so blindly followed the counsels of Davis and Toombs, Slidell and Mason, and the pro-slavery Democratic leaders who have plunged their country into the fire and blood of civil war, that they have not ceased to sympathize with them, and to denounce the Republicans as usurpers and tyrants.
Mr. President, I would not sustain the government of the United States in any act of tyranny and oppression toward even the men who stand before us with their hands dripping with the blood of our countrymen. Nor would I deal harshly or unjustly with their sympathizers. I abhor their deeds, but I would not deal unjustly with them. God knows that if they had justice done them in this world, many of them would be quickly sent out of it. I would smite down rebels in arms in the field. I would arrest the men who give aid and comfort to traitors wherever found, in loyal or disloyal States. until the just authority of the government should be fully established, and the flag of the united country should wave everywhere in triumph, from the St John to the Rio Grande.
The land resounds with the tread of armed men: our fields are stained with the blood of civil war: the maimed, the dying, and the dead fill our homes with anxieties and sorrows, and the republic, rent and torn by the storms of battle, is fearfully struggling for national existence. In this troubled hour, when patriotic hearts throb heavily with solicitude for the fate of the nation, when the government is staggering beneath the burdens imposed upon it by the pressing duties of this fearful crisis, instead of the united counsels and actions of lofty patriotism, the heavens are darkened with the arrows of partisan warfare, hurled at the administration by the reckless hands of political malignity.
Those envenomed shafts, now rained upon the government and its supporters, recall vividly to our recollections the boastful predictions of the rebel chiefs ere they left these halls to drench the land with the fraternal blood of civil war. They told us here in tones of assured confidence that they would have a united South, that we should have a disunited North. Jefferson Davis, the rebel chieftain, three years ago, in this chamber, boastfully announced that if blows were struck, their Northern Democratic friends would throttle us in our tracks. Those traitor leaders left these chambers in the conscious assurance that the action of the government would be impeded, checked and thwarted by their Democratic allies. The fires of patriotism, rekindled into a consuming flame by the rebel batteries around Fort Sumter, silenced for a season the voices of sympathetic Democracy, and disappointed the high-raised expectations of the traitor chiefs.
Now, sir, the voice of the whole pack of rebel sympathizers rings out in full chorus on the track of the administration. But the people, the intelligent, patriotic people, will silence the voices of faction, and dispel the illusions of hope created anew in the bosoms of the rebel leaders by the clamor of northern demagogues. Sir, the loyal people of the United States, who are for “liberty and Union, now and forever” will never forget that the administration, with all its faults, has been faithful to the rights of mankind and the unity of the republic. They will not, they cannot cease to remember that the Republican party, with all its faults of omission and commission, never nurtured a traitor in its bosom to sympathize with treason, or to fire upon the flag of his country, or into the ranks of his country's defenders.

A CALL TO THE NEGREOES TO ARM.
APPEAL FROM FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
When first the rebel cannon shattered the walls of Sumter, and drove away its starving garrison, I predicted that the war then and there inaugurated would not be fought out entirely by white men. Every month's experience during these two dreary years has confirmed that opinion. A war undertaken and brazenly carried on for the perpetual enslavement of colored men calls logically and loudly upon colored men to help to suppress it. Only a moderate share of sagacity was needed to see that the arm of the slave was the best defence against the arm of the slaveholder. Hence, with every reverse to the national arms, with every exulting shout of victory raised by the slaveholding rebels, I have implored the imperilled nation to unchain against her foes her powerful black hand. Slowly and reluctantly that appeal is beginning to be heeded. Stop not now to complain that it was not heeded sooner. It may, or it may not have been best that it should not. This is not the time to discuss that question. Leave it to the future. When the war is over, the country is saved, peace is established, and the black man's rights are secured, as they will be, history with an impartial hand will dispose of that and sundry other questions. Action! action! not criticism, is the plain duty of this hour. Words are now useful only as they stimulate to blows. The office of speech now is only to point out when, here and how to strike to the best advantage. There is no time for delay. The tide is at its flood that leads on to fortune. From east to west, from north to south, the sky is written all over with Now or never. Liberty won by white men would lack half its lustre. Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow. Better even to die free than to live slaves. This is.the sentiment of every brave colored man among us. There are weak and cowardly men in all nations. We have them among us. They will tell you that this is the ‘white man's war'; that you will be ‘better off after than before the war'; that the getting of you into the army is to sacrifice you on the first opportunity.’ Believe them not cowards themselves, they do not wish to have their cowardice shamed by your brave example. Leave them to their timidity, or to whatever other motive may hold them back.
I have not thought lightly of the words I am now addressing to you. The counsel I give comes of close observation of the great struggle now in progress-and of the deep conviction that this is your hour and mine.
In good earnest, then, and after the best deliberation, I now, for the first time during the war, feel at liberty to call and counsel you to arms. By every consideration which binds you to your enslaved fellow-countrymen, and the peace and welfare of your country; by every aspiration which you cherish for the freedom and equality of yourselves and your children; by all the ties of blood and identity which make us one with the brave black men now fighting our battles in Louisiana, in South Carolina, I urge you to fly to arms, and smite with death the power that would bury the government and your liberty in the same hopeless grave. I wish I could tell you that the State of New York calls you to this high honor. For the moment, her constituted authorities are silent on the subject. They will speak by-and-by, and doubt ess on the right side; but we are not compelled to wait for her. We can get at the throat of treason and slavery through the State of Massachusetts.
She was the first in the war of independence; first to break the chains of her slaves; first to make the black man equal before the law; first to admit colored children to her common schools; and she was first to answer with her blood the alarm-cry of the nation -when its Capital was menaced by rebels. You know her patriotic Governor, and you know Charles Summer- I need add no more. 
Massachusetts now welcomes you to arms as her 
<c02>
soldiers. She has but a small colored population from which to recruit. She has full leave of the general government to send one regiment to the war, and she has undertaken to do it. Go quickly, and help fill up this first colored regiment from the North. I am authorized to assure you that you will receive the same wages, the same rations, the same equipments, the same protection, the same treatment and the same bounty secured to white soldiers. You will be led by able and skillful officers-men who will take especial pride in your efficiency and success. They will be quick to accord to you all the honor you shall merit by your valor-and see that your rights and feelings are respected by other soldiers. I have assured myself on these points, and can speak with authority. More than twenty years’ unswerving devotion to our common cause may give me some humble claim to be trusted at this momentous crisis.
I will not argue. To do so implies hesitation and doubt, and you do not hesitate-you do not doubt. The day dawns-the morning star is bright upon the horizon. The iron gate of our prison stands half open. One gallant rush from the North will fling it wide open, while four millions of our brother and sisters shall march out into liberty. The chance is now given you to end in a day the bondage of centuries, and to rise in one bound from social degradation to the plain of a common equality with all other varieties of men. Remember Denmark Vesey, of Charleston. Remember Nathaniel Turner, of South Hampton. Remember Shields Green and Copeland, who followed noble John Brown, and fell as glorious martyrs for the cause of the slave. Remember that in a contest with oppression, the Almighty has no attribute which can take sides with oppressors. The case is before you. This is our golden opportunity-let us accept it-and forever wipe out the dark reproaches unsparingly hurled against us by our enemies. Win for ourselves the gratitude of our country-and the best blessings of our prosperity through all time. The nucleus of this first regiment is now in camp at Readville, a short distance from Boston. I will undertake to forward to Boston all persons adjudged fit to be mustered into this regiment, who shall apply to me at any time within the next two weeks. 
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Rochester, March 2, 1863.
AN ADDRESS
FROM THE INHABITANTS OF LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND, TO THE HON. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 
Sir,-Some 240 years ago, a Dutch man-of-war entered the James river, in Virginia, and landed twenty negro slaves-the first ever imported into the Continent of the New World. In the year 1860, by continued importations and by natural increase, that number had increased to four millions. These two facts describe an evil which has been ever since pressing with accumulative weight upon the honor and prosperity of your country. It is with mingled pain and pleasure that we remember the existence of negro slavery in our own West India colonies-with pain that England should ever have soiled her fame with that accursed institution-with self-gratulation that the free spirit at length broke all the bonds of vested interests, and bade the oppressed go free.
But our slavery was only colonial. It did not pollute the life-blood of the people at large by actual contact. At home it was regarded as much in the light of an error of our statute-book as the crime of our nation. It occupied but a small portion of England’s vast possessions, and did not affect the organization of labor anywhere else. The interests of a class were identified with its maintenance, but not those of the whole mercantile community. Even thus limited, Englishmen still blush to think it was ever permitted in the realm.
But the slavery of the United States is and has been a far greater calamity, both at home and abroad. The area of its occupation is immeasurably wider, the number of its victims far greater, while it has become so thoroughly identified with national life in the South as to be always styled the Domestic Institution. And if on these accounts the difficulty of its abolition be greater, so also is the danger of its maintenance.
The framers of a constitution which was expressly designed “to secure the blessings of liberty” in an evil hour recognized, from motives of expediency, an institution which they too readily believed would speedily die out. Could they have foreseen the time when, so far from perishing, it would have been endued with more vigorous life-when their descendants would not only seek out new territory for its extension, but would even carry it back in ignominious triumph to lands whence, by a feebler government but with more enlightened policy, it had been expelled-how would their noble hearts have been dismayed at such sad degeneracy!
But so it has been. The peculiar adaptability of Southern soil for the growth of cotton, combined with mechanical ingenuity in simplifying the process of its manufacture, has not only given a larger value to the labor of the negro, but has created an interstate slave trade, from which the Fathers of the Revolution would have turned away in disgust. 
The presidential chair and all the higher offices of the State have, during a long succession of years, been occupied, with but few exceptions, by slave-owners. The influence of the government has been given to the extension and protection of slavery. And though it is true that each State in the Union has been alone responsible for the maintenance of slavery within its own limits, the nation has identified itself with the institution by permitting it within the District of Columbia and the Western Territory, both alike common to all.
Worse than all, several of the slave States have broken out into open rebellion for the avowed purpose of founding an empire to be indefinitely extended, and based upon the perpetual organization of slavery, as the natural condition of the negro race.
To the national participation in the guilt of slavery, one party in your country have always been opposed. With a holy and devoted enthusiasm, they have tended the lamp of freedom in full faith that sooner or later it would scare away the darkness. Every fresh exaction of the slave power has only served to deepen their earnestness, augment their numbers, and increase their influence; and the nation has at length awakened to a sense of its responsibilities. Your own election to the chief magistracy was an evidence of its determination that involuntary servitude should, at all events, never exceed the limits it had then attained. And here we call to mind you own words-” I have always hated slavery. I believe the government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free” No longer harassed by those sectional proclivities in the cabinet which formerly prevailed, and pursuing a strictly constitutional line, Congress has abolished slavery in the District of Columbia and throughout the territories of the United States. It has recognized as Sovereign States the Republics of Hayti and Liberia, and it has conceded to England the long withheld right of search, thus rendering a treaty for the suppression of the slave trade something better than an empty form.
Constitutionally armed with powers derived from Congress, you. sir, as President of the United States and Commander-in-Chief of the national forces, have forbidden the return of fugitive slaves seeking refuge within the lines of the Federal army. In September last, you issued a proclamation, declaring that you would consecrate the New Year to Liberty by decreeing freedom to every slave within the limits of the rebellion; but, at the same time, tendering pecuniary aid for the immediate or gradual emancipation of the slaves of loyal States. Both those promises you have faithfully kept, and two slave States have since accepted your proposal. That the Edict of Freedom has not been universal in its operation is owing, we know, to the, limit placed upon your power by that constitution which you have sworn “faithfully to preserve, protect, and defend.” and under which treason alone can justify you in compulsory emancipation. But we feel assured that, by the inexorable logic of events, the abolition of slavery will speedily take place in every one of the excepted districts.
We offer no opinion on the policy of the civil war new raging in your country, but for the measures we have thus briefly sketched, which have denationalized slavery, and which are intended to destroy it as the avowed cause of the war itself, we now tender to you and to your cabinet our respectful sympathy. For those acts of humanity and justice, we trust you will realize your own reverential desire, and receive “the considerate judgment of mankind, and the gracious favor of Almighty God.”
[This Address was adopted by acclamation at an immense meeting of the inhabitants of Liverpool, held in the <illegible> on the evening of the 19th ult.]
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1863.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS. 
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers—i.e., such as are owing from January 1, 1862, to January 1, 1863—that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual,) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULE. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness, and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.

THE “COVENANT WITH DEATH.”
Twenty years have elapsed since we submitted to an Anti Slavery meeting in Faneuil Hall the following resolution: —“Resolved, That the Constitution of the United States is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell, which ought to be immediately annulled.” Except the enunciation of the doctrine of immediate and universal emancipation, no utterance ever so startled the Southern slave oligarchy in their fancied security, or so excited to ungovernable rage and fury their guilty accomplices at the North, as did that bold arraignment of an idolized parchment. It was instantly caught up and circulated by every pro-slavery press in the country, and commented upon with hot indignation as most treasonable and blasphemous language; and upon our naked head innumerable vials of wrath were emptied, without any mixture of mercy. Every time we repeated it, the body politic was thrown into violent paroxysms; unearthly howlings as from the bottomless pit were heard; mobocratic outbreaks followed, to suppress freedom of speech; and henceforward, till near the period of Secession, Union-saving meetings, instigated and peremptorily insisted upon by the terror stricken lords of the lash, were held in every direction, under the wealthiest, most respectable and most potential auspices—embracing all parties, sects, avocations and interests- burning idolatrous incense afresh, giving renewed pledges of eternal fealty, repudiating abolitionism as a deadly taint and a fearful abomination, and defiantly proclaiming, “The Union must and shall be preserved.” At every lull of the tempest, a solemn voice was heard in startling accents as from the sky, “Your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it.” Then the storm again burst forth with redoubled violence; but at the earliest subsidence thereof, that voice was again heard, “The Lord shall rise up, that he may do his work, his strange work; and bring to pass his act his strange act. Now, therefore, be ye not mockers lest your bands be made strong.” But this reproof only led to fresh mockings, and the indestructibleness of the Union was audaciously reaffirmed, as a matter beyond change or decay. Once more, and finally, was heard that prophetic voice, “Thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise this word, and TRUST IN OPPRESSION and perverseness, and stay thereon: therefore THIS INIQUITY shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly, at an instant. And he shall break it as the potter’s vessel that is broken in pieces.” Where, now, is the old Union? And did not the breaking thereof come “suddenly, at an instant”?
What is Southern slavery but “death and hell”?—death to mind and conscience, to moral perception and genuine religious principle, to human relationship and God-given rights and prerogatives, to liberty and equality, to justice and humanity:—hell alike to the oppressor and the oppressed—lurid with its flames, and full of torment!
In what manner was the Constitution of the United States “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell”? By its pro-slavery concessions and guaranties in regard to slave representation in Congress, the continuance of the foreign slave trade, the rendition of fugitive slaves, and the suppression of slave insurrections. Let JOHN QUINCY ADAMS testify:—
“The bargain between Freedom and Slavery, contained in the Constitution of the United States, is morally and politically vicious, inconsistent with the principles on which alone our revolution can be justified, cruel and oppressive by riveting the chains of slavery, by pledging the faith of freedom to maintain and perpetuate the tyranny of the master, and grossly unequal and impolitic by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection, property to be secured and returned to their owners, and persons not to he represented themselves, but for whom their masters are privileged with nearly a double share of representation.”
Again he says:-
“In the Articles of Confederation, there was no guarantee for the property of the slaveholder—no double representation of him in the Federal councils—no power of taxation—no stipulation for the recovery of fugitive slaves. But when the powers of government came to be delegated to the Union, the South—that is, South Carolina and Georgia—refused their subscription to the parchment, till it should be saturated with the infection of slavery, which no fumigation could purify, no quarantine could extinguish. The freemen of the North gave way, and the deadly venom of slavery was infused into the Constitution of freedom.”
Again he says: —
“What the rulers of the Southern States specially wanted in the adoption of the Constitution was, PROTECTION—protection from their own negroes—protection from their insurrections—protection from their escape—protection even to the trade by which they were brought into the country—protection, shall I not blush to say, protection to the very bondage by which they were held. Yes! IT CANNOT BE DENIED—the slaveholding lords of the South prescribed, as a condition of their assent to the Constitution, three special provisions to secure the perpetuity of their dominion over their slaves. The freemen of the North, reduced to the alternative, of departing from the vital principle of their liberty, or of forfeiting the Union itself, averting their face, with trembling hand subscribed the bond.”
Let ALEXANDER HAMILTON, who helped to shape the Constitution, testify:—
“The first thing objected to is that clause which allows a representative for three fifths of the negroes. The regulation complained of was one result of the spirit of accommodation which governed the Convention; and, without this indulgence, no Union could possibly have been formed.”
Let JAMES MADISON, another prominent framer of the Constitution, testify: —
“Another clause secures us that property which we now possess. At present, if any slave elopes to any of those States where slaves are free, he becomes emancipated by their laws; for the laws of the States are uncharitable (!) to one another in this respect; but in this Constitution, ‘No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.’ This clause was expressly inserted to enable owners of slaves to reclaim them. This is a better security than any that now exists. No power is given to the General Government to interpose with respect to the property in slaves now held by the States.”
Again he says: —
“The Federal Constitution, therefore, decides with great propriety on the case of our slaves, when it views them in the mixed character of persons and of property. This is, in fact, their true character. It is the character bestowed on them by the laws under which they live; and it wilt not be denied that these are the proper criterion. Let the case of the slaves be considered, as it is in truth, a peculiar one. Let the compromising expedient of the Constitution be mutually adopted, which regards them as inhabitants, but at debased by servitude below the equal level of free inhabitants; which regards the slave as divested of two fifths of the man.”
These statements as to the pro-slavery features and purposes of the Constitution have been endorsed, and carried out to the letter, by the government and peo-
<c04>
ple, ever since its adoption; and if they fail to substantiate our accusation against that instrument, then there never was, and never can be, “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.” Under it, a slave representation has been uniformly allowed in Congress; fugitive slaves have been hunted and recaptured in every State in the Union; the foreign slave trade was carried on for twenty years, under the national flag; and slave insurrections have been quelled by the strong hand of the national government. In pronouncing it “both morally and politically vicious,” Mr. Adams admitted its organic corruption and iniquity; and we simply reiterated his own fatal declarations. No pressure or peril, however severe or imminent, could justify the adoption and enforcement of such a Constitution. “The deadly venom of slavery” having been “infused into it” at its formation, it ought to have been rejected with horror by the nation. But no regard was paid to the rights of the despised colored race—the awful deed was ratified, in some instances” with trembling hands and averted faces”—and now the fitting punishment and end are seen in the bloody and perfidious rebellion on the part of that slaveholding section of the country, to propitiate which the unholy compact was made in the manner and form designated! Thank God, that he gave us the strength and courage to be the first to brand that polluted Constitution as it deserved, and to declare that when judgment should be laid to the line, and righteousness to the plummet, the hail would sweep away the refuge of lies—the covenant of death be annulled—and the agreement with hell would not stand! The prophetic warning is fulfilled to the letter.
The ground we now assume is, that as Slavery is in open rebellion against “the Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is,” it has made itself an outlaw, and ought to be summarily dealt with as such; that it has no other constitutional right left, except the right to be capitally executed; that no part of it is to be exempted from this fate, under cover of loyalty, because that loyalty is manifestly coerced at the point of the bayonet, and, even if genuine, is so incidental and exceptional that it should have no controlling voice in determining what is necessary for the welfare and safety of the republic, and what should be the action of the government. We maintain that the Free States are now constitutionally as well as morally released from all obligation to guard or uphold the slave system, in any particular; and, therefore, we demand of the President, under the war power, a proclamation of IMMEDIATE AND UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION! Every hour’s delay is attended with danger, criminality, and a needless prolongation of the war.

THE CHEROKEE NATION.
Among the improbable reports brought us by the newspapers is a statement respecting the tribe of Cherokee Indians: The correspondent of a St. Louis paper, under date of the 26th ult., says that the Cherokee National Council has just adjourned, after passing the three following nets:-first, a repeal (unanimous) of the ordinance of secession; next, ah act depriving of office in the Nation and disqualifying all who continue- disloyal to the United Slates Government; thirdly, an act abolishing slavery. Whether or not this report shall prove to be true, it is a good time to recall and note a few points in the history of this nation.
In 1817, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions established a mission among the Cherokee Indians. They found them holding a few slaves, in imitation of their white neighbors, but made no protest against this wickedness, and received slave-holding Indians as the first members of their mission churches. They continued this mission forty-three years, (during which the practice of slaveholding increased and became popular among them,) and in 1848 Rev. Selah B. Treat, one of the Secretaries of the Board, reported an increase of investments by the Indians in this species of property in proportion as " the doctrines of the gospel have exerted their appropriate influence." The Board expended upon this mission, in these forty-three years, more than three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
In 1860, the Board dismissed the Cherokee nation (still continuing slaveholders) from their missionary watch and care, giving this reason for the dismissal:-"The Cherokees are a Christian people."-"The Cherokee people have been Christianized."
On the 20th of August, 1861, the Cherokee National Council appointed Commissioners to make a treaty with the Southern secessionists. As soon as this was ratified, the Cherokees engaged in the war against the United States, and scalped the soldiers whom they killed, according to the custom prevailing in the nation before it was Christianized.
If they have now reconsidered this course, at once abandoning their alliance with the Confederate States and abolishing slavery, it will appear that they understand both secession and slavery to be on the decline.
It will not be fair, however, to ascribe their relinquishment of slavery to the cessation of the labors and influence pf the American Board among them, since the preaching, and the church influences generally, under which they have since fallen, are even worse than their former ones. The guilt of the Board in connection with slavery consisted only in tolerating it without remonstrance, authenticating it as Christian by admitting slaveholders to their churches, and practising a constant system of deception among their patrons at home to conceal or excuse this complicity with slavery; but the Presbyterian board of the South, into whose hands the Cherokees have since fallen, is composed of the very worst sort of pro-slavery men; extreme in fanaticism, first for slavery, and next for secession in behalf of slavery.-c. k. w.
MEETING IN AID OF THE FIFTY-FOURTH REGIMENT MASS. VOLS A meeting in aid of the Fifty-fourth Regiment, Col. Shaw, was held at a private house on Tuesday, March 3. In spite of a violent storm, a large number of ladies and gentlemen assembled, who were animated by the most hearty enthusiasm and earnest desire to do their utmost to make this regiment as well appointed and useful as any in the service. Col. Shaw was present, and gave encouraging accounts of the progress of enlistments and of the excellent behavior of the men now in camp at Readville. He considered them fully up to the average of men whom he had seen elsewhere in service.
A committee of six ladies and four gentlemen was chosen to carry out the purposes of the meeting by procuring all necessary comforts for the regiment, and a banner to be presented to them at a' proper time. It was stated that the New Bedford Company would come provided with their full outfit by their own patriotic fellow-citizens. All friends of this good cause are cordially invited to cooperate with the committee.
Mr. J. H. Stephen8on, Treasurer, will be happy to receive contributions of socks, towels, handkerchiefs, thread, needles, or any other articles necessary for the soldier, or donations in money, at his office, No. 12 .Arch Street, Boston. Contributions may also be left at the office of the Sanitary Commission in Summer Street 
THEODORE D WELD IN PHILDELPHIA. Mr. Weld lectured in Philadelphia on the evening of .the 9th inst., on the Rebellion and its causes. The effect his lecture produced may be inferred from the following extract, which we: venture to make from a private letter, just received from our highly esteemed friend, DR WM H FURNESS
"I am more impressed than; ever with Theodore D. Weld's, wonderful power. I heard him for two hours, last evening; and was filled with admiration of his intimate knowledge of the whole letter and spirit of the Pro Slavery iniquity, of his own logic and his wealth of language. The exquisite propriety with which he uses words-the very: word always in the very place-why, it is like listening to music I had never heard him-never seen him before. He realized fully the idea I had formed of Mm. We must contrive to have him better known. It will not be long, now, before our Union Leagues, even with Edward Everetts at the head of them, will listen with delight to such men as Theodore D. Weld."
<c05> 
SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
GREAT MEETING IN ST. JAMES'S HALL, LONDON, IN SUPPORT OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Another great demonstration (only less imposing than that at Exeter Hall, on the 29th of January, as the place of meeting selected was somewhat smaller than the former building,) took place on the evening of the 18th ult., in St James's Hall, under the auspices of the Emancipation Society. The floor, platform, orchestra, balconies, and highest galleries, were crowded to suffocation with a dense multitude who responded to the invitation to attend a meeting of "the friends and supporters" of the Emancipation Society. The speakers specially announced were Professor F. W. Newman, the Rev. W. Landels (of Regent's park Chapel,) and George Thompson, Esq., who was specially advertised as intending to allude to the late reception of Mr. Mason, the Confederate Commissioner, at the: Mansion House.
The most hearty applause again and again greeted the speakers, varied at intervals with groans for the Lord Mayor, Mr. Mason, and the secessionist organs in the London press.
Two or three interruptors were compelled to withdraw, so distasteful were their ejaculations to the meeting. Mr. WM. EVANS, chairman of the Emancipation Society, presided; and on the platform were-Professor F. W. Newman, George Thompson, Esq., Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel, Sir Benjamin Pine, Rev. William Landels, Professor Beesley, Rev. J. H. Rylance, Mr. Washington Wilks-&c., &c.
After an address by the Chairman, Professor F. W. Newman, M. A., moved the first resolution-indignantly repelling the assumption, that the English people sympathize with the Southern rebellion, that violates every principle of political justice, and outrages by its object the moral sense of mankind-which he supported in an eloquent speech, and which was unanimously adopted.
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq. next took the platform, and was enthusiastically applauded.
Having bespoken the calm attention of the meeting, as he was in an indifferent state of health in consequence of his recent arduous labors in this cause, to which he had been devoted for thirty-two years, he said he did not wait for the emancipation proclamation of Mr. Lincoln until he called upon his countrymen utterly to withhold whatever sympathy they had from the great conspiracy of the South, and to give it to the North. Glad, indeed, must he be to find that the movement in which he had been engaged for so great a portion of his life, and which during the last two years he had prosecuted with especial reference to the collision between the North and the South, had assumed such majestic proportions in this country, and that the enthusiastic demonstrations at Exeter Hall and St. James's Hall were likely to lead to a national demonstration-(cheers)-and that the voice of the true English people-of the honest, unbribed English people-of the lovers of free institutions in England, not including, but despising the mercenary hirelings who, according to intercepted despatches, had been well paid for their sordid calumnies-was about to be heard, and that the true English people were about to hurl their indignation against the heads of the enemies of human freedom, and to give their sympathies to its friends. They might guess at the motives which influenced those whose sympathies were with the slaveholders. (Interruption.) He understood that there was, in the gallery, a gentleman who had been engaged as a lecturer at 3, Devonshire street, Portland-place, in behalf of the Southern State Aid Society- (a laugh)-of which you might become a member on payment of one shilling, but at the meetings of which society you were not even permitted to put a question, or, if you did, your exit was facilitated by a policeman. (A laugh.)
It might be asked by some, what interest had they in the terrible war which was at this moment desolating America! What interest, beyond pity for the fatuity of those who are bent upon the work of mutual destruction? What, then, was the cry of " The Union, one and indivisible," "The Constitution, it must and shall be maintained"? They knew the cause of the war to be slavery, and desired that the result of the war might be emancipation. (Cheers.) They did not so much desire the success of the North for the sake of the Union, as the defeat of the South in its wicked attempt to found an aristocratical form of government upon the basis of negro slavery and the degradation of human labor. (Cheers.)
After quoting from Mr. Buchanan's message of the 3d of December, 1860, to prove that slavery was the sole ground of controversy between the North and the South, he said that the war was waged by the South for the avowed purpose of founding an aristocracy of slaveholders. Secession was originated, initiated, and carried out by slaveholders for their own exclusive exaltation and aggrandisement, and to enable them to accomplish, as an independent power, the designs they found it impossible to execute under the restrictions laid down in the manifesto of the Republican party. (Hear, hear.) Men like Mr. Stephens, of Georgia, and Mr. Spratt, of South Carolina, had told the truth plainly and unambiguously, and had spurned the subterfuges, false pretences, and ridiculous inventions of papers like the Times and Saturday Review, and of men like Bentinck, and Hope, and Lindsay, and Gregory. (Cheers and laughter.) The leading men of the South had frankly said that it was a contest between two forms of society; between a form of society in the North in which there were no slaves, and a form of society in the South in which there were slaves-that it was a contest between a form of society in the North, which embodies in its structure the principle that equality is the right of man, and a form of society in the South which embodies the principle that equality is not the right of man, but only of equals; and that the blacks were an inferior race, whose normal and natural condition is that of slavery. (Hear, hear.) They said that while society at the North expanded upon the horizontal plane of pure democracy, society at the South was taking the rounded form of a social aristocracy, with negro slavery or its basis an abject and dependent white population for the next stratum, and a privileged class of slaveholders at the top. (Cheers.) The question, then, for the people of this country to consider was, whether they could sympathise with a movement that was avowedly for the object of permanently establishing, and indefinitely extending, a system of government designed for the enslavement of a portion of the human race-a movement at the same time characterized by the very worst and blackest features of treachery, treason, spoliation, and violence; and involving the overthrow of a Constitution and Government as free and beneficent as the world has ever seen. (Loud cheers.)
In the decision of this question, a principle of immeasurable importance was at stake. A Southern Confederacy, so styled, asserted a right to found a government and a nation upon the enslavement of a portion of the human race. If they might do this, why might not all the stronger peoples of the earth enslave the weaker? (Cheers.) The question submitted to the world by the Confederate States was not one of country or climate, of latitude or longitude, of intellect or complexion, but a human question, to be settled by the unchangeable and universal principles of morality. (Loud cheers.) Their object was one which had never before been proposed by any revolutionary body in the history of the world. It was without an example in the annals of political depravity. It was a proposition, in the midst of the light, and progress, and civilization of the nineteenth century, to found a government based upon the brutal degradation and perpetual enslavement of human, rational and immortal beings. And the men who were seeking to do this bad the shameless effrontery to scatter their emissaries over the face of Europe, with a view to the recognition of what they called their nationality and independence, (Loud cheers.) Let him not be told of the chivalry, the bravery, the skill in arms, the success in battle of such men as these. He called to mind another rebellion and another conflict, in which the
<c06>
preparation, the courage, the arms, the lofty during were not all on the side of the “angelic squadron”:-
“On t’other side satan, alarmed,
Collecting all his might, dilated stood,
Like Teneriffe or Atlas, unremoved.
His stature reached the sky, and on his crest
Sat horror plum’d, nor wanted in his grasp
What seemed both spear and shield.”
-(Loud cheers.)
Let him not to be told of the difficulties, dissensions and embarrassments which beset the North-of the want of military genius in their commanders, and the want of unanimity in their councils;-he looked the convulsions and shocks and carnage and smoke of the battle-field, and there he saw the balance of justice stretched across the sky, and. as he gazed at that celestial sign, he saw that it was not humanity, and freedom, and right, that would kick the beam. (Cheers.) Even the arch-fiend himself could not struggle successfully against inevitable fate; and as surely as he and his peers were sent to their own place, so surely would the architects of a structure whose corner-stone is proclaimed to be eternal slavery to being made the image of their God, be doomed to perish amid ruins of their own fabric. (Loud applause.)
What was the slavery of the South? Let Judge Stroud answer the question:-"The cardinal principle of slavery-that the slave is not to be ranked among sentient beings, but among things, that he is an article of property, a chattel personal-obtain as undoubted law in all the Slave States." (Hisses.) The slave laws of the Southern States may be thus epitomised:-The master may determine the kind, degree and time of labor to which the slave shall be subjected; the master may supply the slave with such, food and clothing only, both as to quantity or quality, as he may think proper or find convenient; the master may at his discretion inflict any punishment upon the person of his slave. All the powers of the master over his slave may be exercised, not by himself only in person, but by any one whom he may depute his agent. Slaves have no legal rights of property in things rear or personal; but whatever they may require belongs, in point of law, to their masters. The slave, being a personal chattel, is at all times liable to be sold absolutely, or mortgaged or leased at the will of his master. He may also be sold by process of law for the satisfaction of the debts of a living, or the debts and bequests of a deceased master, at the sat of creditors or legatees. A slave cannot be a party before a judicial tribunal in any species of action against his master, no matter how atrocious may have been the injury received from him. Slaves cannot redeem themselves, nor obtain a change of masters, though cruel treatment may have rendered such change, necessary for their personal safety. Slaves being objects of property, if injured by third persons, their owners may bring, suit and recover damages the injury. Slaves can make no contract. Slavery is hereditary and perpetual (Loud murmurs.) Such was the system, for the sake of which, and to perpetuate and extend which, the South had disrupted the Union, and is now fighting with the energy of desperation; and the representative of this system, and of the government founded upon it, received only a week ago a hearty; welcome from the chief magistrate of the city of Loudon-(hisses)-at a banquet given it his official residence, the Mansion House. The person to whom this welcome was extended was Mr. Mason, the Confederate Commissioner in England (Groans for Mason.) Mr. Mason was a Virginias- Virginia, which in the year 1619 imported the first shipment of negro slaves into North America-Virginia, whose highways for fifty years have been thronged, with coffles of chained victims on their way to the human flesh shambles of the cotton States-Virginia, the great slave-breeding State of the Union. (Hisses.) There might be some who would like to know what laws this particular State had upon her statute book. Here is one-"In case the personal property of a ward shall consist of specific articles, such as slaves, working beasts, animals of any kind, stock, furniture, plate, books, and so forth, the board, if it shall deem it advantageous to the ward, may it any time pass an order for the sale thereof." According to the revised code of Virginia, "a slave, for keeping a gun, powder, shot, a club, or other weapon whatever, offensive or defensive, may be whipped thirty-nine lashes by order of a justice." "A slaves, having been emancipated, remaining in the State more than twelve months, shall forfeit his right, and may be apprehended and sold by the overseers of the poor for the benefit of the Literary Fund." (Laughter.) Mr. Paxton said that "the best blood in Virginia ran in the veins of slaves." The sister of President Madison said-" We Southern ladies are complimented with the name of wives, but we are only the mistresses of seraglios." (Shame.)
Such was the state of things in Virginia, and Mr. Mason was one of the slaveholding aristocracy of that State, and the representative of the rebel slaveholders of the seceded States. (Hisses.) Mr. Mason was the author of the infamous statute which impiously set at nought the express command of Jehovah, “Thou shalt not return unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee: he shall dwell! With thee, even among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of thy gates, where it like him best: thou shalt not oppress him.” (Loud cheers, and a voice –“St. Paul sent back Onesimus, a fugitive slave, to Philemon.”) A gentleman, whose voice he recognized as having been heard in ejaculations four times before that evening, told him, what be never knew before, that St. Paul delivered up a fugitive slave –that is to say, he sent Onesimus back to Philemon. The burthen of proving the Onesimus was a slave lay upon his friend (the interrupter). But suppose that Onesimus was a slave, he denied that his friend could prove that St. Paul sent him back to slavery. (Cheers.) St. Paul said, “I send thee Onesimus whom I have begotten in my bonds, whom I might have kept with me that he might have ministered unto me, but without thy consent would I do nothing. I send him back, not now as doules–a servant –(cheers and laughter) –but above a servant, as a brother beloved. (Loud cheers.) Receive him” –not as a fugitive returned to slavery –“receive him as my own bowels. (Cheers.) If he hath wronged thee or oweth thee aught, put that to my account. Nevertheless, I say not unto thee how much thou owest unto me. Even thine own self also.” (Cheers) The men who supported the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law had been visited with the execrations of all the friends of humanity throughout the world; and the author of the law was the Confederate Commissioner, Mr. Mason-
“His name, his human name, should hang on high,
Exalted ‘midst his less abhorred compeers,
To fester through the infamy of years.”
(Loud cheers.) Four years later, when three thousand of the clergy of New England laid their memorial before Congress, praying its interference to stay the bloody atrocities perpetrated by the Missouri slaveholding ruffians upon the free settlers of Kansas, who was it that, in a speech in the Senate, poured contempt upon the document, insulted the reverend petitioners, spoke derisively of their “cloth,” and moved that their petition should be rejected! It was Mr. Mason, the Commissioner of the Southern slaveholding rebels. (Hisses.) This was the man who a week ago was entertained at a civic banquet by the Lord Mayor of London. (Cries of “Shame.”) This was the man to whom the head to London’s Corporation extended a warm and hearty welcome, this was the man who was permitted to declare, what was notoriously untrue, that in every circle in England, and every class of society, he had been a welcome and an honored guest. He hesitated no to say, that by what took place on the occasion in question, the city of London was disgraced, and the people of England belied. (Loud cheers.) Henceforth, until a man shall fill the civic chair, better able to discriminate who were worthy to receive the hospitality of the city, let “Ichabod” be written on the portico of the Mansion House. (Cheers.) Let those who would act up to the glorious traditions of their ancient municipality shun the banqueting room of Lord Mayor Rose, lest 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
they be entrapped into fellowship with, and the giving of a welcome to, those who are the representatives of the principle of human slavery, and are themselves traffickers in the sinews and souls of their fellow-men. (Loud applause.) Amongst the treasured archives of the city of London there would be found a record of the proceedings of the Court of Common Council, on the 22d of January, 1824. Let him refer to the proceedings of that memorable day, and put them in contrast with the doings of the 11th of February, 1863. On the first-named day, the Common Council resolved, ”That this Court, deeply impressed with the high character and philanthropy exhibited by the late Granville Sharp, Esq., especially in his having most ardently persevered and finally obtained the judgment of Lord Mansfield which established the great principle that every man, of whatever color or clime, is a free man as soon as he lands upon the British shore; for his active and successful efforts in procuring the abolition of the slave trade; and for the numerous virtues which adorned his life both as a man and a Christian. Resolved and ordered, that a marble bust, dedicated to his memory, be placed in this Court, under the direction of the Lord Mayor.” (Loud cheers.) He thought that when next London's Lord Mayor entered that Court of Common Council with his soiled and degraded robes of office, those pale and marble lips would rebuke him for what he has done, and tell him that he had dishonored the city which had honored Granville Sharp. (Enthusiastic cheers.) He then read a similar resolution which had been passed in honor of Thomas Clarkson; and next alluded to two fugitive slaves, (William and Ellen Craft,) whom he had visited in Boston when the kidnappers were upon their track. At that time there was another fugitive-an illustrious exile-to whom the city of London in its corporate capacity was rendering honor. He held in his hand the welcome to Louis Kossuth-(loud cheers)-inscribed on the records of the Corporation; and contrasting that incident and the others to which he had referred with the welcome to Mr. Mason, he said that the city would lie under & stigma, which he believed it did not deserve, until it should in Common Council resent the insult. (Prolonged applause.)
Mr. Thompson concluded by moving the following resolution:-”That the Lord Mayor, by inviting and receiving at the Mansion House Mr. Mason, the author of the iniquitous Fugitive Slave Law, as the representative of those Southern Confederate States in America whose independence the British Government has hitherto refused to recognize, has offered a wanton insult to the Government, to the citizens of London, and to the whole British nation; and has disgraced the annals of a Corporation, not more renowned for its antiquity than for its great and continuous services in the cause of freedom, and the honors it has rejoiced and been proud to render to men distinguished by their Christian and philanthropic labors and sacrifices for the liberties and welfare of mankind.” 
Mr. WASHINGTON WILKS supported the resolution in an eloquent speech, when it was put, and carried by acclamation.

LETTER FROM JOHN P. JEWETT, ESQ.
LONDON, Feb. 19, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON:
Some three weeks since, I wrote to you, giving a short account of the monster Emancipation demonstration at Exeter Hall. I have another and similar one to tell you about, which took place last evening, at St. James’s Hall, Regent street; on which occasion the principal speaker was our old and much beloved friend, George Thompson. It was good to be there, and listen to those eloquent, glowing utterances, such as electrified us in America in 1834 and’5. Oh, what a noble man he is! How thoroughly permeated is his whole soul with the noblest sentiments, and with what fearlessness does he give them utterance! He has lectured so many times during the last three months, that he is very much worn down, and, in truth, was not able to speak last evening, coming, as he did, almost literally, from a sick bed to the lecture room. Still, being unwilling to disappoint the people, he came, and his appearance on the platform was hailed by one of those tremendous, spontaneous outbursts of popular applause, which can come only from the heart. The spacious and elegant Hall, which is to London what our Music Hall is to Boston, was crowded to its utmost capacity with as enthusiastic an audience as you ever saw; largely composed of men, evidently thinking men, who had a purpose, an intelligent purpose, and who would not be baffled until that purpose is accomplished.
Two good speakers preceded our noble friend, viz.: Professor Newman, and Rev. Mr. Landels, of London, both of whom were warmly received; but when the speaker of the evening, the veteran of a thirty years' war, arose, it was the signal for another frensied ovation, which it did my heart good, as I know it would have done yours, to listen to. The frosts of thirty years have silvered our friend's locks, but his natural force seems but little abated, and that commanding voice of transcendent eloquence and power rings out as clear as when, in ‘34 and ‘5, he startled a sleeping nation, its politicians, its churches and its clergy, from the dreadful stupor of indifference to the wrongs of an enslaved race which had bound it as with a spell. Although very weak, he made a capital speech. You are aware that the Lord Mayor of London entertained the miserable rebel Commissioner and Fugitive Slave Law maker, Mason, at the mansion house, two weeks since. This outrageous proceeding furnished the theme for most of the speakers, but to Mr. Thompson was assigned the special duty of dissecting and flaying alive, (as only he or our Phillips could do,) those two worthies, the Lord Mayor of London and his bosom companion, the Virginia rebel. That MR. Thompson and his bosom companion, the Virginia rebel. That Mr. Thompson did justice to his subject, and subjects, I need not inform any one who knows the man as well as you do. Poor Mayor Rose! It was a desperate and spasmodic effort, on his part, to try to set back the rolling waves of public opinion which are now sweeping over England, from ”Land’s End to John O’ Groat’s house;" but it was a futile and abortive effort, and has already recoiled with startling power upon him and his few associates; for even the Times, from which he doubtless expected a word of encouragement, denounced the whole affair in unmeasured terms, adding to their strictures that they trusted the American people would attach no importance whatever to it, as it deserved none. Poor Lord Mayor! The French would say, ”C’ est fait de lui," for there are none mean enough to do him honor, excepting Southern rebels and the few despicable satellites who act as a bob to their kite. Verily, we see the verification of the old Latin proverb, ”Facilis descensus Averni"-”the descent into hell is easy," but the escape is more difficult, as these rebels find to their sorrow, as well in England as in America. The feeling in favor of the North and freedom, and against the South, secession and slavery, is rapidly increasing. I can see that a great change has taken place during the six weeks that I have been here. Every mention of President Lincoln's name and his Emancipation Proclamation was cheered to the echo, at the meeting last evening, as well as at the Exeter Hall meeting. And the name of John Brown was also received with equal favor. The South will get no aid from England, for the voice of the people is too unanimous and strong for the Government not to heed it, even if disposed so to do. 
Next week, on Wednesday, a grand banquet will be held at the Whittington Club Rooms, in honor of Mr. Thompson. His numerous friends in London take this method of recognizing the important services which this illustrious orator has rendered to the Anti-Slavery cause, and the Free Trade movement, during the last thirty years. It promises to be a brilliant affair.
I send you a copy of the Morning Star, which contains a pretty full account of the meeting at St. James’s Hall, and will send you a report of the banquet next week.
Yours, for humanity,
JOHN P. JEWETT.
<c02>
PREJUDICE AGAINST COLORED SOLDIERS.
SHIP ISLAND, Jan. 30, 1863.
The Government tried, for Some eighteen months, to prosecute the war and crush the rebellion, without attempting to destroy slavery, the cause of the war. But finding that either the Union or slavery must perish, the Proclamation of Emancipation was issued, and now they have invoked the aid of the slave population to put an end to the war and save the Union. This being the case, it strikes me that every patriot ought, so far, at least, to overcome his prejudice against color as not to refuse to stand in the same ranks and to fight under the same glorious flag with them, for the preservation of our national existence and our republican institutions. For my part, I know not how to appreciate that species of patriotism which allows an American soldier to resign his commission, or lay down his arms, and refuse longer to serve his country, simply because African soldiers have enlisted in the same cause, and are marching in the same ranks with him, against the common foe.
There are on this island, at present, nine companies of soldiers, viz.: Seven companies of colored soldiers of the second Louisiana Native Guards, and two of white soldiers, Companies D. and F., belonging to the thirteenth Maine Regiment, all under the command, for the time being, of Col. N. W. Daniels, the officer in command of the island and the fort. Now, it so happens, that in detailing soldiers for guard duty, a white Lieutenant has sometimes to receive the word of command from a colored Captain. I will say of these colored Captains that they were born free, and never were slaves; that they are, some of them, men of rather more than ordinary shrewdness and intelligence; that they received their commissions under Gen. Butler, and that they enlisted in the service from patriotic motives. For refusing compliance with this order, the commissioned officers and most of the privates in these two white companies have been suspended, and placed under arrest, till the decision of Gen. Banks shall be known. I was not aware that the distinction of castes existed in this country under our benign republican form of government. It has existed, I know, in some of the Southern States, for years. But I hope it is to be abolished, so that our country shall be emphatically an asylum for the oppressed children of Africa, as well as the oppressed of every other land. It is what, I believe, God designs this country to be. For my part, I would not say to any free man politically, Stand aside, I am better than thou, because his skin happens to be a shade darker than mine. Socially, I am not bound to make the African my companion and equal, any more than I am the Indian or the Mexican.
It is to be regretted that such a strong prejudice against color should be imported South from any of the New England States, which have ever been the home of the most liberal and enlarged spirit of philanthropy as well as patriotism. The General Government is now endeavoring to carry out that enlarged spirit of philanthropy, which, I may say, has its birth in the New England States, and I trust that no opposition will be made to that effort, by any who claim to be the descendants of the Pilgrim Fathers who settled those States.
History records the fact that there were African soldiers in the battle of Bunker Hill; that in the States of Rhode Island and Connecticut, large numbers of black soldiers were enlisted, and that no distinction of color was made; that Washington himself, that great and good General, decided to sanction the enlistment of free negroes, and that his decision was approved by Congress; that in Rhode Island, not only were the names of colored men entered on the rolls with white soldiers in some of the regiments, but that a distinct regiment was made up of this class of persons; that the Legislature of New York authorized the enlistment of colored soldiers, and that Maryland, during the same year, resolved to raise seven hundred and fifty soldiers, to be incorporated with the other troops. Thus it was that African soldiers helped our Revolutionary Fathers to obtain that glorious boon of liberty which we enjoy; and I trust there will be none found among their descendants so weak as to be unable to rise superior to that absurd prejudice against color which the slaveocracy of the South have labored so assiduously for years to create. It is enough that the poor African has been so long crushed and enslaved by these natural tyrants and haters of liberty. Let us not make ourselves the slaves of the absurd notions which they held and propagated. S. A. H.

"A LEAF FROM THE HISTORY OF TO-DAY.”
Rev. M. D. Conway, of Concord, delivered a lecture with the above title at Lyceum Hall, Milford, on Wednesday evening, the 4th inst. Perhaps it may be said, without qualification, that this lecture is one of deeper interest and practical power than any we have heard from this most acceptable laborer in the field of progress and human rights. He carries the audience step by step in the narration of what transpired in bringing some thirty of his father's slaves to the home of freedom. Some of the incidents are truly touching. Especially were we impressed with his description, so graphic, yet simple, of what transpired on the passage through Baltimore, and at the depot, while surrounded by an incensed mob. Here we learn the malignity of negro hatred, and the patient endurance of this afflicted race. Not less interesting and touching was his narration of the meeting when the poor bondmen and bondwomen were waiting in breathless silence the appearance of their deliverer. Mr. Conway found himself surrounded by a group of most affectionate fugitives, who greeted him with sincere benedictions, and clung to him as their Moses through the Red Sea. They leaped for joy, and sang again their familiar negro strains, till he felt unmanned, melted, and too happy for expression. The cup of cold water, given in the great Deliverer's name, had its promised reward. Mr. Conway remembered the scenes of his boyhood in a Southern home, where the older negress had nursed and cherished him most fondly; faithfulness and care pursued under difficulties which no words can reveal, came fresh and vivid to his mind, till he too felt like singing or repeating that most excellent and appropriate hymn of Cowper, which he recited with great pathos to his breathless audience:-
"Hear what God, the Lord, hath spoken,
'O, my people, faint and few, 
Comfortless, afflicted, broken,
Fair abodes; I build for you; 
Thorns of heartfelt tribulation
Shall no more perplex your ways; 
Ye shall name your walls Salvation,
And your gates shall all be praise.
'There, like streams that feed the garden,
Pleasures without end shall flow, 
For the Lord, your faith rewarding,
All his bounty shall bestow; 
Still, in undisturbed possession,
Peace and righteousness shall reign, 
Never shall you feel oppression,
Hear the voice of war again.
'Ye no more your suns descending,
Waning moons no more shall see; 
But your griefs for ever ending,
Find eternal noon in me; 
God shall rise, and, shining o'er you,
Change to day the gloom of night; 
He, the Lord, shall be your glory,
God, your everlasting light.’” 
Never did these most touching words move the tender chords of the human soul to better effect. Many an eye was moistened, and the heart inwardly blessed the Lord for the safe deliverance of these poor fugitives to homes of freedom and happiness in Ohio.
We shall ever count the hour spent in listening to this ”Leaf from the History of To-Day” as among the most profitable and refreshing of our life. And no better work can be done to extend and deepen in the soul the love of freedom for all, than a repetition in every town in Massachusetts of this interesting and profitable lecture. Let the friends of Anti-Slavery lose no time in securing the services of Mr. Conway. This we say spontaneously, for the simple reason, that at this hour just such a lecture is most opportune.
G. W. S.
<c03>
COLORED, SAILOR'S HOME, 2 DOVER St.,
NEW YORK, Feb. 26, 1863.
FRIEND GRARRISON-From 1832 up to the present date, a period of thirty-one years, I have been a, subscriber and attentive reader of the Liberator. Well do I remember the first time when I took the Infant Pioneer into my hand. I had just returned from a whaling voyage-had been absent from the United States four years. It was just then one year old. At its birth, the old sanhedrims of the Church Editorial disowned the little bantling, because it was born (of a poor family, the negro’s advocate,) not in a manger, but in the attic of an obscure building. There Mayor Otis found the babe, dandling upon the lap of a colored boy. (All babies must have a nurse. But,) God be thanked! the old Anti-Slavery Simeons and Annas, who were watching and praying in the Church of the Redemption, took the infant child in their arms, and became its sponsors, in the name of the God of eternal justice. It subsisted upon the gall and wormwood of the old pharisaical American Church Dispensation, which, like the Sadducees, denied the resurrection of the despised negro slaves in this world's political regeneration.
Ah! who would have thought, (except the God-fearing Abolitionists,) twenty-seven years ago, when the Pioneer had grown to man's estate in the person of its persecuted Editor, who was crucified in the streets of Boston, in the presence of a mob of 5000 ”gentlemen of property and standing," and buried in the tomb (common jail) for one day and night, that it would rise again in 1863, with its robes made white in the blood of this revolution, proclaiming freedom to the slaves in almost all the slave States? And is it not time for the Abolitionists, the apostles of this great redemption, to have a new credo in unum Deum, Dominum Rostrum, &c.?
Since this war began, I have been so cramped for means I had almost made up my mind to discontinue the Liberator; and yet I could not well do without my old tried friend, -the only consistent, liberal, truthful and self-denying advocate the slave ever had. The enclosed amount pays up my subscription to 1st Jan., 1863. Hoping that the faint-hearted subscribers may take courage, like myself, and continue their subscriptions to the end of the strife,
I am, yours faithfully,
WM. P. POWELL.

NEW YORK STATE CONVENTION.
The Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for the State of New York met in Albany, at Association Hall, on Wednesday, February 25th, at 21/2 o’clock1/2 o'clock P. M. The Convention was called to order by AARONAARON M. POWELLPOWELL, when the following organization was adopted: —
President—LYDIA MOTT LYDIA MOTT, of Albany.
Vice Presidents—SUSAN - SUSAN B. ANTHONYANTHONY, of Rochester, THEODORE TILTONTHEODORE TILTON, of New York, JOB WILBUR, JOB WILBUR of Easton.
Secretaries—ELIZABETH -ELIZABETH M. POWELLPOWELL, S. C. KIMBALL.
KIMBALL.
Business Committee—PARKER PILLSBURY, AARON-PARKER PILLSBURY, AARON M. POWELL, PHEBE H. JONES, MARY BARGUET, Z. BKOCKETT.
POWELL, PHEBE H. JONES, MARY BARGUET, Z. BROCKETT.
Finance Committee—ANNA RICE POWELL-ANN RICE POWELL, Dr. PERKINS.
PERKINS.
Speeches of an earnest and eloquent character were made by Gerrit Smith, Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, Theodore Tilton, Rev. Mr. Fulton, and others, and an excellent letter read from Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Four sessions were held, and a strong series of resolutions adopted—-among them the following: —
Resolved, That we congratulate the people of the Empire State, and the friends of freedom throughout the land, that since our last annual meeting, thousands of the hitherto enslaved have become free, and that freedom to three million or more, through Presidential edict, is now, henceforth and forever, pledged by the Federal government.
Resolved, That our work as Abolitionists, with the claims of humanity upon us, will not be accomplished while a single slave remains in involuntary bondage, within the jurisdiction of the American government.
Resolved, That the President should make the execution of his Emancipation Proclamation a paramount work of the army and navy, as the surest and speediest way of arresting the war, and establishing a just, free and permanent nationality. Every army and navy officer opposed to it should be summarily removed. All violations of it should be severely punished.
Resolved, That the interests of the thousands already emancipated, and of the millions to whom freedom is now pledged by the Federal government, call loudly for the establishment at Washington of an efficient BUREAU OF EMANCIPATIONBUREAU OF EMANCIPATION, one object of which should be to secure, by preëmption of confiscated preemption of confiscated lands at the South, homesteads for the freedmen and women, the already rightful owners of the soil; and otherwise to promote their general welfare.
Resolved, That the prompt response to the President’s Proclamation which comes back to us from the myriad voices of many monster meetings, recently held, and still holding in Great Britain, are doubly interesting and animating to us, as revealing that the heart of that nation is beating with hostility to slavery, and was only waiting for a vigorous movement and policy on the part of our government in the direction of emancipation, to plant itself firmly and most unmistakably at its side, and extend to it a most hearty and generous sympathy.
We regret that the excessively crowded state of our columns will not permit us to copy the proceedings entire, as copiously given in the last number of the Anti-Slavery Standard. Gerrit Smith generously contributed $50 towards defraying expenses, &c.
The COLORED SOLDIERS.COLORED SOLDIERS Capt. Grace’s recruits bade farewell to their friends in City Hall, Tuesday evening. After a season of social chat and conversation, the meeting was called to order by John Briggs, and organized, with William Berry in the chair. Prayer was offered by Rev. Mr. Grimes, and short speeches from Lieut. Colonel Hallowell, of the 54th, Capt Grace, C. B. H. Fessenden, Ezra Wilson, Rev. Mr. Kelly, Wesley Furlong, and Dr. Bayne, were listened to. A procession was then formed, which marched to A. Taylor & Co.’s saloon, where a bountiful collation had been prepared, to which full justice was done. The company departed for Readville yesterday afternoon.
From gratitude for the interest taken in its behalf by S. Griffitts Morgan, Esq., of this city, the company has decided to take the name of” Morgan Guards.”
Since last week’s report, the following names have been added, making 51 so far:—:-Robert Lawrence, New Bedford; Abram Conklin, do.; Robert Nelson, do.; Arthur Schuyler, Lawrence.—New Bedford Standard.
ENLISTMENT MEETING AT PROVIDENCE.ENLISTMENT MEETING AT APROVIDENCE. A large and enthusiastic meeting of the colored citizens was held in Providence on Monday evening to promote enlistments for the 54th Massachusetts regiment. Spirited and enthusiastic speeches were made by John S. Rock, of Boston, Rev. J. B. Smith, of New Bedford, Rev. Mr. Scott and Mr. Henry, of Providence. A vote of thanks was given Mr. Rock for his able address; and resolutions were passed thanking the President of the United States for the proclamation of emancipation, and resolving to stand by the Government to the end. The meeting was got up by Rev. -J. B. Smith, one of the recruiting agents of the 54th Massachusetts.
Miss DICKINSON’S ADDRESS.MISS DICKINSON'S ADDRESS. Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, who has been speaking to crowded houses in Strafford and Carroll counties, for the past three weeks, spoke in Phoenix Hall, on Saturday night last, on ”The Crisis.”." The hall was packed full, there was not a seat on the main floor or in the gallery which was not occupied, and hundreds were standing in the rear of the hall and in the side aisles. A more intelligent and attentive audience never assembled in our city, and from constant outbursts of applause during the hour and a half Miss Dickinson was speaking, we should say there was never a more enthusiastic one. Her manner before an audience is pleasing, and she possesses oratorical powers of the rarest quality. Her style of speech is convincing, and her arguments are conclusive. Many of her illustrations are thrilling, and her audiences are held as though they were electrified. Her treatment of traitors, both South and North, is severe, and they squirm when their wickedness is clearly painted before them. Miss Dickinson spoke in Portsmouth, on Monday evening last, and speaks in Claremont, and Keene, and other towns in Cheshire county, the remainder of this week.—Concord (N. H.) Democrat.
NEW HAMPSHIRE ELECTION. The annual State election took place in New Hampshire on a Tuesday, and was most hotly contested. There is no choice of Governor by the people, but it looks as if the Republicans have secured the three members of Congress, and a majority in both houseS of the Legislature.
<c04>
BLOODY RIOT IN DETROIT.
A despatch from Detroit, dated Friday, 6th, says—”-”A negro, who had committed an outrage upon a young white girl, was being taken from the courtroom to the jail, under escort of the military, this afternoon, when an attempt to take the negro from the hands of the officers was made by a gang of rowdies. The crowd was fired upon, and one man killed and several wounded. Being foiled in their attempt to get possession of the negro, the- mob perpetrated the most horrible outrages upon the colored people residing in the vicinity of the jail.”
From the Detroit Free Press of Saturday.
Assault upon a Negro Hovel, and Murder of the Inmates —A Blood-thirsty and Unmanageble Mob—The City Fired in Twenty Places—The Military Called Out to Suppress the Riot.
Yesterday was the bloodiest day that ever dawned upon Detroit. Up to twelve o’clock, no disturbance of a serious nature had occurred. At about half past twelve, after the adjournment of the court, the clouds which portended the coming storm began to gather. The mob first inaugurated the day by petty persecutions of any negroes who chanced to come in the vicinity of the City Hall. Any of that unfortunate race who happened along were subjected to kicks, cuffs and blows, and were liable to be butchered upon the streets. Even women and children were not exempt, several of them being abused in a most shameful and outrageous manner.
In order to quell the disturbance, and to deliver the prisoner safe to the jailer, the Detroit Provost Guard had been ordered to escort him to the jail. Their arrival in front of the City Hall was greeted by threats of defiance from the crowd, who became more excited as the prospect of gratifying their blood-thirsty vengeance upon the negro became less favorable. The Guard formed in line upon Monroe Avenue, and everything being prepared for a vigorous defence, Faulkner was led down by the officers into the street. As the mob got sight of their intended victim, the yells, groans and hisses were almost deafening, and nothing but the fixed bayonets of the soldiers could have prevented them from rushing upon and tearing him in pieces. And it was with great difficulty they could be kept back. The throng of people which followed the prisoner to the jail was immense, and could only be estimated by thousands.
It was not until they had neared the jail that the riot commenced in earnest. Notwithstanding the array of flashing bayonets, and the danger of being shot down in the attempt, a large number of the riotors simultaneously rushed for the prisoner, and came very near rescuing him. But he was got into the prison inclosure unharmed, without a single sacrifice. All would have been well, and the mob would have soon dispersed, had it not been for a wanton and malicious, act of certain members of the provost guard toward the exasperated citizens. Without orders from any reliable authority, a number of random shots were fired promiscuously into the crowd, several of them taking effect, and one man, Chas. Langer, being instantly killed, shot through the heart. The Provost Guard, after this display, then hurried back to the barracks, leaving the crowd to disperse at their leisure. The cry of death and vengeance ran through the crowd like an electric shock. The sight of the bleeding corpse of the dead man, and the groans of a half dozen who were wounded, kindled anew the flames of insubordination and frenzy. The Germans, especially, were maddened beyond description, because their countryman had been sacrificed, as they thought and expressed it, to protect a negro who was deserving of torture and death. The excitement among all classes, however, was intense. Being baffled in their attempt to rescue the criminal, they sought other channels to give vent to their malice.
The first house where a negro family resided, one end of which was used as a cooper shop, situated on Beaubien street, was assaulted with bricks, paving stones and clubs. About a dozen negroes were at work in the shop or stopping in the house at the time. The most of them were armed, and fired several shots into the crowd from the windows, taking effect in several instances, but not fatally injuring any one, as far as could be ascertained.
As each shot from the negro hovel reverberated through the vicinity, the fiendishness of the mob became more manifest, and their desperation more dreadful. The firearms in possession of the negroes deterred them from entering, for it would have been almost certain death for any man to attempt it. Any missile that could be obtained was hurled at the rendezvous of the negroes, the windows and doors burst open, and everything destroyed which could be seen by those outside. Finally, finding that they could not be forced out of their hiding-place in any other manner, the match of the incendiary was placed at one end of the building, and in a very short time the flames spread so as to envelop almost the entire building.
The scene at this time was one that utterly baffles description. With the building a perfect sheet of livid flame, and outside a crowd of blood-thirsty rioters, some of whom were standing at the doors with revolvers in their hands, waiting for their victims to appear, it was a truly pitiable and sickening sight. The poor wretches inside were almost frantic with fright, undecided whether to remain and die by means of the devouring element, or suffer the almost certain terrible fate which awaited them at the hands of the merciless crowd. There was no more mercy extended to the suffering creatures than would have been shown to a rattlesnake. No tears could move, no supplications assuage the awful frenzy and demoniacal spirit of revenge which had taken possession of that mass of people.
One colored woman made her appearance at the door with a little child in her arms, and appealed to the mob for mercy. The monstrous fact must be told, her tearful appeals were met with a shower of bricks, stones and clubs, driving herself and the babe in her arms back into the burning building. At this juncture one man, moved to mercy at this cowardly and inhuman act, rushed to her assistance, bravely and nobly protecting her person from the violence which threatened her. But the negroes found no such protection. They were driven gradually to the windows and doors, where they were murderously assailed with every species of weapons, including axes, spades and clubs, and everything which could be used as a means of attack. The frightened creatures were almost as insane with fright as their persecutors were with madness. As they came out, they were beaten and bruised in a terrible manner, their shrieks and groans only exciting the mob to further exertions in their brutal work. Several of them were knocked down with axes and left for dead, but who afterwards recovered only to be again set upon and cruelly beaten to insensibility.
The scenes which followed were of a similar nature. Old men, eighty years of age, were not in the least respected, but knocked down with the same fiendish vindictiveness which characterized all the other proceedings of the day. After the first building had been reduced to ashes, the appetite for arson had only been whetted, and not at all appeased. As night approached, they grew bolder, and did not scruple to commit the worst crimes upon the calendar with perfect impunity. The houses on Lafayette st., between Beaubien and St. Antoine, were literally sacked of their contents, and the furniture piled in the middle of the street and burned.
Among the articles constituting the bonfires, a large number of musical instruments could be discovered—-bass viols, violins, banjos, guitars, accordeons, and almost every musical instrument in existence. Feather beds were ripped open, and their contents scattered over the streets, and everything valuable totally destroyed. Then, not satisfied with having destroyed every vestige of furniture, the torch was applied to the buildings, and nearly the whole of the entire blocks, on both sides of the street, were soon levelled to the ground. The steamers were on the spot promptly, but would only be permitted to throw water on the houses of white men, to prevent the conflagration from becoming general. The mob threatened that the engines would be torn to pieces if they attempted to play upon any other buildings than those designated.
As there was no room for doubt that these threats would be summarily executed, if necessity compelled that course, it was deemed proper to cater to the wishes of the mob in that respect.
The work of destruction then progressed with fearful rapidity. No sooner was one building burned than another was set on fire, some of them being several blocks apart.
The notorious Paton Alley was totally destroyed, as were also several buildings in that vicinity.
It was impossible last night to ascertain the number of buildings destroyed, but it is safe to say that they will aggregate not less than forty or fifty.
An hour or two previous to this, the authorities, becoming alarmed, and being satisfied that no force that could be mustered in Detroit would be sufficiently powerful to quell the riot, or stop the outrages of the rioters, telegraphed to the commander of the Twenty- seventh Infantry, in camp at Ypsilanti, requesting him to forward a battalion of his men, by special train, to assist in dispersing the mob. About this time, a despatch was received, stating that the request of the city officials had been complied with, and that five companies were on the way. This news, together with the appearance of several squads of armed men in various parts of the city, had no influence in overawing the crowd, but rather tended to increase their rage and activity.
Great alarm and distress prevailed everywhere, as these fires successively burst forth, and in some localities the citizens armed themselves, and turned out to protest their families and property.
After the last fire had been extinguished, the rioters suddenly dispersed, completely worn out and dispirited by their labors.
It is impossible to give the names of all the persons injured.
Perhaps a dozen or more were struck, and more or less injured, by the bullets and shot fired by the sol-
<C05>
<c05>
diers and negroes. At one volley from the negro house on Beaubien street, several people were struck, including a boy ten or twelve years old, and a girl a little older.
Of the negroes there are all sorts of rumors. It is believed that several were killed, but a as far as known, nothing is positive concerning the matter. Our reporter saw a large number in an insensible condition in the gutters and alleys, but none entirely dead. A large number, however, were very seriously injured, and it is probable that many of then them will never recover.
The colored population of the city, frightened and distracted, hurried from the mob, scattering in every direction, a large number going over the river to Canada, while many actually fled to the woods, with their wives and little ones. They were perfectly panic-stricken, and run hither and thither with a recklessness which rendered them totally unfit to take proper care of themselves. Those who did not leave the city huddled themselves together in the kitchens and out-houses of the buildings adjoining the places where the riotous proceedings were had.
The wretched culprit was summarily tried, found guilty, and sentenced to imprisonment for life.
The prisoner was then asked if lie he had anything to say why sentence should not be passed upon him. He said that he was innocent of the crime of which he had been convicted, that this charge had been brought against him, for what reason he could not say, and that nothing of the kind a as testified to had transpired in his saloon. He having concluded his remarks, his Honor Judge Witherell proceeded to pass sentence upon him.
He said the crime was one of the greatest known to the law, and the protection of society therefore demanded that the punishment should be severe. The law had very properly made the penalty equal to that for murder in the first degree. The testimony was conclusive, and the jury had very properly brought in a verdict of guilty, as they could not do otherwise. He said,” I deem your crime the very worst of which a human being can be guilty, and one for which there can hardly be sufficient punishment, and do, therefore, give you the full sentence of the law: to remain in the State Prison, at Jackson, during the remainder of your natural life.”
The prisoner, who had before appeared calm and hopeful, burst into tears, and going back to the prisoner’s box, covered his face with his hands and wept. Faulkner is forty-two years of age, of medium size, and has apparently but a trifle of negro blood in his veins. He is a single man, and has, for some time, kept a restaurant on Michigan avenue, the scene of the outrage. He has received the fullest penalty of the law, and an outraged community feels that no more than justice has been done.
SHAMEFUL OUTRAGES AT PORT ROYAL.
The Free South of the 14th ult., published at Port Royal, contains an editorial article and a letter addressed to Gen. Saxton, complaining that some of the troops recently landed have pursued a course of almost systematic pillage towards the negroes, robbing them of food, poultry, and furniture, of what little money could be found, threatening their lives, and committing excesses of all sorts. Upon one plantation it is stated that the negro houses were burned by the marauders. The troops implicated are from New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and, we regret to say, some from Massachusetts, of the 24th, Gen. Stevenson’s old regiment. All the parties concerned appear to have been from Gen. Foster’s command, recently from North Carolina, and if the accounts published are correct, there was not the shadow of an excuse for the outrages. How large a portion of the regiments named were engaged in the dastardly affair doe does not appear, but the Free South is charitably inclined to believe that” into these regiments have strayed some few outcasts from the prison or the hulk, who, thrust outside the pale of society on account of former crimes, have sought the army as a hiding place.”." Certain it is that no persons worthy of the name of men, least of all New England men, would have so disgraced themselves. The Free South sets forth the consequences of these outrages in the following lamentable light:—
“"In one day the product of a year’s toil of superintendents, teachers and people, has been swept away. By unremitting labor, in the face of the greatest obstacles", these colored men and women have been brought to make some advance in their moral and physical condition. They are struggling to escape from the degradations amid which their past lives have been spent. They have learned in a good degree the value of faith and purity in the family, and of honesty and regard for the rights of others in the social relation. They have gathered about them of the products of the soil sufficient, with their little earnings, to supply their necessities till another season shall bring its crops. These outrages at once destroy the effect of the moral teachings which were gradually gaining influence over them, take away their faith in the Northern men, whom they have welcomed as their deliverers from oppression, and throw them back a helpless burden upon the government. Thus, not only are these soldiers staining their souls with crimes against humanity in the persons of the helpless negro, but are assisting to destroy the government by increasing its expenses when every dollar is needed to put down the 
rebellion.”
In view of the recent outrages upon the colored troops at Port Royal, General Naglee has issued the following orders: —
“HEADQUARTERS, DETACHMENT TENTH ARMY CORPS:—
"HEADQUARTERS, DETACHMENT TENTH ARMY CORPS. St. Helena Island, Port Royal, S. C, Feb. 13, 1863. The disgraceful outrages committed by some few of the regiments, for which the good name of all others must suffer, must and shall stop.
Under no circumstances wilt any soldier enter any hut or building upon St. Helena Island.
Until further orders, no soldier will be permitted to leave his regimental encampment, except on duty.”
“HEADQUARTERS, DETACHMENT TENTH ARMY CORPS."
"HEADQUARTERS, DETACHMENT TENTH ARMY CORPS. St. Helena Island, Port Royal, S. C, Feb. 13, 1863. A general Court Martial is hereby appointed to meet at St. Helana Island, on Monday, Feb. 16, 1863, or as soon thereafter as practicable, for the trial of Col. F. A. Osborn, 24th Mass. Volunteers, and such other prisoners as may be brought before it.”
Among the officers of the Court called to officiate at the trial of Col. Osborn are Col. H. M. Plaisted, of the Eleventh Maine Volunteers, and Maj. J. G. Chambers, of the Twenty-third Mass. Volunteers.
PROCLAMATION BY THE PRESIDENT.
WASHINGTONWASHINGTON, March 10.
The Chronicle of to-morrow will contain the following: —
BY THE PRESIDENT.
A Proclamation respecting Soldiers Absent without Leave.
EXECUTIVE MANSION EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 10,1863.
In pursuance of the 26th section of the act of Congress, entitled an act for enrolling and calling out the national forces, and for other purposes, approved on the 3d of March, in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, I, Abraham Lincoln, President and Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy of the United States, do hereby order and command that all; soldiers enlisted or drafted into the service of the United States now absent from their regiments without leave, shall forthwith return to their respective regiments.
And I do declare and proclaim that all soldiers now absent from their respective regiments without leave, who shall on or before the 1st day of April, 1863, report themselves at any rendezvous designated by the General Orders of the War Department No. 5868, heretofore announced, may be restored to their respective regiments without punishment, except the forfeiture of pay and allowances during their absence, and all who do not return within the time above specified shall be arrested as deserters, and punished as the law provides.
And whereas, evil-disposed and disloyal persons at sundry places have enticed and procured soldiers to desert and absent themselves from their regiments, thereby weakening the strength of the armies, and prolonging the war, giving aid and comfort to the enemy, and cruelly exposing the gallant and faithful soldiers remaining in the ranks to increased hardships and danger, I do therefore call upon all patriotic and faithful citizens to oppose and resist the above-mentioned dangerous and treasonable crimes, and aid in restoring to their regiments all soldiers absent without leave, and to assist in the execution of the act of Congress for enrolling and calling out the national forces and for other purposes, and to support the proper authorities in the procuring and punishment of offenders against said act, and in suppressing the insurrection and rebellion.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand.
Done in the City of Washington this tenth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-seventh.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President,
EDWIN. STANTON Secretary of War.
Before the final adjournment of Congress on the 4th inst., every important measure, except that it <illegible> reference to emancipation in the Border States, was passed. Among the last acts approved by the President was one authorizing the issuance of letters <illegible> marque and reprisal. The provision for organizing <illegible> African troops appears to have been stricken out of.<illegible> the engineer bill before it passed the Senate.
TREATY WITH LIBERIA. The ratification of the treaty of commerce and navigation between the Unite States and Liberia was exchanged in London on the 17th of February, by Mr. Adams and the Consul-General for Liberia.
<C06>
TEMPERANGE CONVENTION.
The Friends of Temperance in Massachusetts are requested request to meet in Mass Convention in TREMONT TEMPLE, in Boston, on Wednesday, March 18th, at half past 10 o’clock , A. M., there to consult together upon measures toot check the alarming prevalence of Intemperance in the State, and among our patriotic Soldiers in the Army.
It is felt desirable to revive those measures for the promotion of practical Temperance, by the adoption of the Pledge and otherwise, which were so effective in the earlier days of the reform. To this end and we invite such persons as were active in that reform, as well as the younger men of the present day, to meet in general consultation. It will be the business of the Convention also to consider any measures which may be thought calculated to promote the cause of Temperance.
All Temperance organizations are requested to attend, either in mass or by delegation.
Clergymen are requested to read this to their congregations, and to be present at the Convention.
John Tappan, E. N. Kirk,
L. M. Sargent, R. K. Potter,
Benj. Burgess, S. C. Knights,
W. B. Spooner, Wm. L. Garrison,
Daniel Kimball, James Ford,
Joseph White, H. D. Cushing,
Stephen Fairbanks, Joseph Day,
Henry Hoyt, Moses Gragg,
Moses Mellen, Daniel Allen,
Julius A. Palemer Palmer, Wendell Phillips,
Alex. H. Twombly, Harrison Tweed,
Charles Beecher, Geo. Trask,
N. Boynton, W,. Bushnell,
David Fairbanks, W. H. Hatch,
B. W. Williams, C. L. McCurdy,
L. D. Barrows, Geo. A. Rand,
A. D. Sargeant, E. O. Haven,
Samuel Kelley, D. S. King,
Israel W. Andrews, G. M. Steele,
Lee Claflin, B. K. Peirce,
Joseph N. Bacon, Edward Cooke,
Robt.,. B. Storer, Cyrus L. Eastman,
Asher Joslin, C. S. Rogers,
Otis Cary, G. H. Mansfield,
Wm. F. Johnson, Increase N. Tarbox,
J. E. Crane, J. W. Dadman,
J. C. Allen, E. F. Gay,
H. M. Richards, V. R. Coombs,
Nathan Crocker, Wm. M. Thayer,
Josiah M. Read, Wm. Mccorney,
Oakes Ames, Chas. F. Porter,
D. M. Crane, J. S. Lincoln,
Joseph Story, Moses M. Allen,
J. C. Webster, George F. Clark,
Albert Day, Henry W. Warren,
John Appleton, Geo. H. Emerson,
Geo. L. Sawin, Franklin Rand,
Peter Smith, Geo. W. Quinby,
M. M. Longley, C. Rittoor,
Jona. Butterfield, R. Tomlinson,
Gideon Cole, Elmer Hewitt,
S. S. Drew, Henry Jewell,
James Dorr, Chas. Foster,
Joseph Jones, John S. Barry,
J. Warren Merrill, Jos. A. Fairbanks,
Isasc Hanly, J. A. Ames,
Henry Edwards, J. H. Mansfield,
Samuel A. Walker, J. L. Hanaford,
Sylvanus Cobb, Daniel E. Chapin,
J. Hascall, James P. Magee,
Martin Moore, J. S. Day,
Edward Otheman, E. A. Manning,
A. A. Miner, W. B. Dodge,
Otis Clapp, E. L. Mitchell,
Samuel W. Hodges, Alanson Hawley,
Edwin Thompson, Robert Johnson,
William R. Stacy, Wm. H. H. Bryant,
Oliver Frost, Theodore Prentice.
We earnestly request all towns to send a large number of delegates. Where there is no organization, we would suggest the calling of a meeting to appoint delegates.
The Convention will meet in the evening, by invitation of the Legislative Temperance Society, at the State House.
CATHOLIC CONGREGATIONCONGREGATION AL CHURCH, Mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4. Rev. L. A. SAWYERSAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, will preach next Sabbath, at half past 10 o’clock, A. M., on the Bible history of the Creation, and early condition of man and his fall; its true significance, and the incorrectness and in-juriousness 9of the common views of it.
MR. ALCOTTSALCOTT'S CONVERSATIONS. —Mr. A. BRONSON ALCOTTALCOTT will speak on the ”ATLANTIC MONTHLY AND CONTRIBUTORS,”ATLANTIC MONTHLY AND CONTRIBUTORS," at the Hall of the Sons of Temperance, corner of Bromfield and Province Streets, on Monday evening, March 16th, commencing at half past 7 o’clock. Tickets to be had at the door.
Copies of the photographic picture, by ALLEN, of the Music Hall stage, in Boston, as arranged for the 29th Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, may be obtained by application to ROBERTROBERT F. WALLCUT, 211WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, one dollar.
MARY WATECSMARY WATERS (formerly a slave) is well recommended as being capable, intelligent and deserving. She desires employment in washing and ironing, house-cleaning, &c., and does other housework satisfactorily. Any who will give her work will be conferring a kindness, at she is very destitute, being left with four small children. She resides at 29 Anderson Street, formerly West Centre, Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women anal and Children.
Reference. —References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN.
THE Life and Letters of Captain John Brown, who was executed at Charlestown, Virginia, Dec. 2d2nd, 1859, for an Armed Attack upon American Slavery; with Notices of some of his Confederates. Edited by RICHARD D.RICHARD D. WEBB. London: Smith, Elder A& Co. 1861.
A small fresh supply of this interesting work, (which is prefaced by a fine photograph likeness,) wherein the character and purposes of John Brown are set forth with great clearness and justice, has been received and is now for sale at this office. Price, one dollar. Correspondents sending that sum will have a copy of the book sent them—-postage paid. Address, SAMUEL MAYSAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston. Mar6-tf

FARM HANDS WANTED!
TWO good farm hands can find steady employment, at fair wages, by addressing the subscriber immediately, at MINERSVILLE, Henry County, Illinois.
Fifty good hands could find lucrative employment in this section the present season, if application be made soon.
A. TAYLOR.
Minersville, Ill., Feb. 28, 1863.mar6-3w
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering, and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. Nov7-3m
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs frogs that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe will them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTLAUX BANNISTER, No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
183. Mar
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry 
For the Liberator 
DOOMED!
Through the dark tempest of wrath and of gloom,   
Swiftly Secession’s Bark speeds to her doom ;
Still higher the surges of Federal wrath
Rise, bearing destruction and death in their path;
Sweeping her fast to that iron-bound shore,   
Whence her sea-beaten frame shall return never more 
Deeply laden with wrongs of the poor and oppressed,   
Her mariners wearied by fear and unrest,   
Her canvass in tatters-masts shattered and sprung,   
Her seams widely yawning, her rudder unhung,   
She speeds to her doom, by the Universe banned,   
Forsaken by God, and unsuccored by man 
Still at their stations her officers stand 
Despairingly eyeing the surf -whitened strand;
With unaltered resolve and invincible pride,   
They scorn in the Union's safe haven to ride;
Resolved not alone with destruction to meet,   
They hopelessly drift on to wreck and defeat 
Friends of Freedom, rejoice! (though the horrors of war
Through our beautiful land are spread widely and far,   )
For the time will come when, from the lakes to the sea,   
The oppressed shall rejoice, and the bondman be free;
And America, -passing in triumph the test,   -
Shall stand forth the champion of Right in the West 
Sandwich, March 2, 1863 NYKIN, 2d 
From the Boston Transcript 
THE NEGRO’S VISION 
Proud white man! Governor, or priest, or king!
Who look’st upon me as an unclean thing;
Who hat’st with spiteful hate the darker shade,   
Or ebon hue, which God Almighty made,   
Listen to me, pariah and underling-
Listen to me, the black, unholy thing 
“Twas in a vision at the dead of night,   
I saw two armies eager for the fight;
Above the first, God's angels stood-a host;
Above the second, legions of the lost;
Hard by, bowed down to earth, in tears and chains,   
Millions of slaves poured forth their piteous strains 
The shock of battle came-the fiendish yell-
The flame and roar of cannon belching hell;
The frenzied eye, the snorting breath-the teeth
Gnashing and gleaming’ neath their bearded sheath;
The shriek of hate, the harsh exulting call
Which either gave who saw his foeman fall 
God's guarding angels moved not with their host,   
And thrice victorious were the spirits lost;
Their lurid banners dipped in human gore,   
In strange, red lettering, words of triumph bore;
Bloody the field, thick strewn with dead as hail, 
"Oh! why,   " the shout uprose, "doth hell prevail?"
"You is the reason,   " spoke an angel then,   
"God loveth all; and they, though black, are men;
Hate so unholy doth your heart embue,   
You will not even let them die for you;
Then die without them-our excuse is this:
We fight not for unholy prejudice 
Send out the flower of your country here,   
Your strong young men-since color is so dear,   
And life so cheap-we lift nor voice nor hand,   
To save the best and bravest of your land;
We wait-nor join in shout or battle hymn,   
For God is God-ye cannot conquer Him 
But arm the millions chained and drooping there,   
And every shout shall be a conqueror's prayer;
We, weaponed with God's lightning, swift will smite
You shrieking devils, guests of hell and night;
And ye shall see as old Elisha saw,   
Heaven's red artillery leading you to war "
MRS DENISON 
From the American Baptist 
GIVE US FREEDOM!
Freedom! give us Freedom
For our battle-call and cry:
"Tis a nation's heart that's pleading:
Heed the echoes ere they die!
Freedom! give us Freedom;
"Tis the birthright of the brave;
It will cheer them on while living,   
And glorify the grave 
Freedom! give us Freedom,   
The oppressed in bondage sigh,   
And the prayer is heard resounding
Through the arches of the sky 
CHORUS-Freedom! sing of Freedom,   
And swell the chorus high;
"Tis the only watchword worthy
To be our battle-cry 
Freedom! aye, give Freedom
To every human soul,   
And our nation's star, ascending,   
Shall reach a shining goal 
Freedom! give us Freedom
For our battle-call and cry,   
And though the strife be fearful,   
Our hope shall never die 
Freedom! strike for Freedom,   
And the God who rules on high
Will lead our valiant armies
On, on to victory 
CHORUS-Freedom! sing of Freedom,   
And swell the pean high;
“Tis the only watchword worthy
To be our battle-cry 
Freedom! sing of Freedom;
Let it be our nation's hymn,   
Till the hosts of heaven shall hear it,   
And the flame of Mars grow dim 
Freedom! sing of Freedom ;
We may learn it of the bee,   
Of the bird, and of the breezes,   
And the music of the sea 
Freedom! sing of Freedom;
'Tis the anthem of the world;
And with its songs ascending,   
Let our banners be unfurled 
CHORUS-Freedom! sing of Freedom,   
And swell the chorus high;
"Tis the only watchword worthy
To be our battle-cry 
BELLE BUSH 
Adelphian Institute, Norristown, Pa 
From the Evening News 
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY-Impromptu 
A Party, born of treachery and fear,   
To east a blot upon the country’s fame,   
And dead to all that patriots hold dear-
A people's honor and a nation's name!
A Party ready to compute at naught
The blood and treasure of a noble land,   
And blessings by our hero fathers bought-
To court the favor of rebellion’ band-
To sue for traitor’s smiles on bended knee-
To fawn and flatter round a Southern throne,   
Erected o’er he grave of liberty,   
With human slavery as the corner-stone!
Such is the party as revived of late-
An ugly demon in an angel's guise,   
Which every patriot must scorn or hate,   
Which e'en the Southern devil must despise:
A straggling, skulking, scared deserting pack!
A libel on the name of Democrat!
Heaven! let thy lightings no, I take that back,   
The helot party is too mean for that!
A DOUGLAS DEMOCRAT 
KIND WORDS 
Kind words! What are ye? Pearly drops of dew;
Sparkling beams of comfort, soothing sad adien; 
Blossoms clad in beauty, gladdening human life;
Sounds of heavenly music, drowning angry strife 
Kind words are angels, beings bright and pure,   
Teaching man with patience life's sorrows to endure;
Fountains all refreshing, streams of heavenly love,   
Watering souls with gladness, raising hearts above 
<c02>	
The Liberator 
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH 
A TALE OF TO-DAY 
CHAPTER IV 
DECLARATIONS 
Deacon Sleeper was a widower of three year’s standing That prosperous-looking mansion and comfortable-looking mansion and comfortable-looking personality, together with three children, were cared for by an unmarried sister, gifted largely with New England thrift From the time “a decent respect to the opinions” of his townspeople had allowed him, after the departure of his excellent wife, to look about him with open-eyed candor in search of a suitable investment of his risen affections and rising fortunes and ambitious plans for his children, his eyes had turned, instinctively, on that corner pew diagonally distant from his own prominent, broad-isle, crimson-cushioned position, where sat the Misses Mary and Harriet Williams-the former so tranquil, Quaker-like, even, in apparel, demeanor and movement; the latter so bright, cheerful looking, stylish in her unstudied dress and manners The bloom and airiness of twenty-five were on the cheek and in the step of thirty-five, white the good judgement, good-nature, thrift, intelligence and wit of Miss Hattie were proverbial throughout the township. It is true the pecuniary resources of the Misses Williams were very limited, but they belonged to a good family, and, on one side, had connections of great respectability in Philadelphia and Boston Another branch of the family was greatly impoverished, and the indigent relatives from Vermont often received, for months at a time Vermont often received, for months at a time, the economically-managed but still generous hospitalities of the Cottage. This Cottage, with its garden and orchard, and a small number of shares in railway stocks, comprised all their possessions; and Miss Hattie had been, for some time, in the habit, during at least one half the year, of working among the operatives in the cotton-mill, to increase their small income, not so much for their own personal needs as to enable them to carry out their noble plans of hospitality and benevolence The introduction into the small household at the Cottage, a year ago, of the two young people we have found there-the elder to support herself by her own industry, and the younger, as a boarder, to enjoy the advantages of that neighborhood for instruction in some of the higher departments which had been neglected in her education thus far-had changed, essentially, the plans of the household Clara had taken Aunt Hattie's place at the mill, while the latter assumed the domestic management and activities, to which her senior sister's delicate health rendered her inadequate in their extended range Yet not unfrequently Aunt Hattie acted as Clara's substitute, as indicated at the close of the last chapter 
Whenever Sultan Sleeper walked through his noisy harem, with the air of one who thought that he verily was such, and that he need but nod his preference to be followed, gratefully, from that life of a spinster among spindles to the dignity of wife-hood among crowded comforts, a warmer glow came rushing from under his warm-colored vest to his cheek, and a giddier twinkle darted into his round eyes, if Miss Hattie's snug, neat figure was bending over the growing web, in place of the tall, willowy Clara Not that he objected to the latter as an operative; her punctuality, diligence, quiet courtesy and peculiar beauty made her an object of interest; but her “’ristocratic” reserve and unaltering shyness baffled all his attempts at acquaintance "She seems to feel above her situation; that is all the fault I find with her,   " he once said to Miss Hattie 
In proportion as Clara, for whatever reason, was not the recipient of the rich widower's attentions, she was, notwithstanding her "`ristocratic" reserve, a favorite with those of her own sex in the mill; although some plain aspirants to favor, who could not forgive her for bringing so much beauty there, all harmless as it seemed to be in its results, did not hesitate to affirm that she was "over head and ears in love” with their employer-that it was, evidently, an unrequited attachment, and hence her paleness and frequent absence from illness On the other hand, Miss Hattie, good-humored and affable as she was toward all, was cordially hated by all as the fortunate object of the proprietor's regard Many a pretty head tossed, disdainfully, its carefully-arranged curls, braids or ribbons, as the obnoxious intruder tripped, cheerily, to her place among the looms; many a pretty lip swelled with pouts, or curled with an attempt at scorn, as the “Old Maid” went by “Of course it would be a match-he certainly likes her, and’ tis n’t likely she’ll refuse him ”Others affirmed they were already engaged-it had been so stated at a “sewing-circle,   ” where the bridal, the dress and the journey had all been discussed and arranged. The reason the engagement hadn’t been made public was, that the parties didn’t agree on politics, and Deacon Sleeper was afraid it would affect his interests in the coming Fall elections; but, as soon as that was well over, and he secure in the office of Representative to the State Legislature, they were to be married, and spend the winter in Boston! Reader, is this an exaggeration? Hav’n’t you and I heard causes and consequences helped onward as definitely and disinterestedly, many a time, if we would listen?
"But what, mean time, was the state of Miss Hattie’s mind in the matter? You who are behind the scenes, and expected to know, shouldn’t leave it to idle gossip ” Patience, you shall know-all in time Providence doesn’t reveal everything at once, does it? For the present, let this suffice: Miss Harriet Williams was a woman of high, strong principles and well-considered opinions She would not be likely to marry, or do anything else, simply because the world, or that part of it represented by her native town, thought she had better She was a woman of heart and sentiment, too, thoroughly practical as she was. That small, compact body incarnated a great amount of valuable “personality,   ” as one of our Concord prophets would say-the venerable horticulturalist of the finest Thought-flowers and Life-roots of the last thirty years-that ready smile of hers came from a heart all brimming with the sunshine of universal good-will therefore, she had a motive for everything, and her motive was always kindly Events shall tell the rest An excellent step-mother she certainly would make; we think more highly of Deacon Ezra Sleeper for his preference 
The glow and the twinkle came in their full power that sultry June Monday afternoon, as, sauntering through his cotton factory in company with a stranger of a Southern aspect, he encountered Miss Hattie among the looms So great was his pleasure, that he did not even think to inquire why Clara was absent The stranger had been carefully nothing the operatives, and remarking upon their respectable appearance “Yes, Sir,   ” the proprietor was just saying with fullrounded complacency, in reply, "many of my girls are well educated, and from some of our most respectable families of the middle class The wages we pay secure the ready services of such-Ah, Miss Williams! (bowing profoundly as he extended his hand ) Miss Williams, Mr Belmaine of Virginia-I hope you are well, madam, this afternoon "
Mr Belmaine might well credit, fully, the boast of the gratified proprietor, as he returned the graceful salutation and listened to the lady-like utterance of the operative before him Nor did she fail, with admirable tact, so to keep the fluent conversation within present limits, during those few moments, that there was no opportunity for questions, on the part of the proprietor, which she did not choose should come in on that occasion 
“Charming! charming, Sir!” repeated the stranger, as he glanced back on the occupants of the floor he was leaving, not without a shade of disappointment deepening the hue of his swarthy face “Charming indeed,   ” said the proprietor, mentally, his admiring gaze resting on Miss Williams; and then and there he resolved that another sun should not rise on his 
<c03>
anxious uncertainty In a half hour he was at her side again, with many a tell-tale glance and respiration of tender sympathy over her fatiguing labor that sultry day; and the interview ended with an accepted invitation to a drive that evening, with her employer, through the beautiful rural regions of their beautiful valley “And shall I not see the handsome Virgianian again?” with an arch glance that concealed her real interest 
Some what startled-” He leaves this evening in the train for Boston, he told me,   ” with a profound respiration of relief 
“Not to come again?” and a quaint mockery lurked in her brown eyes as she looked up in the anxious Deacon’s face 
“Not at present, certainly I overheard him say to the gentleman with him, that his business was urgent, and might detain him some time”
All anxiety arising from jealous apprehensions would certainly have been banished from the mind of her admirer, could he have read the fervent God be praised! that stirred the soul of Miss Hattie in response to his last words. As it was, he felt her undiminished cheerfulness as a guarantee that he had nothing to fear from that quarter. 
Gladly would Miss Hattie have put off, for various reasons, the crisis that she felt this invitation heralded; but circumstances made it difficult to do so, and she trusted to tact and skill and worthy purposes to adjust all things satisfactorily Through the charming scenery of that delightful region they drove slowly, the mountains in the distance standing, like shaggy giants, learning against the star-lit sky; the Connecticut rolling calmly, and with a seeming consciousness of pride, between its fertile, fragrant banks; the dewy air breathing coolness and refreshment with every waft of its unseen pinions-a delicious sense of rest in every aspect of nature Miss Hattie shook off the subduing influences in which, under other circumstances, she would have loved to steep her soul and sense, for with her, now, animation was security She chatted of everything they passed, and her companion listened, apparently, as she would like to have listened to the low music of waters and evening-wind To gain time for others was her objects, and, therefore, she must not remonstrate, however lengthy the drive 
Her companion realized, too, that he had a cherished object to accomplish; but how, against the current of that will which he felt without comprehending, should he ever begin? At length, by one determined effort, the listening admirer was galvanized into the demonstrative lover The reins lay loosely over the back of the musingly-moving horse and the front of the luxurious chaise; their road lay through a beautiful wood, all crowded with shadows and whispers and odors, the very dream-land of poetry and romance What wonder the lover’s heart swelled irrepressibly? We like him better for emotion in such company What wonder that he felt assured of encouragement and hope? Perhaps he was a little too demonstrative; stolid natures are apt to be when aroused But judge what astonishment must have seized hoping man and dreaming horse, when the extended arms embraced vacancy-when a figure stood erect in the chaise-one firm, quick hand grasping the reins, and the other snatching the whip from its socket-while, at the top of his trotting speed, the quadruped was urged over the wooded road to the open highway Then, before the legitimate driver had a clear consciousness of what was transpiring, that figure was seated again at his side, the reins were placed in his hands, and he heard a reproachful voice, saying-”O, Deacon Sleeper, I wouldn’t be so frightened again for the world! Why, the horse was almost standing still just where that robbery occurred last Fall!”
To most enamored devotes, this occasion of real or pretended fright would have been just the occasion for a renewal of endearments; but the shock had been overmastering-the forces moved slow-and there must be time for an effective rally Meantime, the chatting went briskly on-the monologue-please understand-until a turn in the road suggested the home ward rout Miss Hattie besought her companion to take that direction rather than return the way they had come over; and he, flustered and annoyed at the thought of having turned homeward without accomplishing his object, drove silently on, while mentally assuring himself that “she should some time pay for such obstinacy ” The cloud was soon dispelled, however, by the sunshine of his companion’s cheerful talk, and again unbounded joy and admiration possessed him He listened with prolonged respirations to her voice, no matter what her words were; he gazed into her bright face until its magnetism made his own heavy features playful 
“I’ve half a mind to frighten you again, Miss Hattie, it makes you so handsome ”
“O, Deacon Sleeper, it is only starlight by which you see me now,   ” answered the maiden with a merry laugh, under the influence of which she dodged securely back into her corner of the chaise, in view of a certain unemployed and rather restless arm 
Learning forward and fixing his round eyes, brimfull of the sentiment that agitated his Sunday rest, upon the laughing lady’s face, and speaking with the pent-up fervors of hours- “By heaven, Miss Hattie, you are the handsomest woman that goes into the meeting-house any Sunday!”
He would have given half the profits of a year in the factory to see her look coy and demure under this initiatory outburst; she laughed again, gaily as a young girl, then suddenly became very grave, saying, slowly and solemnly-
“This to me, Deacon Sleeper? Do you know the danger you incur? Listen to me When I was young, a bewildered swain imagined I had beauty, and wrote a sonnet upon it, which was printed in our local newspapers I entered a suit for libel, as you may suppose-appeared in Court, and obtained heavy damages Take warning, Sir-luck has not forsaken me in my antiquity ”
“Antiquity!” with a look of comical confusion of ideas Then settling back into a grave simplicity and earnestness far more becoming and manly than his recent words, and with a humility which won the respect of his listener as his pompous assumptions never succeeded in doing, he told in plain, honest vernacular, his preference, his wishes, his hopes The lady gave that candid, unembarrassed, womanly attention which such a subject, thus presented, demanded from her; brought forward every obstacle which difference of pecuniary advantage, differences of opinion, and the dependence of her older and more delicate sister on her care, as she grew in years, naturally created All these were easily managed, save one He cared little for wealth, if he had no one to share it with; her sister should never miss her care or need a home; he could not promise to become an Abolitionist, but he did promise never to interfere with her opinions ”Not even if she gave shelter to fugitive slaves under their roof?” For the sake of his children’s safety, he couldn’t promise that, but such cases were not likely to occur in Massachusetts-he had never heard of one! When mistress of his household, she would forget these questions about the rights of colored folks, and leave them for the men to quarrel about. For his part, he had nothing against the “niggers” if they were kept in their right places, and didn’t come near him nor his 
This last was an unfortunate remark for the Deacon The lady crimsoned, but not with the emotion he had wished to excite Her rising respect subsided again as this coarse commonplace fell on her fine moral sense. This life-companionship for her! Bound, indissolubly, to a nature incapable of apprehending great, vital principles; looking at them only through the blurred, distorted lens of a low prejudice of race and color! Impossible-and the man could not comprehend how she recoiled from the thought He did comprehend, however, that he had lost ground, and attempted clumsy compromise and conciliation In the midst of this, a deep, ominous bass-note rolled through the darkening sky-a vivid line of light shot across the rapidly gathering gloom-large, frequent suggestions to speed sounded on the chaise top Miss Hattie took the reins another mood from that of an
<c04>
hour ago, and guided the hurrying horse, while Deacon Sleeper carefully drew up the boot, and did all he could to shield her from the now tumbling shower. They were soon at the cottage-gate. 
“You have not answered me, Miss Hattie,   ” said the Deacon, in an eager whisper, as a gentleman approached from the door with a spread umbrella. 
“We must both take time to consider, Deacon Sleeper. ”
“How long? When-
“Give me a month, at least ”
“A month! That is an age”
“Say a fortnight, then Don’t speak to me again on the subject for a fortnight O, Mr. Horton, how glad I am you happened in-my sister would have been alarmed in the shower without me ”
She took the young gentleman’s offered arm, under the shelter of his umbrella, and, bidding the Deacon a kind good night, hastened to the open door. 
“Little chance for my success” muttered the Deacon, gloomily, as he drove away, “with that fellow’s influence in the house. I shall hate him, soon, as bad as Smalley does I’ll have her, though-Abolition or no Abolition-by- ” Well, reader, that last word or epithet was not deaconly, and I shan’t give it.   
“O Aunt Hattie I’m so glad to see you!” was the first greeting “Clara and I saw the cloud rising over the mountain and river, some time ago, from her window, and have been worrying about you Aunt Mary and Mr. Horton have been too busy talking in the parlor to worry, I guess ”
Yes, Aunt Mary and Mr. Horton had improved every moment of the younger sister’s absence Now that young gentleman stands gazing with a look of sad, earnest inquiry on Clara, who had followed Effie down stairs when the severity of the thunder-shower came on Taking, at length, her passive hand, he led her to the seat Aunt Mary had just left, saying, with respectful tenderness-
“May I claim the privilege of your company until the shower is over?”
She looked in his face sadly and gratefully For an hour they sat alone The cottage-conversations of this evening shall form the subject of the next chapter 
PEACE AND WAR 
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:
It has been seventeen years since you asked me to attend a Non-Resistance meeting; and if you had put a million of gold into my hand, you would not have conferred so great a blessing upon me as asking me to attend that meeting From that day to this, I have been growing a happier man At first, I thought if negro slavery was abolished, the world would be well enough; but, in the progression of my mind, I soon saw that this governmental machinery was all in opposition to the law of God in the human soul I refused to vote; not because the government was pro-slavery, for all written constitutions and creeds must be pro-slavery, and therefore hindrances to the soul’s progress I felt great encouragement that we should go on with our work of moral reform until we should redeem the world from all wrong I felt sure that slavery would be abolished peacefully But how ignorant did I find myself!
It would be impossible to tell how much I suffered when this war broke out It is almost two years since you published that excellent letter from our beloved brother, A H Love, of Philadelphia I responded an earnest amen I do now, for I have just read it again But a change has come over my mind I do not believe the slaveholder will ever let go of his victim by moral force Says Edward M Wheelock, in his excellent sermon on John Brown-“No tyrant was ever known to let go his hold of the throat of his victim, except by the pressure of force ” Tyrants will not yield to moral force is true, when rightly understood, that there can be no remission of sin without the shedding of blood The time must come some time, when the terrible crimes of man against his brother must be blotted out by war I see no other way And I hope the time has arrived when the tyrannies of the old world and the new will be destroyed This war was needed to show us the true state of things. The rulers of England and France care nothing for suffering humanity There is cotton and flour enough in the world to last a long time, but the tyrants who control them have put an enormous price upon them Will these tyrants yield except by the pressure of force? Never! Every few years we have what is called a financial crisis Is there any need of it? Not any Think how many are at this moment in a starving condition all over the world! Is there any need of it? Not any See the hundreds of thousands of drones, non-producers! How do they get their living? How many laboring men have thought of the cause of this state of things? Yet there is certainly a cause for this terrible amount of suffering in the world See how the country is being flooded with paper money! With these governments it is might that makes right By a combination they commit these enormous crimes upon their fellowman Now, what is the cause of this enormous power? What keeps these governments alive? What causes this vast amount of crime and suffering in the world? What supports such a great number of brokers, bankers, priests, lawyers, doctors, politicians, and millions of others too numerous to mention? What enables a man to buy 50,   000 acres of land, and others to own a thousand slaves? How do the tyrants of the old world own everything, while the laborers, who do all the work own nothing? It is by a combination of men in power, with the use of money instead of labor And this combination and money must be destroyed And if the time has arrived for the destruction of these gigantic crimes, even by bloody war, I say Amen!
Again says Mr Wheelock-“The terrible logic of history teaches that no such wrong was ever cleansed by rose-water ” All our appeals to tyrants, on the ground that their acts are wrong, are despised The elements of destruction are in these governments, and they will destroy each other by their own wickedness They are the Babylons spoken of by John in Revelation, and are surely to be destroyed, or there is no hope for bleeding humanity I now see the use of war I see its absolute necessity These governments cannot be destroyed, by moral force, though moral force is moving power 
 When Charles Stearns went to Kansas, he was a non-resistant; but he soon found that all appeals to the border ruffians on moral grounds were in vain He compared them to tigers He was ridiculed by some non-resistants But since then, Wendell Phillips has used the same words Bro Stearns was right, as the present war now proves You once said, It (truth) shall overturn despotism, and overturn monarchy, and overturn republicanism, till He whose right it is shall reign It is said that the people of Europe look to this country as the hope of the world But they must find it all in vain Republicanism or democracy is from hell, like all the rest; and is to be destroyed by a war of ideas and a war of bullets 
The history of this country proves that tyranny of the very worst kind can flourish, under democracy just as well as under any form of government Of course, we are in a better state than older governments; but all this talk about equality is so great a deception to the people, that words fail to express my abhorrence of it To say that slavery is the cause of this war is true; but that is not going to the bottom of our troubles Slavery is the child, but human government is the parent Something must come to destroy these governments, and make money worthless; and I am happy to see them dashing out each other’s brains In their self-destruction is the hope of the world 
In the Liberator of August 1st, 1856, are the following excellent editorial remarks in reply to a correspondent, “b ” 
“Human government, for some purpose, says B, is admitted to be necessary But, surely, a wicked government is not necessary; and when one inherently so, it forfeits its right to exist even for an hour Indeed, properly speaking, there is but one govern-
<c05>
-ment,   -and that is not human, but divine; there but one law,   -and that is the higher law; there is but one ruler and he is God, in whom we live and move and have our being What is called human government is usurpation, imposture, demagogueism, swindling and tyranny, more or less, according to circumstances, and to the intellectual and more condition of the people Unquestionably, every existing government on earth is to be overthrown by the growth of mind and the moral regeneration of the masses Absolutism-limited monarchy-democracy, all are based on the doctrine that ‘might make right’ all are intrinsically inhuman, selfish, clannist and opposed to the recognition of the brotherhood man They are not for the people, but make the people their prey; they are hostile to all progress; the resist to the uttermost all radical changes All history shows that Liberty, Humanity, Justice and Right have ever been in conflict with existing government no matter what their theory form ” 
Yours, for the redemption of man, 
SEWARD MITCHELL 
Cornville, (Me ) Feb 22, 1863 
THE REAOTION IN ENGLAND 
LONDON, Jan 30, 1863 
very reader of Sunday Mercury has hear of Exeter Hall It is identified in our minds with the monster abolition meetings that used to gall our sensitive souls when we were wedded to our chained idols Al! “isms,   ” and the disciples thereo clustered about Exeter Hall We hated it as rostrum of English radicalism But, alack! those same radicals, or the honest half of them, have con to be the friends of our extremity; and on Thursday night, the 29th of January, the old fane of reform witnessed a scene which mocked all former agital and which thrilled the downcast heart of ever loyal American In brief, the Republicans, the Jacobins, the freedom-shrieking, king-contemn working men, gathered together to express the sympathy for the great Republic of the United States; and with them, upon a common platform met the dissenting clergymen, the dissenting school men-all, indeed, who dislike; the “established” Government, and aristocracy of England an who hope to remodel it upon the basis of equality economy, and liberty In other words, those who like America and the Americans, and who dislike English monarchy and its mimic aristocracy of slavery, rallied together at Exeter Hall, ostensibly <illegible> approve of emancipation, but really to approve <illegible> democracy The meeting was, to all intents, Northern The anomaly was witnessed of cheers in the streets of London for Abraham Lincoln, Charles Francis Adams, Benjamin F Butler, Burnside, and Rosecrans If one would shut his eyes, he might believe himself transported to the Bowery, or <illegible> Union Square, upon a recruiting occasion, or Fourth of July ovation I can assure you having participated in the demonstration-that I have never attended even an American gathering marked by <illegible> much devotion to our cause, our rulers, and our armies 
 Let me describe the scene! Exeter Hall is <illegible> immense brick building, which lies just off the Strand. Strand is the great business street of Lon
don, and its stores or “shops” are like those of Broadway The Strand entrance to the hall is <illegible> and narrow, and there is a side-entrance upon <illegible> street-a small street which winds into <illegible> street, and thence into Covent Garden. The hall is named after the street, and also after a famous old menagerie, called “Exeter ‘change,   ” which stood upon its site. The present structure was built in 1831, and will give comfortable sittings to 4,   000 persons 
 Except at certain seasons of the year, few <illegible> occurrences happen at Exeter Hall. In the month of May, religious amd temperance conventions are held here; and, through the winter, occasional <illegible> lectures and concerts. This was the <illegible> designated for the grand gathering of the friends emancipation.   
The present Emancipation Society has been <illegible> existence a few weeks only. It has nothing what ever to do with the former emancipation clique Wilberforce and Brougham. The latter was a <illegible> association, controlled by the aristocrat Whig dynasty; the present is a body essential plebeian <illegible> and composed of the independent <illegible> speakers, and writers of England. The organization arose out of the sermons of some dissention preachers, and the leaders of some radical newspapers; but derived its strength mainly from the universal disaffection of the lower orders of the English people to their existing condition under the <illegible> The descendants of the Round Head <illegible> chafing under the limitations of the franchise, burden some taxation, the contempt with which they are regarded by the lords of the soil, the grievous effect of the laws of entail and primogeniture, where they are kept poor and rendered liable to starvation and pauperism-these have looked to America the model democracy which proves the poor man capacity for self-government 
A strange scene was presented, therefore, <illegible> Strand on Thursday evening. The meeting has been called at seven o’clock; but the hall was <illegible> at half-past five, and crowded at six. Long before seven, the gates were closed and signs suspended in front, “The hall quite full“ Still the people thronged around the doors. Exeter street was great surging mass of folks, and the Strand was <illegible> jammed that officers of police were obliged to fore passage-ways through for pedestrians. Hansoms and cabs came up momentarily, depositing fresh hundreds and the omnibuses were inadequate to <illegible> their patrons. At last the lower, or first floor <illegible> was thrown open, and a second meeting was organized and finally a platform was improvised in Exeter street, against the News of the World office, and two thousand or more people heard addresses in the open air. There was no music, no placarding, <illegible> advertising. The whole affair was spontaneous 
Upon the platform in the great hall sat the members of the Committee, about three hundred in all Sixteen of these were members and ex-members of Parliament. There were the Mayors of Manchester, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Rochdale, and Haven straw; the universities had distinguished representatives; the army was represented by Gen perrond Thompson, and others; fifteen presses were represented; and every denomination had some one or clergymen at hand. But two reverend a <illegible> of the Church of England favored the assembly; though the Wesleyan, Unitarian, Baptist, Presbyterian, and independent pulpits sent nine-tenth of their incumbents. With these came agitators <illegible> very possible faith from the “Iconoclast” as he called,   ) Mr. Bradlaugh, to the French exiles, Monsieurs A. Talandier and Victor Schoelcher The <illegible> “Chartists” turned out en masse, and, in fact, ever element of society subscribed its prominent person ages, with the republican and anti-monarchical elements prevailing.   
 The meetings in the lower hall and in the street were characterized by similar sentiments. Me were distributing Union placards all the while, and persons were selling Union pamphlets. Telegram were momentarily received from Bradford, Bristol Stroud, Hull, and other places where America meetings were simultaneously proceeding; and in fact, all working England was in arms not so much against slavery as against British oligarchy. No man knows that this spontaneous and significant uprising will not culminate in revolution. Those of us at home, who laugh at the insinuations of coming republicanism here, know nothing of the antagonism between two classes of British society. The aristocracy, and a large portion of the middle classes look upon the working-men with scorn, and have systematically denied them the right of suffrage. The working-men, in turn, regard their feudal lords with deep bitterness, and are determined to obtain equality electoral, if not social.   
At the meeting in Exeter street, when Chaplain Haley, of Massachusetts, spoke, there were cheers for Butler, Lincoln, and Rosecrans. People stopped, in the Strand astonished to hear such shouts. Mingling with the people, I overheard in their controversies, curses upon Lords Palmerston and Russell 
“The little liberty we ha’ got,   ” said one man, in argument, “we owe to the first revolution in America. I do not think we will get no more, lad, until we ha’a revolution of our own.   " 
The effect of the meetings, in certain quarters, is said to be intense. The managers of the Times held a council, and it 	that Punch will hereafter cease its slanders upon the popular cause. The Times came out to-day with its ancient bitterness, vainly attempting to account for the change of sentiment. Other movements are upon the tapis; and I should not wonder if we would be able to negotiate a loan in London within a month. Among the committee-men of the Exeter Hall meeting were the great bankers, the Hanburys of Lombard street.   
A meeting has since been held in Lancashire. And a petition prepared for Parliament to assist a colony 
<c06>
of the impoverished poor to emigrate to the free United States. This is the unkindest cut of all. United States. This is the unkindest end of all. Ten thousand families are said to be willing to join hands with the “infamous Yankees.   ” 
New York Sunday Mercury TRAMPLE 
A CARD 
BUREAU DE L’EMINGHATION HAITIENNE. 
55 LIBERTY STREET,   
NEW YORK, March 2, 1863 
To the Editor of the New York Sunday Mercury:-
Gentlemen: In your paper of yesterday, I find the following indecorous and erroneous allusion to the diplomatic representative from the government of Hayti to that of the United States:
“Yesterday the sable representative of the Sovereign Kingdom of Hayti presented his credentials at Washington, as the accredited representative of his Majesty Soulouque, and was graciously received as a foreign ambassador. Of course our rulers will return the compliment, and send an American minister to Hayti.   ”
I omit the indecorous caption and context of the article to which I allude, as foreign to my object, although their scurrility converts an editorial notice of a public event into a gratuitous insult to a national guest 
As an agent of the Haytian government, and a member of that unfortunate race, whom either your instincts or your interests lead you constantly to deride, I desire to apprise you of three facts: 1st Hayti is not a kingdom, but a republic: 2d. The ci-devant emperor Soulouque was deposed by the revolution of December 22d, 1858, and the republic reestablished, of which his Excellency Fabre geffrand, a pure patriot and enlightened ruler, is President; 3d. That the government of the United States is represented in Hayti by the Hon. Benjamin Whidden, resident minister 
The United States having recognized Hayti as an independent nation, and having accredited a resident minister to Port an Prince, its seat of government, the courtesy has been reciprocated by the appointment of Colonel E. Roumain, a Haytian gentleman of education and refinement, as Consul-General and Charge d’Affaires for Hayti near the government of the United States. He is, therefore, entitled to courteous treatment and respectful mention in common with the other members of the corps diplomatique. 
Upon reflection, you will doubtless observe that the habit of ridiculing the negro race has led you, in this instance, to commit a glaring impropriety, and to betray an ignorance of current events which, while they may gratify your spleen, cannot fail to expose you to the censure of the well-bred, and to the derision even of those whom you affect to despise. In conclusion, gentlemen, permit me to remind you that vulgarity is not always wit, and that by mistaking the one for the other, “while you may make the unthinking laugh, you cannot but cause the judicious to grieve.   ”
Your obedient servant,   
GEORGE LAWRENCE, JR.   ,   
Commissioner of Emigration 
A FLORIDA LADY’S “JEWELRY”
The war is disclosing, in a remarkable degree, the beauties and peculiarities of the system which has so long shamed our civilization. Thus, for instance, in North Carolina, not long since, a pack of blood-hands employed in hunting fugitives from bondage were captured by our forces; in Alabama, Mississippi, Texas and elsewhere, unoffending loyalists have flocked, maimed and scarred, into our lines, bleeding witnesses of the humane tendencies of slavery; in Virginia, drinking cups have been made of the skulls of your fallen braves, and finger rings of their bones, even Southern women clamoring there for as ornaments for their parlor tables. More recently, still other discoveries of the beauties of the “system” have been made; and of one of these we find the following account in the Port Royal Free South:
“Among the trophies of Colonel Higginson’s expedition up the St. Mary’s river, and which have attracted much attention, is a portion of Madame Alburtis’s jewelry, brought off from the refined little town of Woodstock Bracelets, necklaces, anklets and chains of home manufacture which rival in unique design anything ever found in the bijoutoirs of Paris or London. One pretty parure of lady’s wear, made of the native wood of the country and mounted with iron, is particularly attractive. A notch is cut in the middle of a heavy hard pine stick, eight feet long, of sufficient size to admit the neck, which, when inserted, a massive iron bar clamps and holds fast by a strong padlock. This is an improvement on the Spanish garrote, which chokes outright, and answers the same purpose as ducking under water until life is nearly extinct, without the inconvenience of getting wet. Another admirable contrivance of Madame Alburtis’s secures both neck and heels at the same time, emblematic of the spread eagle. A bare inspection must convince any one that a negro need be decked with these ornaments but seldom to produce a broken, slavish spirit.   ”
REBEL APPEAL TO THE PEOPLE OF THE 
SOUTH. 
The following extract is taken from a late number of the Richmond Examiner. The editor ridicules the idea of peace propositions from the States of the Northwest, and in continuation says:-
We can hardly endure a sermon now that does not exhort all able-bodied young men to fight, to drill and be drilled, to kill and be killed, as the first of moral and religious duties. Consider, reader, what will be the lot of this noble and beauteous land, where are your fathers’ homes, of the Yankee savages once get in-every city even as New Orleans; every fertile plain and valley peopled by subjugated serfs (you and your colored ) under a Yankee master, and bearing its wealth of corn and cattle for them! For them our rivers will flow, For them our mines will teem, on them and for them our very suns will rise and set Conquest always creates an aristocracy; for a conquering army will be paid in lands. The origin of the British aristocracy was conquest by William the Norman. French noblesse began conquests by the Franks. Every <illegible> of Europe has been a conquering of some hordes-Ostrogoths, Burgundians, Vandals, Fins; there has been no nobility without conquest; no conquest that did not found a nobility And the thing that hath been is the thing that shall be; and so, forgive us, reader, but just think for one instant of this Southern people vassals and tenants to a down-east aristocracy. Infandum! Those old Goths and Normans had at least some rude elements of greatness and generosity; and under the potent fendal regime they created, the people were contented and merry for many ages. But what should we gain, how should we live, under Yankee dominion? Do men gather grapes of thorns, or make real nutmegs out of pine knots?
154 Washington st.   , doors South of Milk st.   
October 24. 6m
ICH DIEN 
GLOBE HOTEL,   
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR,   
2 DOVER STREET, (near Franklin Square,   )
NEW YORK. 
