THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary, concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies the authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SONS, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 18 BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER,1591.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Providence Post of April 25.
GONE!
The Anti-Slavery Convention which commenced its session in this city on Thursday, adjourned, sine die. on Friday evening.
There was not much of Rhode Island Anti-Slavery in this Convention, but the Massachusetts folks had all the more room, and they seemed to enjoy their talking quite as much as the Rhode bland people enjoyed their listening privileges. Their speeches were nearly as violent as on former occasions; but very much of the Billingsgate found utterance through the lips of the more spent youthful laborers. One Ezra H. Heywood, who spent six years in our University, and is fresh from his studies-not near so old as he will be, if he lives to see the wrinkles which a soured temper have carved in his face, give place to the more honorable ones of age-the same young gentleman, a correspondent informs us, who set up a black flag with skull and cross bones marked thereon, over the grave of Daniel Webster, for the edification of the Franklin Lyceum-was amongst the bitterest of the speakers.
The Reverend Mr. May was another of the gentle speakers. He pronounced the United States Constitution a league with hell, and the Rhode Island consociation a conclave of hypocrites, because they admitted the Rev. Drs. Rich and Poor to their communion table! Mr. M. was followed by a female brother, who said she wouldn't be President, any how; but, if she were President, she would immediately abolish the Senate and House of Representatives, then the army and navy, and, last of all, slavery. She closed with the prophecy of a good time coming, which had been revealed to her directly from heaven.
During the second day, the speaking was of a somewhat higher order, but was still little beyond the rule of decency established by the shriekers in Du Dah times. The Rev. Mr. Wolcott and Rev. Mr. Conklin tried to defend the Rhode Island Consociation, but the fanatics didn't seem to care a fig for the facts in the case. They had, every one, come charged to the muzzle, and were bound to shoot, 
Among the valiant things done by the Convention was the passage of a string of resolutions, which differ from those usually adopted by the Republican Conventions in the comparative boldness of their speech. Here is one of them:
Resolved, Whether the Fugitive Slave Law be constitutional or unconstitutional, whether the United States Constitution be pro-slavery or anti-slavery, that the presence of any person of any sex or color in the State of Rhode Island shall be an irrevocable title to freedom, and that on no consideration shall the land of Roger Williams ever again be desecrated by the polluting foot of the slave-hunter.
This settles the question, we suppose, of carrying fugitives from Rhode Island. The Constitution says, they 'shall be delivered up'; the Anti-Slavery Convention says they shall not be. That is not all: the slave-hunter shall not come here. His 'polluting foot' shall not desecrate the land of Roger Williams! These dear non-resistants are going to fight!
Well, we have said the Convention adjourned, sine die, on Friday evening. It wasn't any outsider's fault that it adjourned so soon. It might have continued another week, or three or, four weeks, and nobody would have complained. Indeed, the idea strikes us that a perpetual convention of just such materials-since we have the materials amongst us-would be a capital escape-pipe for the explosive abolition gas of the present generation. And it didn't seen to be for lack of eloquence that the Convention tumbled itself to pieces. It was eloquent to the last. What it assembled for, in particular, we don't know. But we guess that it accomplished its purpose. It is gone; and it is perhaps too late even to say good bye to its departing shadow. So we only venture to write once more-Gone!
From the Providence Journal.
THE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
Our abolition friends ventilated their grievances in this city last week. The meetings were thinly attended; the resolutions were rather tamer than usual, and the speeches considerably more ferocious. The customary absurd pretensions were put forth, each speaker denounced everybody but himself, and was for cutting down or stretching out every man whose moral stature did not correspond with his own procrustean measure of right. Every political party, not by any means excepting those most opposed to slavery, all kinds of government, all ecclesiastical organizations, almost all the institutions of civilization, and all sorts of people came in for the abuse that was dealt out with impartial liberality to everybody and everything. Nothing was right and nobody was honest, and everybody who differed, however little, from the last speaker, was a fool or a knave.
The chief orator was Wendell Phillips, a man of high cultivation, fervid and impassioned eloquence, and bitter, uncharitable, vindictive sentiments, just the man to please and impress a fanatical body of men, and worth listening to by men who go to an abolition meeting as they would to the theatre. The great evils that afflict the country, according to Mr. Phillips and Mr. Burleigh, are the Constitution of the United States and the Christian church, and the particular evil under which this city and State are laboring is the Providence Journal. Get these have hopes for the State. Few men waste in so bad and unpromising a cause so much ability as Mr. Phillips has devoted to the extreme doctrines of abolition. The knowledge of this the consciousness of his own powers and the nothingness of what they and turned to oil of vitriol a disposition that was naturally not worse than vinegar. If the burning periods and fierce invectives that, wasted themselves upon a straggling audience of unsexed women, wondering negroes and long-haired transcendentalists, had been addressed to the compact masses of some organization that, being founded on reason and common sense, and looking to some practical end, was a power in the land, what effect might have been produced! If instead of abusing men who are really better friends of the colored race than he is, and who never hear of his denunciation except by accident, and then only smile at it, he would address a living audience upon practical methods and actual issues, he would have few equals in the land.
But, perhaps, Mr. Phillips has put himself to the use for which nature intended him, and it is possible that he has instinctively adopted the policy that will best secure the notoriety which he seeks, and oftenest get his name into the newspapers. When we see a man attain to remarkable success in absurd or frivolous objects, pursued by discreditable means, we are apt to think to what he might justly aspire, what great results he might accomplish, if he were capable of elevating himself to noble ends, and of responding to the inspiration of generous motives. But it is no always so. The stupid valor that runs its head against a windmill, might flee before an
<c02>
armed man; and the intellectual qualities that go to make up a first-rate blackguard, might totally fail in any dung that required, besides the power of invective, manly sentiments, honorable feelings, self-respect, and a gentlemanly consideration of the motives and conduct of others. There are men whom nothing but a position of hostility to every thing that is reasonable and just and proper can arouse to the violence that is necessary for the development of their powers. Like Iago, they are 'nothing if not critical.'
Mr. Burleigh was the next most conspicuous speaker. From the character of the greater part of his hearers, his speech gave greater satisfaction, perhaps, than that of Mr. Phillips, but was quite inferior to it in the qualities that made that speech respectable in an intellectual point of view, and disgusting in any other.
As the Constitution and the church came first in the order of assault, and are to be demolished before Mr. Phillips and Mr. Burleigh and the strong-minded women and the feeble-minded men who hack them, commence their final attack upon the Journal, we shall remain in confident security till we find that these somewhat formidable outposts have been overthrown.
From the Clinton County (Iowa) Journal.
AN ABOLITION LECTURE.
Mr. Foss, a Garrisonian Abolitionist, delivered a course of lectures at the Court House in this city, commencing on Monday evening. Being absent from the city, we have cause to congratulate ourself that our ears were not polluted by hearing such foul sentiments. We believe in extending to every man the right to speak what he thinks, but if there ever was a time when an outraged community would be justified in rising up and venting their indignation, by giving the dastardly traitor a coat of tar and feathers, that time was when this British hireling was spitting forth the corruption of his fallen and depraved spirit upon the Constitution of our glorious country, and the patriots who formed it. He believed in 'equality;' we do not doubt but the blackest and most abject negro on the face of the globe has a soul purer and whiter than his own. He was for 'dividing the Union;' he follows in the footsteps of his illustrious predecessor, Satan. He said that 'our forefathers, when they made the Constitution, entered into a league with hell, and the devil cheated them'; his acquaintance with the 'gentleman in black' may enable him to know many things that transpire within his dominions, but if the devil ever takes him for a man, he will certainly be cheated. He said that 'Daniel Webster, with all his devotion to the Union, would not forego the use of brandy to save the Union;' thus he spoke of one of the noblest men that ever breathed-a man, now a saint, whose whole soul was filled with patriotic devotion to the Union and the Constitution-who closed one of his eloquent speeches with the following beautiful sentiment, which must find an echo in the hearts of all true American citizens: 'While the Union lasts, we have high, exciting, gratifying prospects spread out before us, for us and our children. Beyond that, I seek not to penetrate the veil. God grant that, in my day at least, that curtain may not rise! God grant that on my vision never may be opened what lies behind! When my eyes shall be turned to behold for the last time the sun in heaven, may I not see him shining on the broken and dishonored fragments of a once glorious Union; on States dissevered, discordant, belligerent; on a land rent with civil feuds, or drenched, it may be, in fraternal blood! Let their last feeble and lingering glance, rather, behold the gorgeous Ensign of the Republic, now known and honored throughout the earth, still full high advanced, its arms and trophies streaming in their original lustre, not a stripe erased or polluted, nor a single star obscured,-bearing, fur its motto, no such miserable interrogatory as-What is all this worth?-nor those other words of delusion and folly-Liberty first, and Union afterwards,-but every where, spread all over in characters of living light, blazing on all its ample folds, as they float over the sea and over the land, and in every wind under the whole heavens, that other sentiment, dear to every true American heart-Liberty and Union, now and for ever, one and inseparable!'
We cannot give Mr. Foss's lectures an extended notice; space forbids, even if they deserved it. But we are informed they abounded in such sentiments as we have quoted. We trust that the Court House may never again be disgraced by such a fanatical, treason preaching, political wretch, vomiting forth the corruption of his filthy moral and political organization within its walls, and to a respectable audience.
From the Atlantic Monthly for May.
TRIP TO CUBA.
We made Nassau at twelve o'clock, on the sixth day from our departure, counting the first as one. The first feature discernible was a group of tall cocoa-nut trees, with which the island is bounteously feathered;-the second was a group of negroes in a small boat, steering toward us with open-mouthed and white-toothed wonder. Nothing makes its simple impression upon the mind sophisticated by education. The negroes, as they came nearer, suggested only Christy's Minstrels, of whom they were a tolerably faithful imitation.-while the cocoa-nut trees transported us to the Boston in Revel-time, and we strained our eyes to see the wonderful ape, Jocko, whose pathetic death, nightly repeated, used to cheat the credulous Bostonians of time, tears, and treasure. Despite the clumsiest management, the boat soon effected a junction with our gangway, allowing some nameless official to come on board, and to go through I know not what mysterious and indispensable formality. Other boats then came, like a shoal of little fishes around the carcass of a giant whale. There were many negroes, together with whites of every grade; and some of our number, leaning over the side, saw for the first time the raw material out of which Northern Humanitarians have spun so fine a skein of compassion and sympathy.
Now we who write, and they for whom we write, are all orthodox upon this mighty question; we have all made our confession of faith in private and in public; we all, on suitable occasions, walk up and apply the match to the keg of gunpowder which is to blow up the Union, but which, somehow, at the critical moment, fails to ignite. But you must allow us one heretical whisper,-very small and low. The negro of the North is an ideal negro; it is the negro refined by white culture, elevated by white blood, instructed even by white iniquity;-the negro among negroes is a coarse, grinning, flatfooted, thick-skulled creature, ugly as Caliban, lazy as the laziest of brutes, chiefly ambitious to be of no use to any in the world. View him as you will, his stock in trade is small;-he has but the tangible instincts of all creatures-love of life, of ease, and of offspring. For all else, he must go to school to the white race, and HIS DISCIPLINE MUST BE LONG AND LABORIOUS. Nassau, and all that we saw of it, suggested to us the unwelcome question, whether compulsory labor be not better than none.
Returning soon after sunrise to fulfil this promise,
<c03>
we encounter the barracks, and are tempted to look in and see the sons of darkness performing their evolutions. The morning drill is about half over. We peep in-the Colonel, a lean Don Quixote, on a leaner Rosinante, dashes up to us with a weak attempt at a canter; he courteously invites us to come in, and see all that is to be seen; and, lo! our friend the Major, quite gallant in his sword and scarlet jacket, is detailed for our service. The soldiers are black, and very black,-none of your dubious American shades, ranging from clear salmon to cafe an lait, or even to cafe noir. These are your good, satisfactory, African sables, warranted not to change in the washing.
At last we shook hands warmly, promising to meet again somewhere, and the crimson-lined barge with the black Zouaves carried him away. In humbler equipages depart the many black women who have visited the steamer, some for amusement, some to sell the beautiful shell-work made on the island. These may be termed, in general, as ugly a set of wenches as one could wish not to see. They all wear palm leaf hats stuck on their heads without strings or ribbons, and their clothes are so ill-made that you cannot help thinking that each has borrowed somebody else's dress, until you see that illfitting garments are the rule, not the exception.
From the Providence Post.
SHALL WE BURY THE NEGRO? 
How long, asks the New York News, is the distracting agitation which is daily and hourly resulting from the discussion of the negro question to continue? Is this 'beautiful house of our fathers' to everlastingly be the theatre of domestic strife, because there is in it a happier and more contented African than ever existed elsewhere in the world before? Surely, most surely, the negro has been the football of political factions long enough-now cast into the Democratic camp only to be burled back again by the Democracy into the teeth of their opponents; and, like the ball in the game, as a general thing, Sambo is the chief sufferer in the conflict. Cannot the political parties of our country find some other subject or object more worthy of contention than this insensible, threadbare question of niggerism? Should not those noble and constitutional questions of public economy and public policy, which divide or divided the rival political parties of all ancient and modern nations, and which are inevitable in the march of every great and free government, be more consonant with the tastes and genius of American statesmen than the vain discussion of a vile abstraction, which, with propriety, might be resigned to doating old ladies and canting pulpitarians? The peace and harmony of this Republic should not be longer disturbed. The war of the sections should cease, and, clinging closer and closer to the Union and the Constitution, we should all feel bound together as one family in bonds of peace, prosperity and fraternity such as our Revolutionary fathers contemplated should be ours.
Let us, therefore, cease this continual, never-ending, exciting and destructive issue. Let the dead carcase of Sambo, as it now lies inanimate upon the sterile wilds of Kansas, be buried on the spot of his demise. He has played his part and agitated long enough. Let us re-cement the bonds of fraternal union between the several members of our beloved Confederacy, and brand that man with treason who will again disturb it by the introduction of the slavery question as a matter of national concern.

SELECTIONS.
LETTER FROM HON. HENRY WILSON.
NATICK, Mass., April 20, 1859.,
Hon. FRANCIS GILLETTE, Hartford, Ct.
Dear Sir-You express, in your note, the fear that the adoption by the people of Massachusetts of the Two Years' amendment will prejudice the Republican cause in the country, and the hope that it will be promptly voted down. You are not, my dear sir, the only devoted friend of the anti-slavery cause who entertains this fear and expresses this hope. Before I left Washington, several of our most devoted and distinguished men-such men as Mr. Harlan, Mr. Doolittle, Gov. Grimes and Gov. Bingham-expressed to me their profound regret that the proposition had received the sanction of the Legislature, and their earnest hope that the people would reject it. Since my return home I have received, especially from the Northwest, many letters expressing the opinion that the Republican cause would be-prejudiced by its adoption, and the strongest desire that it should be rejected.
That the Republicans, outside of Massachusetts, are quite unanimously opposed to this amendment, is manifest to every man of ordinary intelligence. The voice of the Republicans of the Northwest has been most emphatically pronounced through the public press; and the sentiment of our Republican associates in other sections is manifestly against its adoption. Pending the late election in your State, I engaged for two weeks in the canvass; many Republicans declared to me their opposition to it-no one expressed to me his approval of it. Upon us of Massachusetts alone rests the responsibility; and whether it shall be adopted or rejected, whether its adoption or rejection will be for good or for evil, for honor or dishonor, we, the Republicans of Massachusetts-not the Republicans of other States-must bear the entire responsibility. After manifesting, as our Republican friends of other States have done, their opposition to its adoption, and after receiving, as they have received from its advocates here, significant hints that it is a local question, a State issue, which they would not be permitted to interfere with, they ought not surely to be compromised by our adoption of a proposition against which they have entered their emphatic protest.
That the adoption of this two years amendment will, as you suggest, work harm to the Republican cause in the country, no man, who understands the condition of public affairs and the relations of political parties, can for a moment doubt. The Republican party is pledged to the doctrine embodied in the Declaration of Independence that 'all men are created equal'-it deems human slavery a continual and prominent violation of human rights, and it proposes to vindicate the inalienable rights of men by prohibiting slavery in the territories, destroying its influence as an element of political power in the government, and placing the nation entirely on the side of equal, universal, and impartial liberty. In this age, when the sublime words of the Declaration of Independence are scoffed and jeered at, and millions of men are declared to have no rights which we are bound to respect, this position of the Republican party is a high and noble one. It will be held to a strict responsibility for its lofty professions of regard for the equal rights of man. Every failure of the Republicans, or any portion of the Republicans, of any State, to act up to the idea that all men are created equal,' will harm the Republican cause in all the States.
How often have we of Massachusetts, where the equal rights of all men are acknowledged and protected by law, been taunted with the action of some
<c04>
of our Republican associates hi supporting the odious <illegible> laws which dishonor some of the free States, and with the refusal of some of the free States, your own State of Connecticut among them, to secure to the colored man the right of Suffrage! If the Republicans of Massachusetts adopt this proposed amendment, the Republicans of other States will be reproached and taunted for this action of their associates. They will he told, as they have already been told, that Massachusetts allows the ignorant, <illegible> fugitive negro slave to vote after a residence of one year, while she requires of the Englishman, the Scotchman, the Irishman, the German, and the Frenchman, who may have resided five years within her limits, a further residence of two years after he becomes a citizen of the United States; before he can be allowed the right of suffrage.
Massachusetts will be held up, as she has already been, before men jealous of their own rights, as the fountain-head of anti-slavery, the citadel of republicanism, and this act of hers will he branded as an act of intolerance, bigotry and fanaticism. And these denunciations and appeals cannot but mislead and deceive in other Suites, as they did in your State at the last election, some men who are just beginning to see and to realize that the great contest in America between freedom and slavery, between free territory and slave territory, between free labor and slave labor, is a battle for the toiling millions of every race and kindred. Republican presses and speakers in other States will be forced to meet a sterner contest, to win the victory for freedom, which our action may delay, but cannot arrest.
This two years' amendment is intended to correct an admitted evil. During the past few years, a practice has grown up which must receive the condemnation of men who wish to keep our elections free from falsehood, fraud and corruption. I refer to the practice of party committees, by which men are hunted up, rushed in crowds to the courts, and their naturalization papers procured and paid for by such committee, to affect a pending election. The effect of this pernicious practice is to induce, in some eases, falsehood and fraud, and to make many of the men thus naturalized the ready tools of the men who pay for their papers. The advocates of this two years' amendment believe that its adoption will tend to correct these abuses, and many good men will vote for its adoption who have no prejudice towards men born in other lands.
Did the proposed amendment require only of the adopted citizen a residence of one year in the State after naturalization before he could exercise the right of suffrage, the same time now required of our native born citizens, all the benefits hoped for by the advocates of this amendment would be secured, and little if any opposition would he made to it from any quarter of the country. But the amendment in its present form seems to make an invidious and offensive distinction against men who were born in other lands.
That there are great abuses growing out of the loose administration of the naturalization laws, especially in our large Atlantic cities and towns, all fair-minded men must admit. It has appeared to me that these admitted abuses could be remedied, either by the modification or revision of the naturalization laws, or by a reform in their administration, and I have ever been ready in any practical mode consistent with the equal rights of all men to reform these acknowledged evils. But I have ever declared that I would support no measure, even to reform these abuses, which would in the slightest degrade any man or class of men; that I would give to every human being equal rights, the same equality, I would claim for myself or my own son.
No power on earth could force me to vote for any proposition which fair-minded and intelligent men felt to be unequal or personally degrading. Never have I supported any measure inconsistent with the equal rights of man; but if I had ever unintentionally made such a mistake, I have nothing of that pride of consistency in regard to mere measures, which would induce me to continue in the wrong because I had been wrong once. Better be right in the lights of to-day, than be consistent with the errors of yesterday.
For more than twenty years, I have believed the anti-slavery cause to be the great cause of our age in America,-a cause which overshadowed all other issues, state or national, foreign or domestic. In my political action, I have ever endeavored to make it the paramount question, and to subordinate all minor issues to this one grand and comprehensive idea. It seems to me that the friends of a cause so vast, so sacred, should ever strive to save it from being burdened by the pressure of temporary interests, and local and comparatively immaterial questions. With my comprehension of the transcendent magnitude of the issues involved in the solution of the slavery question in America; with the lights I have to guide my action, I should feel, if I put a burden on the anti-slavery cause, by pressing the adoption of measures of minor importance, that I was committing a crime against millions of hapless bondmen, and should deserve their lasting reproaches, and the rebuke of all true and tried men who were toiling to dethrone that gigantic power which perverts the national government to the interests of oppression.
It seems to me that every sincere anti-slavery man, every true republican, in the present aspects of public affairs, should strive to remove every burden from the anti-slavery cause, and not by the support of temporary interests place obstacles in the way of its speedy advancement. The final triumph of the cause must be achieved by the opinions and actions of millions of men, distracted by local feeling and varied interests. The lovers of a cause so vast and sacred should ever realize that its advancement may be retarded by the indiscreet zeal and ill-timed action of its friends upon local and immaterial questions, as well as by the masterly skill and determined resistance of its foes. In such a conflict, they should ever remember those words of the great apostle-'If meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world stands, lest I make my brother to offend.'
It seems to me, the Republicans of this Commonwealth, who are actuated by the self-sacrificing spirit of these words, will, after many of their noblest comrades have declared that, they feel this proposed amendment to be a brand of degradation, go to the polls on the 9th of May, and vote for its rejection. These appeals come to us from devoted men, to whose fidelity to principle we are indebted for the many brilliant victories for freedom which have lately thrilled our hearts; men, to whose devotion we are indebted, as you have truly said in your note, for the victory in your own district, a victory which makes New England a unit for freedom in the Congress of the United States. Could the people of Massachusetts see the question in all its aspects they would, I am sure, rush to the ballot boxes, and reject a proposition, the adoption of which will be a pressing burden upon a cause they love; and upon brethren who are bravely battling for that cause against dexterous foes, ever ready to appeal to passion and to prejudice to retain; their waning power.
Whatever others may do, I shall vote without hesitation or reluctance against the adoption of the two years' amendment to the Constitution of Massachusetts. In giving that vote, I shall act contrary
<c05>
to the opinions and wishes of many personal and political friends for whom I entertain sentiments of respect and affection. In vindication of their own action, they may perhaps feel it to be their duty to censure mine; but I feel confident that I am in the path of duty, that I am adhering to the cause of the equal rights of men, of every race, and that I am actuated by an intense desire to secure the speedy and enduring triumph of the anti-slavery cause, and of the true and tried men who uphold that cause in America.
Yours truly,
HENRY WILSON.

THE TWO YEARS' AMENDMENT.
That some such enactment is requisite to preserve the purity of the ballot-box, we presume no American, and no intelligent foreigner, will deny. It is well known that, in our large cities, unscrupulous politicians have been in the habit of buying up thousands of ignorant immigrants, and forcing them to the polls immediately after naturalization, to effect a mere party triumph; while these same politicians in their hearts despise the poor foreigner, exclude him from nearly all social privileges, and would force his religion from him, if it were possible, by the aid of statutes, or at least of rattans.
But Massachusetts can afford to be generous to the foreigner. She needs his services, and is willing to recompense them. The Republicans of Massachusetts, especially, have nothing to fear from them. This State is safe and sure for any Republican candidate either for a Governor or a President. If this Two-Years' Amendment shall pass by a vote of the people-which we very much doubt, by the way-we can well see what a handle the Democratic party and presses will make of it. Although in no sense a party measure, still, by party tactics, it will he labeled as a Republican measure, and every press in the interest of the present Shamocratic Administration will howl it over the land as an evidence of Republican hatred to foreigners. The Republican party will be made responsible for it, and the Democratic party will rejoice in demoniac saturnalia over it, as so much capital on which they can still continue to dupe 'our adopted citizens,' and alienate them from the only party, and the only principles, which ever can be calculated for their real interests. We should remember that the new States of the great West are in a large proportion peopled by an intelligent German population, who are enthusiastic lovers of Liberty, and the instinctive foes of slavery; that their sympathies are with us in the great National struggle for Free Labor and Free Men; that they are looking to Massachusetts as a model Republican State; and that they are exceedingly sensitive in regard to any measure seeming to aim a blow at their status, and at the 'natural rights of man.' Besides, the end proposed by this two-years' amendment can be achieved in a less objectionable manner; an amendment requiring but one year's residence, after naturalization, would not be deemed unreasonable by any party. Again, it is believed by good lawyers that the proposed amendment would be a violation of the Constitution, which declares that all citizens of the United States shall have equal rights in all the States.
We assume for Massachusetts that she can afford to be just as well as generous. This State will purify its ballot-box; the reading and writing act has already gone far towards this;-it will be just to the slave, and it will be alike just and liberal to the foreigner, because it has just regard simply for the rights of man, and for its duty as an exemplar in the cause of Humanity.
For the reasons embodied in the above matter-and especially because the Democracy are hoping for this Two Years' Amendment to pass, so that they can make capital of it, to work throughout the whole country against the Republicans, whom we wish to see triumph in the campaign of '60,-we are opposed to the measure, and hope it may be defeated.-Province town Banner.

THE BODY OF CHRIST.
Extract from a highly impressive and most timely Discourse, entitled 'THE BODY OF CHRIST,' delivered in the First Congregational Unitarian Church in Philadelphia, on Sunday, April 17, by WILLIAM H. FURNESS:-
In course of time, it came to pass that the body of Christ, which, when clad in the coarse garments of a poor slave, and girt all round with the fires of persecution, showed such Divine life, such angelic beauty, was soon arrayed in imperial purple, and seated on a throne, and in this garb, although still named the body of Christ, it lost the spirit of Christ;-and a worldly spirit taking possession of its members, made them, labor, not to promote human liberty and progress, but to oppose and crush both. Then the Christian Church, no longer the divine embodiment of the free and self-sacrificing mind of Christ, became the pliant slave of despotic power, ready to brand every free thought as impious, to bind men band and foot in the heavy chains of a heartless formality, and to overwhelm them with the terrors both of this world and of the world to come.
To all the purposes of human degradation and enslavement, it proved itself still to be, although no longer the body of Christ, yet a living body, a body full of gigantic strength, striding over the world, upholding with its single arm the whole fabric of despotism, listening with an ear so acute, watching with an eye so sharp, that men trembled and whispered in the most hidden places of their own dwellings for fear of this terrible power.
But while thus alive and strong, truly a living and muscular body to serve the lust of power, to every generous instinct of humanity, to every free and genial aspiration after Truth and a likeness to Christ and to God, it has been as dead as if it were all made of wood or iron; and the Religion, to which it has ministered, to which it has given this sacred name,-what has it been but a bigoted zeal for opinions and outward observances, for forms of speculative thought and external worship? 
So tremendously powerful has been its influence in this direction, in corrupting the very idea of Religion in men's minds, in wrenching away the human conscience from Justice and the love of God, and in fastening it upon formal prayers and days and places, that to breathe a word in a Christian assembly, on a Christian Sabbath, in condemnation of the wickedness of buying, selling, and hunting human beings, is considered by thousands the worse sin of the two, a downright act of sacrilege!
Thus mournfully is the Body of Christ, the Church, once instinct at every pore with the life of his glorious humanity-thus in it forsaken of his spirit, and possessed by the spirit of the world and of the Devil. It still bears the name of Christ. It boasts loudly of that, and its different members, the different Churches, into which the one great Church is split; contend fiercely, each for its sole claim to that honorable title; or they cease from their bitter controversies only when some free thought is to be suppressed, or some barbarous enactment is to be sanctioned. The Church makes a great show with the multitude and costliness of its temples. It collects thousands of dollars every day to print Bibles
<c06>
and tracts-to circulate the dead letter that kills. It keeps a large place in the public eye, and makes a great noise in the public ear; but the smoke of human torment is forever ascending, and men lie grovelling and writhing in their iniquities and their chains. Think you, my hearers, we should witness such sights of guilt and woe as the world continually presents, if the Christian Church were what it claims to be, the body, the living and strong Body of Christ, the natural and heaven-created organ, whereby his most Holy Spirit would act with power upon the souls of men, reclaiming or overawing the guilty, lifting up the fallen, guiding the weak, righting the wronged, impregnating the very air that we breathe with sanctity, and so elevating public opinion above all our hollow conventionalities, above all oar barbarous laws and inhuman prejudices, that such legal violations of human rights as we have recently witnessed could not possibly be?
But while the so-called Christian Church has ceased to be the living body of Christ, animated by his spirit, and executing his will, he is not wholly without influence. His great life is still embodied in the world. It is forever forming for itself a new body, as the old body decays and loses the inspiration of his Truth. The once true and living Church is now but a corpse, decked in costly array for the grave. Within the Church, and, wore strikingly still, outside of the Church, the rudiments of a new growth are more or less distinctly visible. And just as our material bodies are continually changed and superseded by a new formation, so the life of Christ is constantly fashioning for itself a new and more glorious body, a body fuller of life and stronger, of a more vigorous constitution, and of greater grace and beauty. And the members of this new and more powerful body, may have no name to be honored in the established Churches of the day. They may be disowned and reviled as the enemies of Christ, infidels, and fanatics. And yet the very life-blood of Christian truth and liberty is warming their hearts, and giving them such power, that they are the strong hands and the swift feet of the body of Christ, his hands to lift up the bowed down, his feet to run upon the errands of his mercy, and he looks out from their eyes suffused with heavenly pity and his voice lends its music to their accents.
I looked, the other day, into that low, dark, and crowded room, in which one of the most wicked laws that man ever enacted was in process of execution, and there I beheld the living presence of that spirit of Christ, out of which shall again grow the beautiful Body of Christ, the true Church. The close and heated atmosphere of the place well became the devilish work that was going on. The question was, whether, for no crime, but for the color of the skin which God gave him, a fellow-man should be robbed of his dear liberty, and degraded to a chattel and a brute. There sat the man in his old hat and red flannel shirt and ragged coat, just as he was seized by this horrible despotism. There he sat, while questions were discussed involving things dearer to him than life. On one side of him stood the minister of the cruel law. On the other,-the place was luminous to my inmost soul with a celestial light, for there stood a devoted Christian woman, blind to all outward distinctions and defacements, deaf to the idle babble of the world's tongues, cheering her poor hunted brother with the sisterly sympathy of her silent presence. And as I looked upon her, I felt that Christ was there; that no visible halo of sanctity was needed to distinguish that simple act of humanity, done under such circumstances, as an act pre-eminently Christian, profoundly sacred, ineffably religious.
My friends, rely upon it, as you live, these are the things which are the germs out of which shall grow a new Body of Christ. There may be ridicule, and contempt, and indifference, and loud charges of folly and fanaticism; but, nevertheless, it is such acts as this, done in unconscious simplicity and tenderness of heart, that go straight to the very centre and soul of the people, and help us all to see what an artificial, childish gewgaw that religion is in comparison, which busies itself with church-going and formal acts of prayer, putting the dead letter for the living spirit. Yes, though we may be hedged round and round with all manner of narrow prejudices, such a touch of natural humanity as this goes like an electric flush through all our encasements and bandages, and creates in us a new and larger sentiment of Truth and Religion.
We may not, through any one experience of this sort, be made conscious of any sudden and great change in our habits of thinking But still, every experience of the kind, every thing that appeals to our common human feelings, has an effect, and gradually and insensibly our whole view of things undergoes a change. It is interesting to observe how men outgrow their narrow creeds when their hearts begin to expand with a broader sentiment of humanity. This is one of the blessed effects of the Anti-Slavery movement. Whenever it enlists orthodox men in its behalf, it instantly begins to liberalize their orthodoxy. They very soon discover that there is something a great deal better and more living than their theology; that the dogmas of the sects are dry husks which the swine eat, yielding not a drop of refreshment in comparison with the great, world-regenerating principle of Justice and Mercy, which, under the pressure of persecution, bunt out with exhilarating power, like the wine-press with new wine. Thus it is that true Christianity <illegible> and displaces false religion. Thus it is that the cause of the Fugitive Slave is the cause of Christ. And every triumph of personal freedom is a victory gained over the despotism of a corrupt and soul-enslaving theology. Thus it is that the spirit of Christ, which is one and the same with a spirit of self-renouncing humanity, is steadily working to form for itself a new Church, a new body, a new and more elevated form of thought, and to realize in the characters of individuals, and in the institutions of society, a higher idea of Truth and Goodness.
And we are all witnesses, my friends, of this steady forming or reforming process. The members of Christ's body, fashioned and beautified by his in dwelling grace, are beginning to be recognized. The recent Fugitive Slave case has revealed a change in the general feeling of this community, which is striking and most encouraging. Everywhere, during the course of the trial, in the streets and places of public resort, the tone of the public mind, as it was indicated in the talk of men, was in cheering accord with Freedom and Humanity. It was rare to hear any concern expressed for the Union, or the Constitution. And it seems as if it went beginning at last to be perceived that there is no danger to be feared where Liberty is revered and Justice done, even though human enactments, hostile to both, be trampled in the dust. I see in this change a sign and evidence of the growing body of Christ, of the appearance of the true and living Church, that Church which will not lie like a huge and decaying corpse across the path of human progress, neither moving itself, nor permitting this busy generation to advance towards light and liberty; that glorious Church, whose strong limbs are the men and the women who suffer with joy for the right; that body of Christ, that stands erect and free, with arms out-
Referring to LUCRETIA MOTT of Philadelphia, and to the recent trial of Daniel Webster,' an alleged fugitive slave, in that city.-[Ed. Lib.

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject. OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it folly, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blearing of the Union, can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States an tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
stretched in everlasting mercy, or runs forward and leads the way to truth and to heaven, levelling the mountains of human pride, exalting the valleys of
<illegible> ignorance. 
Precisely, my friends, precisely as the Church, which is the body of Christ, grew in the primitive ages of the Christian era, so is it growing now, not by the instrumentality of learning or of books, not by argument and reasoning, but by every event that touches the hearts of people, and awakens in them sentiments of pity, of admiration, and of love, everything that stirs the natural human sympathies of men, and makes us feel for one another.
THE OBERLIN RESCUE.
The Oberlin rescue cases grow more and more complicated, and are likely to lead to an encounter between the Federal authorities and the State Courts of Ohio, similar to that which took place in Wisconsin in the case of Booth, who was proceeded against in a civil suit upon a similar charge of resistance to the Fugitive Slave act. Advantage was taken of the commission of the parties charged into close custody, after the conviction of Bushnell, to apply to the Supreme Court of Ohio for a writ of habeas corpus. In his application to the Court for this writ, which was made on the 21st, Judge Spaulding stated that he intended to question the constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave act, which he held to be an intrusion upon the rights of the State and its sovereign prerogative to regulate, by pains and penalties, its own internal policy. He also insisted that it was the peculiar duty of the Supreme Court of the State to guard the liberties of the citizens of Ohio from infringement, whether by the Federal Judiciary or anybody else. The Court, undeterred by the recent decision at Washington, in the Wisconsin case, which, indeed, admitted their right to issue the writ, though it denied their right to discharge under it anybody committed by Federal authority, granted a rule upon the Marshal to show cause why this writ should not issue.
Both Marshal and District-Attorney were thrown into a great rage by the appearance of this document-the Marshal declaring that the prisoners never should be' taken to Columbus. They paid, however, so much attention to the <illegible> of the Supreme Court, that the District Attorney appeared at Columbus, on Saturday to show cause why the writ should not issue. The point was argued on Monday, and the decision of the Court will probably be found under the telegraphic head of to-day's paper.
Already, before the service of the rule, the Marshal had received a telegraphic intimation from Columbus that a habeas corpus might issue, and, knowing that the Cleveland jailer would at once obey it, he began to take measures to get the prisoners back into his own hands. He began with Bushnell, the one already convicted, under pretence that he was wanted in the Court-room, and, having got possession of him under that dodge, clapped him into a side-room of that building, which is the property of the United States, and there kept him as a prisoner. He then sent to the jailer for the mittimus under which Bushnell had been committed to his custody, but that the jailer refused to give up, and still claims Bushnell as his prisoner.
In thus undertaking to lock up Bushnell in a special jail, the Marshal has certainly got himself into difficulty. The only place in which a Sheriff or Marshal has a right to detain a prisoner is in the jail established by public authority. He has no right to lock up his prisoners in any out-of-the-way place he may select. The act of 1834 puts prisoners, committed by the authority of the United States Courts, under the exclusive control of the jailers of the State jails to which they may have been committed. Bushnell was duly committed to the Cleveland jail, and the jailer still holds the mittimus which shows it. The Marshal's detention of Bushnell elsewhere is a false imprisonment, and would seem to afford ample ground for the issue of a habeas corpus, in his case at least, however the Court at Columbus may decide as to the other prisoners.
Meanwhile, an indictment for kidnapping, found by the Grand Jury of Lorain County Against Jennings and Manning, the two Kentucky witnesses, has put them in danger of arrest. To protect them against it, the District Judge has committed them to the custody of the Marshal as witnesses, and he keeps them locked, up in the building in which the United States Court is held, but whether in the same room with Bushnell or not, we are unable to state. It is suspected that he means to smuggle them secretly out of the State, in order to prevent their detention under the indictment found against them. The Marshal has sworn in a hundred desperadoes or deputies, it is thought with this object. But, to prevent this, a strict watch is kept up about the building in which they are lodged. There are also suspicions of an intention to carry off Bushnell to some secret place of confinement, notwithstanding a pledge given by the District Attorney to the Supreme Court, that, if a writ should issue, Bushnell should be forthcoming. Some curious details will be found in the letters of our Cleveland correspondent.-New York Tribune.
PUBLIC MEETING IN OBERLIN.
On Saturday evening last, at the call of several citizens, a very large and enthusiastic assembly convened in the College Chapel to consider the issues now pending in the U. S. District Court at Cleveland, and in the Supreme Court of Ohio, at Columbus.
The meeting was organized by calling Prof. J. Morgan, D. D., to the Chair, and appointing C. H. Churchill, Secretary. Prayer was offered by the venerable .Rev. John Keep. The following resolutions were then introduced by Samuel Plumb, Esq.
1st. Resolved, That 'Law and order' are fair sounding words, and their proper association is with the law of God and the well-being and the rights of man ; but when they are divorced from these, and made the watchwords of tyrants and oppressors, they lose their value and forfeit our respect.
2d. Resolved, That we claim to be law-abiding citizens, and covet the privilege of leading 'quiet and peaceable lives in all godliness and honesty;' but when' truth has fallen in the streets, and equity cannot enter,' we recognize higher obligations than human law imposes, and higher interests than quietness and peace.
3d. Resolved, That we hold, with Jefferson and Jackson, that the Constitution of the United States has not made the Supreme Court of the nation the ultimate arbiter of the Government, whether State or National, and every private citizen must decide for himself whether any legislative enactment or judicial decision be in accordance with, or opposed to, the fundamental law of the land.
4th. Resolved, That the Fugitive Slave Act is contrary to the spirit and teachings of our national Constitution, the principles of Christianity, and the dictates of genuine Democracy.
5. Resolved, That we rejoice in the noble, humane, and constitutional position assumed by the State of Wisconsin, in her late conflict with Federal usurpation, a position nobly maintained and reasserted by her people in the recent State election, and we earnestly desire and confidently believe, that our own Executive and Judicial officers in Ohio will afford the same protection to our persecuted fellow-citizens, and thus vindicate the honor and sovereignty of the State.
6th. Resolved, That we send our word of greeting and of cheer to our fellow-citizens held by the United States authorities at Cleveland, and assure them that their cause is our cause, and that, while they stand manfully in the breach, we will sustain them with our sympathies and prayers, and with our help when the occasion calls.
7th. Resolved, That we will not forget the families of our friends who have been called to suffer for their work of righteousness, and we tender them our sympathy, and will share with them our material supplies, while deprived of their natural providers.
8th. Resolved, That the counsel who have so ably and generously defended the accused in the rescue case at Cleveland, challenge, and we hereby tender to them, our warmest gratitude.
Speeches were made by Professor Morgan, Prof. Cowles, Rev. H. Fairchild, H. C. Hitchcock, J. M. Langston, and Prof. Monroe. In the course of his remarks, Prof. M. said-' Since God has put us here, every principle of duty, of expediency, of self-respect, of humanity, demands us to fight it manfully. Have we the stuff for it? Are we the men and the women to meet this responsibility? [Cheers and cries of yes! yes!] The remarks of .Mr. Langston also elicited immense enthusiasm.
Letters from the prisoners in the jail were read during the evening, and a part of a correspondence between <illegible> and the other prisoners, which added greatly to the interest of the meeting. The resolutions were then passed by acclamation, and a committee appointed to inquire into the wants of the families of the indicted; after which the meeting adjourned sine die.
<c02>
PUBLIC MEETING AT SALEM. SALEM, Ohio, April 19th, 1859. 
Pursuant to a previous call, a large meeting of the citizens of Salem was held in the Town Hall on the evening of the 16th inst., to consider the startling assumption of the slave power as manifested in the District Court of Cleveland, in the case of the Thirty-seven' citizens of Lorain county, now on trial on the charge of aiding the escape of a fugitive slave, and to sympathize with them in their persecution.
On motion, J. D. Cattel was appointed President, and Dr. Benjamin Stanton, Vice President; Dr. J. M. Kuhn and J. K. <illegible>, Secretaries. The object of the meeting being stated by Charles Griffing,-Jacob Heaton, Chas. Griffing, Dr. A. Carey, Mr. Weeks, and Reuben McMillan were appointed a committee on resolutions. In the absence of the committee, the meeting was addressed by Marius R. Robinson and C. Curry. 
The Committee reported the following resolutions. which were, after some discussion, adopted as the sense of the meeting:
Whereas, Certain of our fellow-citizens are on trial in the City of Cleveland, under the provisions of the 'Fugitive Slave Act,' on the charge of aiding in the escape of a man claimed as a fugitive; and whereas, the said act of Congress is a gross violation of both the letter and spirit of the Constitution of the United States, and, more than all, at war with the great laws written by the finger of God on the human heart, and recorded by inspiration in the Holy Bible, ' Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee.' Therefore,
Resolved 1. That we hold as guilty of no offence any one who scorns and tramples under foot that infamous Act, and whether the parties under arrest are guilty or not of the acts charged, we equally extend to them our warmest sympathies and condolence as sufferers for righteousness' sake, under a wicked and inhuman law enforced by truckling tools of a servile administration. 
Resolved 2. That it is a mockery of truth, and an insult to the commonest understanding to call Ohio a free State, unless our Supreme Court will vindicate the honor and sovereignty of the State, by an utter disregard of all decisions of the Federal Courts that shall convict or punish any of our citizens for violating the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 ; and that as we consider the law unjust, we will refuse to aid in enforcing it; as we know it is inhuman and unchristian, we will refuse to obey it; and as we believe it to be unconstitutional, we will violate and trample upon it.
Resolved 3. That nothing is more manifest than that the general government, as now administered, is exerting all its power to build up, extend and strengthen the system of human Slavery, and that every law calculated to weaken or delay the supremacy of that interest is either not enforced at all, or is so managed as to afford no protection to freedom.
Resolved 4. That a law so repugnant to the feelings of human nature can never be successfully enforced in the great State of Ohio; and the rescue at Wellington shows the feeling and spirit of the people, and neither fines nor imprisonments will deter them from interposing strong arms, and devoted lives if need be.
Resolved 5. That we view with unutterable abhorrence the Court which, by a packed Jury of partisan tools, condemn, incarcerate, and imprison upright and loyal citizens of Ohio, for doing what every right-minded man approves; and the determination of Judge Wilson to compel the indicted to be tried by twelve men who had just prejudged every point of law and fact in their case, is monstrous, and unheard of in the history of legal jurisprudence.
Resolved 6. That the malignant spirit of District Attorney Belden, who, in flagitious disregard of their several recognizances, made the motion ordering them into the custody of the U. S. Marshal, evinces 'the dark spirit of slavery,' whose servile tool he has become.
Resolved 7. That the proceedings of this meeting be forwarded to Prof. Peck, as the representative of the 'Thirty Seven ;' and also to be published in the Salem Republican, A. S. Bugle, Cleveland Leader, Herald, and Pittsburgh Gazelle. 
On motion, adjourned.
J. D. CATTELL, President.
J. M. KUHN,
J. K. RUKENBROOK,
Secretaries.
NEW YORK EAST CONFERENCE.
At a recent meeting of the New York East Conference, (Methodist.) in the city of New Haven-
Long before the hour of 10 A. M., the galleries were thronged with spectators eager to hear the expected debate on slavery. At 10 1-2, the report of the Committee on Slavery was taken up. Several brethren deprecated discussion, others were eager to let the good people of New Haven have a full hear-ing of the views of the Conference on the  Great Evil of Slavery.' Both sides declared themselves fully prepared, but willing to vote without discussion.
On motion of Rev. Dr. Bangs, seconded by Rev. Dr. Floy, it was resolved to take action on the report of the Committee without debate. The ayes and nays on each resolution were ordered, and an hour and three quarters was consumed in voting on the separate resolutions and preamble, and in adopting the report as a whole. Great interest was manifested throughout by the entire Conference and the large audience.
Report of the Committee on Slavery, adopted at the Eleventh Session of the New York East Conference, April 16, 1859.
The opinions of the New York East Conference upon the general subject of Slavery have been fully expressed in resolutions adopted at the former sessions. Your Committee do not deem it necessary to formally reiterate these sentiments, but in the present state of the question submit for the consideration of the Conference the following resolutions:
Resolved, 1. That in the judgment of this Conference, there is no ground for the assertion that has been extensively circulated, that' the M. E. Church is constitutionally a slaveholding church.' On the contrary, it is our judgment that no man can hold his fellow-being in involuntary bondage without violating the spirit, if not the very letter, of our General Rules. But, nevertheless,
Resolved, 2. That in order to put an end to all cavil upon the subject, we do hereby most earnestly recommend to the next General Conference to insert the word 'slaveholding' among the things forbidden by the General Rules.
Resolved, 3. That in order to the accomplishment of this object, energy and union are indispensable ; and all those who desire the purification of the church from the sin of slavery are earnestly invited to use all proper efforts to effect the change in the General Rules above referred to. 
Vote on the 1st resolution, ayes 90, nays 12; vote on the 2d resolution, ayes 79. nays 26 ; vote on the 3d resolution, ayes 79, nays 19 ; vote on adoption of the preamble, ayes 73, nays 18; vote on the adoption of the entire report, ayes 77, nays 17.
A REMARKABLE COLORED MAN. 
From the St. Joseph [Mo.] Gazette.
Died, in this city, on Monday morning, March 28, 1859, Jeffrey Deroin, in the 58th year of his age. 
Jeffrey was born in St. Louis, a slave of Joseph Robidoux, Sr., Esq., founder of St. Joseph, and passed nearly the whole of his early life with that old and noted trader in the Indian country. He thus acquired the tongues of many tribes, and became quite a proficient as interpreter. By association with his master, he became an expert trader, and realized sufficient means to purchase his freedom in 1835. He was then employed as the Government Interpreter for many years. In 1844 he accompanied a number of Iowa and Sacs and Fox Indian Chiefs, under the charge of Col. Melody, to Europe. His interpretation of their languages was so clear and intelligent, that he not only made a favorable impression upon all the dignitaries of the foreign Courts at which they were received, but, it is said, fascinated a lady of high title. D Israeli and other literati had frequent conversations with him, and showed him marked attention. He returned to this country loaded with presents, and was soon recalled to the position of Government Interpreter. In expeditions of United States officers, or other gentlemen of position, over the plains and mountains, he was generally engaged as interpreter and guide. His acquaintance was almost universal in the far West, and many will remember him in Europe. He spoke French as fluently as he did English, or a dozen Indian tongues with which he was familiar. He was a fine looking mulatto, with a benevolent, intelligent countenance, stout figure, modest, respectful demeanor, and was an honest and faithful man. He left a wife and children, and several thousand dollars' worth of property. He purchased his wife some time ago from Dr. Brown of Kentucky. No negro was ever more respected or will be more generally regretted than Jeffrey Deroin. 
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, MAY 6, 1859.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Sixth Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society will be held in the city of New York, in the City Assembly Rooms, Broadway, on Tuesday, May 10th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A.M.; and continued, by adjournment, at the same place, on Tuesday evening, and Wednesday forenoon and afternoon.
Among the speakers who are confidently expected to be present, and to address the Society during its sessions, are WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., LUCRETIA MOTT, Rev. Dr. FURNESS, Judge CULVER, E. GILBERT, Esq., EDMUND QUINCY, J. MILLER McKIM, PARKER PILLSBURY, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Rev. A: M. MILLIGAN, (of the Covenanter Church in Pennsylvania,) C. L. WM. WELLS BROWN, ANDREW T. Foss, JOSEPH HOWLAND, A. M. POWELL, Rev. N. R. JOHNSTON, and others. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
SYDNEY H. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS,
Secretaries.
DEATH OF CHARLES F. HOVEY, ESQ. 
The friends of Freedom, Humanity and Progress, in this city and vicinity, were startled and saddened, last week, by the announcement of the death of this estimable man, who <illegible> endeared himself to so many by his many fine qualities, and whose loss will be felt in every direction. The event was quite unexpected; for though he had been confined to his house for the last six months by a severe attack of what was supposed to be chronic rheumatism, still there were no serious apprehensions entertained as to his case; and only a few days before his departure, he seemed to more comfortable, and it was hoped that the coming warm season would facilitate his convalescence. 
Charles F. Hovey was of the sixth generation from Daniel Hovey, one of the earliest settlers of Ipswich, Mass. Daniel Jr. and his son Nathaniel (three generations) lived and died in Ipswich. Nathaniel Jr. settled in Hampton, Conn., as did also his son Jonathan, whose son Darius was the father of our deceased friend, who was born in South Brookfield, in February, 1807. During, his minority, he attended the town school,; and went two quarters to the academy at Amherst. He attended in a country store in Barre, Ware and Enfield; came to Boston in 1829, and went into the store of Howe, Dorr & Co., as book-keeper.
From 1830 to the present time, near thirty years, he has been a very active, enterprising, and successful merchant, in the several importing houses of George Howe & Co., Hovey and Mixture, J. C. Howe & Co., Hovey, Williams & Co., and C. F. Hovey & Co. in Boston.
He went many times to Europe on business, and re sided several years in Paris and Rome. His summer residence was for many years in Gloucester, and for the last five years in Framingham. He died at his mansion-house in Kingston street, Boston, on the evening of the 28th of April, 1859, aged 52 years and two months, leaving a wife and four sons.
By his Will, we understand, he made large bequests to his family, and to several of his friends, and gave the rest of his estate for the promotion of the various reforms to which his life had been devoted, and especially to the Anti-Slavery cause ; placing on record a very strong testimony in favor of universal and im partial liberty.
We cannot sum up the virtues of the deceased in a more comprehensive and graphic manner, than by quoting WHITTIER'S lines to the memory of another:
Friend of the Slave, and yet the friend of all;
Lover of peace, yet ever foremost when 
The need of battling Freedom called for men
To plant the banner on the outer wall;
Gentle and kindly, ever at distress
Melted to more than woman's tenderness,
Yet firm and steadfast, at his duty's post
Fronting the violence of a maddened host,
Like some grey rock from which the waves are tossed!
Knowing his deeds of love, men questioned not
The faith of one whose walk and word were right-
Who tranquilly in Life's great task-field wrought,
And, side by side with evil, scarcely caught
A stain upon its pilgrim garb of white:
Prompt to redress another's wrong, his own
Leaving to Time and Truth and Penitence alone.
Such was our friend. Formed on the good old plan,
A true and brave and downright honest man!-
He blew no trumpet in the market-place,
Nor in the church with <illegible> face
Supplied with cant the lack of Christian grace;
Loathing pretence, he did with cheerful will
What others talked of while their hands were still:
And while Lord, Lord!' the pious tyrants cried,
Who, in the poor, their Master crucified,
His daily prayer, for better understood
In acts than words, was simply DOING GOOD.
So calm, so constant was his rectitude,
That by his loss alone we know its worth,
And feel how true a man has walked with us on earth!
TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
At a special meeting of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, on Tuesday, May 3d, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That in the death of our honored and lamented friend, and earnest and open-handed coadjutor, CHARLES F. HOVEY, Esq., of this city, this Board (of which he was so faithful a member) has a vacancy left which it will be difficult, if not impossible to fill; the Anti-Slavery cause has lost one of its most clear-sighted, radical, intrepid and generous supporters; every struggling and hated reformatory movement has met with a special bereavement; and the community at large has been deprived of one who was a public and private benefactor, in the noblest and most extended sense.
Resolved, That our departed brother was not only a model merchant, and a bright example to all business men, by his incorruptible integrity, his all-controlling sense of justice, and his kindness and generous consideration toward all in his employ; not only a loving husband, a devoted father, and a faithful friend; but he was remarkable for his freedom-loving, truth-seeking, independent mind-his vital sympathy with the wronged and suffering, of every class, of every complexion, and of every-clime-his thorough abhorrence of all cant, double-dealing, imposture, and time-serving, whether in Church or State-his nice appreciation of the right, in every conflict with wrong, and manly courage in abiding by his conscientious convictions, at whatever cost.
Resolved, That in his case the scriptural declaration is eminently applicable-'THE MEMORY OF THE JUST IS BLESSED'-and of none could it be affirmed with more truthfulness, His COUNTRY WAS THE WORLD; 'HIS COUNTRYMEN WERE ALL MANKIND.' 
Resolved, That we offer our heartfelt Sympathy to his bereaved family-feeling that we express the united prayer of the thousands he has cheered and helped, of the many homes where his name was cherished and blessed, when we ask that all comfort and consolation may be theirs.
In behalf of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,
FRANCIS JACKSON ; President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.
ERRATA. In the letter of Rev. Theodore Parker to Francis Jackson, Esq., published in our last number, there were several errors. The most important one was that in the fourth line from the bottom of the fifth paragraph. It should read thus-'Suppose a hogshead of sugar on the average here worth $621/2'-not $521/2, as printed in our last.
<c04>
THE FUNERAL SERVICES.
On Monday morning last, May 2d, a large company assembled at the late; residence of CHARLES F. HOVEY, Esq., in Kingston street, in this city, to pay the last sad tribute of respect and affection to the memory of the deceased. The funeral services were conducted by WM. LLOYD GARRISON , WENDELL PHILLIPS, and Rev. THOMAS STARR KING, in the order given below. Previous to the addresses, and at their close, a highly appropriate hymn was touchingly sung by a quartette.
REMARKS OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
In accordance with the wish of my dear departed friend, I am here to participate in his funeral obsequies.
We are greeted with the loveliest morning of the present year. A cloudless sky, a brilliant sun, a genial atmosphere, every one feeling its vivifying influence, it almost seems as if there were no such thing as death or decay in this glorious universe. Yet the evidence of our mortality is before us; and the ancient declaration, still remains true, 'We all do fade as a leaf.' Mingling my sympathies with yours, I tenderly offer them to the bereaved wife, and fatherless children, and the relatives of the deceased; for the bereavement is a great one, and the sorrow caused thereby wide-spread and heartfelt. The touching lines of the poet Gray, at the loss of his nearest and dearest friend, may fitly express the feelings of her whose loss, as a wife and mother, is specially severe:-
'In vain to me the smiling mornings shine,
And reddening Phoebus lifts his golden fire;
The birds in vain their amorous descants join,
Or cheerful fields resume their green attire.
These ears, alas! for other notes repine,
A different object does these eyes require;
My lonely anguish melts no heart but mine,
And in my breast th' imperfect joys expire.
Yet morning smiles, the busy race to cheer,
And new-born pleasure brings to happier men ;
The fields to all their wonted tribute bear,
To warm their little loves the birds complain:
I fruitless mourn for him who cannot hear,
And weep the more because I weep in vain!'
Yet, blessed be God, there is a solace for every grief, a balm for every wound, and hope in every bereavement.
It is not for me, on this occasion, to attempt to pay that full tribute to the memory of our beloved and cherished friend, which he so justly deserves. Yet I may be permitted to say that Boston, of its many honored and lamented citizens, has never yet lost one to whom the language of the poet was more applicable-
' An honest man's the noblest work of God.' His integrity stood like the Alps; his benevolence was extended, diffusive, overflowing like the Nile; his philanthropy broad as the whole earth. His personal independence and moral courage were equal to any emergency: he asked not what was popular, but only what was RIGHT. Simple and unpretending in his manners, unselfish in his aims, and transparent as a perfect mirror, he sought no distinction, and desired no conspicuity. In his feelings, principles and conduct, he was thoroughly democratic, in the highest and noblest sense of that term. He was a hearty despiser of all shams; he abhorred the proscriptive spirit of caste, in every form; he saw through the frivolous distinctions and hollow conventionalities of society,-was of the people, with the people, and for the people, as against usurpation, oppression, and monopoly,-and with the poet Burns saw and affirmed-
The rank is but the guinea's stamp,
The man's the gold, for a' that.'
Freedom was the element in which his spirit delighted to dwell-that freedom which saves, elevates and blesses all its recipients. With him free inquiry, free speech, a free platform, free trade, were no rhetorical flourishes, no party catch-words, but vital principles, to be cherished, asserted, propagated, at all times, at whatever cost; and for their diffusion and vindication he was ever ready to take any risk, and to make any sacrifice.
In all the relations of life, he was most exemplary,-the model merchant, a devoted husband, a most affectionate father, a sterling friend. His religion was that of the Good Samaritan, and therefore unrecognized as religion by Priest and Levite. All forms of misery, destitution and helplessness appealed to him for aid, and readily obtained it; for his benevolence was inexhaustible. If all who have been helped by his counsel, and blessed by his charity, were present on this occasion, the throng would be multitudinous. His removal will be felt as a general bereavement, and the tears of thousands in other parts of the country who knew his worth by report, but were not personally acquainted with him, will freely mingle with the tears of his household and bosom friends. More even than this-the generous, intrepid, uncompromising friend and defender of the millions of manacled and dehumanized slaves in our guilty land, as he was, they will constitute a vast procession to follow his remains to the grave, bewailing their loss.
In conclusion, I beg leave to read such selections from the Scriptures as seem to me specially pertinent to the occasion, and to the character of the deceased:
' When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me; because I delivered the poor that tried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him. The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was a robe and a diadem. I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame. I was a father to the poor, and the cause I knew not I searched out. And I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth. If I have walked with vanity, or if my foot hath hasted to deceit; let me be weighed in an even balance, that God may know mine integrity. If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence; if I rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because mine hand had gotten much; I should have denied the God that is above. Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt of families terrify me, that I kept silence, and went not out of the door? As God lived, all the while my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils, till I die, I will not remove mine integrity from me: my heart shall not reproach me as long as I live.'
'Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame; he remembered that we are dust. As for man, his days are as, grass; as a flower of the field, so he flourishth. For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more. But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children ; to such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.'
'One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh: but the earth bideth forever. The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he arose. All the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea is not full: unto the place whence the rivers come, thither they return again. The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done, is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun. To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven: a time to be born, and a time to die. God hath made every thing beautiful in his time. A good name is better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting: for the living will lay it to his heart. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou <illegible>. Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it.'
' Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. But some man will say,. How are the dead raised up? and with what body do they come? Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened except it die; and that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain; it may chance of wheat, or of some other grain: but God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him,
<c05>
and to every seed his own body. All flesh is not the same flesh ; but there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and another of birds. There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the celestial is one, and of the glory of the terrestrial is another. There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star differed from another star in glory. So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised incoruption: it is sown in dishonour, it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power: it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body. For this corruption must put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.? 
REMARKS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
We come to look, for the last time, on the face of our very dear friend. Had his death left only this house desolate, this family circle sad-they would have carried him to his last home, speaking only to each other. But he has made many men love him. Our hearts ache for his loss. How many a loving message those kinds lips have uttered! How many a burden that untiring hand has lifted! There are roofs that feel almost us desolate as this, in hearing of his death. It seems fitting, then, that we too should speak of him to each other-speak of the tried, valued, loved friend we have lost, of his sterling worth; and give that marked life a voice.
He wished that no prayer should be solicited at his funeral, no mere ceremony should be performed over his body. He had no faith in the divine inspiration of any book-no faith in any church, nor in any priesthood. He believed only in a good and just Cause of the Universe, to whose infinite loving-kindness he trusted without a doubt. Let us dare to bury him as he dared to live. Fearless, active, earnest, transparent, devoted, unselfish, full of simplicity,-truly any mere form, however seemingly sacred, would mar the beautiful consistency of that brave, real life. Though believing in no church, the most marked feature of his soul was a serene faith. He believed in justice. No need to assure him of good consequences. He thoroughly believed that the right was always safe. He had no trust in any compromise of the exact right. The smallest right of the humblest man was sacred to him: only by respecting that could any good be won. But this justice was no cold, hard element in him. What other men named generosity, he esteemed only justice. When, entitled by common rule to claim one half, he put it aside, and accepted one-fifth from his partners, he thought it only justice. For his rule of duty was born of broad consideration of all that strength owes to weakness, knowledge to ignorance, and wealth to its poorer brother; born indeed of loving, human brotherhood.
He was a fearless thinker. The masterly reason God had given him, he never for an hour hid in a napkin; the possession of it bound him to its use. He proved everything, and held fast what he thought good. And he trusted his convictions as his highest rule. Most emphatically he thought for himself. Bred in trade, it did not, as too often, smother or dull his interest in the profound questions of our nature, of society, of religion. Of course, his interest never warped his judgment.
To be independent of the world, it has been well said, is little. To differ, when reason bids, from our own immediate world, is the test of independence. To this dear friend, the disapproval of those who generally labored with him was no more a temptation than the frown of the great outer world. As truly as can be said of any man, he really thought for himself. And this did not seem a remarkable virtue in him. It required no effort. Neither gain nor favor seemed to have any charm for him. A high nature lifted him above such temptations. And yet he was not harsh, reserved, or ungainly, but wholly the reverse. He kept his soul young-young in its earnestness, its zeal, its childlike faith, and winning simplicity. Men could bear the most hated opinions from those genial lips. He walked up and down our streets, uttering all heresies in Church and State; yet none could hate him-few could get away from the influence of that open, clear, real life that lay behind his speech. He not only believed that every man was his brother, but he made every man feel brotherly to him, and close as a friend. The poor nestled to him. He not only believed the universe was sunny, he brought sunshine with him when he came. But this sweet nature blossomed into thoughtful kindness. It was not what he gave away that marked him. Others give liberally-our merchants have open hands. His peculiarity was the tender thoughtfulness that he never lacked. The sick girl who found, during her five and six weeks of illness, that duly, each Saturday evening, her usual wages were sent her, felt not the amount given, but; that thoughtfulness that took care to be, just where it was needed, and saw to it personally that no one was forgotten.
War, Slavery, Intemperance, he hated. To raise woman's place, he devoted wealth and heart. He left to others the welcomed and easy munificence that holds up enterprises which all love. His hand was stretched out to spread the ideas which bear seed for the future, whose value few see, whose influence many dread. No man said 'NO' easier to any enterprise which sailed buoyant before a fresh breeze. 'The chain with hypocrites at one end, and slaveholders, at the other, which men call the Union,' was his favorite description of that government whose yoke he sought' to lift from the slave's neck. And all his unpopular opinions he uttered just as frankly while he struggled for place and fortune, as after they were both sure, and his position all he could wish. Tender as a woman, he could not bear the sight of suffering or oppression. Firm as granite, he feared no face of man in uttering a hated doctrine, or defending an unpopular cause. Ever hotly in earnest, restlessly impatient of wrong, his zeal stirred others to effort, while his undoubting faith banished despair. Who can ever forget that emphatic, heart-cheering. 'Why, of course,' sure to spring to his lips when, in dark moments, any one spoke of the certain triumph, of right, notwithstanding?
Men said he held dangerous opinions. But what father called to lie where he does would not thank God, could he leave to his children as brave and useful a life to copy-as dear a name for his neighbors to bless?
If using all the powers God has given one to find out the right, and then fearlessly practicing it, makes a righteous man, then truly he was a righteous man. If 'he that doeth good is of God,' then was he of God. If 'he that loveth his brother abideth in the light,' then the same sunshine that shone round him here, cheers him now; for truly he loved his brother, loved truth and right; and now he sees the face of that God who is Justice and Truth. No fear for him: his heart melted down all differences of class, race, education, condition, and held all men close to himself. That tireless brain, that <illegible> hand work now, where all see even as they are seen, and where everything but virtue vanishes.
Let us thank God for his life. The world is better for his having lived. These loved ones mourn the father whose voice was a benediction ; but how many, beside these are now crowding round him, who felt that kind hand lifting them, that cheerful voice welcoming them on, that untiring care watching for them with all a father's interest and vigilance!
No matter that he did not call himself a Christian. Many take that sacred name, whose right our judgment denies. The loving and beloved apostle could say, 'He that <illegible> , I know God, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. 'But, on the other hand,' 'hereby know we that we know God, if we keep his commandments.' Let us thank God, <illegible> that he strengthened our
<c06>
friend to live a fearless, earnest, unselfish, Christian life, Brother, father, husband, of these we may not speak; but we have lost the friend so close, so unselfish, the companion of so many happy, hopeful hours, the stay on which we leaned so lovingly, the strong hand, the generous heart, one who seemed to make our life larger, firmer, sunnier: our little circle has a wide, sad void.
But God doeth all things well. This life of simple loving, transparent, brotherly well-doing is neither lost nor ended. Thank God for the fifty years that we have been privileged to see it! We bless the mother that bore him-a brave, true man. May we be better for having known him! God help us to borrow of his example! God bless him!
REMARKS OF REV. T. STARR KING.
I would not willingly weaken the impression which has been made by the remarks, so true and so tender, of those who have the highest right to speak here of out departed brother's character, since they stord so near to him, and have known him so thoroughly and so long. Yet I desire-before his body is borne from out sight forever-to speak, from sympathy with those who stood in the most intimate relations to him, and whose bereavement in his removal no words of ours can measure-of the love which I bore him, though I stood at a greater distance than the friends who have addressed us, and especially of what I saw of the religiousness of his life and character.
There are two prominent manifestations of religiousness. There is the piety that flows from the conception of God as a person, and that delights in communion with God as a person. Devout affection towards the Infinite is the visible peculiarity of this type of religiousness. The man who <illegible> it desires to go to God often with the direct prayer of the heart or the lips; to have the consciousness of His particular providence ; to feel the sunshine of his smile, as a personal manifestation of approval and reward for every good deed. This piety our brother certainly did not possess in large measure. We know that he did not estimate it highly. Perhaps he did not prize it highly enough.
But there is a stronger, deeper, more thorough, more efficient piety than this often proves to be. The friend who has gone before us had that religiousness which consists in harmony of the whole nature with the foundation truths of the world, and an entire reverence towards the Eternal Will. Who of us here that knew him, are not ready to bow on the knees of the spirit before that cold form, and desire that an integrity firm as his, that a charity wide as his, that a disposition genial and sweet as his, might be poured into and sustained in our hearts, by the Infinite Spirit that filled him thus for many years with strength?
For it was not by morality, as distinct from religion-according to the frequent criticism of the pulpit upon character-that our brother was distinguished. He went deeper than custom. He desired and determined to find and abide in the primal truth of the moral world, and he brushed everything away <illegible> he found the everlasting rock. His house was <illegible> built on that. Rains descended, and floods came, and torrents dashed against it, but it held fast to the rock. The glass in these windows is no more ready to receive the light, than his spirit was open to receive every manifestation of the Infinite Will that might come to his reason; and he would no more have thought of failing in obedience, by word, and purse and influence, to whatever was shown to his mind thus as the truth of God, than the glass would think of thickening itself against the light it was intended to reveal.
His life has been, in many ways, a transparent exhibition of the moral forces that glorify man hood, and make our nature a clear revelation of God. Let us thank Heaven that, through our friend, we have seen more of the sacredness of that Justice which is the foundation of the Eternal Throne. Let us be grateful that, in his constant and wise bounty to the poor and needy, we have learned to interpret better the Divine beneficence. Let us be grateful for the example he has given us of the loyalty to the highest laws which a citizen should show in times like ours. Let us be grateful for the sermon in behalf of <illegible> substantial goodness that has been preached widely and forcibly by his life, and for the praise that goes up to God for his good deeds, to-day, mingled with the mourning of those who are so deeply afflicted by his death. 
We often hear it said, as though it is a peculiarly religious reflection, when we are called to stand before the still form of one whom God has suddenly taken from this life-What shadows we are, and what shadows we pursue!' I think that we should all feel, in the presence of the form which lies before us with a nobler beauty than it wore in life, that such a saying would not be appropriate here, and is not true. He has been taken from us, so far as his ministry in this world is concerned, in his maturity, at high noon. We cannot but mourn over it. But his life has not been a shadow, and he did not pursue shadows. He lived for realities. He received into his spirit largely of the eternal substance, and his soul his gone as a substance into the enduring world.
The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away ; blessed be the name of the Lord!' We cannot explain the misery of his removal from us, when he was so useful, and when he seemed to be so widely needed, here. And yet, those of us who trust the great Providence, as he trusted, cannot but feel sure that God has taken him because his spirit had grown competent for a service which could not be discharged on earth. Let us not doubt that he has gone to broader duties. Let us not believe that he has gone to rest, except to the rest of a still wider charity, as uninterrupted fidelity, an unclouded worship, a larger and continual reception from the Fountain of Truth and Love. And so let us give him up to the Infinite One, with a courage and confidence equal, at least, to his own: and let us hear the words of him whom he followed-' Not every one that said unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that <illegible> the will of my father.'
We must believe that our brother has gone to heaven, because there is no where else for him to go. He was there while here. He lived for God, and he must go to God. Our destiny is not determined by external and arbitrary appointment. Those doors that are hung on Equity and the spiritual laws, we cannot doubt, swung back, at once, to give him entrance and welcome. And with gratitude for his life here, we must yield him to higher services with undoubting trust.
' I looked upon the righteous man,
And saw his parting brad,
Without a struggle or a sigh,
Serenely yield to death;
There was no anguish on his brow,
Nor terror in his eye:
The spoiler aimed a fatal dart,
But lost the victory.
I looked upon the righteous man,
And heard the voiceless prayer
Which rose above that breathless form,
To soothe the mourners' care,
And felt how precious was the gift
He to his loved ones gave,-
The stainless memory of the just,
The wealth beyond the grave.
The funeral services being closed, a last, <illegible>, farewell look at the serene and finely <illegible> features was taken by all present, when the mortal remains of the <illegible> were carried to Mount Auburn for <illegible>, accompanied by relatives and friends in a long line of carriages. At the grave, Mr. King made some additional remarks, which were highly appropriate and impressive.
'Peace be with thee, O our brother,
In the Spirit-Land!
Vainly look we for another
In thy place to stand.'
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
REPLY TO REV. HENRY T. CHEEVER.
It is unfortunate that the actual differences of opinion between Mr. Cheever and myself, in regard to Anti-Slavery, should be complicated with a difficulty which protracts discussion, and renders it more wearisome and less profitable than it might otherwise be  He seems to me to use language loosely, inaccurately, and often in consistently with himself, and to interpret the language of others with the same laxity; but whether this be so or not, he certainly often applies to language, his own and that of others, a different sense from that which I understand to be its true meaning. Under these circumstances, I will say as briefly as possible what seems to me to be needed in reply to his article on the last page; and, since I began my comments upon the newspaper report of his address at Worcester with the heading. Clerical Calumny,'-an expression which, however justly applied, by his own admission, to the report, proved not to be applicable to the address,-I am happy now to testify that I see no reason to charge Mr. Cheever with any other than a fair and honest purpose in what he has said, and that the criticism which I hare have yet to make upon his language implies no fault in his spirit
The very first sentence in Mr. Cheever's letter gives a specimen of the inaccuracy to which I have alluded. I receive with entire confidence Mr. Cheevers's testimony that no injustice to the American Anti-Slavery Society, its founders, or its principal laborers, was intended by his language; but I think that ideas absolutely unjust and untrue in regard to them were so strongly implied in it, that nineteen out of twenty of the hearers of the address must have received from it the very impressions which I complaint of. And I regard it as eminently fortunate for all parties concerned, that my criticism upon the erroneous statements of the report has brought out Mr. Cheever's explanation of his purpose and meaning in the address; a purposes and meaning which the language of those portions of the address which he himself quoted in the Liberator, (April 22d,) did not convey to me, and I think would not convey to any one without the accompanying explanations.
I understand Mr. Cheever now to admit-
1 That the Constitutional basis of the American Anti-Slavery Society if a Christian basis.
2 That the action of that Society has been in no way contrary to real Christianity.
3 That, by his assertion, that no distinctively Christian organization against slavery had existed before the formation (two months ago) of the Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States,' he meant only that no organization consisting solely of church members had previously been formed for that purpose.
This last statement is one which I am not in the slightest degree inclined to controvert. But veneration for Christianity, no less than regard for accuracy, requires me controvert the assumption that a Church institution and a Christian institution are synonymous, and the kindred assumption that an institution founded by church members is therefore a Christian institution. Does the fact that Smith, Jones & Co. are church members make their shop a Christian institution. and entitle it to be distinguished in kind from the shop of White, Brown & Co., next door, where business is done in precisely the same way? I trow not.
The word Christian, through the exceedingly various character and conduct of the persons who have desired to distinguish themselves by that name which still remains venerable when employed in its true sense has come to be used with great freedom and looseness of signification. This is inevitable, and we need not trouble ourselves to criticise every instance of such laxity. But when it is attempted to set aside the highest, most genuine, and most characteristic meaning of the word, in a place where that meaning is the very one required, and to substitute in that place one of the lower and looser significations, it is time to make protest.
The Jews, we are told, had no dealings with the Samaritans. This is usually regarded by Gentiles as a prejudice on the part of the Jews, and a fact rather discreditable to them. The church members of our age and nation do not practice this degree of exclusiveness. They are perfectly willing to associate with non-church-members in all the ordinary relations of life. In a shop or a bank, a picnic or a political party, a rail-road car or a fire company, church-members do not pretend or desire to separate themselves from others; even in the partially exceptional case (of very modern invention) of the Young Men's Christian Associations'so called-the church-members no more refuse to associate with non-church-members than slaveholders do with slaves: in both cases, all they require is that the low-caste division shall be humble and subservient. But when, in the department of philanthropy no, I am generalizing too far; for the church-members do not refuse to associate with others in founding a Temperance Society, a Hospital, a Provident Associationit is only the Anti-Slavery cause which receives this particular mark of attention ; when, in the department of labor for the slave, certain church-members declare that no one shall be admitted to co-operate with them who is not also a church member-that no one shall join them in doing this good thing, this Christian thing, unless he has first labelled himself Christian-in-full, to all intents and purposes whatsoever-and claim, at the 6ame same time, that their association is more Christian instead of less Christian for this pitiful restriction-it is certainly time to make protest. 
I use the adjective Christian' in the sense which Worcester gives to it-'partaking of Christianity;' and I1 have said (in a former article on the same subject) that I understand by Christianity, that rule of life taught by Jesus of Nazareth, which he himself summed up as consisting of love to God, practically combined with, and manifested by, love to man. I presume that when the first teacher of Christianity made this summary of it, and told the story of the man who had fallen among thieves in illustration of it, and bestowed special approval upon the Samaritan, (a representative of the philanthropists of that day.),) and also bestowed special reprobation upon the Priest and Levite, (representatives of the clergy of that day,) he <illegible>metal precisely what he said; and I therefore decline accepting any element additional to these twolove to God and love to man-as an essential element of Christianity.
Now, if the Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society (formed when the clergy were, almost without exception practically, practice pro-slavery) contained anything at variance with Christianity, or tending to discredit it, or to lead men aside from it-or if, on the other hand, the action of the Society under this Constitution had been, turned to the injury of Christianity, had tended to make its members love God less or love men less-then there would have been a reason for Christians to do their duty to the slave by a separate organization, that faithfulness to the slave might not interfere with their faithfulness to Christianity. But Mr. Cheever expressly concedes that neither of these causes existed. He concedes, if I understand him, that the constitutional basis of the Society is in accordance with Christianity, sad and that the action of the Society has been in no way unchristian. Why then should not the clergy and the church members, as fast as they became converted from their pro-slavery position, have joined this Society, and co-operated with it in this good work, this Christian work, equally Christian whether the persons who were doing init called themselves Christians or not? 
If these clergymen and church-members (because thinking themselves holier than others, or because preferring to salute their brethren only, or for any other reason) had chosen to refuse all partnership of others in working for the slave, without trying to turn their exclusiveness to the discredit of others, no harm would have been done; it is a free country, to this 
<c02>
extent: I think nobody would have complained of them, still less interfered with them, whatever opinion might have been silently entertained as to the unwisdom of their exclusiveness. But it is a notorious fact that several movements which have been made since the American Anti-Slavery Society has been init operation-and made in the same general direction as the Church Anti-Slavery Society,' though less fully elaborated-(I mean the Clerical Appeal' of 1838, the the  New Organization' of 1840, &c., &c.,) have attempted to throw upon their predecessor the stigma of being unchristian,' irreligious,' godless,' and the like. Now, though Mr. Cheever had no intention to make these charges, (either in the first address before his new Society, or since,) though he has specially disclaimed the ideas implied in these charges, and though much of his later language has shown a careful purpose to avoid them-still I think the phraseology of his original address, in his own version of it, would naturally suggest to nineteen readers out of twenty,. as it did to me, that those thoughts were in his mind, and in the mind of the society Society which he represented; and also that, if the speaker and the Society did not echo these calumnies, no more did they deny them, frankly and spontaneously admitting at the beginning of their enterprise that which Mr. Cheever now admits in reply to questions.
I can by no means admit that the exclusion of all but church-members from an organization entitles it to be called a Christian organization; I think that a conformity to Christian ideas in its basis and in its action, (such as H. T. C. has admitted, if I understand him, of the American Anti-Slavery Society,) would be much better ground for such an epithet. Yet I think the wisdom of that Society in avoiding such an epithet, and thus obtaining the great advantage of cooperation among all the friends of the slave, whether or not they thought themselves entitled to the name of Christian, is clear and manifest. The slave cannot afford to dispense with the help of any who are disposed to help him, whether regenerate, unregenerate, of or infidel; and therefore the American Anti-Slavery Society does not refuse the help of either of these classes. Nay, more. The Christian member of that Society may legitimately rejoice that any infidel who, for love of the slave, has sought membership in it, is, thus far, doing a good work, and also a Christian work.
Yet Mr. Cheever still maintains that this Society ought to have been adopted and guided by the church, and controlled by her representative men in the ministry! In the name of common sense, why? and how? Why should those persons adopt it, who hated, opposed and maligned it? And how should those persons control it, who were not even members of it? Does Mr. Cheever think that the system of caste lately incorporated into the Young Men's Christian [!] Associations' ought to bear rule, and ought always to have borne rule, in all associations? that when a church member comes into any Society, the members should hang their heads, stop voting, and let him decide everything? that when a minister comes in, the President ought immediately to evacuate his chair;? Is the old rule to be quite abolished, that a Society shall appoint its own government by the votes of its own members?
Mr. Cheever admits that perhaps the  Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States' will be found not to be, after all, a representative or exponent of the visible American Church. 'I think he may safely omit the word perhaps from this statement; and I think, moreover, that the probability of God's using this Society as a touch-stone, or for any thing else except a warning to its fellow church-members, will depend upon the fact whether it is honest; Whether it treats a corrupt church with untempered mortar-half concession and half admonition-or whether its action shall be of the that radical kind which looks, with a single eye, to the advancement of truth and righteousness, regardless whether the American church stand or fall.-C.K.W.

LETTER FROM ENGLAND.
9 Southgate, WAKEFIELD, ENG., April 13, 1859.
MY DEAR FRIEND:
I cannot sufficiently thank you for the valuable information you have given me. Dr. Pomroy is now revealed in his true colors, a miserable apostate, and therefore utterly unworthy of the reception he has received from many of those in England who were ignorant of his base treachery to the anti-slavery cause. On receipt of the Liberator, &e., I sent one containing your masterly review of the policy of the American Board of Missions on the Slavery question to Edward Baines, Esq., asking him to reconsider the matter, and expressing the hope that on doing so he would endorse Mrs. Stowe's estimate of the Board. I have as yet received not reply, owing, very probably, to the fact that we are just on the eve of a general election, and Mr. Baines is a candidate for the representation of Leeds, which would interfere with his giving the time to the study of your article which it requires. Dr. Pomroy is said to have lamented at a late meeting at Sir Culling Eardley's, that the friendly feeling of American Christians(!) did not meet with so warm a feeling here. This shows that he smarts under the rather rough treatment he got in Leeds, and I am sure you will join with me in thankfulness that he leaves England evidently dissatisfied with his reception amongst us. The fact is, we have circulated the information we possessed as widely as possible, and there are many quarters where Dr. P. has been welcomed, but where they will be careful about entertaining such men for the future.
It has afforded me much pleasure to comply with your request concerning Mr. Stone. I have addressed a letter to the Anti-Slavery Advocate, which will probably appear, in whole or in part, in the next number, in which I have, to the best of my ability, exposed the duplicity of the Boston Tract Society, which is made so clearly manifest in the documents you sent me. These will be very useful, and if Mr. Stone should visit Yorkshire, I can assure you that we shall be prepared for him.
I belong to what I may term the Young England Anti-Slavery Party, who desire to strike at the root of the whole matter by withholding English fellowship from slaveholding and slavery-sanctioning professors of religion. We do not advocate the sending of sum sums of money to America, believing that it would do more good, and would be more likely it would do more good, and would be more likely to aid your efforts if spent in the dissemination of sound principles at home. At the present time, you receive a few small sums from us yearly, and we are too apt to think that by giving this money we do all that is required of us; whereas, I maintain that all the good which can possibly do be done by these donations is more than neutralized by the hearty welcome given to such men as Dr. Pomroy. I then affirm, that you would derive more real help from us, if all our paltry subscriptions were devoted to home purposes, and our societies were reorganized and quickened into activity.
For some years now, I have been doing what I, could to convince those who are laboring in the cause here, that the American churches are what they have been so often described, as the the bulwark of American Slavery,' and although my influence is not so great as I could wish, I may fairly lay claim to having done some little good. In the Liberator, I find that my opinions are so well expressed, that I shall feel obliged if you tell the editor to put my name down as a regular subscriber.
In the summer of 1857, the Rev. Edward Mathews and myself had a long controversy in the Liverpool newspapers, with several defenders of the Northern Methodist Episcopal Church of America, which church we had charged with having slaveholding members; which was at first stoutly denied, but afterwards admitted by our opponents. Should you be able to give me any information concerning the present position of this church with regard to slavery;, it would be very acceptable, as the English Conference are about
<c03>
to send a Deputation to the United States, and should like to give them a few reminders before they the leave.
Your book, The Relations of Anti-Slavery to Religion,' is the best I have seen on the subject, and I am indeed obliged for it.
I sometimes think I can form some idea of the nature of the difficulties which oppose you, by what earnest workers have to contend with here. Until I became connected with the movement, I had not the slightest thought of the impediments which surround it, even in England. For instance, because of the Rev. Edward Mathews's exposure of the Jesuitical pretences of Bishop Simpson and Dr. McClintock, who visited England in 1857, many of our Wesleyans will have nothing to do with us, and Mr. M. cannot obtain Methodist school-rooms for his lectures. Does this not show the need of radical reform here, as well as in America? I could give you many other similar facts, but forbear, from a feeling of shame, and because I believe that ignorance of the truth has had a great deal to do with it.
Believe me, dear friend,
Very faithfully yours,
JOSEPH A. HORNER. 
Chas. K. Whipple, Esq.

RHODE ISLAND A. S. CONVENTION.
FIRST DAY-EVENING SESSION.
The Convention assembled pursuant to adjournment.
Samuel May, Jr., occupied the platform, and engaged the closest attention of the audience while he communicated, in a beautiful spirit, the thoughts that had occurred to him from the associations of the evening. The churches were commemorating the sorrow of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane with long prayers and ceremonies, while they were turning away from the agony of the slave, and refusing all sympathy and aid to his cause.
Here Mr. May explained, with some appropriate remarks, the cause of Mr. Garrison's absence. In speaking upon the resolution concerning the Republican party, he indicated how its leading men had defeated the Personal Liberty Bill in Massachusetts and in New York, and zealously urged the men of Rhode Island to persevere until they should obtain the passage of such a bill in their own State, and secure another spot as a resting-place and a protection for the poor fugitive, escaped from hounds and men-stealers. His manner was calm and dignified, and impressed one unavoidably with the greatness and sacredness of the cause, and of the deep interest felt in it by the speaker. The meeting was then addressed by Mr. George T. Downing, of Newport. He, in a very able manner, advocated the Liberty Bill, yet deprecated the necessity of an argument in favor of freedom in the land of Roger Williams. He spoke more at length concerning the abolition of caste schools in Rhode Island, tracing the progress of this movement here from its beginning, and eloquently and truly vindicating the right of every child to enjoy all the privileges, of a civil nature, accorded to any. He denounced the Providence Journal, and some other opponents of the measure, as having pursued a dishonorable course in regard to it, and sustained his position fully by citing the facts. He read a statement made before the School Committee of Providence by Rev. A. H. Clapp, to the purport that the change in the Boston schools was a complete failure, (!) and that the result was most disastrous to the education  of the colored children of that city! In corroboration of this, he read a communication from the Superintendent of Public Schools in Boston, stating that the result of the change was entirely satisfactory! He also read letters from members of the Boston School Committee, and left his hearers to settle for themselves who would be most likely to really know about the matter, and what the motives of either party might be for making such statements.
Mr. Burleigh, from the Business Committee, then offered the following resolution:-
Resolved, That we rejoice to know that petitions are in circulation in this State, asking for a law against slave-hunting in Rhode Island ; also asking for a law forbidding the making of distinctions in the educational privileges of the children in this State on account of sect, color, or religious belief; and that we earnestly recommend to all citizens of Rhode Island who love justice, and believe in the principles of genuine Democracy, the signing of these petitions, and the use of their influence, in all proper ways, to ensure the attainment of the objects sought.
Mr. Burleigh, in a masterly speech, treated of both topics embraced in the resolution, but gave his principal attention to the question of the exclusion of the colored children of Rhode Island from  the public schools of the State, and especially to the Providence Journal, which has defended and urged that exclusion in a spirit of heartlessness, and with a recklessness as to the facts in the case, which would well become the editor of the lowest pro-slavery sheet in the land, but was hardly to have been looked from one who had been Governor of the State, who is now a United States Senator, and who claims to be a mouthpiece of the Republican party, and the representative of the refined society of a leading Northern city. Mr. Burleigh laid bare, with a master's hand, the ignorance, the falsehood, the cruelty, the baseness, which had characterized the entire course of the editor of the Journal, on this subject. Such a rebuke, mingled with such force of sarcasm and ridicule, we have seldom heard. Evidently in the opinion of the large audience, many of whom remained standing throughout, it was richly deserved; for applause of a general and hearty character followed on the successive points which Mr. B. made.
Adjourned, to 10 o'clock, Friday morning.
SECOND DAY.
The Convention assembled, pursuant to adjournment, at half-past 10 o'clock, A.M., and was called to order by the President.
The resolutions which had been offered the day before were read; after which, E. H. Heywood addressed the meeting, on the question of the abolition of the colored schools, which he advocated with much earnestness, declaring that this whole matter of the treatment of the colored man, throughout the entire country, rests on the great question of the right of the negro to be considered a man. He affirmed that Jesus, with the Syrian hue he wore, would not, were he now on earth, be admitted into many of the Northern churches. He urged the circulation, all over the State, of the petitions for the abolition of the caste schools, and the carrying out, in our own practice, of these principles of a common brotherhood; assuring us that there was no reliance to be placed upon any organization, as such, but only upon, the individual conscience acting upon and directing organizations. It was that moral movement, outside the Parliament, which abolished West India slavery, which conquered and directed Peel, and conquered Wellington, the hero of so many battles. The Abolitionists had taken the humanity of the slave into consideration in the beginning, and have always acted accordingly. 
He read from Dr. Wayland on the American Union, and declared that if Dr. W. had carried out in practice the principle there laid down, he would long ago have been, on the Anti-Slavery platform.
Mr. H., in speaking of the Republican party, said that he felt it had done a noble work in concentrating the North against the South. He gave some statistics in regard to the prosperity of these two sections of the country, quoting from Mr. Helper's book, which should be read by every person in the land. He then invited to the platform the Rev. C. Howard Malcom, a Baptist clergyman of Newport. 
After remarking that this was the first time he had ever sat in a meeting of this kind, Mr. Malcom admitted the truth of the statements which had been made in regard to the corruptions in the American
<c04>
Church; and then calmly, nobly confessed, that when such a body has become recreant to the principles of justice, humanity, and truth, which it originally professed, and for a while promulgated and followed, and has fallen into, silence and even death, then, as with any other dead form, we must put it out of our sight; sadly, if we must, but yet bear it away to its own place, among, the dead. He had no dread from the fearless and free and full enunciation of the truth. Still, he thought sometimes there, was an intemperate use of language concerning the corruption of the Church; and, as in ancient times there were found seven thousand men who had not bowed the knee to Baal, so he now believed that within the pale of the Church, there were seven times seven thousand who had not sanctioned its depravity; and therefore, while speaking boldly against its sins, let us remember, said he, that from many homes and hearts in sympathy with the Church, from many pulpits and communion tables, comes a sincere and earnest response to the noble principles here proclaimed. 
He was followed by Mr. May, in behalf of the Financial Committee, who also expressed his joy and thankfulness for the young blood which is being infused into the veins of our Anti-Slavery body.
Mrs. Sophia L. Little then made an earnest and touching appeal the young clergyman in regard to his duty toward a negligent Church and a recreant priesthood, in imitation of the ancient prophets of the Lord.
Geo. T. Downing then offered the following resolution: 
Resolved, That we caution the liberal public against giving any countenance or support to the 'African Civilization Society,' it being a deceptive offshoot and auxiliary of that dying monster, the the American Colonization Society.'
Mr. D. advocated this resolution with zeal, and, in conclusion, in behalf of the educational interests of the colored people of Rhode Island, he appealed to us, as anti-slavery men and women, to aid them in obtaining justice and their rights.
Mr. Clarke, of Hopkinton, responded to the remarks of Mrs. Little, and expressed his thankfulness for this one spot in all the world where perfect equality is acknowledged, and perfect freedom accorded. 
Rev. Mr. Conklin expressed some hesitation about taking the platform to which he was invited, in consequence of the reproofs he had received the morning previous, and which he considered unjust. He called the speakers intemperate and rash, and yet, he said, he always attended these Conventions with joy, as a sort of whirlwind coming down upon the morbid and corrupt influences around him. Like President Humphrey, he thanked God for rash men. He had great confidence in truth, even though it did not travel in the channels that he had chiseled out. If it was in favor of liberty, he would commend it, let it come from where it would. He thought if we would abstain from denunciations of the Church and of parties, and appeal simply to the consciences of the people, we should sooner succeed in breaking down this iniquity among us. He said he hailed in the ranks of this organization many of the truest hearts that beat for the slave. He testified to the honesty and faithfulness of Mr. Garrison and the Liberator, though he did not agree with all the measures advocated therein.  He disclaimed all bitterness or unkindness, and said he intended to carry away with him all the good he could get. He bade us go on, and again declared his constant remembrance of the cause of freedom. 
C.C. Burleigh followed with a complete and unanswerable refutation of Mr. Conklin's complaints, showing the philosophy, the wisdom, and the good results of our method of personal criticism.
At the conclusion of Mr. Burleigh's address, the Convention adjourned until afternoon.
AFTERNOON SESSION. At half past two o'clock, the Convention was called to order by the President Mr. May took the platform, and spoke concerning the R.I. Consociation. He accepted the correction in regard to the action of that body, made by the Rev. Samuel Wolcott during the session of the previous morning. He expressed a strong desire that justice should be done the Consociation, and said that he must consider it liable to the charge of hypocrisy, from its having fellowshipped such persons as the Rev. Dr. Rice, of Missouri, and Rev. Mr. Poore, of New Jersey, although professing an anti-slavery spirit,. He mentioned with satisfaction the action of the Rev. R. H. Conklin, who left the Consociation when it was proposed to partake of the sacrament at the hands of those men, representatives, as they were, of two of the most pro-slavery bodies in the land.
The Convention then had the pleasure of listening to Wendell Phillips. Having learned that clergymen had appeared in the Convention and defended their position, he desired to give them all honor for so doing, and recognized it as a great advance from their general condition of servility. In regard to the Consociation, whether the Rev. Dr. Rice and Rev. Mr. Poore were slaveholders, or not, or even  apologists for slaveholding, it is indisputable proof that the Consociation was not anti-slavery, that it was not repudiated by the churches of the South, that they did not refuse to send their delegates to it. We should, with Melancthon, exclaim, The man who is not here is a brute;' and tried by that standard, where is the Consociation? He said it was on account of the silence and neglect of the church that he felt his hands bound and his mouth gagged in the presence of the infidelity of the age. The infidels justly say, Christianity is rotten, the church is the hater and oppressor of the poor.' He declared New England preaching to have degenerated until at the present time the church is but an appendage of trade, and the sermon the Sunday's hum of machinery. This was a shameful fact, and it behooved every reformer to hold himself aloof from all such ecclesiastical organizations as those of this country evidently are. And the existing political bodies are, on many accounts, not less to be reprobated; for while the better of the twain has been doing a good work, it has, through the truckling spirit of its leaders, often swerved widely from the high course of integrity.  His remarks were very spirited, and listened to with earnest attention.
Mr. C. C. Burleigh then addressed a few remarks upon the resolution upon the Personal Liberty Bill. He eloquently set forth the justice of the demand which the colored people present, and brought forward many admissions of all classes to that effect. He clearly showed the inconsistencies of the people of the North in all their actions upon the proposed measure; and asserted that the greatest danger to the success of the bill arose from the timidity of its friends, and the infidelity of Americans to the principle of justice. The remarks of Mr. B., were received with warm approbation, and at 5 o'clock the Convention adjourned to meet again at half-past 7, in Railroad Hall.
EVENING SESSION. At the appointed time the Convention assembled. Mr. C. C. Burleigh occupied the early part of the evening in an unusually interesting manner, even for that able speaker. Mr. Phillips was the next and the last speaker. He was warmly greeted as he advanced upon the platform. I regret that there is not some one more competent than myself to lay before your readers a summary of his fine speech. It was beautiful, truthful, eloquent and noble. His principal topics were the Personal Liberty Bill, the abolition of caste schools, and a consideration of the Republican party; each an important subject; and they received able treatment at his hands. I presume your readers have been or will be made aware of some local grievances which were then existing to the discomfort of the colored people, and all friends of justice. To these he applied the seething fire of his righteous invectives, and the relief was instantaneously manifest upon every countenance. No person could have listened to his manly criticisms without having his conceptions of justice quickened, and
<c05>
his hatred of oppression sharpened. Students from the University were present in considerable numbers, and the hearty approbation of the audience was frequently accorded.
At the close of Mr. Phillips's speech, the Convention adjourned sins die. Its meetings were well attended throughout. The weather was propitious until Friday evening, and then, notwithstanding the rain, quite a large audience was present. The Convention was a complete success in every respect, and was greatly enjoyed by the friends of anti-slavery. Many were rekindled in spirit by the earnest and high toned speeches, and recollections of former similar occasions were revived in many hearts long since devoted to the sacred cause of Freedom.
ELIZABETH B.CHASE, CAROLINE F. PUTNAM, .DAVID F. THORP, Secretaries.
Providence, April 29, 1859.
THE RHODE ISLAND CONVENTION.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Enclosed you will find copies of the Providence Journal, and of the Providence Post, of this date. I share the amusement they will afford you. The editor of the Journal is known to be very sensitive to ridicule, and his article shows how he has writhed under Mr. Phillips's matchless and-what is worse in the Journal's eyes-truthful sarcasm. He talk of blackguardism! As, who has used his editorial position to insult and vilify the colored children of his city and State! What depth of meanness! The Post, as usual, is vulgar; and its account of the Convention has not even the semblance of truth. What strikes us as funny is, that these papers were, both of them, very civil to the Convention, while it was in session; when fairly gone,' as the Post says, they open their hearts; and very black-looking hearts they are. Able and dignified speeches were made in the Convention,' said the Journal of Friday last; but the very same speakers were  frivolous,' blackguard,' and disgusting,' according to the Journal of Monday!
X.
The scurrilous articles referred to by X.' may be found on our first page, in the receptacle for all such pro-slavery ravings. For an answer, read the proceedings of the Convention.]-Ed. Lib.
ARNOLD BUFFUM.-We copy on our first page, from the New York Standard, an obituary notice of the late Arnold Buffum, the truthfulness of which will be recognized by many readers of THE SPY. Beside what is therein stated, respecting his early advocacy of the anti-slavery slavery cause, we may add that the first anti-slavery lecture ever given in Worcester was delivered by him in the Town Hall, we think, about the time of the organization of the Anti-Slavery Society in Boston. Several of his hearers at the time embraced his views, and have held steadfastly to them. He was a man of strong intellectual powers, of extensive general knowledge, and great conversational talent, so that he gave life, spirit, and animation to the social circle, wherever he moved.  His benevolent, kind, and genial spirit will long be remembered by a wide circle of sympathizing friends. Worcester Spy.
UNANSWERABLE ARGUMENT.-It is said that when the Washington Cabinet was about to decide in favor of the Summer street location of the Boston Post Office, Major Barret, an agent of State street, brought up the irresistible argument that if the office was not returned to its old quarters, the Fugitive Slave Law will henceforth be a dead letter in Boston! However difficult to discover the logical connection of the two propositions, the statement had the desired effect, and the Post-Office goes back for a time, provided the indemnity is paid. The logic is very much like that of the youth who told his maternal ancestor that if she did not give him a sixpence, he would go right over to Billy Smith's, and catch the measles.
FUGITIVE SLAVE EXCITEMENT.-Zanesville. (O.) May 3. A fugitive slave named Jackson, of Clarksburg, Va. was arrested here last night, and taken before Judge Marsh, who this morning decided that the prisoner was illegally held, and discharged him. He was rearrested, put in irons and driven to the depot for the purpose of taking him to Wheeling. A desperate effort was made by the negroes to rescue him, and during the excitement, clubs and pistols were freely used, and several persons were badly injured. The attempt at rescue proved unsuccessful. Meanwhile a writ was served on the Marshal, commanding him to bring the prisoner before the Court. This point has not yet been settled. The excitement in the matter still continues very great.

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Annual NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION will be held in the city of Boston, on WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, May 25th and 26th;which we earnestly hope will be attended, from every part of New England, by the old and long-tried friends of the Anti-Slavery Cause, and by those who, younger and fresher in the good work, are emphatically to be relied  upon for continuing  and upholding it to its sure and perfect triumph. 
The Convention will assemble at 10 o'clock of Wednesday, the 25th, at the MUSIC HALL, Winter Street; and the subsequent sessions, during that day and the following, will be held (probably) in MERCANTILE HALL, Summer Street. 
Friends of the Anti-Slavery movement, whatever the place of their residence, are invited to attend, and will be cordially welcomed.
Further particulars in future papers.
In behalf of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, 
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Sec.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE VIGILANCE ASSOCIATION.
MONEY NEEDED, AND AID SOLICITED.
In September, 1850, the Executive Committee addressed a circular to the churches and religious societies of New England, and also made application to  many individuals, soliciting contributions to create a fund for rendering pecuniary assistance to such fugitive slaves  as reached the Northern States in a destitute condition. These unfortunate men and women all needed food, clothing and shelter; moreover, they all needed protection, since in every part of New England, the law (as administered by the courts) was their enemy, and many individuals in every town were known to be mean and base enough to co-operate with such, a law ; some of these fugitives also needed medical aid and careful nursing ; and almost all of them needed the means of transportation to a safer place than New England. 
The amount thus raised from all these, sources was $6028, and this sum has been expended for the relief of fugitives, some in one, some in another, and some in all the above-mentioned departments. The result to be reported to the public is, that more than four hundred fugitives have been aided by their beneficence, and that the Treasurer's purse is now empty. 
Those who wish to help these poorest of the poor with money or aid of any other sort, are requested immediately to communicate with the Treasurer or some member of the Finance Committee. 
SAMUEL E. SEWALL, HENRY I. BOW DITCHBOWDITCH, JOHN A. ANDREW,ROBERT MORRIS,WENDELL PHILLIPS, Committee of Finance
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
The Ninth Anniversary of the National Woman's Rights Association will be held in MOZART HALL, Broadway, New York, on Thursday evening, May 12th, at half-past 7 o'clock.
Addresses by LUCRETIA MOTT, ERNESTINE L. ROSE, CAROLINE H. DALL, Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
A meeting for business and general discussion will be held at half-past 2, P. M., of same day, at same place.
Communications should be addressed to Susan B. Anthony., Anti-Slavery Office, No. 5 Beekman street., New York.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President. SUSAN H.B. ANTHONY, Sec'y.
PARKER PILLSBURY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will (speak at WARREN, Worcester county, on Sunday next, May 8th, afternoon and evening.
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in remedy, is which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFCLASCBOFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCEES, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC <illegible>, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA and INDIGESTION, <illegible> , ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J.C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS. 
Price, $1 per Bottle, s Six. Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may he relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Pox; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H.H.HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine everywere.6m May 7

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) term of this thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 4th, and continue ten weeks. For Circulars, containing full information, address
W.S.HAYWOOD. A.S.HAYWOOD, Principals,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., April 4, 1859.

The Boston Investigator
WILL commence its Twenty-Ninth Volume on the 27th of April, in quarto form, and, as heretofore, will be devoted to the promotion, of Universal Mental Liberty, and opposed to every form of Priestcraft and Superstition, whether under the guise of Modern Theology, or the pretensions of an ancient Divine Revelation. HORACE SEAVER, Esq. Editor. Now is the time to subscribe. Price $2.00 a year. Address J. P. MENDUM, 45 Cornhill, Boston, Mass. A8 3t

J.B.ANDREWS,
Gilder, and Picture Frame
MANUFACTORY,
No. 31/2 BEACH STREET, (Near Washington Street.) BOSTON.
PICTURE FRAMES made of every variety, plain and ornamental, for Oil Paintings, Engravings and Photographs.
Gilding, in all its branches, executed with neatness and despatch.
Oil Paintings cleaned and varnished.
Old Frames handsomely re-gilt. 28 6w6w

The Cheapest Reformatory Book
EVER ISSUED:
The Publishers of the Report of the
Rutland Convention,
Having issued another edition, in order to place it within the reach of all interested in the various Reform movements of the day, offer it for sale at greatly reduced prices, as follows:- In paper covers, 30.cts;cloth,. 50 ets. Postage, (in paper.) 6 cts.
The volume comprises nearly 200 pages, large octavo, and contains speeches by
S. B. BRITTAN, AXDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
HENRY C. WRIGHT, Rev. A. D,. MAYO,
GEORGE SENNOTT, Esq., Rev. Joel TIFFANY,
PARKER PILLSBURY, TEPHEN S. FOSTER,
Elder MILES GRANT, F. W. EVAXSEVANS,
Mrs. ERNESTINE L.ROSE, Mrs., F.D.GAGE.
Mrs. MARY F. DAVIS Mrs. ELIZA FARNHAM,
Mrs. JULIA. A. BRANCH, and many others,
UPON SUCH SUBJECTS AS
The Bible-Marriage-Slavery -<illegible>-Spiritualism- Free 
Trade-Shakerism-Education- <illegible> 
The whole forming a store-house of facts and arguments of great value and interest to every <illegible> and woman throughout the land. <illegible> of the book.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON,
April29-tf 21 Cornhill Boston
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
THE SLAVEHOLDER'S COMPALINT.
Ye, Northern men, presume to rail
At our wise Constitution,
Because it leaves a loophole for
Our Southern institution.
Ye, Abolitionists, declare
That our law sanctioned slavery  
Is blacker than all common sins;
In short, the sum of knavery.
But if, when father wanted cash,
He sold his daughter's mother, 
I his white son, for dollars may
Sell my mulatto brother.
'All men are free and equal born;
Our law says men, not cattle; 
We Southern planters all decide
A negro is a chattel.
Our fathers sent to Africa
For slaves, and had good luck too;
We are opprest, we dare not send 
For cheap slaves to Timbuctoo;
And good and happy Christians make 
Caesar, and Pomp, and Sambo, 
And keep their wives from being scared
By heathen Mumbo-Jumbo.
Once, Northern men, ye understood
You proper avocation 
Was passing laws to catch, our slaves-
Laws binding the whole nation.
But now the fashion is quite changed, 
And ye profess believing 
That catching men against their will
Is the worst kind of thieving.
But, spite of all ye say and do,
Our glorious Constitution
Protects, and ever will protect,
Our Southern institution.
Tenterden, (England.) JANE ASHBY.

MY NEGRO MAN, JOE.'
John Washington, my Jo, John,
Your slave has run away; 
Tis said he's gone to Canada,
And there he means to stay; 
Now, surely, you have lost him, John,
For there you dare not go; 
Our slaves are free in Canada,
John Washington, my Jo! 
John Washington, my Jo, John,
No doubt you feel quite bad 
To lose this polite Negro man,
This one-and-twenty lad-
Who, though he's rather dark, John,
Is not wholly black, you know; 
And surely he loves freedom well,
John Washington, my Jo!
John Washington, my Jo, John,
Your ancestor, named George, 
Gave all his negroes freedom,
And you may yet disgorge; 
Emancipate your blacks, John,
And your white slaves also, 
Then your dear soul may have some peace,
John Washington, my Jo!
John Washington, my Jo, John,
On old Virginia's soil, 
At the Mount Vernon home-stead,
Slaves of all color toil; 
Where the great George gave freedom, John,
A reward you will bestow, 
To get your Negro man in jail,
John Washington, my Jo! 
John Washington, my Jo, John,
Perhaps you'll live to see 
The Old Dominion's sable sons
Ranked soon among the free; 
And your polite man, Joe, John,
Will then be safe, you know, 
To come back again and see you,
John Washington, my Jo! 

GOD'S BLESSING ON THEM!
BY GERALD MASSEY.
God bless the brave ones! In our dearth 
Their lives shall leave a trailing glory;
And round the poor man's homely hearth 
We'll proudly tell their suffering's story.
All savior-souls have sacrificed,
With naught but noble faith for guerdon, 
And e'er the world hath crown'd the Christ, 
The man to death hath borne the burden!
The savage broke the glass that brought 
The heavens nearer, saith the legend;
Even so the bigots welcome naught
That makes our vision starrier region'd!
They lay their corner-stones in dark 
Deep waters, who up build in beauty
On earth's old heart their triumph-are 
That crowns with glory lives of duty.
And meekly still the martyrs go 
To keep with pain their solemn bridal!
And still they walk the fire who bow 
Not down to worship Custom's idol.
Take heart! the rude dust dark to-day,
Soars a new-lighted sphere to-morrow! 
And wings of splendor burst the clay 
That clasps, us in death's fruitful furrow.

TO A BEREAVED FRIEND.
BY GERALD MASSEY.
God comfort you, my friend, God comfort you! 
How mighty, how immeasurable your loss
I can but dimly know; yet I have learn'd 
That only the most precious die so soon. 
I can but stand without, and dare not thrust 
My hand betwixt the curtains of your grief; 
I cannot reach you sitting in the dark 
Of that lone desert, where the silence stuns, 
And sounds of sobbing is a kind relief. 
But I have felt the gloom that brings heaven near, 
The love whose kissings are all unreturn'd, 
And longed to lie down with the quiet dead,
And share their long sweet rest. I too have known 
This strain and crack of heart-strings, this wild whirl 
And wallow of sense in which the soul seems drown'd.
You are the husband of an angel. I 
Have two sweet babes in bliss. We are very poor 
On earth, my friend, but very rich in heaven. 
Two years ago you comforted my loss; 
One year ago I sang your wedding song; 
And now she is not! She who had only look'd 
On life through colored windows of her dreams! 
All in the soft, sweet breath of God 
The bud of her dear beauty seemed to have blown, 
Your one-year darling, who but sprang, and died, 
And left the fragrance of her memory 
A blessed memory and a blessed hope! 
She had the shy grace of a woodland flower; 
In her Love veil'd his eyes with timid wings; 
And her eyes deepened with a sadness rich,
As tho' the mountain-tops of heaven-touch'd thought 
Made mirrowed shadows in their lakes of light.

THE DEPARTED. 
Oft may the spirits of the dead descend 
To watch the silent slumbers of a friend; 
To hover round his evening-walk unseen, 
And hold sweet converse on the dusky green; 
To hail the spot where once their friendship grew, 
And Heaven and Nature opened to their view 
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE CHARGE OF CLERICAL CALUMNY REPUTED.
To THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
Your correspondent, C. K. W., having found that neither of the three alleged charges against the American Anti-Slavery Society, on the ground of which, he accused the Secretary of the Church Anti-Slavery Society with false witness and wilful calumny,' was ever either made, intended, or implied, now changes his ground, and requests the Secretary of that Society 'to show, by specification, either.
'1. That the constitutional basis of the American Anti-Slavery Society is, in any respect, other than distinctively Christian; or,
2. That the official action of that body has ever been other than distinctively Christian; or else,
'3.To retract his statement that there has not existed-before the formation of the Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States-any distinctively Christian organization against slavery.'
Now, in the first place, the Secretary of the Church Anti-Slavery Society never has affirmed or implied that the constitutional basis of the American Anti-Slavery Society was any other than Christian. On the contrary, he has maintained always, and has asserted in the late Worcester Address, that it was an outgrowth of Christianity, and essentially a religious movement. 
2. If by official action of that body,' is meant its action as a Society, then he has no desire or ability to show that the action of that Society has been in any way contrary to real Christianity. 
3. Neither can he retract the statement, that so far as his knowledge extends, until the formation of the Church Anti-Slavery Society, there has not been any distinctively Christian or Church organization against slavery. For what is plainly meant by a distinctively Christian or Church organization,' and what would be generally understood by such phraseology, but an organization distinctly originated by Christians, and distinctively (that is, according to Webster, with distinction, plainly) formed out of persons connected with the visible Church, or, in other words, an organization in the bosom of the Church, and intended and declared to be the exponent and organ of Christians, or of the Church? 
That the American Anti-Slavery Society, while it has an acknowledged basis of Christian principles, is not such, C. K. W. admits; for in his exposition of the American Anti-Slavery Society's Platform, I find it expressly said (in answer to the question, What should be the platform laid down upon which to invite every opponent of slavery to stand?)-'In the first place, it ought not to be a religious organization. 
On the other hand, the Church Anti-Slavery Society professes to be, and is labeled' as a distinctively Christian organization. It is, and it is meant to be, while catholic and liberal, a truly religious, though in no sense sectarian movement. The Preamble to its Constitution and Declaration of Principles says: 'We, a company of Ministers and Christians, of one mind and heart, as in duty bound, by our common allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ, do solemnly pledge ourselves to one another and before God, TO REMEMBER THEM THAT ARE IN BONDS AS BOUND WITH THEM, and to do all that we can for the utter destruction of that atrocious system of chattel slavery which is maintained in the United States; and as a means to that end, we hereby form ourselves into a Society, to be called The Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States. 
The first article of its Constitution reads thus:- 
'The object of this Association being to unite all Christians, on the basis of the Word of God, against slavery, and to concentrate the energies of the Christian ministry and of Christian churches upon the extinction of that great sin, the condition of membership shall be the adoption of its pledge and principles, and the payment of an annual contribution for its support.'
Four of the Principles put forth in its Declaration are as follows:-
'6. No compromise with slavery allowable, but its total extinction to be demanded at once, in the name of God, who has commanded to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke. 
'7. The total abolition of the vast system of American slavery to be accepted as the providential mission and duty of the American clergy and the American churches in this generation. 
'8. The Church and the ministry to form the conscience of the nation in respect to slavery, and to make it loyal to the Law of God, against all unjust judgments of courts, and unrighteous legislation of Congress. 
'9. The Word of God our charter to freedom and our armory against slavery, and any assertion that the Lord God sanctions slavery practical infidelity. 
In the first Address by its Secretary, under the auspices of the Executive Committee at Worcester, (not to refer to the paragraphs already quoted,) it is said, among things which show the movement to be professedly and distinctively Christian,-We are to use our own pulpits, and to procure the use of other pulpits, for the inculcation of anti-slavery truth. We are to plead for the oppressed in public prayer. We are to procure the action of churches of all denominations, and of Ministerial and Ecclesiastical bodies, in condemnation of slavery, and in rebuke of its defenders. Especially are we, in our capacity as a Society, as an exponent of the Church, to bring the Word of God to bear against slavery, and to marshal the people of God in resolute array against every phase, and feature, and fortress of the slave system. It is to evoke and concentrate the consecrated energies of the Christian Church and the Christian ministry upon the work of abolishing this great evil, that the Church Anti-Slavery Society is called into existence. 
The subjects of the late revival are appealed to distinctively as Christians, to remember them that are in bonds as bound with them, to array themselves, from the beginning of their Christian course on the side of the oppressed, and to recognize their Master where he hides himself in the person of the poor un-friended slave; and so to fulfil toward him the great duty of Christianity, that they shall hear at last from their impartial Lord-' Inasmuch as ye did it to one of the least of these my brethren, ye did it unto me.'
It is declared finally in that Address, that the consideration which, above all others, renders it necessary for the churches at the North to unite in a more positive and manifest movement against slavery than heretofore, and which influences us in this organization, is the change in the attitude toward slavery assumed of late by the Church South, as represented by its leading Divines, Assemblies, Conferences, and acknowledged organs of communication with the Christian world. 
After a thorough and minute exhibition of that change, it is said to be the great fact of this Southern apostacy that now renders necessary a positive expression from the Northern churches: And it is to advocate, and, if possible, secure such an expression, and to give to it moral weight by the union of the people of God in it of every denomination, that we have organized a Church Anti-Slavery Society, and that we now solicit every Christian opponent of slavery in the United States to join in this movement. Planted firmly on the Word of God, let us unite in condemning slavery, and in refusing fellowship to those who support and <illegible> it; and by the moral force of such a testimony, maintained in love, the abolition of slavery will be soon achieved. Let, then, Christian churches of every name solemnly enter into league and covenant against the sum of all villanies. 
Thus it will be seen that the Church Anti-Slavery
<c03>
Society is distinctively a Christian or Church organization, in the sense of being founded upon strictly Christian principles, (like the American Anti-Slavery Society,) and being also composed of Christian men distinctively, and being intended to represent Christian churches in reference to slavery. Whether it will do the latter remains to be seen. Whether the Christian ministry and membership will so for come into it as to justify the assumptions of its being the exponent or organ of the Church is yet to be proven. 
Such is the view entertained by C. K. W. of the character and relations of the visible churches of Christ in the United States, that he has no faith in their being brought, to any extent, into such an organization. He believes, with me, that Christianity is unfairly represented in the visible Church, and he believes further, if I mistake not, that the true Church is outside, rather than inside, the visible Church. That is a question which I will not argue with him here. But in answer to the question, What does H. T. C. mean by saying-But that Society has not been the representative of the Church?' I answer that he simply means to state a fact, without assuming it to be either an error or a defect. It is a simple fact, that Christian ministers and churches have not so far entered into the American Anti-Slavery Society, that it could stand as the representative of the Church. Elsewhere I have stated that with its Christian basis, and being essentially a religious movement, and founded in prayer, it ought to have been adopted and guided by the Church at the time of its formation, through the cordial cooperation and control of her representative men in the ministry. But the fact is, it has not been so, and the American Anti-Slavery Society is not therefore a representative or exponent of the American Church. Perhaps the fact will prove also to he, that the Church Anti-Slavery Society, with its acknowledged Christian basis in the Word of God, and with the acknowledged Christian character and standing of its founders and members so far, is not any more the representative or exponent of the visible American Church than the American Anti-Slavery Society is. But God may use it as a touch-stone to the churches, thereby to make visible the hostility of his real Church to slavery in all denominations, and concentrate that hostility and give it power. The great religious societies of the country and its largest ecclesiastical organizations are verily guilty before God in reference to slavery at the present time; nor can they maintain favor with the people, if they do not go practically and earnestly against this great wickedness. And the writer of this solemnly believes, if there be not a speedy change in their attitude toward the great sin of the times, then some of the dearest present organizations and agencies of the Church will be crushed under the weight of their sin of omission, and their refusing to remember them that are in bonds as bound with them.
Jewett City, Conn., April 23, 1859. H. T. C.

TRUE RELIGION. 
It has been truly said that the religious is the strongest element in man's nature. More life and treasure have been spent, and more profound intellectual research demanded and obtained, in endeavoring to propagate and substantiate certain forms of religion, or in investigation as to the real nature and character of true religion, than upon any other subject which comes within the province of intellectual research. It is likewise a fact, that there is no other subject which has obtained a tithe of the investigation bestowed upon religion, but that is infinitely better understood and more practically applied.
Every form of religious worship assumes to rest upon the character of a certain sacred book or books, each and all of which contain false and pernicious doctrines, palpable absurdities, debasing conceptions of Deity, and glaring and irreconcilable contradictions; each of which may serve as memorials of the undeveloped state of man's nature in past ages, but will hardly serve as a rule of faith and practice in the enlightened present or promising future.
The fact that we fear, to a considerable extent, that which we cannot comprehend, is the chief power by which religion and religious propagandist sway the hearts of men. Storm clouds appear blackest at a distance. Miracles and so-called supernatural phenomena, when properly understood, are the results of the action of natural law, or, as has too often been the case, unmixed jugglery. The masses, through superstitious fear, dare not subject religious frauds to the same amount of investigation which they would a mysterious matter of any other nature. Hence one important reason why we are so easily duped by religious impositions. 
Concerning the nature and attributes of Deity, fraud after fraud has been palmed upon mankind, and enforced by denunciations of the most fearful vengeance in case we refuse to accept; which denunciations increase in efficiency in exactly the same ratio as the object of them is deficient in intellect. The more mysticism, and impressive and incomprehensible ceremonials are attached to a form of religion, the firmer hold that form takes upon the hearts of its devotees. In proof of this, observe the tenacity with which the Catholics and Episcopalians adhere to their faith.
Yet, aside from this vague fear, there is a deep and strong religious sentiment implanted in the nature of man. It is natural for man to indulge in aspirations to a Supreme Being. We instinctively realize that such a being exists. There is a consciousness of the existence of Deity, a power of discrimination between right and wrong, inherent in the nature of man. Above parchment creeds,' and the teachings of ecclesiastical fathers, amidst the toil and struggle and temptation of life's battle, this still small voice' WILL be heard, telling us of the right, and admonishing us of the wrong. This is the true savior of mankind, which alone can redeem us from wrong and misdirection. 
Creeds are comparatively powerless for good. What we need is the actualization in life of the monitions of the angel nature' within. In many a creed are teachings which, if actualized in life, would go far toward saving the world; yet they are too often found side by side with those of an opposite tendency.  As we progress in true spiritual life and knowledge, we shall be able to gather the good, and reject the evil.' Theories are but the ideal, actions the real. The real cannot exist without the ideal; yet without the real, the ideal is powerless. There is more of inspiration in these four lines of Longfellow, than in many pages of the Bible, the Koran, or the Shaster:-
'Trust no future, howe'er pleasant, 
Let the dead Past bury its dead; 
Act, act with the living Present, 
Heart within and God oerhead.'
R. L. ALEXANDER.

THE RHODE ISLAND CONVENTION. 
This Convention differed from former Conventions, in that it looked more to our home relations with the slave here, and the colored race here, than at the South. The two bills before the Legislature, one for the removal of Caste Schools, and the other the Personal Liberty Bill, were the great topics, except the discussion of some ecclesiastical matters, arising from certain statements made by Mr. May. The impassioned appeals in behalf of the Southern slave, the vivid and truthful pictures of his condition, we have heard formerly, were not features of this Convention; but we seemed to be looking at the practical duty which is now pressing upon us at home. To see the President of many former Conventions in the chair was in itself a testimony. Mr. May, who always holds the truth in meekness, spoke with his wonted impressive earnestness. Our young and noble brother Heywood moved in the Convention as if he had found his natural element. The characteristic of the orato-
<c04>
ry of this promising young man is the solidity of the truth he utters. It is a square granite wall, whose foundations are laid deep as the everlasting hills. 
One of the great speeches of the Convention was from Mr. Burleigh, in reply to Mr. Conklin. Mr. C., though well disposed to the cause, stated that, owing to their reading being principally confined to anti-slavery matter, the Abolitionists were men of one idea, and had not much sympathy with other reforms. Mr. Burleigh rose, his whole soul roused, and spoke as by inspiration. I never heard words so fitly spoken, so perfect in their expression, so potent in their application, the metaphors and illustrations tearing away the cloud, and showing the whole clear empyrean behind. His words are given him from on high. He clearly proved that the anti-slavery men, instead of being men of one idea, had been severely censured as too ready to embrace every new radicalism. 
Several clergymen spoke, and I remarked the increase of their charity to the ultra type of anti-slavery. Mr. Malcolm, of Newport, who was driven from the South for not having the fear of the slaveholders before his eyes, being requested to take the platform, made a good speech. His ideas were, that when old Church and State forms ceased to sub serve the purposes of truth, they were to be borne out and buried like the dead carcass which once had life, but exists no longer; but said he knew there were in the Church seven thousand men who had not bowed their knee to the image of Baal. I would ask Mr. M. if the Church has not, as a Church, bowed her knee to the modern Baal, and if the seven thousand do not rather typify the come-outers scattered here and there, who are persecuted for not being in a Church committed to communion and unity with slaveholders and their abettors? 
In the afternoon of the second day, and more fully in the evening, we heard Wendell Phillips, whose beautiful oratory is but the outward manifestation of that grand soul offered up as a holicaust to Freedom. Here we have the living embodiment of the Grecian idea of the power, beauty and gracefulness of true manhood expressed in their Apollo. To look at such a man, to think of all he has done and suffered, to see the light that holy life has left upon him, leads us to exclaim, What a blessing he has been to the cause, and what a blessing that holy cause has been to him! Mr. Phillips's evening speech ought to have been heard by every freeman of Rhode Island. They need that its eternal truths should be engraven with the point of the diamond of his genius on the tablet of their hearts. 

ACQUITTAL OF SICKLES. The following was the closing, most extraordinary, and most reprehensible scene in the trial of Daniel E. Sickles at Washington for the murder of P. B. Key: 
The door is opened. The Deputy Marshal calls out to make room for the Jury. In they come, one by one, and proceed to take their seats in the box. There is one general movement in the court-room to get a look at their faces. All restraint is forgotten. Benches and forms and tables are mounted by the most excited or most venturesome. Here they come,' is heard hurriedly spoken on all sides. Then there is a succession of cries of Down in front, Get off the benches, Sit down, Silence in Court, Order, Order.' But it seems impossible to restore order till the Judge directs the Clerk to call the names of the Jury. The uproar instantly subsides, and as the Clerk calls the Jurors, and they severally respond, one of the officers calls out the number. When the twelfth name is called and responded to, a pin might be heard to drop in the suddenly stilled Court. 
The Jury are all standing. 
Clerk-Daniel E. Sickles, stand up and look to the Jury. 
Mr. Sickles stood up. 
Clerk-How say you, gentlemen, have you agreed to your verdict? 
Mr. Arnold-We have. 
Clerk-How say you, do you find the prisoner at the bar guilty or not guilty? Mr. Arnold-Not Guilty! 
As these words fell from the lips of the Foreman, there was one loud, wild, thrilling, tumultuous hurrah sent up by the spectators; cheer after cheer resounded in the court-room, and it was taken up by the multitude on the outside and repeated. Hats and handkerchiefs were waved, and there was one general rush toward the dock.
In the midst of the uproar, the stentorian voice of Mr. Stanton was heard addressing the Court in these words: I move that Mr. Sickles be discharged from custody. 
Marshal Seldon-Come to order, gentlemen; come to order. This is a place where there should be no noise.
No one paid any attention to the Marshal. Mr. Stanton (boiling over with excitement)-In the name of Mr. Sickles, and of his counsel, I desire to return thanks to the Jury. 
Judge Crawford (who appeared to be the only person in Court not excited)-Mr. Stanton, wait till the verdict is recorded.
Mr. Stanton-Of course, your Honor, you must excuse excitement on this occasion. 
Clerk to the Jury-Your record is, gentlemen, that you find Daniel E. Sickles Not Guilty'? The Jury nodded affirmatively. Clerk-And so say you all? 
Another affirmative nod from the Jury. 
Mr. Stanton-I now move that Mr. Sickles be discharged from custody. 
Judge Crawford-The Court so orders. Mr. Stanton (turning round)-Now go it! Judge-No noise.
The prohibition was unheeded. Mr. Sickles, amid the renewed cheers of the audience, was taken out of the dock by Capt. Wiley and Mr. Brega; the former, who is one of Mr. Sickles most devoted friends, kissed him at the moment of his deliverance, and held fast by him as they tried to make their way to the door. It was slow work, for congratulations, earnest, loud and frankly expressed, saluted Mr. Sickles at all points. Though strong emotion was exhibited in the swollen veins of his temples, his eye was calm and steady, and the effort which he manifestly made to retain calmness and composure was successful. His expression betrayed no feeling of joy, but was rather that of a man who felt conscious that he had run no risk, and that the trial through which he had passed could have had no other result.
It was some minutes before Mr. Sickles could reach the jury-box, which lay on his road to the door. The Jury evinced a desire to congratulate him, and he stepped over the forms to meet their salutations, which were heartily tendered. 
The counsel for the defence also exchanged compliments and congratulations with the jurors.
Finally, by dint of much crushing and great exertion, a passage to the door was effected, and as soon as Mr. Sickles was recognized from the outside the cheers were again taken up. 
The news ran like wildfire through the city, and from all sides, crowds were hurrying to the City Hall. The excitement was as intense as it was instantaneous. 
As Mr. Sickles stepped down the stone stairs of the City Hall, surrounded and supported by his immediate personal friends, he was enthusiastically cheered, and loud calls were made upon him for a speech. (!)
With considerable exertion, for he was fast becoming faint, he was got into one of the numerous carriages in waiting. In the same carriage were Messrs. Graham, Wiley and Brown of New York. A movement was made by the crowd to take the horses out of the carriage, and draw it themselves but the movement was detected in time, and prevented. Finally, the carriage drove away, followed by many others, and by an immense crowd.
Mr. Sickles was taken to the house of Mr. McBlair, next door to his former residence.
Messrs. Brady, Stewart and Savage were in the carriage that followed immediately after; in another, were Lieut. Maury and Messrs. Stanton, Chilton and Magruder; in another, were Mr. Sickle's father, Dr. Morehead, and Messrs. Wikoff and Brega; and following these were some dozen other carriages. 
As the cavalcade drove through the streets, it was greeted with loud and enthusiastic cheers. Thousands of people were gathered in front of Mr. McBlair's house, and continued to come and go throughout the evening. 
The counsel of Mr. Sickles to-night were complimented by a serenade, and a large crowd gathered
<c05>
in front of the National Hotel, where Messrs. Brady, Stanton, Magruder and Chilton briefly returned thanks.
The last-named gentleman requested the assemblage to forego their intention to serenade Mr. Sickles. He added that it was only necessary to say that Mr. Sickles wished to retire to rest undisturbed, and that he was sure this appeal would be respected.
Messrs. Graham and Thomas Francis Meagher were loudly called for, but were not present. 
The crowd then proceeded to serenade the Rev. Dr. Haley and the Jurors.
Nine or ten of the Jurors came to Mr. Brady's parlor in the National after all was over, and there, in the freedom of unrestrained conversation, expressed their real sentiments. One of them, Mr. McDermott, said, I want you, sir, to tell the people of New York that the citizens of Washington are not behind those of any other part of the country in devotion to the family altar.' And yet the Juror was spoken of all through the trial as one who would probably dissent from the rest.
Another of the Jurors, a young man named Knight, brought with him his fiddle, with which he had been in the habit of solacing himself and fellows during the long evenings of their seclusion, and played several airs. He, too, had been regarded with suspicion, because of certain Know-Nothing antecedents. But, says Mr. Brady, if we had known, that he played the fiddle, we might have made our minds easy, for no fiddler was ever known to find a conviction of murder. 
The foreman, Mr. Arnold, said that his only fear had been that his health might not last him throughout the trial, and that he hoped his latest posterity would honor his memory from his having served on this Jury. In fact, the sentiments of the Jury, individually expressed in this unrestrained conversation, were but a familiar and homely illustration of the opinion contained in their formal verdict of Not guilty.'
Mr. Arnold, the foreman, after an affectionate greeting with Mr. Stanton, expressed his gratification that he had lived to render such a verdict. The same juror, in congratulating Mr. Sickles, said that he hoped and believed the great God would acquit, as the Jury had done. (!) Mr. Hopkins, another of the Jury, and the wag and mimic among them, expressing himself in regard to the justification of Mr. Sickles, said he would not, for himself, have been satisfied with a Derringer or revolver, but would have brought a <illegible> to bear on the seducer. 
The emotions of the counsel, when the Jury returned their verdict, were manifested in various ways. Mr. Brady, in spite of all his experience as a criminal lawyer, became pale, nervous and agitated. 
Mr. Stanton, unable to express the emotions of his big heart, is described as having almost rivalled David when he danced before the ark of the Tabernacle. The usual stolidity of Mr. Phillips gave way, and, covering his face with his hands, he wept like a child. Messrs. Magruder, Ratcliffe and Chilton pressed forward, and greeted their liberated client. Mr. Meagher, in the exuberance of his heart, clapped people on the back, and asked if it was not glorious; Mr. Graham was passive and undemonstrative, but was one of the first to welcome back his client to freedom. The District Attorney said he thought it would be so,' and his associate, Mr. Carlisle, avoided the scene. As to the jailor, he wept deeply, and could not understand Mr. Meagher when he condoled with him on losing his tenant.
There is a general and decidedly strong feeling of satisfaction at the result of Sickles's trial. The Jury would have rendered a verdict immediately after the case was submitted to them, but for the fact that one of the number desired a short time for deliberation.
It is said that when the Jury retired, one of them withdrew into a corner, and on his knees invoked Divine guidance, got up, entered into conversation, again retired to the corner, and finally rose with his mind fully made up in favor of acquittal.

From the Manchester, [Eng.] Examiner and Times, April 7. 
LANCASHIRE REFORMERS UNION.
SPEECH OF MR. GEORGE THOMPSON.
A crowded meeting of the members of the Lancashire Reformers' Union was held last evening in the Assembly Room of the Free Trade Hall, for the purpose of hearing an address from Mr. George Thompson. Mr. George Wilson presided. Mr. S. P. Robinson opened the proceedings by reading the minutes of the last meeting of the Association, held at Newall's Buildings, on Tuesday; the resolution then agreed to, declaring that no candidate would deserve the support of the Union who did not assent to its principles, and who was not prepared to support the redistribution of seats proposed by Mr. Bright, was loudly applauded, as was also the report of the assurance given by Mr. Alderman Livsey, that Mr. Cobden was perfectly safe for Rochdale 
The Chairman then addressed the meeting. He observed that the members of the Union would shortly, in consequence of the recent act of the government, have to consider and decide the important question as to how far the organization of their Society might be made use of for promoting the object which they had in view, not only by instructing the public mind, but by aiding the return to Parliament of those candidates who represented the principles on which the Association was founded. He, for one, had always held that Association, in its corporate capacity, would act wisely in confining itself to the former object-that, namely, of promoting popular instruction on the subject of reform. (Hear, hear.) He would not, however, close his eyes to the fact, that more than one branch of the Union had expressed a contrary opinion. The question would shortly come before them for discussion, and he was confident that it would be fairly considered, and that a wise conclusion would be arrived at. Referring to Lord John Russell's late speech on Reform, Mr. Wilson said he had for years felt a great desire to see Lord J. Russell step forward, and become an efficient leader of the Liberal party in Parliament. But, considering what the measure was which that noble Lord had shadowed forth as the one which he was prepared to support, considering especially that he had announced his intention not to support, but to oppose his any measure which included vote by ballot-(hear, hear)-he thought Lord John Russell was scarcely the leader whom the true Liberal party in the House of Commons would long be content to follow. (Loud cheers.) The great object with which the Association had been formed was that of uniting the reformers of this great county in favor of the measure which had been proposed by the great leader-as he would call him-of the people of this county- Mr. Bright. (Cheers.) Since he had set before them his measure, they had seen that which had been introduced by the government, and they had heard that which had been suggested by Lord J. Russell, and he now asked them, were there any hopes-was there the bare possibility-of obtaining a just and real Reform Bill, except through Mr. Bright's instrumentality? ('No!' and loud cheers.) He was sure there was not, and therefore he called upon them most earnestly to combine to give to Mr. Bright their united and steadfast support. (Loud cheers.) Mr. Wilson concluded by introducing Mr. Thompson to the meeting.
After acknowledging the kind manner in which he had been introduced to, and received by, the meeting, and briefly referring to his past labors in various departments of the great cause of human liberty, Mr. THOMPSON proceeded to say that they had come to a crisis, and had now to decide a question which had been under consideration for at least seventy years. They had been told by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that Mr. Bright's measure wore a revolutionary aspect-(laughter:) and Mr. Bright, with that sagacity which led him, and that boldness which impelled him, at once to nail a lie like a bad shilling to the counter-(laughter) -told the Chancellor of the Exchequer at the time, that he penetrated his design, which was to imitate his own illustrious Tadpole in his own novel; and that wanting a cry, and knowing that the best means of disparaging a political opponent was to give him a bad name, he raised the cry of Conservatism forever, and down with John Bright, the revolutionist' He (Mr. T.) hoped that that insult from the Treasury bench would be resented throughout the country. (Cheers.) Referring to the measure of reform proposed by the government, he said the ten pound franchise was good, but it had been previously approved by a majority of the House of Commons, and therefore he might say to the present government, Thank you for nothing. 
Taking the measure in the abstract, and coupling with it the observations let fall by the two representatives of the government in either House, he 
<c06>
said it was a deeply-considered and deliberate betrayal of the just expectations and solemn claims of the people, of this country. (Cheers.) What had Mr. Disraeli most deprecated in his speech the other night? It was the spread of what he called democracy. He warned the gentlemen behind, and before, and around him, and all the people outside, that to follow Mr. Bright was to establish a democracy; and that a democratic House of Commons would impair the national defences, and so bring on great dangers and injuries to the State. With all the indignation (said the speaker) that an honest Englishman can feel, and is permitted in a civilized and educated assembly to express, I hurl that <illegible> in the teeth of Mr. Disraeli, and tell him that be sits in his place owing to the moderation, the reverence for law, the sacred regard to the  Constitution of this country, which alone prevents him from being cast down from power;  and tell him never again to avail himself of the privilege in Parliament to criminate men who are the muscle and life-blood of the country. (Loud cheers; to give greater effect to which, all the meeting spontaneously stood up.) Well, now, in the prospect of a general election, what, he asked, were they to do?  They had a great number of men bidding for the leadership of the reform movement. The Chairman had so ably discussed Lord John Russell's scheme, that he needed not to refer to it. They had another plan, one that required to be looked at with deep consideration, and which was entitled to it. It was the most intelligible plan that had ever been brought before them in the shape of a Reform Bill. It was not planned with any disregard of the just rights and opinions of the upper classes, nor with any overweening partiality for the establishment of more than counterbalancing power in the hands of other classes of society. It had been well submitted to the country, and had met with extensive approval. So much for the measure, (continued Mr. Thompson,) and what about the leader (Hear, hear.) Measure him. You see the daily and weekly papers; measure the leader by the amount of scurrility, and abuse, and misrepresentation, and false accusation that has been heaped upon him. (Hear, hear.) Had he been Ossa upon Pelion, he might have been overwhelmed, if he had been anybody but John Bright. Measure him by encomiums which all parties, his bitterest enemies being the judges, unite to bestow upon his intellect, upon his oratory, ay, and upon his consistency. (Cheers.) Measure him by the good that he has wrought. (Cheers.) We will not place one man before the other, but he was amongst the sons of Anak in the Anti-Corn-Law movement. He was not a whit behind the foremost champion who struggled to rescue the bread of widowed mothers from the grasp of Richmonds and Buckinghams throughout this country. (Applause.) Measure him by his means of doing good; for I agree that it is not mere mental or moral worth, or kindly disposition, that renders a man eligible pre-eminently as a leader. He went into the House of Commons, a young cotton spinner-(hear, hear)-obnoxious to the prejudices-I may say, the hatred-of that House. I have sat in that House when personal abuse has been levelled against the Anti-Corn-Law movement, which would not have been permitted by Mr. Speaker against any except these men, who were supposed to have no friends. Who bore all this with calmness and magnanimity? Who, in a few short years, compared with the experience of some statesmen, has lived down prejudice-softened down personal aspersions-where he could not win, has extorted the homage of placemen, and where he could not compel it by wisdom, has extorted it from fear? Mr. Bright. (Loud cheers.) I say it without hesitation, that going into the House of Commons with the worst reputation a man can have there-that of a platform speaker-with the super added bad name of an Anti-Corn-Law Leaguer, and a leader among the Leaguers-there is not another instance of such success in any living statesman, without lordly patronage and without favor, having nothing to guide him but his own inner bright shining light, discovering to him on every question he has ever advocated whether it has been politically right or wrong in the estimation of the people. Yes, in its principles,  in its motives, and in its aims, John Bright's political character has been like one entire and perfect chrysolite; turn it about how you will, it is still John Bright (Loud cheers.) Having spoken further of Mr. Bright's invincible intrupidity and other high qualifications as a leader, Mr. Thompson went on to say that, with so good a measure and so admirable leader, they had no need to look further; and, for himself, he promised that if his health remained as good as at present, he would advocate a measure of reform until one was obtained which, at least to a reasonable extent, satisfied the justice of the case. (Cheers.)
On the motion of the Chairman, seconded by Mr. Alderman Goadsby, a vote of thanks was accorded to Mr. Thompson for his excellent address.

THE ROVING EDITOR;
OR,
TALKS WITH SLAVES 
IN
THE SOUTHERN STATES
BY
JAMES REDPATH, (FORMERLY OF KANSAS.)
One neat vol. 12mo., 375 pages: Illustrated.
This Book is the record of Three Journeys, afoot, in the Southern States, between Washington and New <illegible>.It contains extended reports of confidential conversations with the Slaves in Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia Alabama, and Louisiana: INSIDE VIEWS of the Social System of the South, as seen, felt and described by the <illegible> themselves. It thus covers a field never hitherto entered by any other American traveler or author.
It contains, also, three original 
SKETCHES OF KANSAS LIFE.
I-THE HISTORY or THE FIRST FEMALE SLAVERY KANSAS -an unvarnished exposure of the Domestic Institution in Kansas and Missouri, with the real names and addressed of the actors in this lowly life-drama:
II.-FELONS IN FODDER-an Historical Sketch of the Federal Officeholders in Kansas; their crimes and the rewards: 
III.-SLAVEHUNTING IN KANSAS: a narration of one of the most thrilling incidents of unwritten Territorial history. 
In addition to the author's matter there are three able contributions:- 
I. SCENES IN A SLAVE PRISON: By DR. <illegible>
HOWE, of Boston: 
II. THE DEATH OF ISAAC THE INSURRECTION CHIEF OF SOUTH CAROLINA: By HON. JOHN C.
VAUGHAN, of Kansas formerly of South Carolina: 
III. LIFE IN THE DISMAL SWAMP: BY A <illegible> SLAVE; Reported by Mrs. KNOX, of Boston: and
IV. A POSTHUMOUS REPUBLICAN POEM: By the late WILLIAM NORTH, author of The Slave of the Lamp.
FROM THE PREFACE.
In this volume alone, of all American anti-slavery or other Books, the Bondman has been enabled, in his own language, (if I may employ a familiar phrase of political essayists and orators,) to define his position on the all engrossing topic of the day. Almost every body has done it. Why, then, should not he? Surely he has some interest in it, even if it be subject to the Constitution; even if his interest is unfortunately in conflict with "the sacred compromises of the Federal Compact." 
From H. R. HELPER, Esq., author of The Impending Crisis of the South. 
In The Roving Editor' Redpath has given us a very vigorous and correct sketch of society in the Slave States. On every page of the book is unmistakable evidence that the author was not content with a superficial view of Human Slavery, but that he has penetrated its very heart, and unfolded in an exceedingly interesting and graphic manner, the terrible mysteries of its wicked and desolating functions. 
AGENTS WANTED. 
A copy will be sent, post paid by mail, to any part of the United States, on receipt of ONE DOLLAR, by
JAMES REDPATH,
3 Winter Street,
BOSTON.
P. S.-REDPATH & HINTON'S HAND BOOK OF KANSAS AND THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS' GOLD REGION (pronounced by the New York, Boston, and Kansas press to be the best ever issued,) will be sent by mail, prepaid, for 85 cents, to any part of the country. It has three large and accurate maps by J. H. COLTON. 
The above works are for sale by R. F. WALICUT, 21 Cornhill. Price, one dollar. Forwarded by mail to any part of the country for $1, and six <illegible> cent postage stamps. A28 6t
