THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements on resonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, <illegible>, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debt of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. No42. BOSTON, FRIDAY October 14, 1864 WHOLE NO.1758.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
OLD ABE.
Old Abraham,my jolly old Abe,
When we were first acquaint,
I thought you were an honest man,
But nothing of a saint;
But since you wore the Spanish cloak,
You love the negro so,
And hate the white man,so you do,
My jolly old Abe,my Jo.
Old Abraham,my jolly old Abe,
What do you really mean?
Your negro proclamation is 
A wild fanatic's dream!
The war you did begin,old Abe,
And that you surely know,
You should have made a compromise,
My jolly old Abe,my Jo.
Old Abraham,my jolly old Abe,
Your darkey plan has failed;
Ere this you know that cruel war
And taxes you've entailed.
In this unhappy land,old Abe,
Are weeping,wail and woe,
That you can't cure,nor we endure,
My jolly old Abe,my Jo.
Old Abraham,my jolly old Abe,
The blindest man can see
The Union you will not restore 
Till every negro's tree,
And,equal with the best of men,
In arm and arm can go,
To vote as you may wish him to,
My jolly old Abe,my Jo.
Linden Laurie.
THE WAY THE CAT JUMPS.
There is no mistaking the indications of the times. The Radical party is losing strength,and the Conservative gaining it, hourly.All the movements are toward our side. Every day brings tidings of Lincoln papers and Lincoln men coming over to the McClellan standard.The number of original Lincolnites—those who worked hard for him during the campaign of '60—stampending to the conservative ranks, is remarkable. Hundreds of prominent men could be named. The papers,particularly the German journals,which have hauled down the Lincoln flag,and run up McClellan's constitutional Union Jack,may be counted by scores. And against all these changes the Radicals cannot offset a single instance of a McClellan paper,or a McClellan man, turning to Lincoln.The conversions are not that way-and cannot be, in the nature of things. You might as well expect a Christian to turn Hindoo.
The march of progress is not backward.It is Lincoln,not McClellan. that the country is getting sicker of day by day.The people have no reason to be dissatisfied with McClellan.So far from that, they have every reason to be more and more satisfied with him, as time proves the wisdom of his military plans and vindicates the broad statesmanship of his views upon the great questions that are now distracting the country. But every day and every hour demonstrate only the more clearly the incapacity of Mr.Lincoln to extricate the nation from the terrible dangers into which his administration has plunged it. Every day and every hour are steadily and rapidly swelling the torrents of blood that are poured out in defence of that policy;and are adding millions upon millions to the national debt, already mountain high. The more these facts are looked at and dwelt upon, the more powerful appear the reasons to every frank,disinterested person for desiring a change. Such a change is offered by the election of McClellan. It cannot possibly make things worse than they are,and may and, for our part, we feel sure that it will-make things infinitely better. Thousands of men are leaving the Radical party, because they have found it out, and because of its hollowness and hypocrisy. Thousands of others are leaving it, not exactly because they have found it out., but on the general principle that human nature sooner or later tires of one kind of diet,and craves a change. These are some of the reasons why the Radical party is disintegraing, and the Conservative party building up accretions from its debris.
Mr.Lincoln's prospects were far better a month ago than they are to-day. They are better to-day than they will be a week from to-day; and they will be getting worse and worse every day thence onward.Mr.Lincoln has passed his perihelion,and is now traveling comet-like towards the other end of his <illegible> orbit. He will reach it and be out of sight by the first Tuesday of November. But, as Mr.Lincoln recedes from the sky,Gen. McClellan comes into it with a larger orb and a fuller radiance. McClellan rounded his aphelion when he wrote his letter of acceptance; and every minute has been bringing him, with increased velocity,towards the centre of our political system; and his arrival there at the appionted time may be set down as positively as anything in the almanac. He passed Mr.Lincoln, going the other way,some weeks ago.-N.Y.Journal of Commerce.
SPEECH OF HON. ROBT.C.WINTHROP,
Delivered at the McClellan-Copperhead Ratification Meeting held in Union Square, New York,on Saturday Evening,September 17,1864:—
I thank you, fellow-citizens,for this kindly and fattering reception.You know me, men of New York, if I may presume to imagine that you know,me as a member of the whig party of the Union.I could not refuse the invitation of your committee to be here to-night,if for nothing else than to witness this grand demonstration.(Applause) I was promised that this would be the largest meeting ever held in the city of New York. You are assembled,my friends,in Union Square,and I am glad to be assured that you all intend to stand square on the platform of the Union.(Applause and laughter) You are assembled on the anniversary of the day the Constitution received the attesting signature of its framers,and I rejoice to be assured that you will receive to uphold the authority and to vindicate the supremacy of that Constitution.(Applause.) You are assembled,too,on the anniversary of the day on which our noble candidate himself completed his great work of rescuing the capital of the country from the Confederate hosts,by the splendid victory of Antietam.(Loud applause.) You have not forgotten -I am sure no man can have forgotten-those early days of September, 1861,when the fate of our republic seemed trembling in the scales,and when every man's heart was failing him fear,and when our young and noble candidate,forgetting the unmerited indignities to which he had just been subjected,and remembering nothing but the danger of his country and his own determination to stand or fall with its flag,gathered up the fragments of his brave but broken army,reorganized those scattered battalions,as if by the waving of a magician's wand,
<c02>
and drove back the invaders of Washington and of the Administration. (Great applause.) Who of us will not accept the omen that it might have been reserved for him to rescue not only the capital  on that day, but to rescue the whole country at the present time? (Applause" He will.") You have not forgotten that this was General McClellan's last military service, and that a few weeks after this he was dismissed from the army. But, thank heaven, the day is at length at hand when the people of the United States have the constitutional opportunity and the constitutional right to revise and reverse the decrees of the Administration.
Young men of New York and of the nation, it is you especially who ought to see that this great work is accomplished. Our candidate is especially a young man's candidate. It may well be the pride of "Young America" to see that he has not only fair play and a generous support, but that he has an opportunity of showing what the young men are able to do, and are destined to do, in the high civil places of the land, as well as upon the field of battle. This campaign, however, is not so much a personal contest as between Mr. Lincoln and General McClellan; it is a question as to the nation's welfare and the nation's life. For myself, I cannot repress the conviction that the best interests of our country, that the best hopes of restoring the American nation, originally and methodically, demand a change of Administration at the approaching Presidential election. (Great applause.) I cannot repress the conviction, the deep, earnest apprehension that, if the policy which has been adopted and pursued by President Lincoln and his advisers throughout the last two years shall be pursued four years more-that we shall be irretrievably plunged into the fathomless abyss of disunion. (Applause.) The policy lately, I think, has been more to destroy the Union than to build it up; schemes of philanthropy on the one side, and of subjugation on the other, have occupied the minds of men. The great, leading, constitutional idea of restoration seems to have been lost sight of, and we have been treated to a hundred various projects of "reconstruction." Opinions like those emanating from men whom we suppose to be loyal, in power, strike us more forcibly than if they came from rebels. There are no terms of denunciation or condemnation which, in my judgment, it does not deserve; and if it would do any good to spend the night in railing at the rebellion, or in railing at the force of the rebellion, if it would be anything better than "baying yonder moon," I would join with you in the denunciation until that moon will set and rise again. (Applause.) But you remember how all, four years ago, rose up, without any reference to party, and did all they could to support the Administration. But no considerations of patriotism, my friends, no considerations of loyalty, call upon us to go further while supporting the Administration. We will support the powers that be as long as their term shall last, not as approving their policy but as recognizing the legitimate position of the authority of the government. But no considerations of patriotism, no considerations of loyalty can call upon us to prolong the supremacy of a party whose part it has so eminently been to destroy every spark of the Union sentiment in the Southern breast, to implant in its stead a dogged, desperate determination never to be reconciled-never to submit or yield-never to come again under rulers whom they have learned to hate. No considerations of loyalty, I say, can call upon us to prolong-the existence or renew the term of an Administration whose peculiar policy, by exciting this spirit of hatred and desperation, has rendered the victories of our armies a hundred fold more to be achieved, and has robbed them of almost all their legitimate results after they have been achieved. (Applause.) For, my friends, there are no victories which ever cost so much, or come to so little, as those which are extorted from a foe who has been goaded and maddened into desperation. This goading and maddening process will serve very well to increase the sport of a bull fight, but it has at least cost us one Bull Run, (laughter,) and it is never destined, in my judgment, to secure those victories which are to be followed by peace and union. (Applause.)
My friends, I would not be understood to cast any imputations upon the patriotism of President Lincoln, or anybody else; I am not here for that purpose. I have no doubt that he honestly desires to save the country. How can he help it? How can any man doubt that President Lincoln should desire to write his name upon the roll of history as the restorer of the American Union? It is a title which might satisfy the most exalted ambition. But I fear that he has become so entangled by his own proclamations and admissions and pledges upon the subject of slavery, that he is incapacitated for bringing about any early or successful conclusion of this terrible struggle. He has weaved for himself a gordian knot which he cannot untie, and which the truest and sharpest swords which we can employ have not yet been able to cut asunder. Why, who has-has anybody-forgotten that recent notification,.that extraordinary manifesto, "To whom it may concern," (laughter,) which he published so recently in answer to propositions for peace, and in which he was obliged, according to these proclamation pledges, to insert a condition which discomfited even his best friends, and rendered hopeless every proposition or effort upon the subject.
My friends, we need new counsels, we need new counsellors, we need a change of policy, we need a return to that constitutional policy under which the North was originally rallied for the suppression of this rebellion-the policy which, as you all remember, was embodied in that glorious resolution which was adopted in the Senate of the United States on the fourth of July, 1861, upon the motion of my ever honored and lamented friend, Mr. Crittenden, of Kentucky-a State which I am rejoiced to see is represented on the platform at this moment-which was almost unanimously adopted. You remember that resolution; it embodied the simple straightforward policy, the constitutional policy, of going for the restoration of the Union without any view of subjugation or conquest, without any view of extermination or proscription; it had the one single view of restoring the authority of the Constitution and restoring the union of the States. That was the policy, my friends, which would have divided the South; it was the policy which ought to have satisfied and united the North. Let me rather say that it was the policy, and it is still the policy, which, pursued under the lead of men against whom the whole heart of the South has not been inflamed, embittered and poisoned, under the lead of men who are not ashamed to avow their readiness for reconciliation, that highest ornament of the Christian character, without which we cannot hope for the blessing of God upon our arms-this is the policy which, thus pursued, will still, I honestly believe, restore the union of the States, and present our flag and our country once more in the face of all the world, with a star for every State, and a State for every star. Oh, what a glorious day that will be for us and all mankind! I confess that if to pant for it, to yearn for it, to subject one's self to the imputation of being a peace man is crime, I am
<c03>
the guiltiest man alive. (Applause.) How can we better advance the interests of that policy than by promoting the election of the man who is the very personification of it? (Applause-" We'll do it.") That is the policy which your own McClellan has enforced and illustrated better than anybody else could do for him in his noble despatch from Harrison's Landing, in his brilliant oration at West Point, and more than all in his admirable letter accepting the nomination for the Presidency. Those are the platforms for all time. Why, fellow-citizens, if any-body is disposed to cavil with you about your platform, tell them that General McClellan has made his own platform, and that it is broad enough and comprehensive enough for every patriot in the land to stand upon. (Applause.)Tell them, those cavillers, too, that you would as soon think of holding General McClellan responsible for not having taken Richmond when he was so rashly interfered with and so cruelly stripped of his troops, as you would think of holding him responsible for any equivocal words of Chicago conventions, or of any other conventions under the sun. Tell them, too, that you would as soon imagine that the brave Army of the Potomac would have been frightened from following him by the Quaker guns along the roadside, as that any of the honest supporters of McClellan for the Presidency should be scared from their position by any paper bullets of the brain which might have been concocted in the midnight session of a resolution committee during the hurly burly of the presidential nomination. (Great applause.) Tell them that General McClellan has made, his own platform, and that we all recognize it, and it ought to be satisfactory to everybody. That admirable letter of acceptance, above all things, ought to be hailed with delight and with gratitude even by those who are too far committed to other parties to give it their support. That letter alone is worth an army with banners to the cause of the nation. It has the true clarion ring to rally a nation to the rescue. It speaks in trumpet tones to all our deluded brethren at the South, and tells them that there never was a dream of ceasing hostilities on any other basis than that of Union (applause), while, at the same time, it opens wide to them a door of reconciliation and peace whenever they shall manifest their willingness to return to their allegiance to the Constitution and the laws. Why, it has torn the flag of the revilers of General McClellan as handsomely as Sherman himself has torn the flag of Hood at Atlanta. (Laughter.) It has destroyed every pretence for those unjust insinuations, those sweeping and abominable insinuations against the opponents of this administration,.which have fallen from so many partisan tongues. It has destroyed every pretext for the idea that there is any party at the North ready for an ignominious abandonment of the cause in which we are engaged, or ready to entertain any propositions which are incompatible with the Constitution and the Union. The Union, the Union at all hazards! ("That's the talk.") It is distinctly the import of the letter of acceptance of the 8th of September of George B. McClellan. The Union, in any event, was the import of the Farewell Address of George Washington. (Applause.) "The Union, it must be preserved," is distinctly the maxim of McClellan in 1864, as it was the maxim of Andrew Jackson in 1832. (Applause.) A Democratic President saved the country then, and I believe a Democratic President can save the country now. (Applause.) Let us then, my friends, rally round his great principle of unconditional unionism which belonged to Washington, Jackson, and McClellan, alike. Let us follow the flag, the whole flag, and nothing but the flag. (Applause.) Let us vindicate the rights of free opinion, free speech, a free press, and of free elections, even in a time of civil war. Let us show to all the world that we are still, and always mean to be a free people. Let us bring no railing accusations against the patriotism of others, and let us treat all accusations against our own patriotism with the contempt and the scorn which they deserve. And let us now and always, as we throw forth McClellan banners to the breeze, let our word now and always be, to friend and foe alike, those words which I rejoice to have seen emblazoned upon so many banners and mottoes and platforms upon this occasion—" The Union; it is our only condition of peace; we ask no more, but the Union must be preserved at all hazards."
Mr. Winthrop resumed his seat amid tremendous applause.
Selections. 
UNION MASS-MEETING IN BROOKLYN,N.T.Y.
One of the largest meetings ever held in Brooklyn, N. Y. on the evening of the 22d ult., crowded every corner of the Brooklyn Academy of Music with beautiful women and intelligent citizens. 
The Hon. HENRY WILSON, of Massachusetts, was the first speaker. He said:—
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:—
I am sure you came here to-night not for mere partisan purposes. If there ever was a time when the injunction of Daniel Webster should be accepted by every loyal American heart, that our object should be our country, our whole country, and nothing but our country, this is the day. (Cheers.) I come not here to defend the Republican party in the United States. That party is now administering the government of our country. It has its faults; it has made its mistakes. But they are the mistakes of the head, and not of the heart. (Cheers.) That party was brought into being to resist the aggressive slaveholding policy of the land barons of the South. It represents to-day the cause of human liberty on the North American continent. (Cheers.) It represents the spirit of American nationality. It has never fired upon the flag of our country, and never murdered one of its defenders. (Cheers.) With it is every noble sentiment of the human soul; with it and behind it are the prayers and the blessings of all the champions of human liberty throughout the world. John Bright, the champion of human liberty (cheers) in our fatherland, is with and for this administration of our government and of our country in its trial. Garibaldi speaks for us, thinks for us, feels for us. And against us is every traitor on this continent, and every Rebel sympathizer; against us are all the champions of privileged rights throughout the world. We stand to-day maintaining the nationality of the country and the liberties of the human race.(Cheers.) For forty odd months the country has been desolated by civil war. To-night our brothers are down on the banks of the Mississippi, on the shores of the Bay of Mobile, on the shores of Carolina, or with Grant round Richmond (cheers,) with Sherman at Atlanta, (cheers,) and marching with Sheridan out of the Shenandoab Valley. (Cheers.) They are following their worn and faded banner, ready at the tap of the drum to hurl themselves upon the rebel legions for the salvation of our periled country. It is our duty to see to it that there
<c04>
shall be no firing upon their rear. (Cheers.) They will take care of the enemies of the country in front; we will take care of the enemies of the country in their rear. (Cheers.)
SPEECH OF GEN. HOOKER.
At this point, the audience caught sight of the soldier-like form of "Fighting" Joe Hooker, when a scene occurred transcending anything ever witnessed hereabouts in the way of a reception. The whole audience sprang to their feet, cheer rose upon cheer, of the magnetic, electrical kind, that thrills along the nerves; ladies waved their handkerchiefs, gentlemen swung their hats, Gen. Hooker bowing his acknowledgments, and, for a moment, seeming almost overcome by the demonstration. When the applause had somewhat abated, Gen. Hooker stepped forward, in answer to loud calls, and said:
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I need not tell you that I am totally unprepared for this. I cannot and I do not take this demonstration or any part of it to myself. I am not worthy of this reception. ("Yes you are;" and cheers.) I am nomore worthy of it than you. We are all here in the same boat; you have been working in one place, and I have been working in another. (Cheers.) Your victories are as dear to us in the front as the victories in the front are dear to you. The victories of the last Fall, I speak with a full knowledge, were hailed with as much joy and enthusiasm in the army as though they had been achieved by the army I belong to. The victory of Ohio we felt, and I hope we may feel many more; and I do not doubt that next November we shall taste of one to which this rebellion has furnished no parallel. I need not tell you that I am rejoiced to find such an assemblage here to-night, and it shows that it is all right with our cause and our country. (Cheers.) No misfortune can befall us when our people are animated by the feeling which is evinced here to-night. If the war has been prolonged, it has not been from our weakness, but from our consciousness of strength. We have not put forward all our energies and resources, although we have shown and we have employed resources which have amazed the world. But in the North, the North has not yet made that one great effort to crush this revolt by a blow-it could do it and can do it any day when it moves for that purpose. (Cheers.) The people in these loyal States, and I am proud to say it, the people have been in advance of the authorities in all of this rebellion, (cheers,) and they will be until they reach the end, and the end is not remote. (Cheers.) I am rejoiced to meet you, and to meet you under such auspices as 1 do to-night. Tidings, glorious tidings reach us from all of the armies; the work goes bravely on. There are no Copperheads (great cheers)— there are no Copperheads in the army. (Cheers.) They will fight well, and they will vote well. (Cheers.) More devotion, more loyalty, never, never animated the hearts and the hands of men more brave.
I thank you most sincerely for the kindness with which you have received me to-night. I am unworthy of it. (No! no!) I believe in the humble capacity in which I have been placed, I have never failed to do my duty, (cheers and "That's so!") and I don't intend to now. I wish you all good night.
The General then retired amid loud and prolonged cheering.
CONCLUSION OF SENATOR WILSON'S SPEECH.
After Gen. Hooker had retired, Mr. Wilson again arose and continued his address. He said, referring to this most agreeable interruption, "I want you, gentlemen, when you go home to-night, to remember that of the Democratic party that voted against Abraham Lincoln four years ago there are tens and hundreds of thousands like fighting Joe Hooker. The Democratic party of to-day and the Democratic party of four years ago, is divided into four marked and distinct parties. One section of that party is represented by such men as Benjamin F. Butler (cheers), who hung up in New Orleans the traitor that tore down the flag of our country, like a dog. Another representative is your own Daniel S. Dickinson, and the brilliant and philosophic Bancroft; our Lieut. Gen. Grant; Gen. Sherman; Gen. Logan. I do not know what Sheridan is, but I know he has made a great speech this week against the Chicago platform (cheers)- these men speak for the country, fight for the country, and vote for the Administration. (Cheers.) Then we have another section of this party which asks us to put the Government into their hands, and that is the unconditional peace section (hisses) represented by such a man as Fernando Wood, (hisses) by Vallandigham, the great martyr, (hisses,) by George H. Pendleton, who never voted for the country, (hisses,) by Long and Harris, who, on the floor of Congress, thanked God we had not conquered the Southern people, and could not do it. Then there is another section to which Seymour belongs, (hisses)- a set of waiters upon Providence, men who are governed by events; for the country a little to-day, and against the country a great deal to-morrow; a little war and a great deal of peace. Horatio Seymour is one of the chief leaders of that section of the Democratic party. There is another section for whom I entertain a great deal of kind feeling. They are patriotic men; they are for the country-they have given their money to the country-they want the country to succeed; but they are wedded to the Democratic name, and they are exceedingly alarmed about the proclamation of emancipation. Now among that class of men our friends have a grand missionary field, and I hope they will use it and improve it. The Democratic party, as such, will you surrender the government into their hands? ("Never!") They went up to Chicago the other day, and they went, as we all know, by the way of Niagara Falls, (langhter,) and these Democrats held a consultation with Jeff Davis's agents at Niagara Falls, and agreed upon the platform; and the Richmond papers, on the 3d of September, published what the platform was to be as agreed upon. They went to Chicago with the platform, and proclaimed it there, and we now have the Niagara-Chicago platform. (Laughter.) They sent their platform to the country. They started from Chicago with the idea that they were to march right straight over this country to victory. They had hardly left that city before they began to feel the cold and chilling breezes of the people. No sooner was that platform telegraphed over the country, than the people rose in the majesty of their power, just as they rose when the echoes of the cannon of Sumter went over the land. (Cheers.) We were gloomy before that Convention, as we were before the firing upon Sumter. But the moment it was proclaimed that hostilities must close, that our brave soldiers must turn their backs on the enemies of the country, then the instinctive patriotism of the American people brought all patriots to their feet. (Cheers.) And I tell you to-night this Presidential battle is already <illeligibel> (Cheers.) Abraham Lincoln (cheers) will receive the votes of more than twenty States of this Union, and more than three hundred thousand popular majority; and I want you to take home this prediction with you, and re-
<c05>
member it after the 8th of November next Gentlemen, this Niagara-Chicago Platform, this Platform inspired by Jeff. Davis's agents (hisses) is before this country. They have put their candidate upon it. Is there a man here to-night who can tell us whether McClellan is on the Platform? (A voice, "The Platform is on him." Laughter.) Whether he stands upon the Platform, spits upon it, clings to it, lies round it loose? (Laughter.) Not a man of you can tell us that. But I heard a man say in the audience that the Platform is upon him. (Renewed laughter.) Well now, gentlemen, the very men who made the Platform, two weeks after they made it, go up and down the country disowning the work of their own hands. They dare not stand up before the country, and plant themselves fairly upon their own declarations. Ralph Waldo Emerson tells us the weight of a sentence depends on whether there is a man behind it. 
The value of a platform depends whether honest, patriotic, upright men are behind it. And I know tricksters made this platform and are behind it. I do not care anything about their platform. I have not a word here to say to-night about their candidate. I know Gen. McClellan and Geo. H.Pendleton. They are men of fair abilities and personal character. I do not wish to spend a moment, and do not intend to do it, talking about them. They are of no earthly account before the American nation to-day. (Cheers.) And, gentlemen, I am not here to-night to speak about the President of the United States in terms of eulogy. I merely wish to say that I know him well. I know him to be true and patriotic, devoting night and day to the service of the country. (Cheers.) I am willing to trust the Government in his hands. (Cheers.) And I believe him stronger among the American people to-day, including our gallant armies, by a quarter of a million of voters, than any man who ever voted for him. (Cheers.) Now, gentlemen, I say I care nothing about the nominees nor their platform. But I look to the platform builders. They cannot get away from themselves. They may disown their own platform, they may disown their own candidates, but they cannot get away from their own record. That is secure. We know who these men are. We know how they have borne themselves during the last five or six years of trial and trouble, and we will not trust the government of this country for evermore in their hands. (Cheers.) Therefore, knowing who built the Niagara-Chicago platform and what their purposes are,we choose to stand by the administration of Abraham Lincoln; we choose to stand by the men of the country who have written their names in letters that will not die, in favor of maintaining the unity of the Republic and the cause of equal and impartial history. (Cheers.)
REV.J. MANNING ON THE WAR.
At a flag-raising in Ward 9, Boston, on Monday evening, Rev. Jacob M. Manning of the Old South Church, and formerly Chaplain of the 43d regiment, addressed the assembly in the following stirring words, as reported in the Daily Advertiser:- Mr. Chairman: I shall make you a very short speech to-night. This is not a time for talking, except such speech as leads to action. My friend, Mr. Stevenson, who asked me to say a word here to-night, took pains to tell me that the coming election is far above any mere issue of mere party politics. Perhaps he thought me one of those respectable republican clergymen, who never mix themselves up in politics. However that may be, let me remind you that it has fallen to my lot to minister in an old building that is called the sanctuary of freedom; and while God keeps me, so far as my influence goes, that sanctuary shall not belie its name. [Applause.]
I rejoice, Mr.President, that you have thrown the stars and stripes out in Ward Nine with the motto-"Lincoln and Johnson" [applause]; it is in that sign and in no other that we shall conquer [applause]; and not until we conquer, both at the polls and in the field, shall we have a peace that will be honorable and permanent.
This is our flag; it is not the flag of the Chicago Convention [voices-No, no]; it is not the rattlesnake flag of open rebellion, nor the snake-in-the grass flag of McClellan's letter [applause]; it is the flag that now waves in triumph over the forts in Mobile harbor; it is the flag that has moved triumphantly from Chattanooga-to Atlanta [applause]; it is the flag that is now flashing and flaming down the Shenandoah. [Applause.]
Gentlemen, let me tell you what I conceive to be the grand mistake of the opposition. They do not comprehend the fact that this government is putting down a rebellion, and they fall on that fact and are broken: that fact, like a rock cut out of the mountains, falls on them,and it grinds them to powder. [Applause.] It is not the talkers at home,"but the fighters at the front, who uphold that flag, that constitute practically to-day the American nation. [Applause.]
The copperhead party, my friends, is a sore head party; they shriek Union at all hazards, which means "Polly wants a cracker." [Applause.] Gentlemen, McClellan did not quite surrender up our country as the commander of the American forces, and I don't believe he will as the leader of the bogus democracy. [Applause.] He cautions passengers not to stand upon the platform, but the passengers must go where the train goes, and we know where that is. [Applause.] He knew what the platform of the Chicago Convention would be, in substance before the delegates assembled at Chicago. His letter of acceptance is an electioneering document, written because it was made necessary by the fall of Atlanta, and written at the dictation of his party. No matter what a man tells us when he is in the rapids of Niagara; we know where he is going- down, where the party is going in November, [applause,] and in the mist that rises out of the abyss that engulfs both him and his party, every patriot will behold a bright bow of promise.
Gentlemen, for three years and a half you have been watching our soldiers, you have criticised their movements, you have denounced cowardice and unfaithfulness which may have been exhibited, you have been disheartened by their defeats, and you have been gladdened by their victories. Now it is their turn; they are watching you; they are looking to see if you have patriotism and manhood enough to meet the issue which is now before you. They are looking to see whether they shall be encouraged by the triumph of Union votes, or whether they shall be disheartened and have their arms paralyzed by recreancy and failure. Let us show them, Mr. President and fellow-citizens of Ward Nine, that we are equal to the grand occasion; let us show them that we mean to write one more name on our country's victorious banner, so that it shall read, Mobile, Atlanta, the Shenandoah Valley, and the Eighth of November. [Applause.]
Then, if not before, Richmond is ours, and the Southern Confederacy an exploded bubble. [Applause.]
<c06>
LETTER FROM GEN. BUTLER.
THE MILITARY AND POLITICAL CAMPAIGN-A WORD TO LOYAL DEMOCRATS.
"HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA, IN THE FIELD,September 26,1864
MY DEAR CAMERON-You will deem me a most remiss correspondent. If you had been enabled to come here, you would have found much of interest in answer to the question: What of the rebellion from your point of view?
We have been lying in front of Lee's army now for four months, which have been by no means spent in vain. From the examination of thousands of prisoners and deserters, and articles in Southern newspapers, I am certain that these have been months of depletion to the Southern army; that the whole arms-bearing population of the States within the rebel lines have been exhausted in the effort to recruit their forces; and the capability, if not the will, to resistance is fast dwindling away.
The Confederate Congress, in December last, passed an act, the first section of which is in these words: 
"The Congress of the Confederate States do enact that all white residents of the Confederate States between the ages of seventeen and fifty are in the service of the Confederate States."
The act then provides how farmers, mechanics and others may be detailed by military authority to raise the provisions and do the work for the army in the field.
What would our Democratic friends, who are so blatant over "Lincoln's tyranny," say to such a draft as that on our side? I would like to see Governor Seymour s mild protest against it. I would not like to hear Voorhees' denunciations of it, for they would be vulgar.
Now, when I read in the Richmond papers clamorous calls that the detailed men shall be all put into the ranks, how can I doubt the united testimony of deserters and prisoners, that the rebel means as to men are at an end?
Never having been a convert to the theory, that the provisions at the South would be readily exhausted, I have not placed much reliance upon that result. Yet it is certain that the means of transporting those provisions from point to point by rail have given out, and the railroads are becoming so crippled in their equipment, that it is impossible for them  to furnish the movement of men and supplies necessary to the extensive military operations required to meet our forces.
Add to this the concurrent testimony of prisoners, deserters and refugees, that the rank and file of their armies are in the confident expectation and belief in the promise of their leaders that this will be their last campaign; that the nominees of the Chicago Convention will be elected in November; and that the independence of the Confederate States will be acknowledged, and a treaty of peace be concluded; and you have an imperfect synoposis of the reasons why I believe the rebellion near its end.
It will be for the loyal men of the North to see to it that their treason does not end in the way proposed by the Southern leaders, aided by the election of General McClellan and the Chicago platform.
Here is the only danger, if danger exists at all. Therefore, whatever may have been or may be the preferences of any man as to any person for the chief executive of the nation, or dissatisfaction with the course of the government upon matters of mere administration-yea, even in the important points of administrative policy, as laid down in the platform or foreshadowed in its acts-it seems to me the plain duty of every loyal man to support the election of Lincoln and Johnson. 
The question now before the people is not as to the preponderance or fitness of Mr. Lincoln or General McClellan for the Presidency. Admit that neither or either one or the other is of himself the best man for the place. What then? One must be elected. No other result is possible. We are then remitted to the class of political ideas which each represents; and to what is still more important, to the men and their affiliations by whom each will be surrounded, and controlled, in fact, and by whom his administration will be shaped in the event of election. Can it be that any true man, especially any Andrew Jackson Democrat, can desire this government put into the hands of the Messrs. Vallandigham, Woods, Seymour, Pendleton, Long, Harris, Voorhees, and their surroundings, North and South? Let us see what their platform and their candidates mean:The war is to be carried on, or it is not; if not; then a disgraceful and dishonorable peace, which will be no peace,and which no true man wants, is to be the result. Or, if carried on, then both platform and candidates are pledged to the disbandment of two hundred thousand colored men, now doing duty as soldiers or serving the army, their places to be supplied either by volunteers, at an expense of hundreds of millions in bounties, or by a draft, which is the great ground of complaint by the opponents of the government.
Nay, more, if either the Chicago platform or McClellan's acceptance means anything, these negroes are to be returned to their masters, to fight or labor on the other side. Does any one doubt, if returned to their masters, they would be at once sent into the rebel lines, where alone such property has any real value?  Upon the theory of the Chicago platform and McClellan's "Constitutional rights of States," I think it would "exhaust the resources of statesmanship" to show why these men should not be returned to their former masters, as, indeed, was the practice in McClellan's army. 
Still further,does not General McClellan twice over in his letter and platform promise new constitutional guarantees to the rights of the South?
Is it possible that all these concessions are to be forced from the North by secession and at the point of the bayonet?
That which specially affects the mind of the old and true Democracy of the country in the Baltimore platform is its declaration as to slavery. In the view I take of this question, it seems unfortunate that such a declaration was made, as it proves a stumbling-block to many.
Why not treat the slavery question according to the fact that slavery dies and is buried wherever our armies march? No political action can aid, no resolutions of conventions can hinder that result. The war, if prosecuted to the end, will accomplish all that the most ardent anti-slavery man can desire; so that if the war goes on to the bitter end for the restoration of the Union, then slavery is no more, and all declarations that the war shall or shall not be carried on for the extinction of slavery are futile,and worse than useless. The war will extinguish slavery whether we wish it or not. Nay, it extinguishes slavery by rendering the slave worthless. In Charleston to-day, a negro can be bought for $3000 in Confederate money, which sells for $30 for one in gold, making the value of the negro $100. And this,too, with cotton at $1,75 per pound in New York. Before the war, the same negro would bring $lOOO in gold, with cotton at 12 cents in New York.
"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land,to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes,for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDERS OF THE ARMY,HAS POWER TO ORDER THEUNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or forgine, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the <illegible> of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to <illegible> all the slaves in invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Some different system of labor must be devised for the Southern country in the future, and peace upon any terms, even the acknowledgment of the Confederacy, cannot prevent it. If I am right in this view of the subject-and upon this conviction I have acted since I saw the fact in Louisiana in 1862-—then what is there in the Baltimore platform to which any true loyal Democrat, who loves his country, and is determined to fight,. if need be, for its integrity and honor, can object? I see nothing. But in the changes, so rapid in administrative policy, made by this war, no one will tie himself to any party cry or party platform.
I have but one article in my political creed at the present time. I am. for a sharp, thorough and decisive prosecution of the war, until the authority of the Union is acknowledged, and its laws obeyed upon every foot of soil ever within the boundaries of the United States. Believe me, truly yours,
BENJ. F. BUTLER. HON. SIMON CAMERON."
WHAT OUR LEADING GENERALS SAY.
Resolved, That this convention does explicitly declare, as the sense of the American people, that after four years of failure to restore the Union by the experiment of war, during which, under the pretense of a military, necessity or war power higher than the Constitution, the Constitution itself has been disregarded in every part, and public liberty and private right alike trodden down, and the material prosperity of the country essentially impaired, justice, humanity, liberty, and the public welfare demand that immediate efforts be made, for a cessation of hostilities with a view to an ultimate convention of all the States, or other peaceable means, to the end that, at the earliest practicable moment, peace may be restored on the basis of the Federal Union of the States.-Chicago Platform.
So declared the self-styled "Democrats," who nominated McClellan, and who support him. So says the Chicago Platform. It may be both useful; and interesting to hear what the leading Generals of the army, most of whom have hitherto been connected with the Democratic organization, have to say, in response to that infamous and treasonable Chicago enunciation.
Says Lieut. Gen. Grant:
"The end is not far distant, if we will only be true to ourselves. All we want now to insure an early restoration of the Union is a determined unity of sentiment North."
Says Maj. Gen. Hooker:
" This Union must be preserved, and there is no way of preserving it but by the power of our arms by fighting the conspiracy to death. This rebellion is tottering while I speak; it is going down, and will soon tumble into ruin. Tidings, glorious tidings reach us from all the armies: the work goes bravely on. There are no Copperheads in the army. They will fight well, and they will vote well. More devotion, more loyalty, never, never animated the hearts and the; hands of men more brave."
Says Maj. Gen: Meade:
"Dismissing, as now useless to discuss, all questions as to the origin of this war, we have daily, and hourly evidences that it exists, and that it can only de-terminated by hard fighting, and by determined efforts to overcome the armed enemies of the government"
Says Maj. Gen. Burnside:
" Would it not be cowardly for us to say that this rebellion cannot be crushed, and the authority of the government sustained? There is in my mind no question of it. There can be no such thing as laying down of arms or cessation of hostilities until the entire authority of the government is acknowledged by every citizen of our country."
Says Maj. Gen. Logan:
" The greatest victory of the rebels, greater than fifty Manassases and the only one that can give them a particle of hope, will be to defeat the war party at the incoming campaign."
Says Maj. Gen. Dix:
"It has been my conviction from the beginning, that we can have no honorable peace until the insurgent armies are dispersed, and the leaders of the rebellion expelled from the country. I believe that a cessation of hostilities would lead inevitably and directly to a recognition of the insurgent States; and when I say this. I need hardly add that I can have no part in any political movement of which the Chicago platform is the basis. No, fellow-citizens,
the only hope of securing an honorable peace—a peace which shall restore the Union and the Constitution-lies in a steady, persistent and unremitting prosecution of the war, and I believe the judgment of every right thinking man will soon bring him to this conviction.”
"Says Maj. Gen. Sherman:
"I want peace, and believe it can only be reached through Union and war, and I will ever conduct war purely with a view to perfect and early success. But you cannot have peace and a division of our country. If the United States submits to a division now, it will not stop, but will go on till we reap the fate of Mexico, which is eternal war."
Says Maj. Gen. A.J.Smith, the hero of Pleasant Hill:
"I want to see us united, from Maine to Texas one united and happy people. There is but one way of doing this. Rebels commenced the war; now let them ask for peace! How are we to have peace? I say, when the South shall ask for peace, then it will be time for them to get it. Never let the North say peace; but when the South asks for it, let us be merciful. I would rather see that, old flag under which I have been fighting sunk fathoms deep in the Mississippi than that we should give up and sue for peace."
Says Brig. Gen. Seymour:
" No Democrat can be elected on a peace platform. Certain it is that the remaining hope of the, South lies in Lincoln's defeat."
Says Maj. General Sickles:-
"The war was deliberately begun by the Rebels, and is persistently, waged by them to divide and conquer the Union. Until the Constitution and Laws are vindicated in their supremacy throughout; the land, the Government should be confided to no hands that will hesitate to employ all the power of the nation to put down Rebellion. The resources of the insurgents are already so far exhausted that they will give up the struggle as soon as a majority of the people at the ballot-box, seconding the martial summons of Farragut and Grant, demand the unconditional surrender of the enemy."
"HAS NOTHING BEEN DONE?” 
Hon. Henry C. Demming, now a member of Congress from Connecticut, and always a 
“Democrat" until “Democracy" as a party appellation came to mean Copperhead treason, addressed the great Union meeting in New York city, on Tuesday evening, Sept. 27th, in a speech of great power, in the course of which be took occasion to refute the miserable Copperhead shibboleth, “Nothing's been done." He concluded this part of his powerful effort in the following effective passage:-
Let me inquire in the second place, if nothing has been done in breaking up the resources of the Rebellion. We have conquered and to-day hold more territory than Alexander the Great overrun in twelve years. At the outset of the task of crushing the Rebellion, where was Missouri? Torn, tortured and dismembered by a hand-to-hand strife between citizen and citizen, her fields red with the blood of her sons by day, her skies lurid with the conflagration of her dwellings by night. The great protecting arm of the Government interfered between warring brethren, the great eagle of the Republic swept down upon the fratricidal. strife, and although constrained for a season to use the weapons which he carries in one talon, he soon waved over the departed belligerents the olive branch which he carries in the other. [Applause.] Maryland, the fairest of the Southern sisterhood while the family was one- where was she? Hesitating, (and she that hesitates is lost,) almost dropping into the arms of the greedy adulterer, who had already hailed her as "My Maryland." [Applause.] Now she is torn from his grasp, and sits robed in white, an honored member of our family board. [Applause.] And the administration did more for Maryland than if they had conquered a hemisphere, for they have not only preserved her unspotted, bat but they have made her free. [Applause.] Nothing been done? Why, in three years and a half we have done more than Julius Casar with his 10 years in Gaul-—more than Hannibal with his 17 years in Italy-more than the conqueror of British India with his 15 years in that country. I challenge you to find in all history a single martial enterprise more conspicuous for the
<c02>
obstacles to be overcome, more numerous with examples of endurance and heroism, more magnificent in its results, and more fatal to the enemy, than that of opening the Mississippi. [Applause.] Was nothing done at Sevastopol? Then nothing was done at Vicksburg. Was nothing done at Antwerp? Then nothing was done at Port Hudson. We have won more substantial triumphs, at the expense of fewer comparative reverses, than in the memorable seven years which filled the world with the fame of Frederick the Great, or in the three and a half years of the campaign of Napoleon the First, from the time he descended the Alps like an avalanche on the plains of Lombardy until he turned his white charger in grim dismay from the crimsoned field of Waterloo. Nothing been done? Say, O! Sherman, sweeping with thy besom the mountain fastnesses of Northern Georgia, gathering into thy toils all the arteries of rebel communication, and holding in thy palm the arsenal of the Confederacy, has nothing been done? Say, O! Grant, clearing that blind war path in the bloody Wilderness at the bayonet's point, advancing the lines from point to point, from the Ripidan to the James, and tightening thy death coil around Richmond! [Applause.] Is the reproach, nothing's been done," a fitting one to send back to the still bleeding but victorious legions of Sheridan? [Applause.] Read that reproach, if you dare, sons of New York, over the ashes of Corcoran an d Wadsworth! Read it, sons of New Jersey, over the grave of the brightest leader in the army-—Philip Kearney! [Applause.] Read it, sons of Connecticut, over the tombs of Lyon and Sedgwick! [Applause.] Nothing done? Passing through the enfilading fire of Port Jackson and Philip, I our naval armament on the Mississippi won a victory which pales not before Trafalgar. Under the concentrated fire of two forts and one battery, they won another in Mobile Bay which pales not before the Nile. Alas! alas! nothing has been done! Hear it, oh Farragut, in the maintop of the Hartford! [Tremendous and long continued cheers, the audience rising and waving their hats.] 
SPEECH OF JEFF. DAVIS AT MACON. 
From the Daily Macon Telegraph and Confederate, Sept. 24. 
LADIES AND GENTLEMAN, FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CITIZENS: It would have gladdened my heart to have, met you in prosperity instead of adversity. But friends are drawn together in adversity. The son of a Georgian, who fought through the first Revolution, I would be untrue to myself if I should forget the State in her day of peril. What though misfortune has befallen our arms from Decatur to Jonesboro, our cause is not lost. Sherman cannot keep up his long line of communication. Sooner or later he must retreat; and when that day comes, the fate that befel the army of the French empire in its retreat from Moscow will be reacted. Our cavalry and our people will harass and destroy his army as did the Cossacks that of Napoleon; and the Yankee General, like him, will escape with only a body-guard. How can this be the most speedily effected? By the absentees of Hood's army returning to their post. And will they not? Can they see the banished exiles; can they hear the wail of their suffering, countrywomen and children, and not come? By what influences they are made to stay away, it is not necessary to speak.If there is one who will stay away at this hour, he is unworthy of the name of Georgian. To the women no appeal is necessary. They are like the Spartan mothers of old. I know of one who has lost all her sons, except one of eight years. She wrote, that she wanted me to reserve a place for him in the ranks. The venerable Gen. Polk, to whom I read the letter, knew that woman well, and said it was characteristic of her. But I will not weary you by turning aside to relate the various incidents of giving up the last son to the cause of our country, known to me. Wherever we go, we find the hearts and hands of our noble women enlisted. They are seen wherever the eye may fall or the step turn. They have one duty to perform; to buoy up the hearts of the people. I know the deep disgrace felt by Georgia at our army falling back from Dalton to the interior of our State. But I was not of those who considered Atlanta lost when our army crossed the Chattahooche. I resolved that it should not; and then I put a man in command who I knew would strike a manly blow for the city, and many a Yankee's blood was made to nourish the soil before the prize was won. It does not become us to revert to disaster. Let the dead bury the dead. Let us, with one arm and one effort, endeavor to crush Sherman. I am going to the army to confer with our Generals. The end must be the defeat of our enemy. It has been said that I abandoned Georgia to her fate. Shame upon such falsehood! Where could the author have been when Walker, when Polk, and when Gen. Stephen D. Lee were sent to her assistance? Miserable man! The man who uttered this was a scoundrel. He was not a man to save our country. If I knew that a General did not possess the right qualities to command, would I not be. wrong if he was not removed? Why, when our army was falling back from Northern Georgia, I even heard that I had sent Bragg with pontoons to cross it to Cuba. But we must be charitable. The man who can speculate ought to be made to take up his musket. When the war is over and our independence won,-and we will establish our independence,-who will be our aristocracy? I hope the limping soldier. To the young ladies I would say that when choosing between an empty sleeve and the man who had remained at home and grown rich, always take the empty sleeve. Let the old men remain at home and make bread. But should they know of any young man keeping away from the service, who cannot be made to go any other way, let them write to the Executive. I read all letters sent me from the people, but have not time to reply to them. You have not many men between eighteen and forty-five left. The boys-God blesses the boys! Are, as rapidly as they become old enough, going to the field. The city of Macon is filled with stores, sick and wounded. It must not be abandoned when threatened; but when the enemy comes, instead of calling upon Hood's army for defence, the old men must fight, and when the enemy is driven beyond Chattanooga, they too can join in the general rejoicing. Your prisoners are kept as a sort of Yankee capital. I have heard that one of their Generals said that their exchange would defeat Sherman. I have tried every means, conceded everything to effect an exchange, but to no purpose. Butler, the beast, with whom no Commissioner of Exchange would hold intercourse, had published in the newspapers that if we would consent to the exchange of Negroes, all difficulties might be removed. This is reported as an effort of his to get himself whitewashed by holding intercourse with gentlemen. If an exchange should be affected, I don't know but that I might be induced to recognize Butler. But in the future every effort will be given, as far as possible, to effect the end. We want our soldiers in the field, and we want the sick and wounded to return home. It is not proper for me to speak of the number of men in the field, but this I will say, that two-thirds of our men are absent, some sick, some wounded, but most of them absent without leave. The man who repents, and goes back to his commander voluntarily, appeals strongly to executive clemency. But suppose he stays away until the war is over, and his comrade’s return home,-when every man's history will be told, where will he shield himself? It is upon these reflections that I rely to make men return to their duty; but after conferring with our Generals at headquarters, if there be any other remedy, it shall be applied. I love my friends, and I forgive my enemies. I have been asked to send reinforcements from Virginia to Georgia. In Virginia the disparity in numbers is just as great as it is in Georgia. Then I have been asked why the army sent to the Shenandoah Valley was not sent here. It was because an army of the enemy had penetrated that Valley to the very gates of Lynchburg, and Gen. Early was sent to drive them back. This he not only successfully did, but, crossing the Potomac, came well nigh capturing Washington itself, and forced Grant to send two Corps of his army to protect it. This enemy denominated a raid. If so, Sherman's march into Georgia is a raid. What would prevent them now, if Early was withdrawn, from taking Lynchburg, and putting a complete cordon of men around Richmond? I counseled with that great and grave soldier. Gen. Lee, upon all these points. My mind roamed over the whole field. With this we can succeed. If one half the men now absent without leave will return to duty, we can defeat the enemy. With that hope I am going to the front. I may not realize this hope, but I know there are men there who have looked death in the face too often to despond now.
Let no one despond. Let no one distrust: and remember that if genius is the beau ideal, hope is the reality.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR 
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1864.
OUR CONSISTENCY. 
In glancing at some of our old exchanges which have been accumulating upon our hands, we find two articles criticizing our position as pertaining to the administration of Mr. Lincoln. The first is the following from the Newburyport Herald-a paper more incongruous in its opinions, more double and twisted in its principles, and more chameleon-like in its sentiments, than any other journal upon our exchange list:-
The Boston Liberator of this week has a “leader “on "Where the Danger Lies." We have often said that it laid in the influence of such men as William Lloyd Garrison, who comes nearer to the French Robespierre than any other man who ever lived in America. As that Frenchman was famous for love of liberty, justice, humanity, equality, &c., so far as advocated by his clan, and went for subjecting all opponents to the guillotine, so Garrison-half Quaker, non-resistant, &c. &c-would put the knife to all who do not agree with him. He advocates free speech, free press, Free States, and free men, who believe in just such freedom as he does; and exile, prisons, and the scaffold for all others. We quote from his article:- 
"The President should have imprisoned many more Northern traitors, and suppressed many more treasonable newspapers. His unparalleled leniency constitutes the real danger of the hour, and for this he deserves to be solemnly admonished. While such journals as the New York World, Repress, Journal of Commerce, and Metropolitan Record, Boston Courier, and Post, &c. &c., are allowed to be issued, the prolongation of the rebellion is secured, the permanence of the Government seriously imperiled and the final success of slaveholding treason rendered probable If Vallandigham deserved to be sent to the rebels for his treasonable utterances, there are scores of the Copperhead leaders who should be subjected to a treatment far more rigorous. A government which can be bullied and defied in this manner makes it contemptible, and is digging its own grave. If this cannot be done, then the government is already a rope of sand. By their own Constitution, the people have provided for the exercise of this summary power in times like these, as a matter of self-preservation; and unless they have ceased to believe in the right or expediency of upholding the Constitution, they will stand by its enforcement to the extremist need." 
We do not stop to question whether the papers and persons Garrison refers to deserve the treatment he recommends; that is not the beauty of the thing, but it is in the man. Who is Lloyd Garrison, who says this, and talks of upholding the Constitution? The man that for thirty years has declared the Constitution a league with hell; who publicly burned that Constitution on the 4th of July; who has gloried that he was a traitor to constitutional law, and has advised others to trample it under foot; who has begged to be heard, not because of his rights as an American, for he claimed to be a citizen of the world, and that all mankind were his brothers, but because the press should be free everywhere, and there should be no padlocks on human lips or chains on human limbs. Now, this precious friend of humanity would hang men because they do not, in his way, support the Constitution he burned, and because they exercise the freedom for which he has plead his life long. 
The Herald evidently fancies it has made a smart, criticism; but it mistakes personal slang for sound, reasoning. To its assertions, that we "come nearer; to the French Robespierre than any other man who ever lived in America’-that we would " put the knife to all who do not agree " with us, and subject them to " exile, prisons, and the scaffold “-that we would " hang men " who do not, in our way, support the Constitution we once burned-&C.,&C., we have only; to say, that accusation, misrepresentation and caricature combined are not deserving of serious refutation. It is only by a careful suppression of our qualifying: language that the Herald attempts to make us inconsistent with our own doctrines. In the article, from which the extract is taken, and. prefacing what the Herald quotes, we said:-
"The President is neither usurper nor tyrant, neither an aristocrat nor a condemner of the people. Judging him by his position, THE WAR PLANE ON WHICH HE STANDS, he should have imprisoned many: more Northern traitors, and suppressed many more treasonable newspapers," &c. 
In saying this, will the luminous brained editor of the Herald explain how this conflicts with any principles we have promulgated, cither as a “half Quaker," 'or a whole "non-resistant”? Are we thereby precluded from measuring men by their own acknowledged, standard of duty and sworn obligations? If-judging him on the war plane-we say that Grant is a better General than McClellan, can we not do this without any inconsistency or self-contradiction?
Very cool is it, then, on the part of the Herald to say-“We do not stop to question whether the papers and persons Garrison refers to deserve the treatment he recommends; that is not the beauty of the thing, but it is in the man." Not the question, indeed! Only the man! Why, it is the sole question-a question which the blow-hot-and cold Herald editor has not the courage to answer. Why we burnt the Constitution years ago, and why we have ceased to denounce it as "a league with hell," because the Slave Power is in deadly rebellion, and has no longer any claims upon it, he well knows, but basely suppresses. And when he sneeringly says-“This precious friend of humanity would hang men because they do not, in his way, exercise the freedom for which he has plead his life long," he not only slanders us, but reveals his latent sympathy with the Northern traitors who are doing their worst to give success to the hell-born rebellion of the South. 
Here is another criticism, equally foolish and uncalled for, from that old conservative, pro-slavery, semi seditious sheet, the National Intelligencer:-
"Mr. Garrison, the Editor of the " Liberator," (formerly an abolitionist paper, but now making abolitionism secondary to the support of the Administration,) argues as follows against the expediency of conferring the right of suffrage by Presidential mandate on emancipated slaves at the South. He says:- 
"If the freed blacks were admitted to the polls by Presidential flat, I do not see any permanent advantage likely to be secured by it; for, submitted to as a necessity at the outset, as soon as the State was organized and left to manage its own affairs, the white population, with their superior intelligence, wealth, and power, would unquestionably alter the franchise in accordance with. Their prejudices and exclude those thus summarily brought to the polls." 
If Mr. Lincoln should to-morrow revoke " the proclamation of freedom," so called, we might expect to see Mr. Garrison advocating the propriety and wisdom of such a step on this wise: " If the blacks were declared free by Presidential flat, I do not see any permanent advantage likely to be secured by it; for, submitted to as a necessity at the outset, so soon as the State was reorganized and left to manage its own affairs, the white population, with their superior intelligence, wealth, and power, would unquestionably alter the status of the freedmen in accordance with their prejudices, and remand to slavery those thus summarily brought into a condition of nominal liberty."
The vision of the editors of the Intelligencer has been so jaundiced by slavery that they can discover no difference between a system which is "the sum of all villainies," and the exercise of the elective franchise by citizens generally! Their parody of our language is an absurdity; for while the Government is irrevocably pledged to the freedom of those whom it sets free, and to making the abolition of slavery a sine qua non in the restoration to the Union of a once rebellious State, it cannot and does not assume to decide what shall be the precise political privileges of the inhabitants in any such State-for that has always been a State affair, and doubtless will remain so for a long time to come.
JEFFERSON DAVIS AND ROBERT C. WINTHROP.
 We print this week two remarkable speeches-one by Jefferson Davis, recently delivered at Macon, Georgia, and characterized by bitterness and coarseness of invective, and a tone any thing but jubilant-the other by Robert C. Winthrop, the daintiest of the old Whig gentry, delivered at a late Copperhead ratification meeting at New York. To such "base uses" he has come at last! Can any man descend lower?
<c04>
A SCRIPTURAL DELINEATION OF THE COPPERHEADS.
The following Scriptural passages will be found to give a very striking and accurate delineation of Northern Copperheads as a body-their spirit, language, designs, machinations, and certain doom:-
“Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter! Which justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him? Therefore as the fire devoured the stubble, and the flame consumed
The chaff, so their root shall be as rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust; because they have cast away the law of the Lord of hosts, and! Despised the word of the Holy One of Israel [Isaiah v.
"Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees and that write grievousness which they have prescribed; to turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless! And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the desolation which shall come from far? To whom will ye flee for help? And where will ye have your glory?”- [Isaiah x. 
“Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord, and their works are in the dark, and they say, who seethe us? And who Chenoweth us? Surely your turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the potter's clay. [Isaiah xxix. 
“Woe to the rebellious children, smith the Lord, that take counsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin; that walk to go down into Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt! Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt your confusion [Isaiah xxx. 
“Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces. Take counsel together, and it shall come to naught; speak the word, and it shall not stand; for God is with us. For the Lord space thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me, that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying, say ye not, A CONFEDERACY; to all them to whom this people shall say, A CONFEDERACY; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.. * * *. *
When they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep and that mutter: should not a people seek unto their God? For the living to the dead? To the law and the testimony: if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them."- [Isaiah
"Be not still, O God! For, lo, thane enemies make a tumult; and they that hate thee have lift up the head. They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against the hidden ones. They have said. Come, and let us cut them from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. For they have consulted together with one consent; they are CONFEDERATE against thee. The tabernacles of Eden, and the Ishmaelite; of Moab, and the Haggardness; Gable, and Amman, and Amole; the Philistines; with the inhabitants of Tire. Assure is also joined with them: they have hoped the children of Lot. Let them be confounded."-. [Psalm Ixxxiii
“Pride coinpasseth them about as a chain; violence coverlet them as a garment. They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walked through the earth. Surely thou didst set them in slippery places; thou castes them down into destruction How are they brought into desolation as in a moment! Psalm Lixivia. 
“The workers of iniquity are in insurrection, and whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words; that they may shoot in secret at the perfect. They commune of laying snares privacy; they say who shall see us? But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded. So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: that entire see them shall flee away.”- Psalm Ixia.
"The workers of iniquity speak peace to their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts. Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavors; give them after the work of their hands; render to them their desert. Because they regard not the works of the Lord, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up."[Psalm xxviii. 
“They have healed the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace, WHEN THERE IS NO PEACE. Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? Nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore they shall fall among them that fall: at the time that I visit them they shall be cast down, smith the Lord."- [Jeremiah VI.
"Their lips have spoken lies, their tongue hath muttered perverseness. None called for justice, or any pleaded for truth: they conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity. They hatch cockatrices' eggs, and weave the spider's web: he that elated of their eggs diet, and that which is crushed breakout out into a viper. Their works are works of iniquity, and the act of violence is in their hands. Their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed innocent blood; wasting and destruction are in their paths. The way of peace they know not; and there is no judgment in their goings: they have made them crooked paths: whosoever Goethe therein shall not know peace."— [Isaiah lax. 
“There is no peace, smith my God, to the wicked."— [Isaiah Ivied 
Let every upright, patriotic, Christian man decide whether this is not an exact description of the Copperhead class at the North, in their contempt for the Higher Law-their secret diabolical plotting-their ungodly efforts to " strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh," (the Slave Power,) "and to trust in the shadow of Egypt," (the slaveholding South)-their manifest complicity with the Rebel CONFEDERACY-their desire "that the, name of Israel (the American republic) may be no more in remembrance," rather than that slavery should be abolished-their duplicity, as workers of iniquity, in "speaking " peace to their neighbors," while "MISCHIEF IS IN THEIR HEARTS "—their wickedness of speech concerning oppression, calling good evil, and evil good, putting darkness for light, and light for darkness- their hollow cry of " peace, peace, when there is no peace," and can be none on their basis, for " the way of peace they know not”-their brazen impudence whereby they prove themselves lost to all shame, so that they cannot blush at any of their abominations-“none called for justice, nor any pleaded for truth “-C.,&C. How complete the portraiture! 
FAIR IN MERCANTILE HALL. We would direct the attention of our readers in Boston and its vicinity to the Fair which is to be held in Mercantile Hall, Summer street, commencing on Tuesday next, 18th inst., and continuing until the 22d, under the auspices of the Colored Ladies' Sanitary Commission of Boston. Its object is a just and noble one-" for the relief of disabled colored Massachusetts soldiers and their families." [See advertisement.} Let the pecuniary results be creditable to the city. We are gratified to learn that some of our most respectable citizens are showing a very friendly interest in the Fair. Miss ELIZABETH P. PEABODY has kindly volunteered 
To superintend a table that will be expressly devoted to the benefit of colored orphans, at which various attractions will be found. 
PAID OFF. The Massachusetts 54th regiment, of colored troops, has been paid off by the government in full to Aug. 31. The soldiers have sent back to their families and friends in this city and vicinity the sum of $45,000, and the money has been received through Adams & Cox’s express.
This is a most gratifying announcement. Justice-long delayed through hesitating Congressional legislation-is at last done these brave men. The large amount they so promptly and considerately send home for the relief of their suffering families, and to liquidate what debts they may owe is highly creditable to them. 
A gratifying and strengthening letter, relative to the English state of feeling toward our government, from JOHN NICHOL, Professor of English Literature in the University of Glasgow, and ALBERT DICEY, Barrister at London, may be found in the next column. In a recent interview with Professor GOLDWIN SMITH, he strongly confirmed the views they so lucidly and intelligently express, and vouched for the prevailing sympathy and good-will of his countrymen.
<c05>
ANOTHER LIBERAL DONATION. 
HUNTLY LODGE, EDINBURGH. Sept. 28, 1864. DEAR FRIEND-It gives me much pleasure to remit to you a donation of £50 sterling which our kind and liberal friend, THOMAS STURGE, North Fleet House, has sent to my care, in response to an appeal which I made to himself and sister, in behalf of the Liberator.
I am also instructed by my son and Mr. Dicey, a Barrister in London, to forward a letter in which they have given expression to some of their sentiments on the state of affairs in America, and endeavored to correct certain misapprehensions which they think exist regarding the state of feeling in this country, on some points connected therewith.
We are cheered by the recent accounts from your land. The success of the Northern arms will doubtless influence favorably the chances of Mr. Lincoln's reelection. We are at a loss to imagine how any who pretend to have the cause of the slave at heart can desire that McClellan should be elected to the chief office in the (once) United States.
In haste, but with kindest regards, I remain, 
Yours, most sincerely, 
ELIZ. PEASE NICHOL. 
William Lloyd Garrison. 
We are largely and doubly indebted in this instance-first, to the long beloved writer of the above letter for her own contribution (already acknowledged) and kind effort in behalf of the Liberator; and, secondly, to our much esteemed friend, THOMAS STURGE, (whose aggregate donations to the American Anti-Slavery Society for several years have been of a munificent character,) for this renewed token of his personal friendship and approval of our course. His £50 sterling nets us four hundred and forty dollars, which will materially aid us to meet the greatly enhanced expenses in printing the Liberator. We are still compelled to pay three times as much for every ream of paper we use as we did three years ago,- to say nothing of other expenses,-and without such timely assistance as we have spontaneously received, it would be impracticable for us to continue the publication of the Liberator longer than the close of the present volume. What course we shall be compelled to take at that time, events must determine. We shall deeply regret to increase the subscription price, and, of course, shall not do so if we are otherwise adequately assisted. 
AN ENGLISH VIEW OF AMERICAN AFFAIRS. 
To W. L. GARRISON, ESQ.:
DEAR SIR-A copy of the Liberator of July 22d having fallen into our hands, we desire, on the part of those who in this country take a keen interest in your approaching presidential election, to remark upon some statements contained in Professor Newman's letter. We have heard with deep regret of the unexpected, and, as appears to us, inconsistent course which has been adopted by some of the leading American Abolitionists in reference to Mr. Lincoln; but it would be presumptuous in us, at this distance, to dogmatize either for or against any of your political parties. It may safely be left with you to deal with questions, involving minor differences of opinion, to you and your compeers,.,, who, denounced for a third of a century as fanatical Abolitionists, have now, for the first time, to meet the reproach of sacrificing abstractions to facts. We assure you, and if it were possible would assure Mr. Lincoln, that the; mass of Englishmen who have at heart the cause of freedom in America and elsewhere, consider such a reproach at such a time to be the highest possible tribute to your political sagacity. Owing to a complication 
Of circumstances, of which you are well aware, the friends of the North in England have a battle to fight. It has been a battle, on the one side, against the ignorance of many, the prejudice and self- interest of classes. Mr. Newman, with all his admirable honesty and candor and courage, represents a third hostile element the eccentricity of individuals. He has read enough of history to be familiar with the processes by which great reforms have always been carried out; and he yet, in his own person, perpetuates a comparison by which they have always been retarded. The moral pedantry which ignores the distinction between principles to be advocated as ends, and expedients to be gratefully accepted as means, is apt at the most critical moments, by casting discredit on the principles themselves, to play, into the hands of their enemies, and by embarrassing good men, who are attempting half measures when whole measures are impossible," to prevent reforming minorities from becoming majorities. In the spirit of this pedantry, Mr. Newman confesses that he withheld his sympathy from the great struggle in which you are engaged till he was won over by misconstruing Mr. Lincoln's proclamation. Previous to its publication, Mr. Lincoln, as the representative of the better mind of America, had already taken up and maintained his position against the extension of slavery, and as the representative of her government a position against lawless and reckless treason: in both aspects we have from the first regarded him as entitled to the respect and sympathy of every lover of civilization. Towards the close of 1862, aided by the force of events, he had led the country on to acquiescing in a protest against the perpetuation of slavery. The famous proclamation meant at least as much as this. Manic ensure it because it means much more. The slaveholders and the Negroes, looking at it from opposite sides, are agreed as to its meaning and tendency. Your own armies and your own lawyers must determine what shall be its result The Confederate press in England, blowing hot and cold in a breath, assailed it, as they have assailed; everything Mr. Lincoln has done or could do,-one day because it said too little, another because it said I too much. The Richmond and New York Copperhead papers did the same. Mr. Lincoln's .other acts, in the light of which his interpretation of it must be read, show him to be determined to extirpate slavery by every means consistent with his position as chief magistrate of a republic, the Constitution of which he is bound by oath to maintain till it is by the efforts of himself and others still farther amended. Mr. Newman arraigns Mr. Lincoln for taking this oath while thinking slavery to be wrong. He writes a letter with the apparent object of influencing your electors in the choice of the next President. Are they to elect a man who will not take the oath, or who will take the oath in a sense which it will not bear, or who will take it and break it, or a man who will take it and keep it, thinking slavery to be right? General McClellan very properly belongs to the last class. His claims to office seem to us to rest on the fact, that he will do as little good to the Negro in his civil as he has done harm to the enemy in his military capacity. Mr. Lincoln's claims are founded on the fact, that he has done more for the emancipation of I your colored people in his single administration than all the other Presidents put together, and that he is conducting his country through a crisis of almost un-exampled difficulty, and under storms of abuse with which up to this time only great men have been honored, if not with the genius, certainly with the pertinacity and honesty of a Cromwell. 
The last news which has reached this country leads us to hope that, if you are true to yourselves, and careful to repel compromises such as govern Seymour's peace-at any-price Democrats, and their friend the London Times, would have you make, the most disgraceful conspiracy that history, records may, in its overthrow, be made to sub serve her greatest triumph. 
But we have only wished to correct a misrepresentation of English feeling, and are not disposed to “prophecy,"'' much less to “rave."
 We are," Sir, your well-wishers, 
JOHN NICHOL,
Professor of English Literature in t
University of Glasgow. 
ALBERT DICEY,
, Barrister, London.
<c06>
BLACK REBEL SOLDIERS
The Richmond Enquirer of the 6th inst. contains striking indications of the strait to which the rebellion is now reduced. It publishes an order from S. Cooper the rebel Adjutant General, sweeping up all white men still available for the army, except those actually employed in manufacturing or other work in dispensable to military operations. But, apparently, aware that not much more force can be raised in this manner, the Enquirer proceeds to recommend an extensive arming of the Negroes, 
It rehearses certain ample provisions already made by the rebel Congress for the impressments of slaves and free negroes "to perform such duties in the army, or in connection with the military defenses of the country, in the way of work upon fortifications, or in government works, &c., as the Secretary of war may from time to time prescribe,” complaining that these prudential measures have been but imperfectly carried out; and then proceeds to the recommendation of more decided and efficient movements as follows:-
"The question of making soldiers of negroes, of regularly enlisting them and fighting them for their safety as well as our own, must have presented itself to every reflecting mind. Because the Yankees have not been able to make soldiers out of their drafted Negroes, it does not follow that we cannot train our slaves to make very efficient soldiers. We believe that they can be, by drill and discipline, molded in to steady and reliable soldiers. The propriety of employing negroes as soldiers we shall not at present discuss; but when ever the subjugation of Virginia or the employment of her slaves as soldiers are alternative positions, then certainly we are for making them soldiers, and giving freedom to those negroes that escape the casualties of battle.
We should be glad to see the Confederate Congress provide for the purchase of two hundred and fifty thousand negroes, present them with their freedom and the privilege of remaining in the States and arm,
Equip, drill and fight them. We believe that the Negroes, identified with us by interest, and fighting for their freedom here would be faithful and reliable soldiers, and, under officers who would drill them, could be depended on for much of the ordinary service, and even for the hardest fighting. It is not necessary now to discuss this matter, and may never become so; but neither Negroes nor slavery will be permitted to stand in the way of the success of our cause. This war is for national independence on our side, and for the subjugation of white and the emancipation of Negroes on the side of the enemy. If we fail, the Negroes are nominally free, and their masters really slaves... We must therefore, succeed. Other States may decide for them-selves; but Virginia, after exhausting her whites, will fight her blacks through to the last man. She will be free at all costs."
It is discreditable to our government that so large a number of able-bodied negroes, slave and free, remain in the unconquered portions of the rebel States, to raise their provisions, to build their fortifications and to be ready whenever the necessity shall arise of putting arms into their hands for the service of the Confederacy. It offers had been made to the Southern Negroes by Mr. Lincoln, suited at once to advance their interests and relieve the necessities of the country these hundreds of thousands would already have been, heart and hand, on our side. They remain, compelled to work, and liable to be called on to fight, for the interests of the rebellion, because it has not yet: been made plain to them that their condition or prospects would be improved by joining the Federal armies, and because many of those who have made the experiment of passing over to our side have found cause to regret it We know the rapidity with which. Intelligence is spread among the blacks upon any point affecting their interests. The cases of those slaves who have angered their masters by desertion to the Yankees, and then have been driven back to suffer ferocious revenge from those masters, must of course have a strong influence to discourage future trials of the same sort. Even those who are in the frying-pan do not like to leap out into the fire.
There is still time for President Lincoln not only to take such a position towards the colored people as justice and policy unite in requiring, but to anticipate any movements of the rebel government in the direction indicated by the Enquirer. Our national attitude towards this oppressed race ought to be such as not only to attract to our side all who can reach our military posts, or join our armies, but to make it certain that whenever, in their desperation, the rebels shall put arms into the hands of the blacks, those arms will be used for us and against them. Whenever we decide, (and take means to inform them of our decisions,) that, in the United States, the black soldier shall have (the full rights and privileges of soldier ship, and the black man the full rights and privileges of citizenship, then there will be no possibility left, either of the rebels sending their slaves to fight us, or continuing indefinitely to protract the war. A movement on our side such as to give every negro the assurance that in helping us he is helping himself and his race would give the finishing stroke to the rebellion; nay, more; it would at once destroy the hopes of these men, now the most dangerous enemies of the republic, who are striving to perpetuate caste, even when obliged to give up slavery, and to establish serfdom instead of freedom as the legal status of the people of color throughout the South. It this class shall triumph, the treasure and blood, the labors and agonies of this second revolutionary struggle will have been in great part wasted. It is for our Government and our people to decide whether the present war shall be the last of its kind, or whether more oppression shall still call for more retribution.-C.K.W.
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES. 
The opening lecture in the seventh series of lectures given by the Parker Fraternity was delivered by George William Curtis, Esq., of New York, on Tuesday evening last. It was given in the Music Hall, and prefaced, as each lecture is to be, by a concert on the. Great Organ. Reserved seats were sold on the Eastern side of the Hall, leaving seats equally desirable on the West side for those disposed to secure them by going early. The immense Hall was filled, as was to be expected, the liberality of the Managers offering the highest specimens of American can eloquence, with an Organ Concert thrown in, for only a quarter of a dollar. Among the eminent gentlemen who had seats on the platform were George Thompson, Esq. and His Excellency John A. Andrew, whose entrance was received with hearty cheers.
Mr. Curtis's subject was Political Infidelity. He showed that the war now desolating our country is the result, not of our political system, but of our unfaithfulness to the central idea of that the system. Even good laws, among us, are easily neutralized by a bad majority. Demagogues have had great power, and have wrought great mischief among our mixed population. Those, for instance, who have excited the hatred of Irishmen against Negroes, are no less public enemies than the prisoners of wells. If we look at the facts about freedom of discussion and of political action here, it will appear that, as a people, we have been unfaithful to liberty.
Some of the ablest in the nation have, from the beginning taken this, shameful part. The effort of John C.Calhoun, throughout his political life, was to secure the supremacy of the aristocratic system of slavery. And to crush whatever came in contact with it. And his influence and that of his co-laborers and his influence and that of his co-laborers had such weight, that, for a long series of years, the nation went on madly striving to accomplish these two impossibilities; - 1. To maintain an aristocracy in a free popular government: - 2. To maintain slavery in connection with civil and political liberty. To these ends Calhoun devoted his life, declaring that liberty required slavery for its support, and that capital should own labor. Unfortunately, the mass of the people, intelligent as well as ignorant, North as well as South, acquiesced in the establishment and maintenance of this system.
The abolition agitation has been simply a vindication of free speech in the United States. When the abolitionists were mobbed, their meetings were the citadel of American freedom. The Church, politics, commerce trade, fashion, took the side of Calhoun.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
On the other side arose men like Garrison, Phillips, Lovejoy. The question was debated, but those who persisted in arguing it stood in peril of life and limb, for the mass of the community took the other side. Grand juries indicted men who plead the cause of liberty. And a Governor of Massachusetts took the ground, in his Message to the Legislature, that meetings advocating an idea which a portion of the community was disposed to put down by riot were themselves a disturbance of the public peace. Amos Kendall, Postmaster General of the United States, virtually robbed the mails to prevent the circulation of anti-slavery publications. This was the sole memorable incident of his public career. But now, after long years of obscurity, he has recently reappeared to give the remainder of his strength in aid of the election of McClellan.
Human rights, the rights of black and white at once, have been systematically outraged by the political and social system of the South, and Northern politeness smiled and passed the bottle.
The advocates of slavery, however, found it necessary to devise a well-sounding title for their vicious system, and they pressed the word Democracy into this service. The South has, from the beginning, identified the name Democracy with all that was Anti-American in theory and practice. As Sheridan, when a watchman found him drunk in the gutter, gave his name as “William Wilberforce” so slavery, when called in question, has impudently proclaimed itself “American Democracy:" and every slaveholder, as a matter of course, votes the full Democratic ticket. Henceforward, the word Democracy will have no meaning in our politics, unless we begin to use it aright, and adapt our system to its true meaning.
The year 1861 was the turning point in our history. Massachusetts knew by instinct the darker days that were coming, unless a change could be wrought, and made John A. Andrew her Governor at that crisis. (Great applause.) In that same year, New York was ready to vote for the Montgomery Constitution. Mr. Russell reported to the London Times the quiet acquiescence of men of property and position in the rebellion. He had too much reason for the representation. No wonder that Europe believed we were on the brink of ruin.
Mr. Curtis then referred with just severity, but in measured and decorous terms, to the sad example we have lately seen, of an eminent citizen of Massachusetts, distinguished in literature, quiet and reserved in his habits, and connected heretofore with a political organization directly antagonistic to the sham Democracy, now going to New York to give in his adherence to that party, and standing between Isaiah Rynders and Fernando Wood to advocate it. Strange to say, Robert C. Winthrop makes the serious representation that those who constitutionally elected and who now sustain Abraham Lincoln as President of the United States are accountable for our present troubles, having given occasion to the opposite party to raise rebellion and war! He condemns free discussion as having given occasion to the rebellion! Well did Theodore Parker say that, if our educated men had done their duty, these calamities could never have befallen.
The lecturer here drew a vivid contrast between Robert C. Winthrop, following the steps of Calhoun, and Theodore Winthrop, giving his distinguished powers to the cause of his country, and laying down his life for her welfare. The audience manifested deep emotion, followed by loud applause.
The rebellion, the war, the troubles in which our country is now involved, do not spring from any defect in our system of government, but from our unfaithfulness to its central idea. We have sold our birthright for a mess of cotton. We have betrayed our own principles. We have chosen to make the word abolitionist the most odious word in the language.
Will you say that the Abolitionists were fanatics? So is Grant! So is Sherman! So is Ferragut! (Great cheering.) So are all men who, by the whole force of their nature, are in earnest. The greatest fanatics in our history have been John C. Calhoun and John Brown. The bodies of both lie mouldering in the grave. But whose soul is marching on?
The lesson of events is, that full freedom of speech must be preserved. All reconstruction will be vain which leaves any question too brittle to handle.
Over the whole American line, every sign is bright. Young Hercules strangled the serpents that assailed him. Young America will yet strangle the poisonous reptiles with which she is in conflict.
The lecture received close attention throughout, and warm applause from time to time. At its close, Governor Andrew was loudly called for, and spoke a few words of greeting to the audience. Three rousing cheers were given for him.
It was announced that Prof. Goldwin Smith would take the place in this course originally allotted to Dr. O. W. Holmes. The former will speak on the 1st, the latter on the 22nd of November. Next Tuesday's lecture will be given by Rev. Octavius B. Frothing him of New York.-C. K. W.

POSITION OF THE PEACE DEMOCRACY.
STOUGHTON, MASS.)
Sunday Night, Oct. 9, 1864. 
DEAR GARRISSON:-Notice was given, last week, that I would lecture in this town this evening, on ”The Relation of the Democratic Party, and their Platform and Candidate, to the Rebellion.” I am just in from that lecture. A great and enthusiastic meeting was gathered in Chemung Hall. To ward off the effect of the meeting, and to excite the wrath and mobocratic spirit of the Peace Democracy against the lecturer and the cause of freedom and free-labor, the following hand-bill was widely circulated at the door. The only notice I took of it was to ask those who got it up-“In what number of the Liberator is the speech to be found, from which the extract is taken? When and where was the speech made?” Not one would answer, and the inference was made by all that the extract is a Copperhead fabrication. I have no recollection of making such a speech. It is a better speech, and better put together, than my speeches usually are. I could have made it, in perfect fidelity to my convictions, while the Union was the handmaid of slavery. I could not make it now; for, in my view, the Union is the handmaid of freedom to all. It is pledged to the ABOLITION and PROHIBITION of that sum of all villany, American Slavery. 
I told the Democratic traitors that I differed from them in this: while the Union was for slavery, they were for it, and I was against it. Now the Union goes for the abolition and prohibition of slavery, they seek to destroy it, and I seek to preserve it. While the majority was for slavery, the Democratic, party submitted to it. The moment the majority turned against slavery, and for freedom and free labor, the Democratic party rebelled against the rule of the majority, and are seeking the destruction of the Republic.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
Extract from a speech made by Henry C. Wright, as published in the Boston Liberator:
“I have spoken of the approaching down fall of the AMERICAN REPUBLIC. Under the inspiration of 17th, I say THE AMERICAN UNION SHALL BE DISOLVED. To my mind, that event, so essential to the establishment of justice, the security of liberty, the promotion of the general welfare, is a present reality, as truly as is the present existence of the Republic. I think and speak of it as a fact, and not as a contingency. THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHALL BE ALLOTED OUT. THE AMERICAN REPUBLIC SHALL BE SUBVERTED. Of this national fabric, which, from <illegible> foundation to its top stone, is cemented together by the blood and tears of the slaves, not one shall be left upon another. I have the same authority for saying it, that Jesus had for saying it of the blood-stained temple of oppression, the den of thieves in Jerusalem. THIS REPUBLIC IS A DEN OF THIEVES, A MERE APOLOGY AND PROTECTION FOR ROBBERS AND MURDERERS. IT IS A LAIR FOR PIRATES, where they crouch down, and rest in pence and security. THIS DEN OF THIEVES SHALL BE BROKEN UP. THIS LAIR OF PIRATES SHALL BE DESTROYED. Not only is the great and longed for event vividly present to my mind, but also its results."
<c02>
THE NATIONAL CONVENTION OF COLORED MEN.
[Telegraphic report of Boston Journal.]
SYRACUSE, N.Y. Oct. 4, 1864.
The national convention of colored men assembled at 7 o'clock, P. M. The assemblage was called to order by Rev. H. H. Garnet of Washington, who read the call for the convention. John M. Langston of Ohio was chosen temporary Chairman, and William H. Day of New Jersey Secretary. The throne of grace was addressed by Rev. H. H. Garnet. A committee of three, consisting of Frederick Douglass, Wm. Wells Brown and Peter H. Clark were appointed a committee on credentials. The committee reported the names of two hundred delegates present, representing sixteen States.
Frederick Douglass of Rochester, N. Y., was chosen permanent President of the convention. Sixteen Vice Presidents were appointed, and four Secretaries. Mr. Douglass accepted the appointment in a short speech, and without the transaction of any further business the Convention adjourned.
SECOND DAY.
The Convention assembled at half-past nine o'clock. After the reading and adoption of the minutes, a committee on rules and also one on finance were appointed. The chairman appointed the following Business: Committee: John S. Rock, of Boston, E. D. Bassett, of Philadelphia, Geo. T. Downing, of Newport, P. H. Clark, of Cincinnati, J. H. Ingraham, of New Orleans, John M. Langston, of Ohio, Geo. L. Ruffin, of Boston, J. Sella Martin, and P. B. Randolph, of New York. The committee reported a resolution, urging that a petition be sent to the President of the United States, asking him to use every honorable endeavor to have the rights of the country's patriots now in the field respected, without regard to complexion, and against making any invidious distinction based upon color as to pay, labor and promotion. This resolution gave rise to much discussion, which was kept up during the morning.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Convention assembled at half-past two o'clock-Vice President J. B. Smith, of Massachusetts, in the chair. The discussion of the above resolution was continued during the afternoon, but was finally laid on the table to allow Capt. Ingraham to present the battle flag borne by the 1st Louisiana regiment at the battle of Port Hudson. The flag was enthusiastically cheered, and Capt. Ingraham made an eloquent speech, giving a thrilling account of the part taken by his regiment in that battle. The speech was received with rounds of applause. At 6 o'clock the Convention adjourned to 7 o'clock, to hear public addresses.
EVENING SESSION.
The Convention assembled at 7 o'clock-the President in the chair-and addresses were made by Frederick Douglass, J. Sella Martin, John M. Langston and Capt. J. H. Ingraham. At half-past 10 o'clock the Convention adjourned to meet on Thursday morning at 10 o'clock.
THIRD DAY.
The feeling in the community toward the colored delegates attending the convention has much softened. The able and eloquent speeches of Frederick Douglass, John M. Laugston, and John S. Martin, last evening, and the gentlemanly bearing of the delegates, together with the dignity with which the proceedings of the Convention have so far been conducted, and witnessed by hundreds of our citizens, has changed wonderfully in twenty-four hours the sentiment of this city. On the first day you could hear, on every hand, the strongest words of disapprobation, coming apparently from all classes, and the rabble were loud in their denunciations and threats. The first day even the press did not deign to honor the Convention with its presence, but this morning the reporters are all on hand.
MORNING SESSION.
The Convention was called to order at nine o'clock by the President. Prayer was offered by one of the Reverend gentlemen present The minutes of the preceding session were read, corrected, and approved. The Chairman of the Business Committee reported the following bill of Wrongs and Rights. It is a strong document, drawn with point and terseness: 
1st. As a branch of the human family, we have for long ages been deeply and cruelly wronged, by people whose might constituted their right; we have been subdued, not by the power of ideas, but by brute force, and have been unjustly deprived not only of many of our natural rights, but debarred the privileges and advantages freely accorded to other men.
2d. We have been made to suffer well-nigh every cruelty and indignity possible to be heaped upon human beings, and for no fault of our own.
3d. We have been taunted with our inferiority by people whose statute books contain laws inflicting the severest penalties on whomsoever dared teach us the art of reading God's word; we have been denounced as incurably ignorant, and, at the same time, have been, by stern enactments, debarred from taking even the first step toward self-enlightenment and personal and national elevation; we have been declared incapable of self-government by those who refused us the right of experiment in that direction, and we have been denounced as cowards by men who refused at first to trust us with a musket on the battle-field.
4th. As a people we have been denied the ownership of our bodies, our wives, homes, children, and the products of our own labor; we have been compelled, under pain of death, to submit to wrongs deeper and darker than the earth ever witnessed in the case of any other people; we have been forced to silence and inaction in full presence of the spectacle of our sons groaning under the lash, our daughters ravished, our wives violated, and our firesides desolated, while we ourselves have been led to the shambles, and sold like beasts of the field.
5th. When the nation in her trial hour called her sable sons to arms, we gladly went to fight her battles, but, were denied the pay accorded to others, until public opinion demanded it, and then it was tardily granted. We have fought and conquered, but have been denied the laurels of victory. We have fought where victory gave us no glory, and where captivity meant cool murder on the field by fire, sword and halter; and yet no black man ever flinched.
6th. We are taxed, but denied the right of representation. We are practically debarred the right of trial by jury. And institutions of learning which we help to support are closed against us.
We submit to the American people and the world the following declaration of our rights, asking a calm consideration thereof:
1st. We declare that all men are born free and equal; that no man or government has a right to annul, repeal, abrogate, contravene or render inoperative this fundamental principle, except it be for crime; therefore we demand the immediate and unconditional abolition of slavery.
2d. That as natives of the American soil we claim the right to remain upon it, and that any attempt to deport, remove, expatriate, or colonize us to any other land, or to mass us here against our will, is unjust; for here were we born, for this country our fathers and our brothers have fought, and here we hope to remain in the full enjoyment of enfranchised manhood and its dignities. 
3d. That as citizens of the Republic we claim the rights of other citizens; we claim that we are, by right, entitled to respect, that due attention should be given to our needs, that proper rewards should be given for our services, and that the immunities and privileges of all other citizens and defenders of the nation's honor should be conceded to us; we claim the right to be heard in the halls of Congress; and we claim our fair share of the public domain, whether acquired by purchase, treaty, confiscation or military conquest.
4th. That emerging as we are from the long night of gloom and sorrow, we are entitled to and claim the sympathy and aid of the entire Christian world, and we invoke the considerate aid of mankind in this crisis of our history, and in this hour of sacrifice, suffering and trial.
These are our wrongs-these a portion of what we deem to be our rights as men, as patriots, as citizens, and as children of the Common Father. To realize and attain these rights and their practical recognition is our purpose. We confide our cause to the just God, whose benign aid we solemnly invoke. To him we appeal.
This was discussed very fully, and after some slight amendment was adopted as it stands. At 1 o'clock the Convention adjourned until 2 o'clock.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Convention was called to order at 2 o'clock by the Chairman, and the Business Committee reported a series of resolutions to the following effect:
That the unquestioned loyalty and patriotism of the colored men in the army, who had fought without bounty, pay or the prospect of promotion, had the respect of the Convention and claimed the admiration of the civilized world; extending the fraternal hand to the freedmen, and urging them to use all means to establish knowledge among themselves, and secure a vigorous moral and religious growth, in which works the Convention pledged its co-operation in all respects; expressing full confidence in the fundamental principles of our government and in the Christian spirit of the age-both of which would ultimately secure to colored men the rights and privileges of citizenship; finally, that if an attempt be made to reconstruct the Union with slavery, the Convention would regard it as a flagrant violation of good, faith by the government, unjust to the brave men who have periled their lives in defence of the Union, and a thing to be resisted by; the whole moral power of the civilized world.
These resolutions were accepted and adopted without discussion.
The Business Committee reported a plan for a National League, which was adopted.
<c03>
LETTER FROM EDWARD EVERETT-WEST VIRGINIA.
The Wheeling Intelligencer publishes the following letter from Edward Everett:-
"BOSTON, September 28, 1864.
A. W. Campbell, Wheeling, W. Va.:-
MY DEAR SIR:-The loyal people of the country have ever taken a deep interest in the fortunes of West Virginia. You may depend upon it that when the names of the States are inscribed on our banners and arches, that of West Virginia will not be omitted. We are shocked at the manner in which you were treated by the dictators at Richmond at the outbreak of the rebellion. The last utterance of Mr. Jefferson Davis which has come before the public is, that ‘the Confederates seceded to get rid-of the rule of the majority.’ In the most flagrant contradiction to this profession, before the ordinance of secession had been submitted to the people of Virginia, regiments of troops were brought up from the Gulf States to overawe your citizens at the polls; and in a published letter of Mr. Senator Mason to the editor of the Winchester Virginian, of May 16th, 1861, after a significant allusion to the presence 'at Harper's Ferry and Norfolk in face of the common foe,’ (meaning the forces of the United States assembled under the star-spangled banner).'of several thousand of the gallant sons of South Carolina, of Alabama, of Louisiana, of Georgia and Mississippi,’ he writes as follows: ‘If it be asked what are those to do, who, in their consciences, cannot vote to separate Virginia from the United States, the answer is simple and plain: honor and duty alike require that they should not vote on the question; if they retain such opinions, they must leave the State!’ What followed after this atrocious sentence of banishment against one-third of the population of Virginia, you do not need to be informed. That you instantly seceded,’ when the treason was consummated at Richmond, though not exactly in the direction prescribed by the military despotism there, did not surprise us. In one of his last political speeches, Mr. Webster exclaimed:
'Ye men of Western Virginia, who occupy the, slope from the top of the Alleghanies to the Ohio and Kentucky, what benefit do you propose to yourselves by disunion? If you secede, what do you secede from, and what do you secede to? Do you look for the current of the Ohio to change, and to bring you and your commerce to the tidewater of the eastern rivers? What man in his senses can suppose that you would remain part and parcel of Virginia a month after Virginia should have ceased to be part and parcel of the United States?’
There is no part of our beloved country that occupies a more interesting position than Western Virginia, and its loyal inhabitants may be sure that they have the warmest sympathy of their brethren at the North.
I remain, dear sir, with great respect, very truly yours, EDWARD EVERETT."

THE POLITICS OF THE METHODISTS.
The Pittsburg Annual Conference has just uttered the feelings and politics of the entire body of Methodist Protestants in the United States, in five patriotic resolutions, unanimously passed:-
Resolved, That this Conference does hereby declare its loyalty to the Government of the United States, and its approval of the Administration of Abraham Lincoln, in his efforts to overthrow the rebellion and maintain the cause of the Union.
Resolved, That whatever may have been the design of the slaveholders of the South, in bringing on this, great rebellion, in our judgment God is permitting this war in order to purify this nation from her sins-especially the great sin of slavery, which we hold to have been the main cause of the rebellion.
Resolved, That the Emancipation Proclamation is hereby endorsed by this Conference, and it is our prayer that, the President, by judicious management, the power of his armies and the help of the Almighty, may be able to carry it into practical effect in all the rebel States.
Resolved, That party politics, in our judgment, should never be allowed to interfere with our allegiance to the Government of our country, and we hereby advise all our people to be faithful to the Administration in all its efforts to maintain the Union, constantly praying for the Government and the success of our armies.
Resolved, That we desire a peace growing out of the salvation of our Government, based upon the principles of immutable righteousness, in order that the Christian religion may take a firmer hold than heretofore on the American mind.

LETTER FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 10. A meeting was held to-night in Monument square, of the friends of the new Constitution. Senator Wilson was among the speakers. The following letter from the President was read:
“EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, Oct. 10.
To Hon. Henry W. Hoffman:
MY DEAR SIR: A Convention of Maryland has formed a new Constitution for the State. A public meeting is called for this evening, to aid in securing its ratification by the people. You ask a word from me for the occasion. I presume the only feature of the instrument about which there is serious controversy is that which provides for the extinction of slavery. It needs not to be a secret, and I presume it is no secret, that I wish success to this provision. I desire it on every consideration. I wish all men to be free. I wish the material prosperity of the already free, which I am sure the extinction of slavery would bring. I wish to see in process of disappearing that only thing which would ever bring this nation to civil war. I attempt no argument upon the question. It is already exhausted by the abler, better informed, and more immediately interested sons of Maryland herself. I only add that I shall be gratified exceedingly, if the good people of the State shall by their vote ratify the new Constitution. Yours truly,
A. LINCOLN."

CHANGE IN THE CABINET.
Postmaster Gen. Blair has retired from the cabinet and Ex-Gov. Dennison, of Ohio, is his successor. The correspondence is as follows:
EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, Sept. 23, 1864. 
Hon. Montgomery Blair:-
MY. DEAR SIR-You have generously said to me more than once, that whenever your resignation could be a relief to me, it was at my disposal. The time has come. You very well know that this proceeds from no dissatisfaction of mine with you personally or officially. Your uniform kindness has been unsurpassed by that of any friend, and while it is true that the war does not so greatly add to the difficulties of your department as to those of some others, it is yet much to say, as I most truly can, that in the three years and a half during which you have administered the General Post-office, I remember no single complaint against you in connection therewith. 
Yours as ever,
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT, Sept. 23,1864.
MY DEAR SIR-I have received your note of this date, referring to my offers to resign whenever you should deem it advisable for the public interest that I should do so, and stating that, in your judgment, the time has now come. I now, therefore, formally tender my resignation of the office of Postmaster-General. I cannot take leave of you without renewing the expression of my gratitude for the uniform kindness which has marked your course towards 
Yours, very truly, M. BLAIR.
THE PRESIDENT.
Mr. Blair has sent the following letter to, 
S. P. Hanscom, Esq., Editor of the National Republican:
DEAR SIR-The statement contained in your paper and other journals, that my resignation was caused by the resolution of the Baltimore Convention referring to the Cabinet, has, I observe, led to the inference that the principles adopted by that body were objectionable to me. This is not true. On the contrary, my offers were made in good faith, with a view to allay animosities among the friends of those principles, and in order to secure their triumph.
Yours, respectfully,
M. BLAIR.
A RUNAWAY SLAVE “OPERATING IN GOLD." A remarkable case in the Police Court in Cincinnati is reported in the Gazette. A slave named Louis Stratton recently ran away from his master, John G. Barrett, of Louisville, taking with him three thousand dollars of Barrett's money, in gold, and made his way to Cincinnati, where he deposited the specie at the banking-house of Gilmore, Dunlap & Co. A few days ago, Barrett discovered the whereabouts of his ex-slave Louis, and had him arrested. The charge of theft was heard before Justice Warren at the Police Court, and by advice of his counsel, Louis pleaded guilty to taking the money, but set up the defence that he had been guilty of no crime. A slave who in Kentucky steals his master's property is not deemed guilty of larceny. He had committed no offence against the laws of Ohio, and was charged with none. The repeal of the Fugitive Slave law prevented his return to his master under its provisions, and a requisition from Governor Bramlette could not reach him.
Last Saturday the Justice rendered his decision, dismissing the negro, whose money, now his own, is still safe in the bank. His capital to start in a life of freedom, at the present price of gold, is therefore about $6,000.
<c04>
THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC STILL FURTHER VICTORIOUS.
CITY POINT, Va., Oct. 10-4.30 P.M.
To Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
Our entire loss in the enemy's attack on our lines on Friday, the 7th inst., does not exceed 300 in killed, wounded and missing. The enemy's loss is estimated by Gen. Butler at 1000.
The Richmond Whig of the 8th, speaking of this battle, has the following:-"The gallant Gen. Gregg, commanding a Texas brigade, fell in the advance. Among other casualties we have to report Gen. Bratton of South Carolina badly wounded; Col. Haskin of the South Carolina Artillery also wounded.”
A rumor states that Gen. Geary was killed. Since Friday, there has been no fighting whatever. 
U.S. GRANT, Lieut. General.
“HARPER'S FERRY-8.35 P. M.
To Hon. E.M. Stanton:
Gen. Sheridan, just from our cavalry, attacked the enemy beyond Fisher's Hill, and whipped them, driving them beyond Mount Jackson, capturing 11 pieces. of artillery and 350 prisoners. The rebels scattered into the woods and mountains. 
Respectfully,
J. D. STEVENSON,
Brigadier General Commanding."
STRASBURG, Va., Oct. 9-Midnight.
To Lieut. General Grant, City Point:
In coming back to this Point, I was followed up until late yesterday, when a large force of cavalry appeared in my rear. I then halted my command to offer battle by attacking the enemy. I became satisfied that it was nearly all the rebel cavalry of the valley, commanded by Rosser, and directed Torbett to attack at daylight this morning, and finish this “Saviour of the Valley.” The attack was handsomely made. Custer, commanding the 3d cavalry division, charged on the back road, and Merritt, commanding the 1st cavalry division, on the Strasburg pike. Merritt captured five pieces of artillery. Custer captured six pieces of artillery, with caissons, battery, forge, &c. The two divisions captured 47 wagons, ambulances, &c. 
Among the wagons captured are the headquarters wagons of Rosser, Lomah, Wickam and Col. Pollard. The number of prisoners will be about 300.
The enemy, after being charged by our gallant cavalry, were broken and ran. They were followed by our men on the jump, twenty-six miles, through Mount Jackson and across the north fork of the Shenandoah. I deemed it best to make this delay of one day here, and settle this new cavalry.
The 11 pieces of artillery captured to-day make 30 pieces captured in the Valley since the 19th. Some of the artillery was new, and never had been fired. The pieces were marked “Tredegar Works."
P. H. SHERIDAN, Major General.
HEADQUARTERS 10TH ARMY CORPS, 7th, 10.15 P. M. 
To Major General Butler:
Have repulsed the attack of the enemy on our right flank with great slaughter. The troops seem to be Field's and Pickett's divisions. I send you a batch of prisoners. I am extending my right flank. The enemy seem to be entrenching on the Derby road.
(Signed) D. P. BIRNEY, Major General.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA, Oct. 7, 10.30 P. M.
Lieutenant Genera U.S. Grant:
General Birney has regained Kautz's old position, and holds the enemy in the inner line of intrenchments around Richmond, extending from the Darbytown road, and to connect with General Weitzel on the left, near Fort Harrison.
There has been no movement at Petersburg to-day. We have much the best of this day's work. A thousand at least of the enemy were killed and wounded, and one hundred prisoners, and a bloody repulse.
Gen. Gregg, commanding Field's division, is reported by a lady, who saw the body, as killed.
(Signed) B. F. BUTLER,
Major General.

ELECTION IN PENNSYLVANIA, INDIANA AND OHIO.
The election returns from Pennsylvania, Indiana and Ohio have not yet been so fully received as to say exactly what the result is. But they are sufficient to enable us to say that the Unionists have swept Ohio and Indiana by heavy majorities, and that the same party have gained largely in Congressmen. Among the defeated Democratic candidates is Mr. Cox of Ohio, who has been exceedingly bitter against New England.
Pennsylvania has undoubtedly gone Republican by 15,000 or 20,000 majority, as the soldiers’ vote is all one way, and that is, for the Union ticket These elections would seem to settle the Presidential contest in favor of Mr. Lincoln and against General McClellan. The whole Northwest will undoubtedly vote in November in favor of Mr. Lincoln; also Pennsylvania and New York. In fact, we do not see what State Gen. McClellan can carry. The vote of the army is somewhat different from what the friends of General McClellan anticipated, and shows conclusively that whatever may be the opinions of the army in regard to General McClellan as a soldier, the rank and file will not vote for him as President so long as he stands in his present hostility to a vigorous prosecution of the war.-Boston Herald.
AUGUSTE BELMONTE-WHO IS HE? The Crisis of last week furnished the public with a pretty good photograph of Augusts Belmonte, the man who, as the Crisis says, “seems to have a perpetual lease on the Democratic party.” While giving the personal and political features of this financial agent of the European holders of “Confederate Bonds,” and present Chairman of the National Democratic Committee, the Crisis did not examine into his pedigree nor family connections.
Our Washington letter, published in another column, gives us some light on this subject.
Auguste Belmonte, a prime minister in the Chicago Convention, Chairman of the Democratic Committee, the man who has purchased a perpetual lease on the democratic party, the man who owns G. B. McClellan, and who spent $100,000 at Chicago to secure little Mac's nomination, is a Bavarian Jew, an illegitimate son of one of the Rothschilds, and is married to a niece of Alexander Slidell, the rebel envoy and emmissary of France.
Such is Auguste Belmonte, the bastard Jew, whose money has bought up the leaders of the Copperhead party, and who has taken a perpetual lease on the same for the purpose of accomplishing the crime of DISUNION against the United States! In the words of Medary's Crisis, mourning over the degeneracy of the democratic party, we too would say-"Oh, my country! What next?”
A PICTURE OF PENDLETON. The New York Herald, a paper which no one will accuse of being partial to the present administration, has a very strong article, urging the re-assembling of the Chicago Convention, for the purpose of re-nominating a candidate for Vice President, in the room of George H. Pendleton. Speaking of Mr. Pendleton's public record, it says:-
"It is the record, in Congress and out of Congress, at all times and in all places, from the beginning to this day, of a consistent, constant, inveterate and zealous sympathizer with the cause of the rebellion. From his Congressional record during this war, we may safely say that, had his vote on all important test questions been the casting vote in the House, volunteering and drafting to fill our wasted armies would have ceased; the pay of our brave soldiers, their subsistence, clothing and transportation would have been stopped; our gallant Union heroes on the land and water would have been abandoned to the tender mercies of Jeff. Davis, and this day we should have had a Southern confederacy, and a war with England and France, for a mere remnant of the Union, in full blast.”
A DEMOCRATIC SKETCH OF THE CHICAGO CONVENTION. The Democratic editor of the Green Bay Advocate, who supports McClellan, but finds it bitter work swallowing the treason with which he is identified and associated, says of the Chicago Convention, which he attended:-
“There was no lack of traitorous talk there, outside of the Convention. Speech after speech was made to the assembled thousands, full of cowardly words, wanting in all patriotism, all chivalry, all love of country, even all decency and manliness. This war for the life of the Union was denounced as the climax of wickedness; the Southern people in arms against us were held up as martyrs bleeding in the cause of right; and talk which should make the ears of every American tingle with shame was as free on the streets and in the hotels of Chicago as the turbid and offensive current of its river."
HENRY WINTER DAVIS. A correspondent of the N. Y. Evening Post writes:
"H. Winter Davis's great speech at Elkton, yesterdary, is the key-note of the patriot cause. It is a flame of that burning loyalty which is consuming to all treason, slavery, and half and half dealings with the crime of rebellion. Mr. Davis, by this speech, has carried captive all his old friends who regretted his manifesto as untimely, and has won over to his side hundreds of opponents. His renomination and reelection to Congress are now assured facts."
The Copperhead papers are crowing over the fact that Reverdy Johnson, the concocter of the infamous Dred Scott decision, is for McClellan. All that sort of people are.
<c05>
PERSONAL. Hon. Charles P. Curtis, for many years a prominent member of the Suffolk bar, died of paralysis, on Tuesday morning, last week, at his residence, No.19 Mount Vernon street, Boston.
Capt. Speke, the African traveller, recently shot himself accidentally in England, while hunting. He was getting through a hedge when his gun went off, and shot him through the heart. he London correspondent of the New York Commercial Advertiser says:-"He was only thirty-eight years of age, and was under engagement to deliver, only a few hours after the accident, an address on African discovery to the members of the British Association for the advancement of science."
Thomas F. Marshall, formerly a member of Congress and a prominent but very erratic Kentucky politician, died at Versailles, Ky., lately, aged 64. Mr. Marshall was a man of rare natural abilities and gifts, but he deadened his brain and brutalized his whole nature by the excessive use of whisky.
David F. Johnson, President of the South Carolina Convention which adopted the ordinance of secession, died on the 14th ult.
Joshua Bates, the eminent American English banker, died on the 24th of September, in London. He was by birth a Boston man.
The mother of John C. Breckinridge died in Baltimore on Saturday. She resided there with her son in law. Rev. Dr. Bullock of the Franklin street Presbyterian Church.
Walter Savage Landor is dead, in his 90th year. He died at Florence, on the 17th of September. Had he lived four months and thirteen days longer, he would have been entitled to the rank of nonagenarian, as he was born on the 30th of January, 1775.
On Wednesday night, one or two rowdies attacked the Rev. Highland Garnet in front of the St. Charles Hotel, where he is stopping. He was struck and knocked down, and lost a valuable gold cane, which was presented to him on the occasion of leaving New York. The good people of Syracuse are very indignant at this act of wickedness and rowdy spite. The Mayor sent for the gentlemen composing the committee of arrangements, and offered the support of his whole constabulary force to prevent the exhibition of any other such cruel and shameful feelings on the part of those who draw their chief inspiration from bad whiskey.-Syracuse paper.
FLAG RAISING IN CAMBRIDGEPORT.A number of colored citizens of Cambridgeport raised, a fine flag bearing the names of Lincoln and Johnson, on Washington street, Monday evening. The Cambridge Brass Band was in attendance. Speeches were made by Alderman Folger, and others. The occasion was very successful and enthusiastic.
A meeting of the colored citizens of Boston was held in the vestry of the 12th Baptist Church last week, for the purpose of forming a society to be called the “West End Lincoln and Johnson Club,” when the following officers were elected: President, John S. Rock. Esq.; Vice Presidents, Jonas W. Clark, J. T. Sidney, Thos. Dalton, Coffin Pitts, W. H. Logan, Wm. Johnson; Secretary, Geo. Potter; Treasurer, T. W. Steamburg; Executive and Finance Comittee, George L. Ruffin, Thos. Watson, Thos. Temoah; Marshal, John P. Coburn. The Club will hold weekly meetings in the vestry 12th Baptist Church, until the election, to hear the addresses from public speakers. All are invited to attend.
NEW YORK, Oct. 10. The train on the New Haven road coming this way ran off the track this morning, near 85th street. Four cars were destroyed, and 50 or 60 of the 900 or 1000 passengers on the train were injured, some of them it is thought fatally. Very few names of the injured by the accident have been obtained. No one was killed. The train was badly smashed and many persons were badly bruised. Among the injured is Col. French of Gen. Butler's staff, about the head, slight. Parke Godwin, editor of the Evening Post, and wife, were both injured, the latter seriously; P. T. Barnum escaped injury.
Gen. Banks arrived in New York on the 2d inst. He is succeeded in command by Gen. Hurlburt. The Louisiana Legislature waited on him in a body, to bid him farewell, and he received an address from the workingmen of New Orleans.
Admiral Farragut has been transferred from the Gulf Atlantic Coast, an almost certain indication that Wilmington must look out next. The rebels have been furnished with immense supplies through that port.
A DECIDED “STRAW.” A party of Kentuckians voted for President the other day, on a steamer running from Louisville to Henderson. The result was as follows: Lincoln, one hundred and fifteen; McClellan, thirty-three-or nearly four to one.
IN MEMORIAM.
One by one, the ties are broken,
That to earth our spirits bind;
One by one, they’re going from us,
The beloved, the true, the kind!
Died, in Barre, Sept. 25, of consumption, Mrs. HARRIET D., wife of Charles King, aged 48.
The beloved friend whose death is recorded above was one whose memory will be long and fondly cherished by all who knew her. Earnest and true-hearted, a food, devoted wife and mother, a faithful and trusted friend, of her may it be truly said, “She was a noble woman.” Active in every good cause, the earnest friend of the slave, ever ready to advocate his cause when freedom was not as now the rallying-ery of the nation, fearless in rebuking Wrong and advocating the Right, we shall miss her sadly-miss her from our loved and trusted ones.
“Alone unto our Father's will
One thought hath reconciled,
That He whose love exceedeth ours
Hath taken home his child.
Fold her, oh Father! in thine arms,
And let her henceforth be
A messenger of love between
Our human hearts and thee.
Still let her mild rebuking stand
Between us and the wrong;
And her dear memory serve to make
Our faith in goodness strong."
Barre, Mass. CARRIE.
OBITUARY.
Mrs. MARY H. WATSON, wife of Mr. Daniel T. Watson, passed into the realm of immortality, after a comparatively brief season of mortal debility and suffering, at Miller Farm, Venango Co., Pa. (a section of the oil region,) on the 30th of August. Her age is not known to the writer, but is believed to have been about 50 years, perhaps a little more. Her maiden name was Tidd, and she was a native of Lexington, Mass. She and her husband resided several years in Concord, N. H., whence they removed to St. Paul, Minn., and very recently had their temporary residence in the locality where her earthly pilgrimage terminated.
This notice can be but a meagre tribute to Mrs. Watson's memory and sterling worth. All testimonies of those who knew her concur in declaring her a superior and most excellent woman. She bad a soul alive with all noble, humane and heavenly inspirations. With a fine, well-balanced mental organization disciplined by intellectual culture, and crowned with religious grace, she espoused devotedly every sublime doctrine, object and cause that appealed to her consideration. Yet while faithfully carrying out in word and deed her highest convictions, she was unostentatious, humble, modest and charitable.
She was an early, consistent and steadfast advocate of Temperance, Anti-Slavery, Woman's Rights, Christian Non-Resistance, and the whole circle of Reforms, in their best phases, excluding only their incidental detractive excrescences. In fine, her great endeavor was to be a rational, practical Christian, living to elevate and bless all human kind, and thus in true Christ-likeness to glorify her Father in heaven. In so doing, she neglected nothing of domestic affections, fidelity and duty; but engraved her precious memory deeply on the hearts of her husband, offspring, relatives, friends and intimate associates; who all rise up and call her blessed.
She was long a patron of and occasionally a writer for the Liberator, enjoying its perusal to the last. She was also a patron, admirer and fast friend of the Practical Christian down to its suspension in 1860. And every year since then she has sent in her contributions to the funds devoted to the promulgation of the same divine principles. Even after she was no longer able to write, only a few days before her departure, she employed the hand of a friend to reiterate her interest in the cause, and transmit a fresh contribution to its advancement. O that there were more such friends of God, Humanity and Practical Christianity! But she is not dead; she is alive forevermore-"not lost, but gone befor”-ascended to a higher sphere to multiply those purer ministries which our heavenly Father vouchsafes unto the heirs of salvation amid the trials of their mortal pilgrimage. May these sweet consolations and sanctifying influences which embalm her memory encloud the bereaved family, and drop their gentle distillations on all who sympathise with them in their affliction!
Hopedale, Mass., Oct. 10,1864. A.B.
<c06>
BAY STATE LECTURES. The first lecture in this course is to be delivered by Wendell Phillips, on Thursday evening, Oct. 20, in Tremont Temple, and will be followed by John B. Gough, Dr. Chapin, and other popular speakers. The Committee have also arranged for a Concert by Gilmore's full band, assisted by recognized vocal talent, and also for a Concert by the Tremont Temple church. An organ concert of thirty minutes duration will also be given each evening by a well-known organist. Tickets, admitting bearer and lady to the course, $1.50, obtained at Ditson's, 277 Washington street, Haynes's 33 Court street, and at the Temple.

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
SEVENTH SERIES.
AT MUSIC HALL
On TUESDAY EVENING, October 18, 1864,
ADDRESS BY
OCTAVIUS B. FROTHINGHAM. 
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by 
Oct. 25-ANNA E. DICKINSON.
Nov. 1-Prof. GOLD WIN SMITH, of England.
Nov. 15-DAVID A. WASSON
Nov. 22-OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Nov. 29-CHARLES G. AMES.
Dec. 6-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Dec. 13-JACOB M. MANNING.
Dec. 20.-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
ORGAN CONCERT each Evening at 7 o'clo
W. EUGENE THAYER, Organist.
Tickets admitting the bearer and Lady to the Course, at $3 each.
Tickets admitting one person to the Course, at $2 each.
Checks for SEATS RESERVED TILL 7 1-2 O'CLOCK, $1 50 additional for each seat.
For sale at Oliver Ditson & Co's, 277 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co's, 33 Court street, John S. Rogers's, 1071 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office.
Checks for Reserved Seats for sale only at Oliver Ditson & Co's, and at John S. Rogers's.
Only an average quality of seats will be reserved, (the east section of the hall,) leaving the same quality of seats (the west section) for those who do not purchase reserved checks. Sept. 16.
“Boys! the dear old flag never touched the ground!"
NOTICE.-The Colored Ladies' Sanitary Commission of Boston will hold a Fair in Mercantile Hall, Summer street, commencing at 3 o'clock on Tuesday, Oct. 18, and continuing until the 22d, for the relief of disabled colored Massachusetts soldiers and their families.
These men having fought bravely to sustain our noble flag and the country's freedom, we feel it our duty to do all we can to encourage them.
We would ask the sympathy and patronage of the public in our effort. We are thankful for the donations and enouragement we have already received.
Donations, either of money or goods, may be sent to the address either of the President, Madam CARTEAUX BANNISTER, 31 Winter street, or to the Treasurer, Mrs. O. O. GRIMES, 28 Grove street.
Single admission, 25 cts.
RECEIPTS OF THE MASS. ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
From the estate of Mary T. Kidmarsh, $400.00
“ G. Julian Harvey, pledge; 2.00
“ Clark Greenman, do, 20.00
“ Miss H. M. Carlton, do, 5.00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. 
Boston, Oct 1, 1864.

MASON & HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost-$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $'260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusivesively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior-excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beechers Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottsebalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston,
7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26-6m

FOR SALE ON DIX PLACE,
A VERY pleasant and convenient House, having a large yard stocked with grapes, treas and foliage. The rear opens immediately upon Burroughs place, which secures abundant light, sunshine and pure air. The house is quiet, being removed some 200 feet from Washington street. To 3 person wanting a retired yet central and healthful residence, this estate offers a rare chance. Apply to R. E. APTHORP, 21 City Exchange, Devonshire street, lower floor. Oct. 7.
"FREE LOVE,"
OR a Philosophical Demonstration of the non-exclusive nature of Connubial Love. To which is added a Review of and Reply to the exclusive phase in the writings of the Fowlers, Adin Ballou, H. C. Wright, and A, J. Davis, on the Love and Marriage question. Price, (post-paid,) 50 cents, or to the poor, in paper, 35 cents. Sold by the Author-AUSTIN KENT, East Stockholm, St. Lawrence Co., N.Y Sept.80.
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
BE TRUE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Men of the North-land, be true to the Right!
Press onward unfaltering, nor shrink from the fight!
If now ye are craven, and false to your trust, 
The altars of Freedom must crumble to dust.
Oh, say, shall vile treason rule over our land,
And we tamely bow to a base traitor band?
Shall our dear old New England bow down her proud head,
By her recreant sons unto ruin betrayed? 
Ah, no! we will rally from mountain and glen,
And the spirit of old- time rekindle again;
With hearts firm and loyal, unfaltering and true,
For the contest we'll gird on our armor anew.
We ask not for peace until freedom is won;
We seek not for rest till our labor is done;
We must break the last link in the chain of the slave,
Ere the olive-wreath over our nation can wave.
We are pledged to be true to the brave who have died;
From the pathway of duty we'll turn not aside; 
Their graves are to us as the saint-shrines of old,
And their memory still in our hearts we enfold.
October, 1864. CARRIZ.
THE SELFISH COPPERHEAD'S PRAYER IN WAR TIME.
Again the clouds of battle lower
With terror and dismay:
Protect me, All-Disposing Power, 
In this disastrous day! 
As in the camp the soldiers learn
To riot, curse and swear,
'T would give my pious soul concern
To have my boys go there! 
Then while my neighbors and their sons
Are called to war and arms,
Grant that my boys, secure from guns,
May cultivate my farms! 
And while with taxes and expense
My kindred are distressed,
Oh grant that all my hard-earned pence
May slumber in the chest!
And should the rebels gain the day,
And all their foes condemn;
Then may I wash my hands and say,
I ne'er opposed them. 
Yet, if by Thy disposing will
My country gains the cause,
O may I find a shelter still
In her indulgent laws! 
And should she disbelieve my word, 
May I upon Thee call
To witness I ne'er drew my sword,
Or fired a gun at all. 
For since from frailty and mistake
No carnal mind is free,
I wish no active part to take,
But leave the whole with Thee.
Though impious pirates on the seas
Our merchants' ships despoil,
Yet shall my spirit rest in ease
Till foes invade the soil.
Then let the friends of battle rave,
My peaceful vales shall sing;
And oxen, corn, and all I have,
Full thrice their value bring.
O may my lands yield twenty fold,
The army to supply;
May fat contractors, fraught with gold,
My copious harvests buy!
May continental rags no more
Usurp the place of coin;
But crown my basket and my store
With blessings from the mine!
N. Y. Evening Post.
WITHOUT THE CHILDREN.
BY J. H. MCNAUGHTON.
I.
O the weary, solemn silence
Of a house without the children!
O the strange, oppressive stillness
Where the children come no more!
Ah! the longing of the sleepless
For the soft arms of the children!
Ah! the longing for the faces
Peeping through the opening door-
Faces gone forevermore!
II.
Strange it is to wake at midnight,
And not hear the children breathing!
Nothing but the old clock ticking,
Ticking, ticking by the door.
Strange to see the little dresses
Hanging up there all the morning;
And the gaiters-ah! their patter!
We shall hear it never more
On our mirth-forsaken floor!
III.
What is home without the children?
'Tis the earth without its verdure,
And the sky without the sunshine;
Life is withered to the core!
So we'll leave this dreary desert,
And we'll follow the Good Shepherd
To the greener pastures vernal,
Where the lambs have ”gone before,"
With the Shepherd evermore! 
IV. 
O the weary, solemn silence
Of a house without the children!
O the strange, oppressive stillness
Where the children come no more!
Ah! the longing of the sleepless
For the soft arms of the children!
Ah! the longing for the faces
Peeping through the opening door-
Faces gone forevermore!
WHAT IS THE USE?
What is the use of trimming a lamp,
If you never intend to light it?
What is the use of grappling a wrong,
If you never intend to fight it?
What is the use of removing your hat,
If you do not intend to tarry?
What is the use of wooing a maid,
If you never intend to marry?
What is the use of buying a coat,
If you never intend to wear it?
What is the use of a house for two,
If you never intend to share it? 
What is the use of gathering gold,
If you never intend to keep it?
What is the use of planting a field,
If you never intend to reap it?
What is the use of buying a book,
If you never intend to read it?
What is the use of a cradle to rock,
If you never intend to need it?
FAITH IN TIME OF WAR. 
I read of battles, and my faith grows weak;
Does God look down on us with pitying eye?
With loving care each day his children seek?
I ask, but hear no voice to mine reply.
When tens and hundreds dying strew the plain,
What thought, I ask, is there for one alone?
Heeds He the single sufferer's short, sharp pain?
Hears He amidst the shouts his dying groan?
Ah, faithless heart! No one forsaken is,
Each soul of man is his perpetual care;
Living or dying, we are ever his,
Whose tender mercies all his creatures share;
Who, though the sword may slay, has power to save,
And gives to man the victory o'er the grave! J. V.
Christian Register.
<c02>
The Liberator.
TESTIMONY OF COLORED WITNESSES IN VIRGINIA.
A correspondent of the New York Tribune gives a long account of some interesting and remarkable proceedings in the County Court of the County of Alexandria, Va., in regard to the admission of the testimony of colored persons there.
In the case on trial in that Court, Graff vs. Howard, the plaintiff's attorney called as a witness Israel Dorsey, a colored man from the State of Massachusetts, declared by the attorney to be a citizen of that State. Objection being made on account of his African descent, the plaintiff's counsel alleged him to be a competent witness. The Court, however, sustained the objection, and refused the colored man's testimony. The plaintiff's attorney made exception to this ruling, and tendered a bill of exceptions for the Court to sign. The bill was accordingly signed and sealed by the full Court, consisting of five justices, Sept. 7th, 1864, and the case was continued to the next term of the Court.

The intention of the plaintiff in this case is, if necessary, to carry it by appeal to the highest Court of the State, and thence by writ of error after final decision to the Supreme Court of the United States, upon the constitutional questions involved. In the mean time, Israel Dorsey, whose testimony was rejected, has filed his bill of complaint in his own name in the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Virginia, against the Alexandria County Court, for a writ of mandamus commanding the latter not to refuse or reject his testimony.
A hearing upon the application last named was had at Alexandria on the 16th ult., in which Calvin Pepper, Esq., of Alexandria, and Ex-Governor Ford of Ohio, now of Washington, appeared for the petitioner, Dorsey. Various dignitaries of the State and city, and also a numerous and highly respectable committee of the colored citizens of Alexandria, appointed at a public meeting for the purpose, were present in court. Considering that Dorsey is contending for their rights, and the rights of every colored person in this matter, the colored citizens of Alexandria have assumed the entire expenses of the suit, and carry it on in behalf of civil liberty and universal emancipation. The Judge remarked that he did not wonder at the interest manifested by these people in the questions involved, for it had come to his knowledge that only the night before, a colored man had been kidnapped from Alexandria, and that the perpetrators expected to escape justice, as there were none but colored witnesses to testify against them. After conversation on the case, the hearing was postponed until the third Monday of October, Mr. Ford stating that the case would present questions of momentous importance, including the powers and duties of a rebellious State in process of reconstruction or under a provisional government.
The Tribune's correspondent concludes his very interesting account of this case by saying that the counsel for the complainant believe that the Court and the District Judge, in the legitimate exercise of their ordinary powers, can grant the prayer of the complainant; but, should such not be the case, that, in view of the rebellion and the exigencies of the country, the Court need not strictly scrutinize its powers, nor govern its action as in ordinary times, but by declaration, by advice, by obiter dictum, by compulsory action if need be, aid in the reconstruction of the rebellious State of Virginia, and its restoration to the Federal Union, upon the principles of justice, equality, and advancing civilization.-C. K. W.
RIGHTS OF BLACK SOLDIERS.
The Advertiser of the 5th inst. tells us that the cartel for the exchange of naval prisoners provides for all on each side, and that nothing is said in it about the race or color of prisoners. The Navy Department therefore expects that colored seamen will be exchanged the same as whites. Some other parties believe, however, that the rebels will not give up the negroes. It is known that they are pursuing the same course relative to runaway staves captured on vessels as when captured on land, advertising them, giving them up to owners if any appear, and selling them for charges if no owners are found.
If no specification including negroes is found in the terms of the instrument above referred to, and if no other requisition on the part of our Government demands just and equal treatment for this class of our defenders, it can hardly be expected that they will be made subjects of exchange by a party fighting for slavery. Justice to the colored soldiers and sailors certainly requires at least the effort to protest them, and that without regard to their previous condition as slave or free; unless, indeed, the duty to the ex-slave be regarded as specially imperative in its requirement.-C. K. W.
PROSCRIPTION AT WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) Oct. 5, 1864.
Editor of the Liberator:-I wish to correct a statement which I see going the rounds of the Northern press, and the substance of which appeared in the Liberator of last week, in paragraph 14th of the ”Address of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester," England-which is, that ”the equality of the negro is recognized in the public conveyances of the District of Columbia." This is true in law, but not in fact. There is scarcely a day that passes, during which negroes of this District are not most wantonly outraged in this respect. In a large number of the cars they are only permitted to stand up on the outside, in front with the driver. I have seen, more than once, colored soldiers put off, who had managed to get on by being in a crowd of white men, with the expression no d-d nigger rides on this car." I saw, one evening, a woman put off, through suspicion that she was colored. She was so nearly white that the conductor asked her if she was colored, and if so, she must get off. She refused to answer, and on that account it was taken for granted that she had African blood in her veins, and she was ejected. I am on the cars almost every day from Williard's to 6th street, and I speak from what occurs under my own observation.
J. B. M.
GENERAL FREMONT.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-I am not quite willing to read the reflections upon General Fremont in the last Liberator, without offering a word of comment, especially upon the imputation of his being influenced by ”private griefs," by a ”soured mind” and a” jaundiced vision," in his censure of the administration. I am the less in love with such imputations, when used in the place of argument, from having seen, in a late number of the National Magazine, the same terms applied to the Editor of the Liberator, in accounting for his former censures of the priesthood. I was not much surprised to see such arguments in a theological magazine when speaking of reformers; but I think it has not been the custom of the Liberator to impute base motives where just and honorable ones may fairly be allowed, and I think that General Fremont's magnanimous antecedents entitle him to the Liberator's usual courtesy and equity. If all who condemn or bitterly deplore President Lincoln's blunders and short comings are to be set down as ” soured” and ”jaundiced," many of the friends of the Liberator must share the censure, including Mr. Smith, whom you so eloquently and justly praise.
In the present crisis, it may be a wise policy to keep out of sight damaging facts, and General Fremont may not have been sufficiently cautious in proclaiming the failures of the administration. Yet that he spoke the truth must be well known to all who have read the Liberator for the past three years. It is not a sufficient defence to say that the nation has 
<c03>
survived and made progress. Boston flourished and made progress under Mayor Wightman's mayoralty; yet his administration was none the less a failure. No one man can quite block the wheels of Providence.
I think the logic of General Fremont's letter good. He withdraws his name, not for the purpose of aiding Mr. Lincoln's triumph, but to ensure the defeat of McClellan. We logically choose to endure present ills, rather ”than fly to others that we know not of." A large proportion of the most able advocates of Mr. Lincoln's reelection would prefer Fremont, but defer to the necessity of Union to defeat McClellan. I think this to be the position of most old and earnest abolitionists. Respectfully and truly yours,
D. M.
PUT OUT THE FIRE.
DEAR GARRISON-The following lines ran off the end of my pen somewhat hastily, yesterday, with a spare drop of ink after I had been writing somewhat more solid to the same effect Yours truly,
Boston, Oct. 10, 1864. J. T. SARGENT.
"PUT OUT THE FIRE."
We often hear some people say,
In compromising sort of way,
"Why, yes, we know that Slavery's bad;
But, then, you radicals are so mad!
We can't make out, with all our figures,
That we have aught to do with niggers!
Let's push this war with all our bravery,
And crush rebellion. Don't touch Slavery."
Now, this is just about as wise
As if,-with cataract o'er his eyes,-
A man should say, as to his blindness,
" I thank you, Doctors, for your kindness.
Of course, I want to save my vision,
But, for the cataract,-no excision!”
Or, just as if, with house in flames,
The foolish resident exclaims,
"DON'T MEDDLE; for'tis my desire
To save the house, but spare the fire!”
Great fool! Why, how fails he too see
The hopeless task which that will be!
" PUT OUT THE FIRE," says common sense,
Remove the curse! Kill the offence!
Strike the tap root! Wrench the disease
From off your vitals! Let no breeze
Of tolerance fan that conflagration
Which thus consumes a suffering nation.
For SLAVERY is the FIRE, the FLAME
The wasting plague, fore'er the same:
And so our cries go, higher, higher,
PUT OUT THE FIRE! PUT OUT THE FIRE! 

THE VINDICATION OF OUR COURSE. 
Time, it is said, ”brings its own revenges. "It certainly furnishes a safe reliance for all who act with rectitude of purpose. It tries all things and all persons, and the honest and true are pretty certain to obtain full vindication in the end. In the matter of our own political course, the developments which time is making are especially subjects for self-congratulation. It has so happened that, in relation to national politics, we recently found our selves separated from many with whom we had been co-operating, and with whom we were persuaded we fully agree in principle. The division has grown merely out of a question of policy. We have been well satisfied that the best mode offered to secure the success of our principles was to act in connection with the great Union party of the nation, which faithfully adheres to those principles, even in the support of a candidate who would not, under ordinary circumstances, be our first choice. We hold principles to be above men, and politics to be a business in which prudence, calculation and concession in minor maters are as necessary as in any of the ordinary pursuits among men. Our friends, to whom we allude, appeared to think differently. They concluded that the better policy to reach the ends sought alike by them and ourselves was to separate themselves from the Union party, and set up an independent organization of their own. Because we declined going into this enterprise, we incurred the displeasure of the, projectors of the new party, who reside numerously in our midst. This is a matter which has given us but little uneasiness. True, we regretted that any difference of opinion should arise between ourselves and any others with whom we harmonized in principle, but we were willing to leave to time the decision of the question whether we or they were right. That decision, we think, has now been pretty definitely made.
Our Radical friends, differing with us, supposed the Fremont movement to be a practicable scheme. We thought otherwise. To us it was visionary and hopeless from the outset. The support upon which its advocates placed their expectation of strength was one in which we. had no confidence. We allude, of course, to the Democratic party, from which General Fremont himself said he anticipated receiving ”the largest contingent” of his followers, and to which the Fremont leaders all over the country did not disguise that they looked for help. We could discover no wisdom in looking to enemies for the assistance which could be alone consistently demanded of friends. The result has certainly justified our premonition. Those Democrats who came into the Fremont movement did so merely to betray it. And with the failure of the Democratic reliance, Fremontism itself has become a failure.
And yet, building their anticipations of a great party upon the hope of an alliance with politicians whom we and they have long opposed, we were up-braided and denounced by Fremont men, because we would not unite with them in deserting the party with which we have long co-operated. Time has pricked the bubble which we refused to follow, and exposed its emptiness. We impute honesty of purpose to the majority of those who have been misled into its pursuit, and are, therefore, not disposed to retaliate, as we might, if so inclined, in the harsh terms they have so freely indulged towards us. But at the same time we must be indulged in saying that the leaders in the Fremont movement have displayed neither remarkable sagacity nor a commendable liberality. A portion of them have been honest enthusiasts, who have set up their own judgments against all the world; and the balance, politicians and adventurers, who had personal ends to accomplish, and mounted Fremontism as they would any other passing wave which might bear them to the goal they sought. The great mass of Fremonters, like the bulk of all other parties, have, honestly been led by those in whom they had confidence, and with whom the blame principally lies. But as the Fremont movement has proved to be what we pronounced it from the first, inconsiderate and chimerical, it is certainly to be hoped that all who have been deceived by it will in consequence value principle none the less, and make haste to put themselves in line with those who are laboring in the only practicable mode to make the principle a success.-Missouri Democrat.
AN EXTRAORDINARY REVELATION
Concerning McClellan and Pendleton.
As regards the statements contained in the herewith appended letter, (says the Philadelphia American and Gazette, Sept. 16,) we have no knowledge of our own, and can only say that the writer, Emile Burlier, was for some time in the service of the United States War Department. He is no empty talker; therefore what he say she derived from the sources mentioned in his letter; and that these things are universally asserted and believed at the South, there is an abundance of concurrent testimony:
GENTLEMEN: I am in possession of your note, in which you ask me if I remember having made certain assertions at the rooms of the National Union Club in January last, on my return from the rebel lines, in regard to General George B. McClellan and Clement L. Vallandigham, and desiring to know if I would reiterate said statement.
I recollect perfectly well having made certain statements in regard to the two persons named, and in presence of several members of the Club.
In response to your inquiry, if I would repeat said statement, I will answer you by saying: First-That while the battle before Richmond, Virginia, in 1862,. was still progressing, and immediately after General McClellan had fallen back from before that city, in company with a friend, an officer in the rebel service, who was prevented from joining his command in the fight in question, on account of a wound received at the battle of Seven Pines, and, being provided with a special permit from the War Department at Richmond, I visited the fortifications around Richmond, and advanced to a distance of about two miles north of the city, where we met Colonel Gayle of the 12th Alabama (rebel) regiment, who was a particular friend of the officer in whose company I was; also Lieutenant Colonel
<c04>
Pickens, of the same regiment, with whom I had the advantage of a personal acquaintance. The Colonel was superintending the disinterment of a number of cases of U. S. rifles, which lay buried in the ground, and in rows, the soil heaped over them, as if they were graves. Four of the cases of rifles were already unburied when I reached the spot, and I had the (to me unpleasant) satisfaction of handling some of those guns, which had already been taken out of the cases.
I heard Colonel Gayle say that the interment of these guns was known at the War Department (rebel) even before McClellan's retreat from before that city.
On the inquiry of my friend and Dr. Kelly, of the rebel army, from Colonel Gayle, if he thought it had been intended that said guns should fall into the hands of the Confederates, the Colonel answered in the affirmative, and concluded by “saving,” Mac's all right."
Not more than a hundred yards distant from this spot, Lieutenant Colonel Pickens pointed out to me a number of ambulances two hundred and ten in number-and said he had assisted at their capture, and that when captured the horses belonging to said ambulances were hitched, some to trees and some to the rear of the, ambulances. As I was then in the employ of the United States, it was my business to gather as much information in regard to military matters as possible; and on my inquiry of Colonel Pickens if he thought these ambulances had been intended to be in the same ”bargain” as the rifles, he said: ”I don't see what else they should have been intended for; for they were just where you see them, and the horses hitched as you see them, while the fight was going on right here."
Presently some whisky was handed round, and we all drank a toast to ”Little Mac."
About the month of April of the same year, as I was going from Richmond to Mobile, in company with Lieutenant Wiltz, and Dr. Kneed of Missouri, and Dr. Fontlerey, of Virginia the two latter gentlemen being of the rebel General Prince's staff we met with Brigadier General Watson, of Alabama. General Watson said in my presence that then, or at any time after the war, he could give satisfactory proof that George B. McClellan, of the Federal army, at the outbreak of the rebellion and, during the preliminary arrangements for the organization of the Confederate army, had offered his services to the Confederate Government, but that as the Confederate Government had resolved to give rank, in preference to officers formerly in the United States service according to seniority of rank, they could not give to McClellan what he desired, as other officers ranked him in seniority; and that McClellan, having become offended at this, offered his services to the United States.
In December, 1862, I had occasion to call on Governor Shorter, of Alabama, who was then sojourning at the Huntsville Hotel, Huntsville, Alabama. Governor Shorter introduced me to General Watson, who was present. The General recognized me immediately. And, as the Governor resumed a conversation with another person in the room, I, while in conversation with the General, had occasion to refer to our trip to Mobile; and I purposely brought about the conversation in reference to General McClellan., and General Watson reiterated the statement he had previously made in regard to McClellan.
In regard to Clement L. Vallandigham, the Ohio traitor, I will say that during his sojourn at Richmond, he was repeatedly closeted with Jeff. Davis, James A. Seddon, the rebel Secretary of War, and Judah P. Benjamin, the rebel Secretary of State.
During my visit, to Richmond at that epoch, I learned from reliable sources (rebel officials) that this Ohio traitor had pledged his word to the rebel authorities that if the Democratic party at the North succeeded in electing their candidate at the next Presidential election, he would use all his influence to obtain peace on the basis of a recognition of the Confederate States as a separate and independent government.
Moreover, during my stay at Richmond, having called on Mr. Benjamin, the Secretary of State, with a view to obtain an interview on business of a private character, I was told by an official in attendance at the Department of State-who, of course, believed me to be a loyal Confederate-that it was uncertain when I could chance to see Mr. Benjamin, and that as the visitor of Mr. Benjamin was Mr. Vallandigham, whom this official styled the ”Ohio refugee," the conference might be protracted to a late hour. On that day, although I waited until after the hour for transacting business at that department, I did not get to see Mr. Benjamin.
At that time, divers were the rumors in private circles among the rebels that Vallandigham had pledged himself to the confederate cause. Of this the War Department at Washington was informed in a report made by me and other government agents.
Great were the expectations of the rebels during my last visit within their lines, if this Vallandigham faction succeeded in electing their candidate to the Presidency.
Let it be remembered that this Vallandigham faction are the men who seek to elect George B. McClellan to an office which none but loyal men should fill.
Very respectfully, yours, &c.,
EMILE BOURLIER.
Philadelphia, Sept. 14, 1864, 
To the members of the National Union Club, Philadelphia.
McCLELLAN'S SUPPORTERS.
A short time ago, several of the McClellan presses were affecting to rejoice over the withdrawal of the Wood and Vallandigham faction from the support of their candidate. They declared that much of the capital of the Republicans was thus wasted, and that for every ultra peace, voter they lost, they would gain two conservatives. But since then, the peace leaders have paid General McClellan the compliment of considering his acceptance letter as a mere political bulletin, which he would be ready enough to repudiate if elected President, and so they have concluded to stick by him. Vallandigham, it is said, is going to take the stump for ”Little Mac," influenced by the promise of a seat in his cabinet; Fernando Wood has already done so; Voorhees has written a letter in favor of the ticket, and the whole ultra peace faction will probably follow these leaders. It may be assumed, therefore, that-
Mr. Fuller of Michigan, who pronounced ours to be ”an unholy cause,<illegible> vote for McClellan.
Mr. Sanderson of Pennsylvania, who thought ”this infernal war should stop," will vote for McClellan.
Mr. Burr of New Jersey, who declared that ”the South could not honorably lay down her arms," and who ”prayed God that the rebels might never be conquered," will vote for McClellan.
Mr. Dean of Iowa, who asserted that although the war had ”failed, failed, FAILED, FAILED," yet” the monster usurper wanted more men for his slaughter pens," will vote for McClellan.
Mr. Curtis of New York, who said that any man who would continue the present war was. worse than Satan himself, will vote for McClellan.
Capt. Kuntz, of Pennsylvania, who said that rather than that the present state of affairs should last, ”we must put our foot on the tyrant's neck” meaning President Lincoln, of whom he said, ”D-n him and his miserable followers”will vote, nay., he says: ”I should like to see the noble George B. McClellan as President."
Mr. O'Brien of Illinois, who, speaking of war Democrats, told his Chicago friends they must ”damn them to eternal infamy," will vote for McClellan.
Mr. Mahoney of Iowa, who declared that if the rebels would not come again into our Union circle, he was ”in favor of going to them," will vote for McClellan.
Mr. Reed of Indiana, who advised his hearers to ”shoot down those who would enforce the draft," will vote for McClellan.
The rebels in arms against the Union, and the Constitution cannot vote for McClellan, but according to their organs at Richmond, Charleston, Mobile and Several, they can and will fight for him, in fighting against the Government of the United States, and slaving our gallant brethren in the field-one of these organs boasting as follows:
"The influence of the South, more powerful in the shock of battle than when throwing her minority vote in an electoral college, will be cast in favor of Mc Clellan by this indirect yet efficacious means."
Such are some of the friends of McClellan as the nominee of the Chicago Convention. How do loyal men, ”without distinction of party," like the list? Boston Journal.
<c05>
WHO GO FOR McCLELLAN. 
Vallandigham, the traitor, goes for McClellan.
Wall, the notorious New Jersey copperhead and traitor, is for McClellan.
Every man who clamors for Peace and disgraceful submission to traitors, is a McClellan man.
Every man who utters the standing he that the ” Abolitionists" commenced the war is for McClellan.
Every rebel General, Colonel and Captain, are in favor of the election of George B. McClellan.
Every Knight of the ”Golden Circle” is for McClellan.
Every officer who has been dishonorably dismissed from the army, (for proof of this you can see them in the streets of Harrisburg,) will vote for McClellan.
Every contractor who has been detected in defrauding the Government huzzas for McClellan.
Every deserter from the army is for McClellan.
Every man who voted against the law allowing the soldier a vote goes for McClellan.
Every man interested in the rebel loan, such as the British rebel agent, Augustus Belmont, of New York, is a warm friend of McClellan.
Such is the character of the leading supporters of McClellan. Friends of the Union, what think ye of them?
THE McCLELLAN DRAMA OF FAILURE.
Col. James B. McKean, of the 77th N. Y. Regiment, in a speech at a Union meeting in New York city, on Tuesday evening, 27th ult., said:-
I went with a regiment into the Army of the Potomac. After being held in check for six months under Gen. McClellan, by an enemy one quarter our numbers, and who vanished as we advanced to meet them, we made a flank movement and went down to York town. There we halted a month, more than 100,000 strong, before an enemy that numbered just 7,511, upon the authority of Pollard, the rebel historian. Then we moved slowly up the peninsula and waited for the Chickahominy to rise. At length, after a series of reverses, the Young Napoleon had to change his base to the James. (Laughter.) Ah, me! is there in all history so melancholy a failure as that of Gen. McClellan? (Voices, ”No, no, no.") What is there of his career but this one tragedy of five acts? Act 1. Held in check six months by one quarter of his force: advances and finds wooden guns, but no foe. Act II.-Halts a whole month with more than 100,000 men before 7,611 men at Yorktown. Act III. After the battle of Williamsburg, allows his army to remain five days on the battle field while the enemy retreat;: then a week on the Pamunkey at the White. House while the enemy fortify Richmond; then stands astride the Chickahominy, waiting for it to rise. Act IV.-Retreats while even victorious with his four Generals, the head-boards of our dead being scattered over almost every rod of the retreating path of the army. Act V.-Stands with folded arms while Pope is slaughtered at Bull Run. (Loud applause.) What else is there in the campaign of this man before or after?
Said a member of the Cabinet to me at the time of the. retreat of Gen. Pope:” Three days age Gen. McClellan was ordered to send your corps (the 6th) to the relief of Pope, but he has not obeyed the order yet. I believe he wants Pope to be defeated." In the course of twenty-four hours the corps had marched. Too sick to ride on horseback, I followed, riding all night for the purpose., Remembering this conversation, and remembering the Pennsylvania campaign, I had sad forebodings. That splended Corps, the fighting 6th, that Corps marched to the vicinity of the field of battle, and there under the orders of somebody, stood with folded arms and fired not a shot in that disastrous fight and upon the field the miserable John Fitz Porter refused to obey orders, and Pope's Army was defeated. I ask what else is there in the career of this man to fit him for a candidate for the Presidency. He is now trying his hand at, a farce, and is now waving in his hand the most beautiful of white feathers, (cheers) and his colleague is clothed in the white robes of peace; but if you look a little more closely you will find under the white robes a girdle of snakes, and in his left hand is a scroll, and on it written; ”Charter of the Knights of the Golden Circle. A Western Confederacy, a Northern Revolution, success at the polls, or a free fight." And who are these, two characters? The latter the personification of pugnacious peace-Pendleton (hisses); and the former the personification of peaceful war-McClellan. (Hisses.) And now the play begins, and the chief turns to his subordinate and says:
" I am the greatest General of the age, you know; (laughter)
But the war is a failure, I found it so: (laughter and cheers,)
And even the gunboat I'd leave to its fate
For a ride on the poop of the ship of State. (Cheers.)
At the stem still Grant holds the old ship fast,
And Farragut stands at the mizzen mast: (cheers,)
And a quick, live form is sentry on board,
And the forecastle's guarded by Sherman's sword.
(Cheers.)
I have it, oh Pen. I see what to do,
We'll get up a raffle and swindle the crew:
Throw dice that are loaded, tell truths or tell lies,
Anything, anything, to snatch but the prize
That we, thimble riggers, know how to play for:
So you talk of peace, and I'll talk of war." (Cheers.)
Was ever such a spectacle presented before, even in time of peace, much less than of war. You cry ”Watchman, what of the night?" I answer, ”The elections are going all right." Vermont, Maine, Mobile, and that immense bomb from Atlanta have fallen on the Copperhead camps, as the fires fell on Sodom and Gomorrah, and even in the Shenandoah Valley, the Democrats have adjourned their meeting to a place higher up the Valley (cheers,) to four o'clock in the afternoon; and, unkindest cut of all, the Secretary of War telegraphs the news up to Horatio Seymour.
COPPERHEAD AFFECTION FOR THE PRIVATE SOLDIERY.
The devoted love of the ”Peace Democracy” for the enlisted men of the army, in especial contradistinction to the ”shoulder-straps," is truly touching. In what a variety of ways do they manifest it!
If there is one desire on the part of the soldiers which predominates above all others, it is to be able to feel in their hearts that the cause in which they are fighting is a just one. Behold how the Copperheads contribute to this end!
If the soldiers were to be consulted in regard to the conscription, they would say, ”Draft, draft, draft!" for they feel that those who stay at home and grumble at the war should be made to bear their part. Behold how the Copperheads favor the draft!

If the soldiers had their way, they would have all guerrillas hung; and while they would treat as honorable enemies prisoners taken in regular uniform and in line of battle, they execrate such creatures as John Morgan, who stole horses and murdered peaceable citizens in a civilian's garb. Behold how the Copperhead press agree with the soldiers of the Union, by eulogizing the late John Morgan as a hero!
If the heavy hand of discipline were to be removed from the army for a few weeks, the soldiers would clean out the Copperhead presses, the Copperhead orators, and the Copperhead meetings, all over the country; and it is because the Union party is opposed to lawlessness and mob rule, that they discountenance such procedures, and advocate free speech. And yet the traitorous crew of peace sneaks, who ought to be immeasurably grateful to the Union men for standing between them and the indignant blue-jackets, have the unparalleled effrontery to claim to be the friends of the soldiers!
Ask the private soldier who it is that insults the flag of the Union, and he will tell you at once, it is the model Peace Democrat, who swears by George B. McClellan. Who is the favorite for the Presidency of that lady (?) who steps off the sidewalk into the mud, rather than walk beneath the stars and stripes? George B. McClellan.
Poll Gratiot Street Prison in St. Louis, the Irving Block in Memphis, Fort Lafayette, Fort Warren, or Fort McHenry, and while the guard will invariably vote for Abraham Lincoln, the guarded would, if they could, vote for George B. McClellan. How would Quantrell vote, if he could? How Holtzclaw? How every guerrilla and bushwhacker? For George B. McClellan.
Surely, the party whose ticket commands the voters or sympathies of all the traitors, spies, guerrillas, bushwhackers and horse-thieves in the country must have special claims upon the affection of the veteran soldiers of the Union!
<c06>
It makes no difference whether the candidate of such a party is a soldier himself-yes, it makes this difference: it renders him more odious to the true American soldier than a regular peace candidate would be; for he becomes in his own person, by his acceptance of the position, responsible for and guilty of all the contumely, reproach and slander that the traitorous Copperhead party, of which he is the candidate, has heaped upon the soldier, the army, the flag, and the cause of the American Union, Missouri Democrat.
COLORED TROOPS. 
We commend the following sensible statement of an eye-witness, which we clip from the Boston Transcript, to those who are disturbed at the Copperhead sneers over the deserter at Petersburg, and commend them to recall in this connection the dispatches of yesterday, announcing the relief of the garrison at Dalton, through the gallantry of the 14th United States colored troops, who, it is stated, ”charged the rebels with an impetuosity that was irresistible," and the latter ”fled in confusion:-
BRAVERY OF THE COLORED TROOPS. As some Copperhead paper feels inclined to saddle the late repulse at Petersburg on the colored troops, who (as at Fort Wagner and Port Hudson) formed the storming party, we are enabled to give some interesting facts on this point from a private letter of an officer who was in the conflict:-
"In regard to the bravery of the colored troops, although I have been in upwards of twenty battles, I never saw so many cases of gallantry. The crater where we were halted was a perfect slaughter-pen. Had not' some one blundered,' but moved us up at daylight instead of 8 o'clock, we should have been crowned with success, instead of being cut to pieces by a terrific enfilading fire, and finally forced from the field in a panic. We had no trouble in rallying the troops, and moving them into the rifle pits; and in one hour after the rout, I had nearly as many men together as were left unhurt.

I was never under such a terrific fire, and can hardly realize how any escaped alive. Our loss was heavy; in the 28th colored, for instance, commanded by Lieut. Col. Russell, (a Bostonian.) we lost seven officers out of eleven, and ninety-one men out of two hundred and twenty-four, and the Colonel himself was knocked over senseless, for a few minutes, by a slight wound in the head. Both his color-sergeants and his color-guards were killed. Col. Bross, of the 29th, was killed outright, and nearly every one of the officers hit. This was nearly equal to Bunker Hill. Col. Ross, of the 31st, lost his leg. The 28th, 29th, and 30th colored all charged over the works; climbing up an earthwork six feet high, then down into a ditch, and up on the other side, all the time under the severest fire in front and flank. Not being supported, of course the storming party fell back. I have seen white troops run faster than those darkies did,. when in not half so tight a place. Our brigade lost but thirty-six prisoners, all cut off after leaving the ‘crater,. My faith in colored troops is not abated one jot."-Louisville Daily Press.
GOLD.
The fall in the price of gold is the happy result of the great victories achieved by Sherman and Sheridan at Atlanta and in the Shenandoah Valley. As gold tumbles, down goes the price of everything with it, much to the joy of the people, and much to the disgust of the speculators and the copperhead politicians, who are at work to make the people believe that the Administration is responsible for the high prices of provisions and clothing. The people should not be deceived and humbugged by sapient orators, and sapient presses, who are striving to obtain power upon the ruin of the nation. They have appealed to the passions and to the prejudices of the people to vote them into office, when it is well known that if the people should heed their cry, a state of things would come upon as far more oppressive than that which we now have to contend with, and which would crush out the life of the nation and the liberty of the people. The success of McClellan means the success of the South over the North, with an at' tempt to repudiate the public debt, and to tax the North to pay the war debt of the South and for the slaves made free by the war; and to establish a military despotism. The liberty of the press and the liberty of speech would then disappear, and a monarchy be established more despotic than that which exists in England or France. We would appeal to every laboring man and to every mechanic not to be deceived by the demagogue appeals to them by windy orators about high prices and perpetual war. The way to avoid perpetual war and high prices is to destroy the rebel armies, which Grant., Sheridan. Farragut and Sherman are doing most effectually. Every man who holds a Government bond or greenback should vote to make them good. Suppose the Government should fail to redeem its promises to pay, who would suffer so much as the laboring classes? Would it not enhance the price of living and reduce the price of labor? Is not labor better paid now than it ever was before, and will not success in the field bring down the price of living, as is now being done? There is no class so deeply interested in maintaining the integrity of the Government as the laboring class. If the Government fail, they fail, and their rights and liberty are gone forever. This is why the London Times and the aristocracy of Great Britain are anxious that McClellan should be elected President. Will the people vote to please the nobility of Great Britain, or will they vote to protect themselves? It is no time now for the people to trifle with their interests. They have an important duty to perform if they would protect themselves, which is, to cast their votes against the men in the free States who would sell them out to such despots as Jefferson Davis, Louis Napoleon, and the Tories of England. Put down the rebellion, restore peace to the Union, and down will go the price of living, and down will go the men in the free States who, while pretending to be the friends of the people, are secretly plotting their destruction. -Boson Herald- (War Democrat.)

WHAT IS TO BECOME OF THE BLACKS?
Hon. Samuel Hooper answered this question in his speech of last week before the Republicans of Ward Nine, in Boston, as follows:
To those who ask what is to become of the blacks when slavery is abolished, and who affect an apprehension that the present free States of the North may be overrun with them, I would recommend the report of Mr. Conway, the superintendent of free labor in Louisiana, recently made to General Canby, on the results of the system. He says, in his report, that there are sixty free schools with one hundred teachers and eight thousand scholars; that the number of blacks employed on plantations is about 35,000, of whom about one-fourth are first-class hands, receiving wages at eight dollars per month besides board, clothing, medical attendance, schooling for their children, and one acre of ground, worth five hundred dollars, to raise cotton. The wages paid to the laborers, he says, is as a whole more remunerative than has been ordinarily paid to farm hands in the North who work by the year.
At the close of the present year there will be an average of about fifty dollars due to each one of the 35,000, in addition to their little crop of cotton, corn, sugar, potatoes, &c., which will average to each more than is due them for wages. There are besides 15,000 of whom he has no return, and 30,000 in the city of New Orleans; making a total of 80,000 blacks there who are working for wages under the educational and labor system established by Gen. Banks in Louisiana. Is it at all probable that any of those laborers would be inclined to leave their occupation at the South to come among us in the cold climate of the North, to which they are not accustomed, and to a colder welcome from the prejudices existing against them here? In my opinion, when slavery no longer exists at the South, there will be two colored men go South from here to every one that comes North from there.
Proclamation of Freedom.
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's Pen-and-Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation-handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of $500 presented to the President of the United States. A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00. A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country.
Copy-right secured. Apply to
ROWLAND JOHNSON,
54 Beaver st, New York, 119 Market st., Phila.
August 19.
