THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be dent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters <illegible>the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (post paid.) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square <illegible> three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00
The Agents of the American; Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for the liberator.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, via:-Francis Jackson, <illegible> Edmund Jackson, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. N0.44. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1558.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
MORAL AND POLITICAL DEPRAVITY.
Last week, there was a Torch-Light Procession in the city of New York, (numbering thirty thousand <illegible> extending several miles in length, and occupying more than three hours in passing a given point,) imposed of the partisans of the Breckinridge, Douglas, and Hell, under the leadership of the notorious bully and ruffian, <illegible> Renders, in opposition to and contempt of the cause of human freedom, even as feebly and equivocally represented by the Republican party. To show the indecent and depraved spirit which animated this immense gathering, we give below a description of the revolting spectacle, as published in the papers friendly to this pro-slavery demonstration.
The New York Herald says:-
In the rear of the Club was a truck, covered with <illegible>and devices, and drawn by four horses, richly <illegible>on either side were banners, with the titles beneath:' Weighed in the Balance!' The banner scene represented Old Abe riding on the centre of a beam, suspended on a pivot. On one and was an egress, whose corpulence succeeded in <illegible> it; and on the other was Greeley, in the act of falling from his position. Over the African lady was a scroll, with the words, Guess I've the leave (at, Massac.' The Mattered' white <illegible>of the Philosopher' appeared on the ground, and was marked on the band-' Tribune.
A small truck, drawn by a jackass, was occupied be two individuals-one representing a well-known Republican editor, dressed in a white hat and a drab coat, and the other an African lady. The gentleman appeared to pay much loving attention in his dark-colored partner. A banner over the <illegible> of the parties, illustrating the scene, was inscribed as follows:' The Effect of the Irrepressible <illegible>.'
The Daily News describes this as follows:-Next the Second Ward Clubs appeared on Printing House square, and directly in front of the office of the Tribune, with the Times office, of course, on one side. Vans, cars, carriages and other vehicles were in the line; but the funniest one bore a fine <illegible> of a son of Erin, dressed up to represent <illegible> Greeley. The old white hat, the coat, the face, indeed everything was inimitable, and the entire make-up was such, that if it were not well known the thing was a burlesque, Horace might have been considered to be present in propriety persona. Beside him sat a' colludoussen,' dressed as a lady, whether she was such or not, was not ascertained, and over their head was carried a lantern bearing the words:' The Effect of the Irrepressible Conflict.
Among their novelties was a very large transparency, representing a boat, Lincoln at the head with a black flag labeled Discord,' and Horace Greeley at the stern, holding the tiller in his right hand and the Tribune in the left. Between these worthies who were thus made to personate pilot and helmsman, sat the amalgamations-in one case a thick-lipped negro embracing a white girl, while a fellow-darkly exclaims, 'I've looking at you, Sam;' and Saw chuckles an answer,' Yah, yah!' The boat is labeled' Steamer Abe Lincoln, Capt. Greeley, for the Mormon settlement, Nov. 7. 1860.' the prow of the boat touches land, where it is met by Jonathan, who says,' Look here, old Abe, don't land that crowd here.' Old Abe responds,' Why, Jonathan? These are my principles.' Horace is made to say,' Colored folks have preference of state-rooms;' and one of the party says, 'Free Love and Free Niggers will certainly elect Old Abe, if the (Lincoln) pilots us safe.'
Then followed another wagon, on which was a representation of a dilapidated farm-scene, Horace Greeley in the front ground, a nigger riding astride the rails, &e.
Lincoln sitting on cross-rails; Greeley dressed shabbily, as is his wont, with a dirty copy of the Tribune in his hands, and the words over head: Vote our ticket. We are not Abolitionists until Old Abe is elected.' A cunning-looking Yankee stood on the left of Greeley, eyeing him keenly. Over his head was the motto:' I see the nigger peeping through the fence.'
On a long wagon was a large transparency with three figures thereon. The first represented a nigger with outstretched arms, grasping Horace Greeley with the left hand, and a sorry-looking figure of Abe Lincoln with the right. Beneath these three sable gentlemen was the inscription:' The Almighty Nigger.
Following the others came a dusky cart, in which was an individual dressed-were we to judge from all appearances-in the cast-off clothes of Horace Greeley; at all events, he was got up to represent that person. At his side was placed a large and good-looking nigger wench, whom he caressed with all the affection of a true Republican. This produced great cheers and laughter from the thousands of spectators, and many were the derisive epithets hurled after them as they proceeded.
An illuminated wagon, with a painting on either side representing a boat, in which is seated a miscellaneous number of white and black personages, with the editor of a well-known Republican paper at the helm, who is supposed to be saying,' Free love and free niggers will certainly elect Old Abe, if he pilots us safe. Colored folks have preference of staterooms? The boat is about to land, but Brother Jonathan, with a vigorous push, is keeping it off, at the same time exclaiming,' don't land that crowd here!' Around the lower part of the wagon is the inscription,' Steamer Abe Lincoln, Capt. Greeley, for Mormon Settlement, Nov. 7, 1860.'
After a line of horsemen, was borne on a wagon a most characteristic and laughable group of figures representing' Horace Greeley-A Nigger-Abe Lincoln.
The nigger, with most distorted grin, had hold of Massac Greeley's elfin locks by the left hand while he held those of poor Abe's by the right, and pretty smart he hold them, to judge by the agony depicted in the countenance of the philosopher. The inscription was: The Almighty nigger.'
But what drew the most attention was a wagon with a large lighted transparency, representing, in a most grotesque and Judicious manner, the following interesting group: A corner fence with the usual number of rails, old Virginia style; top figure Abe Lincoln astride of them, holding on like grim death; beneath him, in a lurking attitude, appeared the greasy face and wooly head of a well-to-do nigger. In front of these was represented Horace Greeley badly down in the heels of his boots, the 'Tribune stuck out of his coat pocket, and his pants stuck into the legs of his boots; one arm was stretched out as if preventing the detection of the nigger by a peering, curious-looking gentleman, who was, however,' not to be done.' This gentleman, slightly stooped, with one band on his bent knee, and the other pointing to the nigger on the fence, whom he has detected, despite the efforts of Lincoln and Greeley, triumphantly chuckles aloud: 'I see the nigger peering through the fence.' Round the figures were the words:' Lincoln on the fence; the
<c02>
Nigger on the fence; the nigger under the fence; the nigger on the woodpile.' On the front of the transparency were the words:' Republican Platform-Rails and Wool.'
One large transparency was also borne along displaying the words:' It's the nigger what can carry you safe to the White House, Massac Abe.' and representing an old corpulent African knocking five or six fellow-countrymen of his aside, and seizing Lincoln to drag him toward the White House, which appeared in the distance.
Figure of a nigger leading a white lady, with capacious hope, to the White House. Over the above was the inscription: 'Republicanism.'
A car drawn by six horses, with Negroes; horses, and stags painted on canvas, with the inscription: 'Ties no use; nigger can't beat white folks, no how; Behind the Shoemakers was a cart all crossed with rails. Within these rails two Negroes were seen trying to pet out, but all the time frustrated by the rails. This satirical display provoked much mirth during the route.
A truck drawn by two asses, and containing a bona fide Negro, dressed in the uniform of the Wide Awakes, followed. A banner above him was inscribed with the words,' we've caught the only Wide-Awake in the Sixth Ward." The negro, feeling shyness, had a scroll above him, on which the following was painted:' is You Gazing at Me, White Folks?'
A wagon followed, with a representation of a Southern plantation, in which the home of the master is seen on fire. A negro, with a white clergyman at his back-supposed to represent a well-known Abolitionist minister of New York-is exclaiming-' I has killed mass and missus and will now have food for my wife. Brooder Cheerer will marry us.' At the feet of the darkly is a white, kneeling in an imploring attitude. The club numbered 230 men, bearing red, white and blue lanterns, and was attired in white canes, with blue borders and red collars.-New York Herald.
The New York Express has as follows:-
They had a large truck drawn by four spirited black horses, wearing tri-colored plumes. The truck bore a huge picture, representing a slave, knife in hand, and at his feet a white female begging for release from the impending blow of his steel. In the foreground were white people lying dead near burning houses, and a well, labeled strychnine.' In; the background was a man of the Gospel, in clerical robes, exclaiming, with upraised hands:' Amen! This work goes gloriously on. Heaven be praised!' Over the top of the picture was inscribed,' Higher Law.'
On one of the transparencies was the picture of a flank, ugly-looking fellow, with long, streaming hair, and an ax in his hand. Above was the pertinent query:' what is it?' Below:' The Real Rail Splitter.'
In the centre was an artisan's arm holding a hammer in his hand, which he was supposed to be bringing down on the devoted head of Lincoln with' Volcanic' vigor.
The crowning design of the Club was a Coffin, which was borne on a truck, and accompanied by pall bearers. The following was the inscription: To the Memory of Old Abe Lincoln, Died November 6, 1860.'
The Tenth Ward displayed the following, with numerous other mottoes: Republican Principle-'The Negro better than the White Man.' Republican Practice-' Union of Black and White.' What' Free Negro Suffrage' Really Means-' Amalgamation in the Military. Amalgamation in the Fire Department. Amalgamation in the Social Circle."
The City Unionists' transparencies presented a list; of' Republican proclivities' inscribed as follows:' Free Love," Free Plunder," Free Niggers." Pikes and Sharp's Rifles." Republican Conservatism." No Rail Splitters Here." No Amalgamation." Republican Platform-Rails and Wool." No Negro Equality. "No Rokreekoes Here." Mass Greeley and Master Samba." Retool de roll de roll." Radical Republican Principles." Free Love, Free Niggers, and Free Women!" Balm of a Thousand Flowers." The Niggers of the North!'
SCARE-CROW. From the New York Journal of Commerce.
'Terrorism' at the SOUTH-It falls to my lot to peruse daily from half a dozen to two dozen letters, received from all parts of the South,-from little villages and cross-road towns to the large cities, and I will give you a few extracts from some of them, Here is an extract from a letter from Huntsville, Alabama:' Times are very hard. All our banks are refusing to discount until after the election. Everything is dull and gloomy.'
A well known gentleman, President of a bank in Southern Alabama, tells us-' There is a bitter feeling against the North, and it is having a bad effect on business. Lincoln's election will cause trouble.' A letter from Americus, Ga., closes with these words:' Money matters are very tight. Polities are causing all the trouble; and should the Republicans succeed, we may expect still tighter times.' A gentleman from Atlanta, Ga., writes:' Money is as scarce as in 1857. The people fear trouble in the event of Lincoln's success, and are hoarding up their money. Those who have any are holding on to it like grim death to a dead cat.'
We have many such extracts, but the above are enough. Ought we not to ask,' Is all well?'-C.,
THE FOREIGN SLAVE TRADES A BLESSING. From the N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
The native African is an <illegible> drunkard, a thief, a liar, revengeful, licentious, groveling in his habits, almost destitute of natural affection, unprogressive in character, and in religion a devotee of the obscene mysteries of Fetishism.
The Negroes held in slavery in the United States are much better off, physically and morally, than their ignorant and degraded brothers in Africa. Everybody knows this, and believes in his heart that the condition, prospects and character of the Negro improve under the refining influences of civilized life. We may safely say, also, that scarcely a fraction of the people of the United States is in favor of now freeing the slave. Why, then, in the face of the well-authenticated facts we have stated, do the abolitionists, fanatics, and many leaders of the Republican party, persist in their wild and reckless theories, whose development is dragging the Union to the verge of the precipice? To raise up the great African race from seldom to a. condition of advancement and civilization, or to place them in a position where every favor and liberty and right, social and political, shall be allowed them, just as it is allowed to the whites, is a possibility of which we may dream for coming ages. But in the present posture of affairs, and with our present knowledge of the insurmountable difficulties in the way of such an event, we know, first of all, that only those who own slaves can abolish slavery, and then, that every imprudent, or concealed, or violent opposition on the part of Northern men, does more injury than good, and impedes the advancement of genuine humanity.
<c03>
From the Aurora of the alley, (Repub.) Bradford, TV 
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
Our readers have noticed in our paper for a few weeks past, a call for the annual Anti-Slavery Convention to be held at Bradford next week. This convention has but few sympathizers in Braded, and we presume was called at this place through the influence of Rev. N. R. Johnston, of Topsham, one of the signers of the call. If this convention is to be conducted as the one that was held in this place nearly three years ago, we can hardly expect that the condition of the slave will be very much improved in consequence; or that there will be many additions to the anti-slavery ranks. The abuse that was heaped upon some of the best and most candid men, who were present at the time with the intention of taking a fair part in the exercises, was little calculated to foster a feeling of respect for the cause or its advocates.
There are many men, who pity the condition of the slave that will hesitate about uniting themselves with those who curse the Constitution and its supporters. Very many Republicans feel that slavery is a great wrong morally, and a mistake politically, yet they do not deem it their duty to attempt to overthrow the government in consequence. We believe that those who formed the convention, three years ago, thought the Republican Party quite as had as any on the slavery question, and would have no alliance with it. We cannot say that we have any great reasons for sorrow on that account, and we presume the convention next week will be of the same opinion as the former one, as some of the same men are to be present-that were here before. They wish to have nothing to do with those who acknowledge the Constitution or the United States Government. These man, Garrisoning, are so extreme, that even Fred Douglass, a run-away slave, and one who should feel some-sympathy for the oppressed, cannot fraternize with them. The Abolitionists of the class who are to take the lead in, the convention next week, think it wrong; to vote, or to do anything that acknowledges the Constitution or government, although willing enough to enjoy the protection which the government affords to their persons and their property. They belong to the class of reformers who are always ready to tear down, but who have no plan for a new system. Such men may do good by chance sometimes, but we doubt very much the safety or propriety of acting, generally, upon, the principles or motives that actuate them.
DR. CAMPBELL AND MR. GARRISON".
From the New York Independent.
Already there is begriming to be in, England some just appreciation of the healthy progress of Christian anti-slavery sentiment as distinguished from the sporadic gyrations of an irreligious humanitarianism.
The following article from the British Standard, which we copy at its request, will show that the Christian people of England begin to comprehend the distinction between opposing the sin of slavery with the Gospel, and denouncing the institutions of the Gospel because slavery exists! If Dr. Campbell will take pains to familiarize himself with the organ of the latter school published in this city, he will find that it goes beyond its Boston ally in all malice and deceivableness of unrighteousness, by as much as it falls short of that journal in intellectual liability and public influence. When vehement commendation is bestowed upon a Christian minister or a church in such quarters, it is not at all through love of the Gospel or a desire for its progress, but with the hope of cajoling such minister or church into a false position toward the ministry at large and the whole Church of Christ, in order the more effectually to vilify both. In this country, a decent self-respect compels those who value the Christian name, to leave such journals entirely to their own sphere. We barely allude to them, once for all, that English Christians may understand their spirit and attitude toward all that is vital in the Christian system. We invite Dr. Campbell's attention to this point; while injustice to him we give his statement of his own position:-
From the British Standard.
On receiving our copy of the N. Y. Independent this week, we opened on the following paragraph:
The following is from the Liberator:-" When Dr. Cheever, in the course of his speech, said a good word for Mr. Garrison, a cloud passed over the faces of most of the ministers [not of the laity] on the platform!!" And that "good word" Dr. Campbell of the British Standard has the meanness to suppress., in printing a professedly verbatim report of Dr. Cheever's speech in his paper! It is just like him; he is a most unscrupulous man, and a slanderer of the worst stamp, as we had occasion to show the British people when we were last in England."
We hope that Dr. Campbell will see this personal compliment. It may help just now to enlighten him and others in England as to the difference between preaching the Gospel against slavery, and proclaiming anti-slavery against the Gospel.
Yes, we' see the compliment,' and appreciate it. What is said of a 'cloud' is a pure fiction, and so is the assertion about the British Standard. Dr. Cheever's speech, we repeat, was printed verbatim from his own manuscript. Not one word was either added or subtracted, by the editor, the reporter, or by any one else. For the truth of this we appeal to Dr. Cheever, now in England, and in this office but a few days ago. We rejoice that the wide Atlantic is between us and W. Lloyd Garrison and his Liberator: Impiety alone is bad enough; but, when clothed in falsehood and soaked in malignity, it becomes still more hideous, and thrice revolting.
We thank the Independent for its good and generous words, and beg to assure it that we are not at all troubled by the explosions of Mr. W. Lloyd Garrison. We well remember the visit of which he speaks to England, and all the circumstances attending it. Yes, we sat beside him on the platform of Exeter Hall, at an anti-slavery meeting, when he' clenched his hand, raised his arm, and exclaimed,' Your God is my Devil!'
While we shuddered, we were taught a lesson. We saw that it was not by men of the Garrisoning spirit that the empire of slavery was to be overthrown. We were careful to familiarize ourselves with the Liberator, where we constantly saw the infidel spirit which lived and flamed and fulminated in its brimstone columns. Ever since we have continued to note the transactions of the annual meetings of Mr. Garrison's Society, and regret to say that time and experience have done nothing either to correct their views or to soften their spirit. It is no wonder if American ministers and gentlemen, the true friends of the slave, stand aloof from such men and such movements, although to them the price of principle and of prudence is slander and calumny.
We look back with special satisfaction to the course we pursued toward Mr. Garrison. By the articles we then issued, the doors of our cities and great towns were closed. He repaid our good offices by a torrent of anathema as he left oar shores, and often since he has endeavored to blast our good name.
We trust our friend the Independent will grant us a corner in his noble sheet for this out reply to our calumniator.
<c04>
SELECTIONS.
NOTES FROM THE CAPITOL.
BY D. W. BARTLETT.
WASHINGTON, D. C., Oct. 22, 1860.
I should not be a faithful correspondent, did I fail to give you some idea of the effect of the late elections-in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Indiana-upon Washington and the country surrounding it. The changes which are going on in our midst are almost miraculous. All that was needed was the bugle-note of victory from the Northern bills, to set us on fire with enthusiasm along the border. Where, one year ago, when the troops of Virginia were marching to the defence of Harper's Ferry, against poor John Brown, there was one Republican in this district, they are now one hundred. There are not less than one thousand able-bodied Republican voters in it to-day, and in less than a year from this time that number will be more than double.
Men are not so bold on slave soil, as a matter of course, upon the slavery question, as they are in the free States, for they have been obliged to be cautious for their personal safety. But the prospect of a new order of things not only creates anti-slavery sentiment, but reveals to the eye a vast deal which, heretofore, has been covered up. The great non slaveholding class in the border slave States begins to make itself felt, and nowhere in the Union were the late Republican victories received with more delight and enthusiasm than in Western Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. A gentleman, fresh from Western Virginia, informs me that it is ripe for emancipation. The non-slaveholders there are restive under the burdens which the slaveholding State government has imposed upon them. Slave property, so largely owned in the eastern part of the State, is not taxed, while everything the non-slaveholder possesses is levied upon, even to his income. So in Maryland. The tide is turning there, and Republicanism will soon be a strong power in the State. One week ago Saturday, and a singular sight was presented in old Montgomery county. An outdoor Republican meeting was held-a political mass-meeting on slave soil! I believe it was the first, outside of Baltimore, ever held in Maryland. The day was a beautiful one, and every way pleasant for such an occurrences. The mild, Indian summer sunshine-the purple hills and the slumbering forests, which made up a part of the scenery of the occasion, did hot constitute a more striking picture of quiet than the meeting itself. There was a large gathering of Republicans and Democrats-the latter outnumbering the former by hundreds; but there was no mob. Eloquent Republican speeches were delivered, but there were no riotous interruptions. In short, the meeting was a perfect success. Set this down as an important fact. Such meetings in Maryland and Virginia will be common enough hereafter; but they are wonderful events just now. Well may Mr. Yancey open his eyes, and declare the danger of Lincoln's election to be, that it will create an anti-slavery party in the South.
In Washington, the stampede from the ranks of the old parties to the Republican organization is astonishing. At each weekly meeting of the local Republican Association, one or two hundred new names are recorded upon the books. There were men in the Wide Awake procession, which marched up the avenue to the White House, a few nights ago, who ware a part of the angry mob which, a few years since, surrounded for three successive nights the National Era building, and were prevented by the police from razing it even with the ground. There are men-our most active and radical Republicans now-who chased Capt. Drayton all the way up from the navy-yard to the court-house-a distance of two miles-demanding his life at every step! Do you remember that scene? Drayton was a bravo man, and did not fear to die. But the mob was so hideous, and the attempts to take him from the officers and inflict summary vengeance upon him were so bold and violent, that he cried out to the officers at his side, 'For Heaven's sake, shoot me, and save me from those fiends!' Yet some of those fiends' have, since then, opened their eyes to the truth, and are to-day anti-slavery men. This teaches us not to despair of the Southern people, however violent they may be. Slavery blinds and be crazes its devotees. God's truth will some day tear off the scales, and bestow a right mind.
The disunion cry is, I think, nearly ended. There is a fresh shrick, however, just now, for effect in the State of New York at the November election. There are men here, and all over the South, who ever that several slave States will secede, in the event of Lincoln's election, which is now admitted on all sides to be nearly certain. The most of this bluster is for political effect, and it is encouraged by men high in office, both from the North and the South. It cannot be denied that Cabinet officers have aided and abetted this theoretical treason. Mr. Buchanan has traitors in office all over the South, and has never removed one of them. Several of his secretaries have patronized the most violent of the disunions, and Northern men like Mr. Toucey and
Mr. Black has winked at the treason, hoping to gain something by it in the elections. That there is some honest disunion in the South is true. One of these I saw upon the Avenue, the other day.
He was furious in his determination to prevent the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln next March. The following conversation between him and a prominent Republican here, took place on that occasion: republican. But how can you prevent his inauguration? Disunions. With guns, of course. Virginia alone can spare 25,000 men, all armed, for that purpose republican. Even if you were to attempt so crazy a project, and were at first successful, do you not know that a million of men could be brought against you, if they were necessary? Three-fourths of the able-bodied men of this Union, would fight for its perpetuity, or, at least, to give Mr. Lincoln, or any other citizen, his Constitutional rights. Do you imagine that a few slave States, made weak by the possession of a vast slave population, could make any headway against the great mass of the nation?
Disunions. Well, what if South Carolina, Alabama, and Mississippi go out of the Union, how are you going to get them back again?
Republican. Were I Mr. Lincoln, I would attempt no such thing. Put a man-of-war at Charleston and Mobile, and collect the customs; cut off the post-office facilities from those States, and let them starve into submission. That would be my policy. I would have no fighting m such a case. But it any man or set of men were, by force of arms, to try to take possession of the Capitol to prevent the inauguration of the legally elected President, I would hang every traitor of them, though Gov. Wise himself were among them. You, talk about scaring the people of the United States with the mad pranks of a few slaveholders! I tell you, when ten men can conquer a hundred, you will succeed-and not till then!
<c05>
Disunions finally admitted that, even in his opinion his sober second thought-there would be no practical treason in Washington or at the Smith; and somewhat sobered by the boldness of Republican's language, be walked away. He was a fair specimen of the most rampant of the Secessionists.-New York Independent.
MR. EVERETT CALLED TO ACCOUNT.
Mr. B. B. Mc Craw, one of the Electors on the Bell and Everett ticket in Alabama, has gone over to Breckinridge. He heard Mr. S. F. Rice state in a speech at Dadeville, that Mr. Everett was in favor of the doctrine of the equality of the races; adducing as proof of the fact that he sent his children to school wife negroes. He addressed Mr. Everett a letter asking him this question; Are you in favor of the doctrine of the equality at the two races?' and received the following rapidly, which he considered an affirmative answer:-
Boston, Wednesday, Oct. 3, 1860. 
Dear Sir,-Your letter of the 15th September, addressed to Mr. Everett, was received last evening, and immediately placed in my bands to be answered. By the laws of Massachusetts, the schools are open to all, without distinction of color, and any exclusion that ground if forbidden. Mr. Everett has not at present any children at school; his youngest having graduated at the University in this neighborhood; is a student of the University of Cambridge, England. Nino years ago, this young man attended the high school at Cambridge, in the female depart-p meat of which there"-was a colored girl. Ten or twelve years ago, another son attended ah endowed school at Cambridge, at which there was a colored boy. There were two youths from Georgia in the sane school at that time. The colored population; •of Massachusetts, as you are probably aware, is very, small. By the census of 1840, it was about one twelfth of one per OT. They have been free for three j generations, and though they employ themselves mostly in menial occupations, they are placed by law on equality with the whites. Such being the case, the Legislature of Massachusetts has deemed' it batter that they should have the advantages of education, than that they should grow up in vice. And in this opinion we suppose our friends in Alabama would concur with us. I remain, dear sir, vary respectfully yours,
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, President State Union Committee. To B. B. McCrae, Esq.
EDWARD EVERETT ON THE EXTENSION OF SLAVERY.
In the year 1837, on the 31st of October, Edward Everett wrote a letter, in which occur the following passages:-
Slavery being, by universal admission, a social, political and mural evil of the first magnitude, it is required by justice, humanity and sound policy that the slaves should be emancipated, by those having constitutionally the power to effect that object, as soon as it can be done peacefully, and in a manner to better the condition of the emancipated. I believe the most considerate portion of the people of the United States, in every quarter, unite in this sentiment; and you are aware that the most eminent Southern names can be cited in its support.
If at this moment, when an all important experiment is in train to abolish slavery by peaceful and legal means in the British West Indies, the United States, instead of imitating their example, or even awaiting the result, should rush into a policy of giving an indefinite extension to slavery over a vast region incorporated into their Union, we should stand condemned before the civilized world. It would be in vain to expect to gain credit for any further professions of willingness to be rid of slavery as soon as possible. No extenuation of its existence, on the ground of its having been forced upon the country in its colonial state, would any longer avail us. It would be thought, justly, that lust of power and lust of gold had made us deaf to the voice of humanity and justice. We should be self-convicted of the ENORMOUS CRIME of having voluntarily given the greatest possible enlargement to an EVIL, which, in concert with the rest of mankind; we had affected to deplore, and that at a time when, the public sentiment of the civilized world, more than at any former period, is aroused to its magnitude.'
On the 28th of November, in the same year, Edward Everett wrote:-
'It requires no modification of any opinion ever expressed or entertained by me, to regard slavery as I do, as a social, political and moral evil of the first magnitude; whose removal, as soon as it can be constitutionally and peacefully effected, ought to be, and I believe is ardently desired by every good citizen and good man in the country. Its proposed indefinite extension, by the annexation of Texas, I should regard as the greatest evil that could possibly befall the Union.'
Was, or was not, Edward Everett, when he thus wrote, an abolitionist,' accord to the logic of the Boston Courier? And could Mr. Everett now go into any of the cotton States, and utter such sentiments as the above, without the risk of being lynched, or ducked in a horse-pond, as young Mr. Brewster, now in Boston, was in Alabama a few weeks ago, simply for the crime of being a Massachusetts man? And yet, much-abused, 'fanatical' Massachusetts, with all her sins, can tolerate the supercilious lecturing of her people by slaveholders, in Annuli Hall, at the municipal junketing of the Bostonians on the Fourth of July, and at political gatherings, and give them a respectful hearing; for, thank Heaven, this portion of the country is yet free, and is not afraid to hear both sides of a great public question fully discussed. May it never be otherwise!-Salaam Register.
DANIEL WEBSTER ON SLAVERY EXTENSION. The Southern States have peculiar laws, and by those laws there is property in slaves. This is purely local. The real meaning, then, of Southern gentlemen, in their complaint, is that they cannot go into the territories of the United States, carrying with them their own peculiar local law, a law which creates property m persons. This, according to their own statement, is all the ground of complaint they have. Now, hero, I think, gentlemen are unjust towards us. How unjust they are, others, will judge; generations that will come after us will judge. It will not be contended that this sort of personal slavery exists by general law. It exists only by local law. I do not mean to deny the validity of that local law where it is established; but I say it is, after all, local law. It is nothing more. And wherever that local law does not extend, property in persons does not exist. Well, sir, what is now, the demand on the part of our Southern friends? They say, we win carry our local laws with us wherever we go. We insist that Congress does us injustice, unless it establishes in the territory in which we wish to go, our own local laws.' This demand I, for one, resist, and shall
<c06>
resist. It goes upon the idea that there is an inequality, unless persons under this local law, and holding property by authority of that law, can go into new territory, and there establish that local law, to the exclusion of the general law. It was a maxim of the civil law, that between slavery and freedom, freedom should always be presumed, and slavery mast always be proved. It any question arose as to the status of an individual in Rome, he was presumed to be free until he was proved to be a slave. Because slavery, is an exception to the general rule. Such, I suppose is the general law of mankind. An individual is to be presumed to be free, until a law can be produced which creates ownership in his person. I do not dispute the force and validity of the local law, as I have already said; but, I say, it is a matter to be proved; and, therefore, if individuals go into any part of the earth, it is to he proved that they are not freemen, or else the presumption is they are.
Now, our friends seem to think that an inequality arises from restraining them from going into the territories, unless there he a law provided which shall protect their ownership in persons. The assertion is that we create an inequality. Is there nothing to be said on the other side, in relation to inequality? Sir, from the date of this Constitution, and in the councils that formed and established this Constitution, and I suppose in all men's judgment since, it is received as a settled truth, that slave labor and free labor do not exist well together. I have before me a declaration, of Mr. Mason, in the convention that formed the Constitution, to that effect. Mr. Mason, as is well known, was a distinguished member from Virginia. He says that the objection to slave labor is, that it puts free white labor in disrepute; that it makes labor to be regarded as derogatory to the character of the free white man, and that the free white man despises to work, to use his expression, where slaves are employed.
This is a matter of great, interest to the tree States, if it be true, as to a great extent it certainly is, that wherever slave labor prevails, free white labor is excluded or discouraged. I agree that slave labor does not necessarily exclude free labor, totally. There is a free white labor in Virginia, Tennessee, and other States, where most of the labor is done by slaves. But it necessarily loses something of its respectability, by the side of, and when associated with, slave labor. Wherever labor is mainly performed by slaves, it is regarded as degrading to free men. The free men of the North, therefore, have a deep interest to keep labor free, exclusively free, in the new territories.
But, sir, let us look farther into this alleged inequality. There is no pretence that Southern People may not go into territory which shall be subject to the ordinance of 1787. The only restraint is that they shall not carry slaves thither, and continue that relation. They say this shuts them altogether out. Why, sir, there can be nothing more inaccurate, in point of fact, than this statement. I understand that one-half of the people who settled Illinois are people, or descendants of people, who came from the Southern States. And I suppose that one-third of the people of Ohio are those, or descendants of those, who emigrated from the South; and I venture to say, that, in respect to these two States, they are at this day settled by people of Southern origin in as great a proportion as they are by people of Northern origin, according to the general numbers and proportion of South and North. There are as many people from the South, in proportion to the whole people of the South, in those States, as there are from the North, in proportion to the whole people of the North. There is, then, no exclusion, of Southern people; there is only the exclusion of a peculiar local law. Neither in principle nor in fact is there any inequality.
The question now is, whether it is not competent to Congress, in the exercise of a fair and just discretion, to say that, considering that there have been five slaveholding States added to this Union out of foreign acquisitions, and as yet only one free State-under this state of things, is it unreasonable or unjust, in the slightest degree, to prevent their further increase? This is the question. I see no injustice in it. As to the power of Congress, I have nothing to add to what I said the other day. Congress has full power over the subject. It may establish any such government, and any such laws, in the territories, as, in its discretion, it may see fit. It is subject, of course, to the rules of justice and propriety; but it is under no constitutional restraints.
I have said that I shall consent to no extension of the area of slavery, upon this continent; nor to any increase of slave representation in the other House of Congress.
I have now stated my reasons for my conduct and my vote. We of the North have gone, in this respect, already far beyond all that any Southern man could have expected, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution. I repeat the statement of the fact, of the creation of five new slaveholding States out of newly acquired territory. We have done that which, if those who framed the Constitution had foreseen, they never, would have agreed to slave representation. We have yielded thus far; and we have now in the House of Representatives twenty persons voting upon this question, and upon all other questions, which are then only in virtue of the representation of slaves.
Let me conclude, therefore, by remarking that, while I am, willing to present this as showing my own judgment and position, in regard to this case,-and I, beg it to be understood that I am speaking for no other than myself,-and while I am willing to offer it to the whole world as my own justification, I rest on these propositions:-First, That when this Constitution was adopted, nobody looked for any new acquisition of territory to be formed into slaveholding States. Secondly, That the principles of the Constitution prohibited, and were intended to prohibit, and should be construed to prohibit, all interference of the General Government with slavery as it existed and as it still exists in the States. And then, that looking to the effect of these new acquisitions, which have in this great degree ensured to strengthen that interest in the South by the addition of these five States, there is nothing unjust, nothing of which any honest man can complain, if he is intelligent; and I feel there is nothing which the civilized world, if the take notice of so humble a person as myself, will reproach me with, when I say, as I said the otter day, that I had made up my mind, for one, that under no circumstances would, I consent to the farther extension of the area of Slavery in the United States, or to the farther increase of Slave Representation in the House of Representatives.

SENTIMENTS OF BENJAMIN F. HALLETT. Benjamin F. Haslett, who has the credit of having framed the Cincinnati platform, when acting as Chairman of the Democratic State Committee of Massachusetts, in 1849, in a State Convention, wrote and reported a resolution, which was swallowed whole by that body, and became the avowed policy of the party, which reads as follows:-
'Resolved, that we are opposed to slavery in every form and color, and in favor of freedom and free soil wherever man lives, throughout God's heritage.'
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is' a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States that the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, whom, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE right. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path at duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point Republic mind has long been, tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through par participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the Free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
DEMOCRACY AS IT WAS.
In 1850, the Democracy of New Hampshire, in Convention assembledï¿½ 
ï¿½Resolved, That we are opposed to the admission of any new State into the American Union, with the proviso that slavery shall be tolerated.
Resolved, That it is the duty of the members of our State Legislature, whenever the subject of slavery shall be brought before them, to give their influence in favor of freedom.ï¿½
In 1855, the Democracy of Ohio
ï¿½Resolved, That the people of Ohio now, as they have always done, look upon slavery as an evil, and unfavorable to the development of the spirit and practical benefits of free institutions; and that, entertaining these sentiments, they will at all times feel it to be their duty to use all power clearly given by the terms of the national compact to prevent its increase, to mitigate, and, finally, to eradicate the evil.'
The same year, the Democracy of New York, in Convention assembledï¿½
'Resolved That while the Democracy of this State will faithfully ad here to all the compromises of the Constitution, and maintain all the reserved rights of the States?, they deem this an appropriate occasion to declare their fixed hostility to the extension of slavery into free territory.'
NOBLE SENTIMENTS.
A more admirable statement of a political creed was never made, than is contained in a brief speech of Mr. Seward's delivered at Madison, Wisconsin:-
'It has been by a simple rule of interpretation I have studied the Constitution of my country. The rule has been simply this: That, by no word, no act, no combination into which I might enter, should any one human being of all the generations to which I belong, much less of any class of human beings of any nation, race or kindred, be oppressed and kept down in the least degree in their efforts to rise to a higher state of liberty and happiness. (Applause.) Amid all the glosses of the times, amid all the essays and discussions to which the Constitution of the United States has been subjected, this has been the simple, plain, broad light in which I have read every article and every section of that great instrument. Whenever it requires of me that this hand shall keep down the humblest of the human race, then I will lay down power, place, position, fame, everything, rather than adopt such a construction or such a rule. (Applause.) If, therefore, in this land there are any who would rise, I say to them, in God's name, good speed! If there are in foreign lands people who would improve their condition by emigration, or if there be any here who would go abroad in search of happiness, in the improvement of their condition, or in their elevation toward a higher state of dignity and happiness, they have always had, and always shall have, a cheering word and such efforts as I can consistently make in their behalf.' (Applause.) 
What noble sentiments and what fitting words! Here, in these few terse periods, is condensed at once the loftiest political wisdom and the most generous utterance of the human heart. Mr. Seward has said many things that future ages will gladly remember; but in all the records of eloquence, whether of his or of other menï¿½s it would be difficult to find a loftier passage than this.ï¿½New York Tribune. [Ay, but is he true to his declaration?]

From the Leeds (Eng.) Mercury, Oct. 6.
UNITED STATES SLAVERY.
The visit of the Rev. Dr. Cheever to England, and the great struggle for the Presidential election proceeding in the United States, again draw the attention of Englishmen to the mighty question of American Slavery. No political event, no commercial crisis, no full in the public mind, can ever long prevent the subject from rising to the surface; and on the election of a president, or a Congress, it heaves the whole American republic as with the force of an earthquake. At this moment, the North and the South are set against each other in a desperate conflict, ï¿½the main question between the rival candidates for the temporary sovereignty of the nation being, whether territorial limits shall be set to slavery, or it shall be allowed to spread its cancerous roots over the whole Continent. Great as this question is, on which the Republican and Free Soil party are upholding the claims of Mr. Lincoln and the Democratic and Pro-Slavery party those of Mr. Douglas and Mr. Breckinridge, it is merely one part and phase of the war between Freedom and Slavery. It is this latter which Mr. Seward calls ï¿½the irrepressible conflict.ï¿½ It burns deep as the inward fires of a volcano, and the floods of many waters cannot drown it.
How long must this dreadful state of things continue in the United States? How long can a Christian people endure that ï¿½the sum of all villaniesï¿½ (to use the language of John Wesley) shall prevail and spread in their midst? How long can this free Republic maintain a system more cruel and detestable than any civil tyranny in the world? How long can the earth bear on its surface the unutterable horrors of wholesale slave-breeding, by concubinage of whites and blacks,ï¿½of the sale of human beings like cattle, often by their own fathers,ï¿½ of the ruthless separation of families, tearing husband from wife, and the mother from her childrenï¿½ of the irresponsible flogging of men and women with the cart-whip,ï¿½of the employment of blood-hounds to hunt down the poor fugitive who has fled from his taskmaster,ï¿½of the use of the lash as the only incentive to daily toil,ï¿½ of the appropriation by the master not only of the slave himself, body and soul, but of all his earnings and all ï¿½his increase,ï¿½ ï¿½of the utter denial to millions of men of all civil and political rights, of all religious liberty, and even of the very elements of education,ï¿½of the refusal to free States and people even of the privilege of receiving and protecting the fugitives from oppression, ï¿½ of the deadly corruption of the morals of a people, by giving them a pecuniary interest in maintaining four millions of their fellow men in the condition of brutes,ï¿½ of the mortal injury to the Christian church, by tempting its ministers and members to practices which are an outrage on the spirit of the Gospel?
So long as slavery exists in America, there will remain a moral gangrene in the State, which in time will eat its way to the vitals, ï¿½which will weaken the Republic abroad, and convulse and deprave it at home. This gigantic crime cannot suffer the conscience of the community to rest, but will, ere long, separate the Union into two hostile States. Already it has nearly brought the Government and Congress to a dead-lock, by absorbing the time of representative bodies, and dividing them into irreconcilable sections. Already it has produced civil war in Kansas, and threatened a dissolution of the Union in South Carolina. Already it has compelled the Northern States to bow the fierce dictation of the Southron, and the provoked a reaction which may place the South at the mercy of the North. True, the mercantile interests of the great Northern cities have brought their capitalists into a base complicity with the South. The mortgagees of plantations and slaves, the creditors of planters, the ship-owners who depend on the slave States for their freights, the insurance companies who have insured gangs of slaves, with all their allies and dependants, give a fearful strength to the slaveholders in the midst of the Northern Democracy. Again, political party links great numbers throughout the Union to the Pro-Slavery interest, which now forms the main strength of the Democratic party. Such is the power of the forces which uphold Slavery, that it is still a question whether that dreadful system may not gain the victory, and even force itself upon the adoption of the States which are now free, so as to bring the whole region of North America under its sway. But if the danger and the shame of so horrible a consummation should effectually alarm the millions of the North; if the prospect of moral, social, and religious evils such as Christendom has never known should arouse the Nation and the Church in time, then the aggression of the south will he repelled with indignation, and the community will probably be split into at least two sections. Believing, as we do, that in this day the cause of freedom, right, and truth cannot be worsted and trampled on by a foul confederacy of Mammon-worshippers, we anticipate that the Slave Power will, in the end, be conquered.
In this state of things, if ever duty was clear, it is the duty of the friends of freedom and Christianity in America to bring all their influence to bear against Slavery. But so powerful are the interests on the side of that system, that there in cowardice and compromise where we might expect the holdest, decision. True, there are great difficulties in the way of <illegible> Slavery; and these difficulties have often the effect of paralyzing the enemies of the system, whilst they embolden its supporters. The consequence is, that we find for less seal than we might look for in the Anti-Slavery cease, and unhappy differences of view as to the measures to be
<c02>
adopted; whilst the churches are for the most part reduced to a shameful silence by the complicity of some of their wealthy members in the great iniquity. So marked is the desertion of duty on the part of Christian churches, that many sincere and generous friends of emancipation have been prejudiced thereby against Christianity itself. [Not so!]
Dr. Cheever has the high merit of having, with manly courage and true Christian consistency, denounced the crime of Slavery in the midst of the city of New York. He preached and published series of eloquent and uncompromising sermons, entitled ' God against Slavery,' which we have noticed with warm approbation in oar columns; and 'be has felt it his duty to make the national sin a subject of persevering exposure and condemnation. His fidelity to the cause of the poor slave entitles him to all honor and sympathy from the friends of freedom; and we hope be will meet with a reception in England worthy of the country which held slavery in such abhorrence as to emancipate the slaves in her (colonies at the expense of twenty millions sterling.
The duty of British Christians to the oppressed victims of tyranny in the United States is unquestionable. We do not intend to interfere, except by moral influence; but that moral influence cannot be withheld without deserting the duty which we owe to the oppressed and the suffering all over the world. England is so related to America by many ties, that public opinion in this country has a necessary influence on the minds of our trans- Atlantic brethren. It is our duty, then, to declare to them faithfully the dreadful criminality of the system of Slavery which prevails amongst them. An Anti-Slavery Association ought to exist in every town, and remonstrances and entreaties should be sent to the wrong-doers, with expressions of sympathy to the Anti-Slavery party in the United States, as long as the evil shall continue. We should be as zealous for the abolition of slavery as of heathenism, and far more zealous for the emancipation of the wretched negroes than for that of the oppressed Neapolitans. We cannot conceive a greater insult to an all-merciful God, or a deeper outrage on all the rights of man, than is conveyed in American Slavery: and we are bound by allegiance to our Maker, as well as the ties of brotherhood which bind us to all our fellow-men, to do our utmost for the removal of the enormous evil.

THE SUFFRAGE QUESTION:
Shall Colored Men be Allowed to Vote in the State of New York?
An appeal on this subject has been prepared by a Committee of Colored Men, from which we make the following extracts:- 
Under the provisions of the first Constitution of the State of New York, which was adopted on the 20th of April, 1777, during the first year of the Revolutionary War-that Constitution having embodied as part and parcel thereof the Declaration of Independence passed at Philadelphia by Congress- all male inhabitants, without restriction of color or place of birth, who were then inhabitants of this State, and paid rent to the value of forty shillings, ($5,) were made voters for assemblymen; and freeholders to the amount of one hundred pounds ($250) voted for members of the Senate, and continued to vote on the same basis, until the adoption of the Amended Constitution of 1821, when the property qualification was removed from white voters, but retained in regard to colored voters.
The present Constitution of the State of New York was framed and adopted in 1846.
'Art. II. Sec. 1.-Every male citizen of the age of twenty-one years, who shall have been a citizen for ten days, and an inhabitant of this State one year next preceding any election, and for the last four months a resident of the county where he may offer his vote, shall be entitled to vote at such election in the election district of which he shall at the time be a resident, and not elsewhere, for all officers that now are, or hereafter may be, elective by the people.'
It provides further, that no man of color shall have a right to vote, unless possessed of $250 worth of real estate, and shall have been three years a citizen of the State, and one year resident in the district in which he claims a vote.
In accordance with the provision of the Constitution for its own amendment, the last Legislature has provided that the inspectors at each poll, at the election for Governor, to be held on the 6th of November, 1860, shall provide a box to receive the ballots of citizens in relation to the proposed Amendment for restoring the equal right of suffrage to the colored people, and that the ballot shall be in one of the following forms:-
'FOR THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT IN RELATION TO SUFFRAGE'; or, 
'AGAINST THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT IN RELATION TO SUFFRAGE,'-and shall be so folded as to conceal the contents, and shall be indorsed on the outside as follows: 'Proposed Amendment in relation to Suffrage.' 
If a majority of these ballots be cast' for the proposed amendment in relation to suffrage,' then the right to vote on an equal basis with other citizens will be restored to the colored citizens of New York; the Empire State will become a free State indeed- free like Maine, and New Hampshire, and Vermont, and Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. 
Fellow-Citizens, we have had, and still have, great wrongs of which to complain. A heavy and cruel hand has been laid upon us. As a people, we feel ourselves to be not only deeply injured, but grossly misunderstood. Our white countrymen do not know us. They are strangers to our characters, ignorant of our capacity, oblivious of our history and progress, and are misinformed as to the principles and ideas that control and guide us, as a people. The great mass of American citizens estimate us as being a characterless and purposeless people; and hence we hold up our heads, if at all, against the withering influence of a nation's scorn and contempt. 
It will not be surprising that we are so misunderstood and misused, when the motives of misrepresenting us and for degrading us are duly considered. Indeed, it will seem strange, upon such consideration, (and in view of the ten thousand channels through which malign feelings find utterance and influence,) that we have not fallen even lower in public estimation than we have done; for, with the I exception of the Jews, under the whole heavens there is not to be found a people pursued with a more relentless prejudice and persecution than are the free colored people of the United States. 
What stone has been left unturned to degrade us? What hand has refused to fan the flame of popular prejudice against us? What American artist has not caricatured us? What wit has not laughed at us in our wretchedness? What songster has not made merry over our depressed spirits? What press has not ridiculed and condemned us? Few, few, very few; and that we have borne up with it all-that we have tried to be wise, though pronounced by all to be fools-that we have tried to be upright when all around us have esteemed us to be knaves-that we have striven to be gentlemen, although all around us have been teaching us its impossibility-that we have remained here, when all our neighbors have advised us to leave, proves that we possess qualities of head and heart, such as cannot but be commended by impartial men.
It is believed that no other nation on the globe could have made more progress in the midst of such a universal and stringent disparagement. It would humble the proudest, crush the energies of the strongest, and retard the progress of the swiftest. 
Is it not a shame to our State that, in 1777, when it was perilous to life to be a citizen of New York, she made colored men citizens, and then afterwards, | in 1821, when it was safe and honorable to be a citizen, she disfranchised her colored citizens?, Let us entreat you, remove this reproach from the fair; fame of our noble State. 
Gratitude is one of the virtues which the veriest hater of the colored man has never denied him; and this sentiment will never be called into such full exercise as when the last shackle, the last emblem of degradation, shall be removed from the man of color. 
'Oh, yield him back his privilege! No sea 
Swells like the bosom of a man set free!' 
We respectfully request you, voters of the State of New York, irrespective of party, that you will give your attention to the proposed Amendment to the Constitution. The question is one not of party, but of humanity and right. We appeal with equal confidence to Democrats and Republicans. We feel assured that, if you will examine the question in the light of reason and justice and Christianity, you will not hesitate to vote for the proposed Amendment in relation to the suffrage. 
Respectfully submitted by the New York City and County Suffrage Committee of colored citizens.
JAMES M'CUNE SMITH, Chairman.
JAMES P. MILLER, JOHN J. ZUILLE, Secretaries.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS
BOSTON, NOVEMBER 2, 1860
THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
Before the issuing of another number of our paper, of the Presidential Election will have terminated-probably in the choice of Abraham Lincoln for President, and Hannibal Hamlin for Vice President of the United States. Standing aloof from all political parties acting under the, American Constitution, because in its pro-slavery compromises it is' a covenant with death and an agreement with hell,' we reiterate the cry, 'NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS,' and conjure all true hearted abolitionists to maintain their integrity, and keep their feet firmly planted on THE ROCK OF UNCOMPROMISING PRINCIPLE. The overthrow of this blood-stained Union is the work to be achieved in righteousness. Onward! 
THE QUAKERS
At a Republican meeting in Georgetown, Mass., the following song, entitled 'The Quakers are Out,' written by John G. Whittier, was read:
Not vainly we waited and counted the hours, 
The buds of our hope are burst out into flowers! 
No room for misgiving-no loop-hole of doubtï¿½ 
We've heard from the Keystone! The Quakers are out!
The plot has exploded-we've found out the trick; 
The bribe goes a begging; the fusion won't stick; 
When the Wide-Awake lanterns are shining about 
The rogues stay at home, and the true men come out!
The good State has broken the cords for her spunï¿½ 
Her oil-springs and water won't fuse into one; 
The Dutchman has seasoned with Freedom his krout,
And slow, late, but certain, the Quakers are out!
Give the flags to the winds!-set the hills all aflame! 
Make way for the man with the patriarch's name! 
Away with misgivings-away with all doubtï¿½ 
For LINCOLN goes in when the Quakers come out!
As an improvement upon these lines of Whittier, an esteemed Quaker friend (who makes no pretension to poetical talent) sends us the following:-
'THE QUAKERS ARE OUT.'
The Quakers are out! They had better stay in, 
Than mix with the world in political din; 
What tho' the earth's potsherds together may smite? 
Keep the eye firmly fix'd and unmoved on the right.
Leave President-making to those who profess 
Of two evils duty points to accepting the less; 
Though somehow the less we chance always to find 
Is the evil to which they're most strongly inclined.
Quaker votes, it is certain, in common with theirs, 
In the fore-front of naval and martial affairs 
Put the fortunate rival, in case they succeed; 
But, if not, then the will must take place of the deed.
Whichever his compeers outstrips in the race, 
They have started, each one, for preferment and place; 
Constitutional pledges his acts must control, 
Pledges every true freeman should spurn from his soul.
When the fugitive pants on the stave-hunted track, 
And trembles in prospect of gibbet or rack, 
The Compromise stands like a wall in his path,
 And consigns him once more unto Slavery's wrath.
What a picture! for those who belong to the school 
Which calls Scripture its only and primary rule, 
Its exclusive standard of practice and faith, 
And for every strange doctrine-'The Bible thus saith.'
That book which prohibits, with penalties stern, 
Him escaped from his master again to return; 
Or the wanderer weary and lone to bewray; 
For vengeance is His, who will surely repay.
How can those who believe that to all outward guides 
An internal teacher is added besides, 
How can they, with such teachings, another depute 
To do what they fear their own souls would imbrute?
Though the far-gleaming torch and the clamorous shout
Give signs that the seeker of office is out, 
A victory more brilliant the Quakers would win, 
By deciding for this once, at least, to stay in.
Lynn, 10th mo., 1860.

SOUTHERN VULGARITY
At the State Douglas Convention, held at Springfield, a few weeks since, among the speakers was a Southern demagogue by the name of Perrin, who, in the course of a very dirty but very characteristic speech, (which, however, appears to have been keenly relished by his auditors,) gave utterance to the following blackguardism:-
'I am like the old fellow's pig, who had to have his ears pulled off to get him up to the trough, and his tail pulled off to get him away. (Immense laughter.) You worship the nigger too much. A nigger's a nigger everywhere. (Cheers.) Why, you put one of them into one of your cotton mills up at Lawrence or Lowell, among the pretty girls, with their white soft hands, and let him see the spindles going round and round, and his eyes would stick out, bigger than that hat there (laughter); and he would lose all the wool off his head in three minutes in the machinery. (A convincing argument, greeted with prolonged cheering and laughter.) Your forefathers went to Africa and stole the nigger first, and sold him to us, and now you abuse us for it: they were not profitable, and so you shoved them on to us. You are like the little boy who couldn't lick the big one, and sat on the fence, making faces at the big boy's sister, for revenge. (Laughter and cheers.) I tell you, gentlemen, there is no danger of secession; I have too much faith in the Democracy, North and South, to believe it will be permitted-the instincts of the whites and the out stinks of the nigger will prevent it. (Immoderate laughter, and three cheers for Perrin.)'
The demoralization: of those who laughed and cheered at such abominable stuff must be absolute.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for November, presents the following table of contents:-1. Thomas Hood, by Rev. Henry B. Giles. 2. Fayal and the Portuguese, by Rev. T. W. Higginson. 3. Midsummer and May, by Miss Prescott. 4. Gone. 5. Experiences in collecting 'Old Masters.' 7. 'Tenty Scran'. 8. Recollections of Irving. 9. Irene Anadyomene. 10. The Professor's Story. 11. Reviews and Literary Notices. 12. Recent American Publications. It is an interesting number. 
Ticknor & Fields, 135 Washington St., publishers. 
UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, made in January last, or previously, are now payable, and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest practicable day. Donations in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause will be faithfully consecrated to the redemption of the millions of ' the suffering and the dumb' of our land. All payments should be made to EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer, or E. H. HEYWOOD, General Agent pro tem., 221 Washington street. 
PHYSIOLOGICAL LECTURES. We ask the special attention of our female readers in this city and vicinity to the lectures of Dr. Sarah H. Young upon Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene, to be delivered at Mercantile Hall, Summer Street, this afternoon and Saturday afternoon. [See notice in another column.] Mrs. Young is a superior lecturer, and a lady of great respectability, and bears with her many flattering testimonials to her talent and worth. We hope the hall will be crowded.
FRATERNITY LECTURES. The fifth lecture of the Fraternity course, at the Tremont Temple, on Tuesday evening, was delivered by Rev. William R. Alger of this city. His topic was, 'The Origin and Uses of Poetry,' which he handled with admirable ability, worthy of his scholarly taste. The next lecture will be delivered by Wendell Phillips, on Wednesday evening next, instead of Tuesday, which is the day of the State and National Election.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS. 
LIFE AND RELIGION OF THE HINDOOS, With a Sketch of my Life and Experience. By Joguth Chunder Gangooly. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co. 1860. 
The author of this interesting volume was born of a Brahman family, about seven miles from Calcutta, the metropolis of British India. He was the fourth of nine children, of whom five are now living. He says the meaning of his name is, ï¿½The Moon of the world.' He very religiously trained by his parents, from a very early period, and, having a quick and retentive memory, learned to repeat a multitude of prayers and proverbs, besides select pieces from old, Sanscrith poems, &c. His childhood's devotion to the idols was exemplary. The legends of Rama, Krishto, the Ganges, &c., were his favorite studies. He was much indebted to his mother, who taught him honor to parents, faithfulness to conviction, and who valued spiritual more than intellectual accomplishments. She was a most conscientious and zealous devotee of Hindooism, at the same time remarkable for her good sense and motherly affection. Her favorite mottoes were-'Let go your life, but retain your honor'ï¿½'If '"-If I am good, the world is good unto meï¿½ï¿½me'-'Conquer within first, and you will conquer without'ï¿½Peace accommodates nine persons in one room, but discord puts them in nine separate ones'-' She who is naturally quarrelsome would quarrel with her work-basket'ï¿½ Where there is right, there is victory'ï¿½ï¿½ Walk in the way of righteousness, and you will receive your meal even in the midnight'-'If you want to be the greatest, be the lowest.' These are all worthy of Christianity itself. Indeed, the last saying quoted is exactly identical with that of Jesus, ' He that would be chief, let him be servant of all.' Gangooly touchingly says of his motherï¿½' Any good thing I have is <illegible> asin negros the gift of this noble woman: she laid it in my heart in its rude state, and a Teacher wiser and more unerring than she has polished it afterwards.' May God judge and reward her according to the light she has! To whom much is given, of them much I shall he be required. God grant that, before she breathes her last breath, she may know that, in deserting the idol gods, her son has not committed an unpardonable sin!' 
Losing his father at the age of fourteen, his uncle took the charge of him, who sent him to a government English school in the vicinity. His first English I book was Murray's spelling-book. Although busy in, In his scholastic duties, he did not give up the habit 1 of observing the fasts, worship, &c,., of his country. To Shiba he prayed for learning; to Luckhy for wealth; to Doorga for relief from dangers; to Krishto for heaven. In this state of mind, he heard of the celebrated Christian missionary, Rev. Dr. Duff, of Calcutta, and his colleagues, making converts of the Hindoo boys. To quote his own words:ï¿½
'My animosity towards Christianity rose with all its fury, and I wished to see it die out, that it might not rob the peace and prosperity of the Hindoo families, by stealing away the young boys, and leading them headlong into vice, immorality, and misery. For the Hindoo's impression of Christianity is this: That in order to become a Christian, it is essentially necessary that a young man should treat his parents unkindly, eat animal food, such as beef, pork, ham, &c., which the Hindoos detest very much, drink wine, not wash his mouth after the meal, as the animals do, and forsake all things which bear the name of Hindoo, no matter how beautiful they are.'
The Hindoo hatred to Christianity is increased by observing the immorality and blood-thirsty spirit of its nominal professors. Gangooly says:ï¿½
'My dear mother would point me out the ambitious deeds of the English people, saying, ' There, Joguth, do not you speak of the religion of Shahebs to me; put it on the shelf yonder; they have no religion at all! What! did you say, " And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also! " Very beautiful words, indeed! O Joguth, what do the Shahebs do? Do they care a fig for them? No! Their religion is to rob those who have nothing to do with them."'
The process of his conversion, as described by Gangooly, is very interesting, every statement being marked by ingenuousness. He was much indebted to Rev. Mr. Doll, American Unitarian missionary at Calcutta, under whose auspices he came to this country in May, 1858, landing at Boston. After a residence of more than two years, he has returned to his native land, to disseminate Christianity, as he understands it, though ' going as a lamb among wolves.' He saysï¿½-and we have no doubt of its truthï¿½
'The cause of Christ suffers severely from the injudicious preaching of the missionaries who go out to India from western countries. They think that any thing outside the Bible is humbug, untrue, nonsensical. They tell the Hindoos that their Holy Books contain no truth, and that they themselves are going headlong to everlasting damnation.
With great good sense he addsï¿½
'These errors and follies I will carefully avoid. I know the best way for me will be to take a Hindoo saying, and present its truth in a practical way. In order to attract respect, I would rather appeal to the Hindoo Scriptures, if it suit my purposes, than to Isaiah, Job, or Solomon. St. Paul, while in Greece, appealed to a poet of the country, and thereby secured the attention of the people. What I most earnestly want to do is to take the Truth wherever I find it, and present it to my brethren in the spirit of Christ, and show its applicability to ourselves.'
We think it quite fortunate to have 'The Life and Religion of the Hindoos' described by a Hindoo, who, "as a convert to Christianity, can have no motive to misstate facts as they really exist. For lack of intelligence, if not for sectarian purposes, the missionaries often exaggerate what they attempt to describe. As for example:ï¿½Gangooly saysï¿½
'A story is prevalent in this country, on the authority of missionaries, to the effect that the Hindoo devotees throw themselves under the heavy car of Jogger-nauth as -sacrifices. Again, wherever I go, my friends ask me, "Do the Hindoo mothers throw their babies into the Ganges now?" and other questions of similar purport. I am quite amused to see the little school-boys and girls in America, who seem to know more of India than I do! I never heard such, stories, even from the lips of my grandmother. Self-torture is practised, sacrifices are offered, and in many cases even suicide is committed, to satisfy some Hindoo deities, but nothing of this nature is allowable before Jogger-nauth. He does not take delight in cruel, bloody shows. His love for his creatures is so great that no animal food is offered to him. His worshippers, a peculiar sect of the Hindoos, called Boish-tule, do not kill or eat fish, nor look on pictures representing scenes of battle, murder, or assassination. The loss of lives under the Car of Jogger-nauth is owing to the carelessness of the people. It is believed by them that he who pulls the ropes attached to the car will be carried away after his death to the heaven of Krish-no by his. Pooshpo Roth,ï¿½,-flowery car. Elated by the false promise of heaven, an immense crowd comes forward to give at least three pulls of the sacred car, and some among them accidentally falling. down are trodden by the feet of men, or crushed by the wheels of the car. I have seen four men go to heaven that way, being ground to pieces by the car.'"
How potent have been the false representations made about living human sacrifices offered to Jogger-nauth, in collecting money for missionary purposes!
This curious and unique work is worthy of special attention by all who are interested in the religious conversion of the Hindoos.
THE WORKS OF CHARLES LAMB. In Four Volumes. 
A New Edition. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co. 1860. 
This is an edition worthy of Lamb, and most creditable to the publishersï¿½-typographically fair and handsome, on nice paper, and bound in excellent style, and sure of a ready sale. The first two volumes. are occupied chiefly with the letters of Lamb to Coleridge, Southey, Wordsworth, Manning, Hazlitt, Procter, Wilson, Bernard Barton, and other celebrities. These letters are inimitable for their mingled drollery, wit, shrewdness, good sense, and descriptive power, and cover, a period of thirty-eight yours. The remaining two volumes embody his numerous essays,
<c05>
poems, and other writings, displaying the keenest powers of observation, the broadest humor, the ten<illegible>derest susceptibility, the finest genius, and the rarest analytical and critical talent. There it is so much that is quaint, odd and laughable, that it will prove better than, any medicine to dispel a fit of the blues, or turn melancholy into merriment; though one could desire a larger infusion of seriousness and earnestness, with reference to matters of higher importance, 'here. There is a finely engraved portrait of Lamb attached to the first volume. His appearance is described as follows:ï¿½
A light frame, so fragile that it seemed as if a breath would overthrow it, clad in clerk-like black, was surmounted by a head of form and expression the most noble and sweet. His black hair curled crisply about an expanded forehead; his eyes, softly brown, twinkled with varying expression, though the prevalent feeling was sad; and the nose slightly curved, and delicately carved at the nostril, with the lower outline of the face regularly oval, completed a head which was finely placed on the shoulders, and ' gave importance, and even dignity, to a diminutive and shadowy stem. Who shall describe his countenanceï¿½catch its quivering sweetness-and fix it forever in words? There are none, alas! to answer the vain desire of friendship. Deep thought, striving with humor; the lines of suffering wreathed into cordial mirth; and a smile of painful sweetness, present in an image to the mind it can us little describe as lose. His personal, appearance and manner are not unfitly characterized by what he himself says in one of his letters to Manning; of Braham-"a compound of the Jew, the gentleman, and the angel."'
NEW MUSICï¿½-published by Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street, Boston:ï¿½
1. Do you think of the days that are gone, Jeanie? Ballad by Henry Smart. 
2. I would not to earth recall them. Written and composed by J. E. Darling. Arranged by F. Romer.
3. I'm leaving home, my, Willie. Scotch ballad. Music by M. W., Balfe. 
4. The Spirit of Light. Cavatina. Music by L. "Williams. 
5. Jamie. Ballad. "Words by J. F. Carpenter. Music by F. Wallerstein.
6. Germania Vocal Gems. Circled round with jasmine spray. By Alexander Fesca.ï¿½Fly, my skiff, amid the roses. By F. Kucken. 
7. Merrily, merrily shines the morn. The sky-lark's song. Poetry by Rev. "W. Evans. Music by Alice Foster. 
8. Don't come teasing me, sir. Song. Music by J. L. Hatton. 
9. Une nuit sur l'ocean.1'ocean. Nocturne sentimentale. Par Aug. Cockel. 
10.'Tis the hour for music. Duettino. "Words by J. L. Carpenter. Music by Henry Farmer.
The same firm have also just published a fresh volume of Vocal Music, in a handsome form, entitled ' The Operatic Bouquet, a collection of Quartette, Choruses and Concerted Pieces, from the most favorite Operasï¿½arranged for the use of Choirs',. Classes, Societies, and Social Gatherings, by Edwin Bruce'ï¿½thirty-six in number, by such composers as Verdi, Bellini, Flotow, Rossini, Balfe, Auber, Bishop, Donizetti, Nicolai, Wallace, Clapisson, 4&c. The want of such a collection has long been felt, as there is but one work (the Opera Chorus Book) similar in character to this, available for the use of advanced classes and musical societies.

PRO-SLAVERY CONGREGATIONALISM.
LOWELL, Oct. 27th, I860. 
1860. MR. GARRISON: 
DEAR SIR,ï¿½As there seem to be extraordinary efforts making, in certain quarters, to establish, or rather to assert the Anti-Slavery character of New England Congregational Churches, (see New York Independent, Oct. 25th,) perhaps the small item of my own experience, contained in the following correspondence, may serve to increase somewhat the rapidly accumulating evidence. The crowded state of your columns, and my own intense dread of notoriety, have prevented its conveyance at an earlier period.
LOWBLLLOWELL, April 22d, 1859. 
SARAH CLAY:
The Standing Committee of the First Congregational Church would remind you, that you have for years separated yourself from the communion and fellowship of that Church: that such separation is in violation of the covenant into which you entered with said Church. The Standing Committee would, moreover, inform you, that unless, within two weeks from the date of this letter, you request an orderly dismission, or give satisfactory reasons for your long absence, they shall propose to the Church to remove your name from the list of members. 
By vote of the Standing Committee, 
J. L. JENKINS.
LOWELL, April 29th20th, 1859.
J. L. JENKINS: 
I received a note from you, a few days ago, regarding my relations to the First Congregational Church.
I think it must have been more than fourteen years since, that Mr. Blanchard, then Pastor of that Church, very kindly informed me, with all his characteristic deliberation and solemnity, that I had excommunicated him,. and all his Church, from my fellowship. This was his unqualified assertion, though not fully comprehended, or acquiesced in, by myself, at that time. 
But the subsequent conduct of said Church toward me, during all these years, has certainly given me reason to conclude, that they, tacitly at least, agreed to, or were satisfied with, this opinion. For, although I have been a constant resident in the centre of the ' city, my life, conduct, character, habits and associations, have ever been unconcealed from public observation; and I have had more or less communication I with members of that Church and Society, almost; I every month, and week, and day, not one of them has ever asked me the reason of my absence, thus giving me an opportunity to answer. Too well they knew the chief reasonï¿½-all too well they understood their own pro-slavery character and position to allow me a hearing. 
Years ago, when I had time, and health, and strength, to have discussed this all-important subject with any or all of the Church, it would have given me pleasure, and possibly have afforded some relief from mental anguish, to have done so. I would have tried to convince them, though but feebly, of the palpable inconsistency of the professed followers of Christ, who stand solemnly and publicly pledged against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, openly and: boastingly fellowshiping all slaveholders and slave-holding Churches, sustaining and encouraging those great National Societies, which have become so benumbed and paralyzed by this insidious foe, that, possibly, they think they are doing God service, even when making scores of heathen to one nominal Christianï¿½converting- convening whole nations to slavery and intemperance by a spurious Christianityï¿½expunging every sentence and word from their religious publications that could possibly offend the Demon of Slavery-and studiously avoiding every means of affording the poor down-trodden bondman any opportunity to study out the name of the God who made him, by circulating the Bible among them, even after a solemn pledge to give it to every family in the nation-in full view, too, of a moat most generous offer of five thousand dollars to defray the expense, from the American Anti-Slavery Society,: of long years standing. 
These, and many other things, which my time and strength, and your patience, may not allow of detail,ï¿½among which, however, are the inviting to your pulpit one of the most notorious defenders of slavery from the Bible, Rev. Dr. Lord, allowing, and even urging a slaveholder to administer the holy sacrament at a large association meeting, &c., &c.,ï¿½have only had a tendency to confirm the correctness of my conduct, and the justice and equity of the decision which Mr. Blanchard so long ago accused me of making. 
And though every selfish consideration on earth would have prompted to a different course, yet with such an organization I have no union, and can pretend to have none, so long as I stand pledged to the most High God, in an everlasting covenant which cannot be broken, that I will ever seek toe the parity of his people, the honor of his name, and the interest of his kingdom. SARAH CLAY. 
P. S. I wish this letter to be communicated to the whole Church. If it is not, it will only add another disorderly step to those already preceding, while you require me to request an orderly dismission. S. C.
I would simply add, that I have never seen or heard the least response from aid Committee. The probability is, that my name, with some other absentees from various and very different causes, was erased from the records of the Church, in the most quiet manner possible. SARAH CLAY. 
<c06>
J. A. H. REJOINS TO MR. DOUGLASS.
WORCESTER, Oct. 8, 1860.
MR. GARRISON,ï¿½Mr. Douglass proposes to leave Mr. Howland to retrace his steps, in regard to him, so he has done in the case of Mr. Higginson.
Mr. Howland retracted his statement in regard to Mr. Higginson, as soon as he found it to be incorrect and explained that the mistake occurred from taking the point on. hearsay evidence, which he found, on further examination, upon Mr. Higginson's denial, to be mistaken.
In Mr. Douglassï¿½s case, there was no hearsay intervention, nor any room for misapprehension, as the objectionable statement was made distinctly and pointblank, to Mr. Howlandï¿½s face, as he sat directly new near him, and objected to the force of his first remark, hoping and expecting that notice of the inaccuracy of its breadth would lead Mr. Douglass to make the proper qualification. Instead of which, he made the apparently deliberate application of his proposition to the American Anti-Slavery Society, as reported by J. A. H., and without the qualification that he now claims, in effect and almost precisely, in these words, that ï¿½the American Anti-slavery Society had not for its purpose the abolition of slavery.ï¿½ ,' Had Mr. Douglass then qualified, as he now does, by the words ï¿½by means of the Government,ï¿½' Mr. Howland would have shown himself to be a stupid idiot to have taken the exception that he did at the time to his remarks;, or,  had he afterwards explained that this was what he meant, and intended or ought to have said, Mr. Howland would at once have retracted his characterization of his remark, and there the matter would have ended. But he did no such thing, although he had abundant opportunity so to do.
If he said what he now claims that he intended to, and did say, then, certainly. Mr. Howland did not charge him with falsehood: for Mr. Howland charge was qualified by the words,ï¿½ 'when Mr. Douglass says, &c., 'he states that which is false,ï¿½ &c. Now, if he did not so state the matter, then Mr. Howland did not charge falseness.
When, afterwards, Mr. Foster claimed that Mr. Douglass intended to be understood as qualifying, by the words ï¿½ by political action,ï¿½' or ï¿½ by means of the Government,ï¿½' Mr. Howland rejoined by saying, that Mr. Douglass must be understood by what he said;: and from his near position, and his special connection with the circumstances of the statement, he thought he could not be mistaken as to the remark; and as he heard and understood it, it was a false statement, and one that he could not so much discredit Mr. Douglassï¿½s intelligence as to assume that he did not know it to be false. Now, if Mr. Howland did not know it to be false. Now, if Mr. Howland did not hear or understand Mr. Douglass correctly, here was another opportunity for Mr. Douglass to explain; but he took no advantage of it, and therefore has no right to complain now. Still, as he claims now that he intended to and did make the qualification, it is a matter of pleasure to know that he is unwilling now, as he appeared then to be, to stand by his naked slander, and he is entitled to all the advantage that this late qualification gives him.
As to the ï¿½manners ï¿½the 'manners' of telling him that his statement was false, I hold that there are times when good manners require such a rebuke, and that this was one of them. But, as all may not agree in this, I submit that all must agree that it is quite as good manners to characterize a falsehood, as it is to tell one.
In regard to ï¿½the annihilation of the American Anti-Slavery Society,ï¿½ Mr. Howland did not report them as avowing that purpose, but made it an inference, saying, this ï¿½would appear ï¿½this' would appear' to be one part of the business. And this was an inference, which many besides Mr. Howland drew. Mr. E. Draper, of Hopedale, in his discussion with Mr. Foster, was to impressed with it, that he told Mr. Foster that he would find the destruction of the American Anti-Slavery Society a formidable undertaking, from which he had better desist.
In the matter of Mr. Douglassï¿½s participation in this destruction, if sneers, misrepresentation and caricature<illegible> of the character, position and purpose of the Society do not ï¿½appearï¿½ to be aimed at its destruction, then Mr. Howland is not of competent judgment, and Mr. Douglass should be acquitted.
 The readers of the Liberator will, no doubt, feel under obligation to Mr. D. for shedding so much light upon a dark subject as he does, in announcing that Mr. Howland and J. A. H. are one and the same person.
In relation to Mr. Howlandï¿½s language and manners on this occasion ï¿½occasion' better becoming a slave plantation that than an Anti-Slavery Convention, ï¿½Mr. Howland begs leave to submit, that, it if a willingness on his part, when on the floor, to hear and answer all questions, to submit to all explanations and interruptions, with the concession to others that is usual in anti-slavery conventions, is the proof of these bad manners, he must plead guilty. And if, on the other hand, the fact of Mr. Douglass being entirely unwilling to submit to this usual custom of anti-slavery and other deliberative meetings is evidence of good manners,. Mr. Douglass must be considered a proved gentleman. J. A. H.
GERRIT SMITH TO HON. D. E. SOMES.
PETERBORO', Oct. 16, 1860.
HON. D. E. SOMES, Biddeford, Maine.ï¿½DEAR SIRï¿½,Owing to my absence from home, I have not until this the day read the letter in the Liberator, which you did me the honor to address to me.
You appear to think that I can as consistently vote with the Republican party and for Mr. Lincoln, as I formerly did with the Liberty party for Mr. Birney I think not. The avowed object of the Liberty party was then, as well as now,.the abolition of slavery. But this cannot be affirmed of the Republican party. Again, Mr. Lincoln is for a white manï¿½s party; is opposed to extending equal political rights to the black man; and is ready to use his official power to replunge into the pit of slavery the poor innocents who have escaped from it. But not so was Mr. Birney.
You would have it believed that one portion of the Liberty party, in its early days, was ï¿½for immediate emancipation by Congressional enactments; ï¿½' one for ï¿½disunion ï¿½forï¿½ disunion' of the States; and the other for ï¿½insurrection. ï¿½forï¿½ insurrection.' But I cannot believe that one in one hundred, no, nor one in one thousand of its members was for any of these things. You speak of it as being now a ferocious, bloody ï¿½bloody' little army of brave men.ï¿½ Whereas we are a little handful,. who are laboring for the peaceful overthrow of slavery by means of the ballot-box. We are at work to forestall bloodshed.
You believe that the Republican party, when in power, will guarantee, throughout the land, freedom of speech, and of the pressï¿½ that it will even protect Mr. Garrison in ï¿½inï¿½ publishing an anti-slavery paper in Richmond,ï¿½ and Mr. Philips in ï¿½Phillips in' stumping the South.ï¿½ In the Liberator containing your letter, Mr. Garrison says: ï¿½ï¿½Let but free speech and a free press be tolerated in the South, and its (slaveryï¿½s) doom would speedily be sealed.ï¿½' He is right. Let Garrison and Phillips be allowed to spend only one year in the South, in the enjoyment of their plain Constitutional rights, and such is the power of truth, and of their advocacy of it, that this one year would suffice to rid the South of slavery.
I need not say that I shall be quite as happy as yourself in the fulfilment of your prophecy, that the Republican party will protect these distinguished friends of humanity in their accomplishment of this great work. I think it will not. You think it will., Time will prove which of us is right.
Very respectfully yours,
GERRIT SMITH. 
THANKS GIVING. The last Thursday (29th) of November) will be the common Thanksgiving Day this year. It has already been officially named in New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Michigan, Ohio, Indians and laws, and we, presume the Governors generally will follow suit.ï¿½
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
VERMONT CONVENTION.
The fourth annual Anti-Slavery Convention assembled at Bradford, Wednesday, Oct.17, and was organized at half-past 1 o'clock, P. M., by the choice of ASA LOW of Bradford, President, and Charles P. Divoll, of Topsham, Secretary.
Business Committee—Rev. N. R. Johnston, E. H. Heywood, and J. D. Clarke.
Finance Committee—Carlos White, Mrs. N. R. Johnston, and Miss E. Divoll.
After prayer by Rev. H. P. Cushing of Bradford, the meeting was addressed at length by Mr. Remond and Mr. Heywood. Their criticisms upon the pro-slavery character of the Church brought up two Methodist clergymen, Rev. Mr. McAllister and Rev. Mr. Cushing, in defence of their sect, who were startled to learn that the Methodist Church North, after half a century of discussion, has not found out that slavery is a sin, holds nearly or quite a hundred thousand slaves, and allows slave auctions even in its camp-meetings! The lively discussion which followed put ’under concern’ both clerical and lay souls that before had reposed carelessly in the ’bonds of iniquity.'
A large audience assembled in the evening, and listened earnestly and till a late hour to eloquent and stirring address from H. Ford Douglass, Mr. Remond, Rev. N. R. Johnston, and others.
On the assembling of the Convention Thursday morning, after prayer by Rev. Silas McKeen of Bradford, Rev. N. R. Johnston (who in the absence of Mr. Low occupied the chair) read letters from Wm. L. Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Senator Collamer and Governor Fairbanks, some of which are printed in our columns. Mr. Johnston also, from the Business Committee, submitted the following Resolutions for the consideration of the Convention:—
Resolved, That those who attempt to defend slavery from the Bible—to impose upon community the odious lie that God, by his Word, sanctions a sin so heinous—are guilty of one of the worst and most dangerous forms of infidelity exhibited in this age and nation.
Resolved, That since slavery is the sum of all villanies, and one of the most heinous sins against God and man, we hereby bear testimony against all those religious denominations which fellowship slaveholders, as, at least in their position on slavery, at war with Christ and his gospel of liberty; and, so long as large and popular denominations continue to foster this sin and honor its advocates, we cannot hope that pure religion will prevail, or slavery be abolished.
Resolved, That no church is anti-slavery which admits slaveholders or the advocates of slavery to her communion-table; which admits pro-slavery ministers to her pulpits; or which allows her ministers to vote for slaveholders, or to swear to enforce pro-slavery constitutions and laws.
Resolved, That, as Abolitionists, our issue is not so much with the extension of slavery, the Dred Scott decision, the Fugitive Slave Law, or the Foreign Slave Trade, but with the natural and exhaustless source of all these abominations as established and sustained by State law, and entrenched within the Constitution, viz: the slave system, of which we demand the immediate and unconditional abolition, as the duty of the master, the right of the slave, and the salvation of the country from the desolating judgments of God.
Resolved, That since the Constitution of the United States was framed and adopted in unholy compromises with slavery, and at the sacrifice of the rights of the slave; and since the union of the States, of which the Constitution is the bond, connives at the annihilation of the liberty of millions, to whose rights that Constitution and that Union are the greatest foes, it follows that all who are parties to the Union, or supporters of the Constitution and Federal Government, are guilty of sustaining the iniquitous system of slavery, however honest their purposes or anti-slavery their professions.
Resolved, That, as philanthropists and Christians, we must be true to our own consciences, to our own fellow-men, and to God, never making any compromise with error or wrong; hence we cannot sustain the United States Government, be parties to the Federal compact, swear oaths of obedience to the Constitution, or exercise the elective franchise under it, because the government is a deliberate conspiracy against liberty and humanity—a grand and consolidated despotism, crushing down into interminable and hopeless bondage millions of immortal men and women, robbing them of every right, and rendering life itself a grievous curse, and then compelling all who live under that despotism to become soldiers to shoot down all insurgent slaves, or merciless blood hounds to pursue and recapture the flying fugitive.
Resolved, That while we regard the Democratic party, in both its wings, as the bitterest foe to the cause of emancipation, we can by no means recognized the Republican party as the party of freedom, though many of its members, as individuals, are thoroughly anti-slavery, since its treacherous and unholy alliances with slaveholders, slave-traders, and slave-breeders—its cruel and remorseless pledge to allow and compel four millions of slaves to perish in their chains—and its advocacy and support of Abraham Lincoln for President, who endorses all the pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution as expounded by Clay and Webster, and the infamous black laws of his own State, require that it should be shunned by every one who would save his own soul from blood-guiltiness, or lift the yoke of oppression from the bondmen of the South.
Resolved, That the friends of the slave have a great work to do in Vermont, as is evinced by the prevailing prejudice against color; the want of sympathy for the suffering slave; the acquiescence of church-members, Republicans and Democrats in the pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution; their refusal to demand the abolition of slavery in the South; the silence or the timidity of the pulpit in reference to slavery and pro-slavery institutions; the acquiescence of the people in the adoption of pro-slavery party platforms, and the nomination of pro-slavery presidential candidates; and the shameful silence of the conservative press in regard to all these evils. In view of theses things, we hereby pledge ourselves that we will not cease to labor in this good work until Vermont is free from all complicity with slavery, and the last vestige of this curse and crime driven from our country.
Resolved, That the legislation of Vermont, respecting the surrender of fugitives, is ambiguous or evasive, if the Personal Liberty Bill passed last year was intended to prevent the enforcement of the fugitive slave clause of the U. S. Constitution, or the fugitive slave law of 1850; and we hereby express our conviction, that both honesty and justice demand the enactment of a State law which will declare and make such clause of the Constitution, and such Fugitive Slave Law, forever null and void in Vermont, all legislation needed being a declaration that no fugitive slave shall ever be taken from the Green Mountain State.
Resolved, That the flamentable fact, that in our State there is very little lively interest or zeal felt in the cause of the slave, together with much opposition to the true friends of universal freedom, is owing greatly to the sinful silence or opposition of the press, both secular and religious; and we hereby express our earnest hope that the friends of humanity and pure religion may use every effort to circulate those journals that are bold and uncompromising in their testimony against slavery and its supporters.
Mr. Douglass subsequently presented the following:—
Resolved, That while we would deplore, as a great calamity, any other than a peaceable abolition of slavery in this country, yet we must still continue to hold it to be a duty which we owe the slave, as well as the freeman, whose liberty is endangered by such 
<c02>
an unnatural state of society, to break his fetters and lift himself up to the dignity of manhood, though the life of every slaveholder in the South should be sacrificed in the contest, and the American Church and Government, the pimps and panders of this foul conspiracy against justice, be blotted from the face of the earth forever.
Resolved, That John Brown and his brave compatriots, who threw their lives in self-forgetfulness against a Virginia mob in defence of freedom, deserve well of the human race, and are entitled to our profound admiration and gratitude, which we can never pay until this guilty people shall come to repent in the sackcloth and ashes of humiliation—resuming faithfully the great work which John Brown died to promote, not ceasing in their efforts until, through justice and the law of the living God, there shall be proclaimed to the American bondman an universal jubilee.
Resolved, That the cruel proscription and hatred which excludes colored men from the exercise of political and social privileges, is not the result of a belief in the natural inferiority of the negro, nor is prejudicial against color, but simply the universal protest of enlightened mankind against the condition of slavery, whether forced or voluntary. 
A Mr. Whipple, of St. Johns bury, took issue on the resolutions asserting the pro-slavery character of the Constitution, and proceeded to make a speech in defence of Lysander Spooner's theory of interpretation. He was pointedly and conclusively answered by Mr. Heywood and Mr. Remond, to the apparent satisfaction and conviction of the audience.
In the afternoon, an earnest and searching speech was made by Rev. Mr. Johnston upon the immoral and guilty complicity of the Republican party, and ecclesiastical sects of the North with the slaveholding South. He was followed by Mr. Remond and Mr. Douglass. 
The audience in the evening, which had gradually increased at the previous sessions of the Convention, crowded the large hall to overflowing, and listened for nearly three hours to extended addresses from Mr. Heywood and Mr. Douglass—the former showing, by an analysis of the political and ecclesiastical life of the nation, that all organizations under the Federal Government must necessarily be a conspiracy against impartial liberty—and hence that the logical result of the anti-slavery principle is, ‘No Union with Slaveholders,' in both Church and State; and the latter exposing, in an eloquent and telling speech, the prejudice against color, and the doctrine and practice of caste, which is the cleaving curse of the American people. The contributions amounted to $16 80. For unexplained reasons, the friends from a distance did not attend the Convention so generally as was confidently expected. But the citizens of Bradford and vicinity gave it their presence—in many instances their hearty co-operation. The speakers from abroad will not soon forget the generous and overflowing hospitality of those Green Mountain homes. The Reformed Presbyterians, or Covenanters, who comprise almost the only Disunion Abolitionists in the State, and under, the efficient leadership of Rev. N R. Johnston, are constant and unwearied in their devotion to the cause, freely, and in some cases with their whole families, leaving their homes and farms to be present at the Convention. This brave little sect, which, rising above the appalling indifference and gross immoralities of the American Church, and the huckstering complicity of the Federal States with slavery, has for more than half a century disciplined not only all slaveholders, but all supporters and apologists of slavery under the government, is worthy of all praise.

LETTER FROM JUDGE COLLAMER.
WOODSTOCK, Vt., Oct. 5, 1860.
DEAR SIR,—I have yours of the 24th ult., inviting me to attend the Anti-Slavery Convention, at Bradford.
You say,’ Our object is to work outside the political parties for the abolition of slavery; to use moral and religious means to bring about such a state of public opinion in our country as will result in the destruction of this enormous evil.'
No just man can reasonably object to the fair and candid use of moral and religious means to bring about a sound and correct public opinion on this, or any other subject of public concern. Moral and religious means, to be either legitimate or effective, must always be inspired and directed by the Christian spirit of meekness, and its arms must be earnest but kind persuasion, manifesting the most liberal charity and extended benevolence, directed by enlightened prudence. Such, I suppose, are the means which you intend to use; and for the success of such means, you are entitled to the prayers of all good men.
My engagements would not permit me to attend that meeting, even if I believed my presence there would be of public service, which I much doubt. I am at work inside the political parties, and my attention is engrossed with the political aspect of slavery, and my efforts are exerted to prevent its extension, as an element of political power. This I regard as my present mission in the cause of liberty and benevolence. I am, respectfully, 
Your humble servant, 
J. COLLAMER.
REV. N. R. JOHNSTON.

LETTER FROM MR. GARRISON.
BOSTON, October 15th, 1860.
MY DEAR FRIEND,—Nothing but the lack of voice, in consequence of a bronchial difficulty which compels me to be silent, prevents my attendance at the Bradford Convention. The remembrance of my visit to Vermont, two years ago, is fragrant and pleasurable to this hour. Wherever I travelled, I found kind friends and hospitable treatment, and a disposition to give me a candid hearing on the part of such as came to listen. It is true, very many stood aloof, and would not attend, owing to a deep-seated yet groundless prejudice, which led them to imagine that my sentiments were of a pestilent character, and my purposes subversive of the very foundations of society! Had they done me the simple justice to listen to my testimonies, they would have found them but an earnest reiteration of those which prophets and apostles uttered ages ago, and for which Jesus offered up his life on Calvary. The only abolitionism I have ever advocated is embodied in the 58th chapter of Isaiah—in the Golden Rule—and in the Declaration of Independence. If this is sedition, or fanaticism, or treason, or infidelity, I plead guilty to the charge. I am for breaking every yoke, and letting the oppressed go free. I am for doing unto others as I would be done by. I hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' Hence, my religion forbids my having any complicity with slavery, and my patriotism compel me to inscribe upon my banner the motto, ’NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!' Hence, whatever stands in the way of the emancipation of those in bondage, no matter what may be its pretensions or claims, is repugnant to justice and at war with the sights of our common humanity; and no quarter should be given to it. Tell me not of the sacred ness of a pro-slavery church, or the value of a pro-slavery government: they are both inherently and incurably corrupt, and deserve no countenance, but rather to be execrated. I care not whither the principles of liberty lead, nor to what results. They may cost property, reputation, life itself, but without them there is no hope of human, redemption, and Christ will have died in vain. In such a struggle, compromise is the worst policy, and subversive of all right.
The work before us is not the limitation but the extinction of slavery. Ours is not a geographical conscience, bounded by 36 degrees, 30 minutes, North
<c03>
latitude,' but it abhors the claim of property in man as much in Carolina as in Kansas, and the traffic in human flesh between the several Slave States as much as between the coast of Africa and our own shores. While the North remains in religions affiliation with the South, and sustains a Union cemented with the blood of those in bondage, our field of labor is and will be appropriately here. The day that shall witness her hands clean of this appalling iniquity will terminate the conflict, and usher in the jubilee!
I salute your Convention with hope and joy. All the omens are with us. FORWARD! 
Yours, in every straggle for the right,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
Rev. N. R. Johnston.

SLAVERY A SOCIAL EVIL.
In no captious spirit would we pen a line on the gigantic wrong of slavery. Human nature, both at the North and the South, is ever the same. We would not assume superior wisdom or piety. We believe there are multitudes of noble men and women in the Southern section of our country, who would gladly rejoice to strike off the fetters of the slave. We believe that solemn prayer has ascended to heaven from out the heart of many a true and loving mother, that her sons and daughters might be saved from the soul-destroying influences generated in the bosom of slavery; that many a fond father would rather, with his own hand, bind around the winding-sheet and lay his son silently in the grave, than to see his character blasted by the mildew of slavery. And when such men and women plead necessity, that they are the creatures of circumstance, that they are the innocent sufferers from the follies of their ancestors, and while our hearts melt with pity, we are urged by stronger motives than ever, for their sakes, to labor in the cause of Emancipation.
We well know what slavery is. We have lived among it, and seen it from various points of view. We have seen a refined and Christian matron, at the close of the day, gather her daughters and family domestics around her—not to teach her domestics to read, for this was forbidden by the law—but to teach them the use of the needle. We have many a time seen this little circle ply their accustomed task under the influence of gratitude and respect on the one hand, and of a sincere disposition on the other, to elevate the condition of those poor dependents. We have held many a free conversation with those of this class on the subject, as both a social and political evil. We have thought alike, and talked alike, and wept as we have talked, that there was no relief from this withering curse. We have heard the good pastor, from his place on Sunday, invoke a special blessing on the head of the kind master. We have heard cruelty to the slave condemned in no measured terms. We have seen gentle offices performed, kind words and warm tears shed over the sick-bed of the poor suffering slave, and we know that there is a sacred obligation enthroned in many a heart to watch over the moral character, to soothe in sickness, and to support and console through the lingering stages of dissolution. But we have also known a good and fair form, of complexion nearly white, with natural gifts of mind to fit her, when cultivated, for the circles of the refined; she from out the loins of a wealthy and influential planter, a native of one of the most puritanical States in New England, a resident of twenty years in the South, her mother a slave, and both the victims of his brutal passion. He, the legal citizen of a State, must have the protection of the law. His’ property' must be held sacred. From caprice or interest ho may, under the sanction of law, sell to another as vile as himself the victims of his lust; or, when the sands of life are well nigh run, he may dispose of their persons as his conscience dictates. No public scorn visits him in life. No special tears are shed over his grave. Memory would fain obliterate him from her tablets; but his memory remains, one among many similar, and each telling their silent tale of horror. We have turned over the leaves of the statute-book, to read the laws touching the matter of slavery. We have felt the force of the question lying in the mind of the legislator, as to how white people shall be best protected in their connection with so foul a wrong; and, as we have read and read, the spirit of fear and cruelty has arisen out of the words, and sent the irresistible conviction to the mind, that all justice and nobility of soul must first be trampled in the dust, before such laws can be made and enforced. We have seen a poor slave arranged at a so-called bar of justice in a so-called! Supreme Court of a State, to answer to the charge of burglary, when it was a well known fact,—known as well to the court and community as the shining of the sun,—that a white man, the principal in this crime, then on the floor of the court-room, a spectator among spectators, audaciously facing, with all the guilt upon his soul, the august (!) tribunal, shielded by the same unjust code that made this slave a chattel from his infancy. We have seen this principal in a crime—the penalty of which was death to the slave, but only imprisonment to the white man—we have! seen him among spectators, himself a spectator, turn his eager ear to the evidence as it was given in, bearing in its every word the condemnation of this poor tool or accomplice. When this deed was perpetrated, no white man save one was knowing to it. Slaves only, therefore, could offer evidence; a slave cannot, by law, testify against a white man, and of course there was no proof of the really guilty one. This judicial farce, with somber vision of court and jury, was protracted through many days. The charge, all experts as it must necessarily be, was made. The jury returned their verdict of guilty. The prisoner was remanded to jail to await his sentence. The court adjourned. The spectators and the real instigator to this crime retired. After a few days, this unfortunate man was brought from jail to court to receive his doom. The presiding judge, a prominent member of a Christian church, the expositor of the law, the personification of justice, arose in his place, and ordered the prisoner to stand. The first sentence, like the first sad stroke of the funeral bell, still rings in our ear. It was this: ’Bill, this Court, after anxious deliberation, has come to the solemn conclusion that if you had more lives than one, it would be its duty to take them all,' &c. This poor victim was murdered under the sanction of law. We need not adduce more evidence of the difficulties and atrocities which grow out of the barbarous system of slavery. No one can live among it uninfluenced by saddest feelings of pity and regret. You need not wander from your path to find sights and sounds which make the heart sick. As a social evil, slavery cannot be too much magnified. Can our Southern friends wonder when Northern men turn abolitionists? How much longer shall this painful connection with slavery exist? W

A LINCOLN MAN TARRED AND FEATHERED ON A MISSISSIPPI STEAMBOAT.—The Wilkesbarre (Pa.) Record has the following account of the tarring and feathering of an Ohio man on a steamboat at Natchez. The Record says:— 
‘Mr. David Levi has just returned from Arizona. Coming up the Mississippi, as the boat stopped at Natchez, a vote was taken for Presidential preferences among the passengers. One very respectable looking merchant, from Ohio, voted for Lincoln, with the remark that it was useless for him to attempt to disguise his sentiment. The other passengers immediately stripped him, covered him with tar and feathers, and set him afloat in a canoe.’
O, ‘the glorious Union'! Where is it?
SOUTHERN HOSPITALITY.-The brother-in-law of Rev. C. M. Tyler, of this place, embarked for Georgia on the steamer from Philadelphia. Though very discreet in the expression of his opinion, he was not permitted to remain a day in the city of Savannah without imprisonment, being as terrible as an army with banners. He returned by the next steamer, much impressed with Southern liberality and political liberty. -Natick Observer. 
<c04>
OVATION TO JAS. REDPATH IN HAYTI. 
James Redpath was the recipient of a popular ovation at Port au Prince, on the 27th of September, on the occasion of his return to the United States. The Progress says:-
‘James Redpath—such is the name that we now seek to specially honor—James Redpath, one of the most active members of the Abolitionist party—James Redpath, the indefatigable Emancipationist — the friend of the martyrs of Harper's Ferry— the companion of the heroic John Brows, whose memory he has embalmed in glowing words.
Thursday, September 27th, was the-day, and the large Hotel des Antilles the place chosen for the ovation, so marked by true confidence and hearty cordiality. 
M. J. M. Duval, President of the Senate, opened the exercises by saying:— 
'GENTLEMEN: On this occasion let us give a new testimony of acknowledgment to all those who preach the doctrines of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity. The first toast is to him whose incessant labors for the triumph of the sacred cause of Liberty, and the regeneration of the African race, we desire to honor—Mr. James Redpath.' 
Mr. Redpath, in reply, delivered a speech in English, which was rendered in French, as he spoke, by a gentleman present. It is thus reported:— 
GENTLEMEN —FRIENDS: I would not have been present at this your sumptuous banquet to-night, had it been tendered as a personal homage; and it was only with the extremest diffidence that I accepted your invitation, when proffered to me in a representative capacity. Jonah had not a greater desire to evade his mission than I this exhibition of your kindness; and, indeed, I had prepared to avail myself of his peculiar policy—by running to another port. But, like the old prophet, I was unsuccessful; for your committee instantly seized the ship—and thus anchored me here to-night.
Not even this energetic generosity of my friends would have induced me to be here, had the tribute been a personal one; for it is to the generals, not to the soldiers of freedom that such testimonials are due; and that, too, after the victory is won, not while the battle is still fiercely waging. I have never claimed to be other than a private in the war; and although, as such, I have tried to do my duty, I can permit no public honors. I appear, therefore, as a representative of the American Abolitionists, after the American Congressional fashion— that is to say, the representative being always understood to be inferior to the class whom he represents. Perhaps, I have one qualification for the duty: following no leader but my own conscience, I belong to no Anti-Slavery sect, and have, therefore, no sectarian partialities or dislikes. I accept with all my soul the Anti-Slavery idea, but reject with equal force all attempts to enforce conformity in translating it. Following this idea, I recognize as Abolitionists many whom other Abolitionists reject, and refuse to recognize as Abolitionists, some who loudly enough claim the honorable name. 
Gentlemen, they are a noble company whom you have insisted that I shall represent; so noble, that, if it had been possible, I would have preferred to have remained in their rear, rather than be called on to speak for them. Infused with their holy idea of the unity of races—of a common childhood before a common father—whites, blacks, and men of color, they work, each in his own way, but, even when in seeming conflict, in essential harmony for the realization of their heaven-born faith. John Brown and his followers found such a faith worth dying, for, and his survivors, and Abolitionists of every rank, have long since found that it is a faith worth living for. Soon may it universally prevail throughout the world!
I know that it will soon triumph in the United States—that Slavery there must soon perish before it. The doom of that cruel barbarism, pronounced from the beginning, now rapidly approaches its fulfillment. Ages ago a Persian poet said,’ Beware of the groans of the wounded heart, for a single sigh can overturn the world.' The sighs of the slaves, the prayers of their friends, the voice of the blood of the martyrs of Harper's Ferry, have been heard in the judgment hall of the Eternal, and the death-sentence of the great iniquity must speedily be executed. Whether peacefully as in Jamaica, or with blood as in Hayti, I hope that, ere many years have passed, we shall see Slavery numbered among the things that were, and are not.
In behalf of the Abolitionists, who seek, by peaceful means, to eradicate Slavery, I thank you, Haytians, for your sympathy; in behalf of my dear friends, the survivors of Harper's Ferry and the family of John Brown, I gratefully thank you, benefactors, for your generous donations; and in behalf of those earnest Anti-Slavery men who believe that the bondman must be liberated by force, and are prepared to aid him, I thank you, Hayti, land of Petion and of Dessalines, for the lesson, that your history teaches, and the hope that it inspires.
Before resuming my seat, I will ask you to add still further to my obligations to you by joining me in a sentiment:— 
To Liberty, Fraternity, and Equality—To the Liberty of all men; to the Fraternity of all races, and the Equality, in rights, of all men and all races throughout all the world.
President Geffrard was not present, but sent to the meeting assurances of his approval of its objects.
Among other sentiments offered during the evening were the following:— 
‘Honor, honor, honor to Thaddeus Hyatt, the fervent Abolitionist, the soldier of the great cause, the apostle of humanity, the friend of John Brown and Redpath.' 
‘Honor, a thousand times honor to the memory of out well-beloved brother and our excellent friend, John Brown, the illustrious martyr of the cause of African freedom. May be enjoy the benediction of God.'
'Let us drink to the Master of Thought, to the King of Poesy, to the grandest and most beautiful personification of modern democracy—let us drink to Victor Hugo.'
'To M. de Lamartine, the great Philosopher of the Nineteenth Century. May the illustrious writer, who has already given so many proofs of his sympathy for the Haytians, always show himself to be a worthy apostle of the liberty of the blacks. Let the name of this defender of the African cause be upon our lips as it is in our hearts; his devotion to the noble cause he defends renders him more and more worthy of our admiration.'
'To Monsieur de Lamartine, the courageous defender of the children of Africa!'
After the dinner, Mr. Redpath was escorted by a torchlight procession to the bark Lex, and hailed with cheers.
A decree of perpetual banishment has been issued against Salomon, ex-Minister of Soulouque.
A SLAVE REMANDED TO HIS MASTER FROM OHIO. The Cincinnati papers of Thursday report a case of the rendition of a slave to his master from that city. In the Supreme Court, David Gibbs sued out a writ of habeas corpus to try the question of freedom of a colored boy named Henson, about twelve years of age, and alleged to be illegally deprived of his liberty. Lewis Bruce, in answer to the writ, stated that he was the owner of the boy, and was taking him from Virginia, his former residence, to Missouri; that the boat on which he was travelling had stopped at the Cincinnati landing and tied up to the shore, against his wishes.
Mr. Jolliffe argued the case for applicant, claiming that the boy was found within our jurisdiction; and, as slavery could not exist in Ohio under her constitution and laws, he must be declared free. 
Judge Gholson announced the decision, (the other members of the court, Judges Carter, Mellon and Collins concurring,) and held that, although the jurisdiction of our courts extended for many purposes to boats on the Ohio river, the citizens of Virginia and other States bordering on the south had a right to the free navigation of the river; that the stopping of boats and tying up at the landing was a necessary incident to the right of free navigation, and as such, rested on a higher basis than the mere jurisdiction of the river. 
In the course of the decision it was remarked, that, while we should carefully maintain our own rights, yet the courts must also see to it that the rights of our neighbors were not infringed. The sheriff was directed to return the boy to his owner on the boat.
MONTGOMERY, (Ala.) Oct. 27.
MR. TOOMBS AT MONTGOMERY. Mr. Toombs spokes to an audience of 2000 persons here last night. He urged resistance to death in the event of the election of Lincoln.
GEORGIA MILITIA. Major-General John W. A. Sanford, of the 3d division, Georgia militia, has made his report to the Governor. He represents his division to be in a state of complete disorganization; its regiments, battalions and companies un officered, and their strength unknown.
The New Orleans Picayune states that the emigration of free colored people from Louisiana to Hayti, since the establishment of President Geffrard's government, has assumed such an importance that a steamer has been placed for the first time in the line between New Orleans and Hayti. She will sail for Haytian ports on the first of November, and continue making regular trips until, as contemplated, she will be bought by the Haytian Government.
<c05>
LECTURE ON THE ART OF PRINTING.
The undersigned would respectfully give notice, that he has prepared a Lecture on’ The Early History of the Art of Printing,' and would refer, by permission, to 
Hon. CHARLES W. UPHAM, Salem; 
Hon. STEPHEN H. PHILLIPS, Salem 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston;
Dr. OLIVER WENDRLL HOLMES, Boston; 
Rev. JAMES W. THOMPSON, D. D., Jamaica Plain. 
CHARLES W. FELT, Salem. Mass.,
or at 46 Court Street, Room No. 20, Boston.
Having heard this lecture as delivered by Mr. Felt, we are prepared to give it approbation.]—ED. LIB. 
AN INTERESTING LECTURE.—In our special column of to-day will be found a notice of a lecture, on the Early History of the Art of Printing, prepared for delivery during the approaching season. Mr. Felts the inventor of a type-getting machine, which has excited much interest during the past few months, and received no little comment in the, various papers. Mr. F. has received the 'material aid' of some of our most influential citizens, and being desirous to add to it as far as possible, has been advised by judicious friends to enter the lecturing field, in which he has already had some experience in Salem, Boston and elsewhere. He has had every facility for making himself acquainted with the very interesting subject he has selected, and it will doubtless prove an entertaining and instructive lecture.—Boston Traveller. 
LECTURE.—We take pleasure in calling the attention of lecture committees to the advertisement, in our special column, of a lecture on the Early History of the Art of Printing. The lecturer, Mr. Felt, is the inventor of a machine for setting type, and has one of them now building in this city. He has made the printing art, in all its bearings, a matter of considerable study, and has obtained much curious information, in regard to it, which will doubtless be presented in an agreeable manner, and can scarcely fail to prove interesting. He is a young man of talent and education, and bids fair to make his mark as a lecturer as well as inventor. We wish him all success in his enterprise.—Boston Daily Advertiser. 

MICHIGAN ANNUAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The second Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for Michigan will be held in Adrian, commencing on Saturday, the 17th of November, at 2 o'clock, P. M. All the anniversaries of our movement, during the last twelve months, in all the States that observe them, have been of the most interesting and encouraging character. Let every Michigan Abolitionist endeavor to see to it that this shall not be an exception. 
Among the speakers will be Mrs. JOSEPHINE GRIFFING, PARKER PILLSBURY, and GILES B. STEBBINS. 
Adrian, Oct. 25. 
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at 
Sandwich, Sunday, Nov. 11.
Barnstable, Tuesday, Nov. 13.
Yarmouth Port, Wednesday, Nov. 14.
Osterville, Thursday, Nov. 15.
Centreville, Friday, Nov 16.
Hyannis, Sunday, Nov 18.
Brewster, Tuesday, Nov 20.
Dennis, Wednesday, Nov 21.
East Dennis, Thursday, Nov 22 
Harwich, Sunday, Nov 25.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at
Weymouth, Sunday, P. M. and eve'g, Nov. 4.
East Bridge water, Thursday eve'g, Nov 8.
West Bridgewater, Friday, eve’g, Nov 9.
North Abington, Sunday afternoon, Nov 11.
East Abington, Sunday evening, Nov 11
Bridge water, Friday, eve’g Nov.14
North Abington, Sunday afternoon, Nov 11 
East Abington, Sunday evening, Nov.11 
Marlboro', Wednesday eve'g, Nov 14.
Feltonville, Thursday eve’g, Nov 16.
North Oxford, Friday. Nov 17. 
WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY.
The quarterly meeting of this Society will be held at West Brookfield, on Saturday evening and Sunday afternoon and evening, Nov. 17 and 18.
Rev. SAMUEL MAT, Jr., H. FOKD DOUGLAS S, E. H. HEYWOOD and others will be present.
MEDWAY.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at 
East Medway, Sunday, Nov. 4.
West Medway, Monday, Nov 5.
LYCEUM LECTURES.-DR. JOHN S. ROCK is prepared to deliver the following lectures before Lyceums:— 
1. ‘The Unity of the Human Races.' 
1.’The Lights and Shadows of African Life.' 
3.'Woman the Intellectual equal of Man.' 
Please address Dr. J. S. Rock, 83 Southac street, Boston. 
PHYSIOLOGICAL LECTURES. 
A Rare Opportunity for Ladies. 
MRS. YOUNG, M. D., Graduate of Penn Medical University, Philadelphia, on FRIDAY, Nov. 2, at 3 o'clock, P. M., at Mercantile Hall, Summer Street, will deliver a highly important and most instructive Special Lecture to Ladies on Female Organism, giving the fullest explanation of the diseases to which it is liable—their causes and remedies, illustrated by a Female Manikin of the largest life-size, with magnitied models of special organs, showing the color, size,’ relation and position of the Internal Organs, being the finest specimens of the Clasto-Anatomic Art ever exhibited. 
Also, on SATURDAY, Nov. 3, at 3 o'clock, P. M., on Utero-Gestation, illustrated by thirty-two different Magnified Models, showing the development from the commencement to the termination of the period. 
This splendid Anatomical Apparatus—the largest and most expensive ever owned or exhibited by a woman-was imported from Paris by Mrs. Young, especially for illustrating her Lectures.
The value of these Lectures to Women, old or young, cannot be estimated by money. No female, of whatever age, from ten to seventy-five, should allow any trifling matters of business to prevent her attendance. Thousands have regretted that they did not, when the opportunity had passed.
Admission to each Lecture, 25 cents. 
Boston, Nov. 2.
LITTLE CHILDREN can be furnished with board and kindly cared for at No. 1 Newland (out of Dedham) street, by Mrs. J. M. SPEAR.
WANTED—A situation by a colored lad, 17 years of age, to learn the Newspaper, Book, or Job-Printing business, in Boston or vicinity. He has worked some time on a newspaper; has a good education, having graduated from a high school; and can furnish references, if required. Apply at this office.
SITUATION WANTED.
A young woman acquainted with Book-keeping, both double and single entry, desires a situation as an Amanuensis, or otherwise to do any writing or copying. Inquire of R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office.
DIED—In this city, on Thursday afternoon, 25th ult., Mrs. MART, wife of Mr. EPHRAIM WILLET, formerly of Stoneham, aged 66. In all the relations of life, as wife, mother, friend and neighbor, she was most exemplary; and from an early period she took an abiding interest in the cause of the oppressed in our land. Her sufferings were severe and long protracted, but borne with, wonderful fortitude and patience. On Saturday afternoon, her remains were entombed at Stoneham, that day being, by a singular coincidence, the 48th anniversary of her marriage.

AGENTS WANTED
TO SELL
HARRINGTON, 
A HANDSOME 12ma volume of 570 pages, Novel Price $1 25. The most brilliant Anti-Slavery Novel yet written.
Liberal terms will be given to Agents, and a fine opportunity is afforded for those who have no winter employment, to travel and sell this work.
Sent by mail, post-paid, on the receipt of the price.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS, 
114 and 116 Washington street, Boston.
Nov. 2. lw

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE. 
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God third edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. 
A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
Oct 5—6m. 274 Canal street, New York.
<c06>
IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT 
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP.
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS.
THREE-FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces.
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause or derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not, taken into the circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers, are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, however, from deterioration or bad state of the blood.
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description, Tendency to Consumption, Weakness of the Sexual Organs, Prolapsus Uteri, and diseases of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness and prostration of physical and mental energy. In all these cases, THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astonishing cures, and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable ingredient, Iron in the Blood.
The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured.
EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself of herself of this invaluable remedy.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER, 
No. 39 Summer Street, Boston. 
For sale by all Druggists. Oct. 26. 6w.

PORTRAIT OF 
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
A SPLENDID crayon Portrait of Mr. Phillips has just been drawn by Thomas M. Johnston. It is pronounced by the most intimate friends of Mr. P. the very best likeness for which he ever sat. It will be drawn on stone in the very, highest style of the lithographic art, and copies will be furnished to subscribers at ONE DOLLAR EACH.
C. H. BRAINARD,
322 Washington street, Boston. Oct. 26. 

Historical Pictures Retouched.
A VOLUME of Miscellanies, in two parts. Part I., Studies. Part II, Fancies. By Mrs. C. H. DALL, author of' Woman's Right to Labor' A volume at once scholarly and popular, instructive and interesting, which is sure of a cordial reception from all readers of the work on’ Labor,' and certain to take a place in our standard literature. 16mo., $1.
'Written with a freshness of style, and vigor and independence of thought An important contribution to that branch of social science in which its author is laboring.'—Norfolk County Journal. 
By an author whose literary culture, patient industry, and earnest spirit, have deservedly placed her in the front rank of writers'—Banger Whig. 
'These essays evince rare literary culture, patient industry, and strong reasoning, powers.'—Portland Transcript. 
Published by 
WALKER, WISE & COMPANY. 
245 Washington street, Boston. 
Oct. 26. 3t 
LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY, 
274 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
THE Second Annual Course of Lectures will commence on Thursday, Nov. 8, 1860. 
LECTURERAS.
WALTER BURNHAM, M. D., on Practice of Medicine and Surgery.
SUSAN R. CAPEN, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., Surgical Anatomy, Physiology, and Materia Medics.
SARAH W. SALISBURY, M. D., Anatomy and Hygiene. Intending students will apply to Dr. W. S.
S. BROWN, 15 Congress Street, Boston.
Oct. 5. 4wis

THAYER & ELDRIDGE'S
ANNOUNCEMENTS!
HARRINGTON, 
A Story of True Love.
By the Author of’ ‘What Cheer? ‘The Ghost—A Christmas Story, '&c.
‘Herein may be seen noble chivalrye, curtosye, humanitye, friendlynesse, love, friendshype, cowardyse, murder, hate, vertue and synne. Doo after the good, and leve the evyl, and it shall brynge you to good fame and renowne."-(Sir Thomas Malory: Preface to Morte D Arthur.
This is the most brilliant novel ever written in America. It is of an anti-slavery character, and altogether the most fascinating story of the kind yet published. 1 volume, 12 mo. Ready first of November.
II
HALF-BATTLE WORDS FROM THEODORE PARKER. 
'Few deeds are equal to his words. His prose was a half-battle.—[Jean Paul Richter on Martin Luther. One volume, 12mo.
This volume will contain some of the most salient passages to be found in Theodore Parker's Sermons, and also extracts from his famous portraitures of character, such as Channing, John Quincy Adams, General Taylor, Daniel Webster, Washington, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, R. W. Emerson, Humboldt, &c, &c. [To be issued immediately.] 
III. 
THEODORE PARKER: 
IN MEMORIAM. 
Embracing the tributes to his memory, by Emerson, Phillips, Garrison, J. F. Clark, W. E. Channing, May, Alger, Belcher, Frothingham, Conway, Higginson, Wheelock, Charles Sumner, G. W. Curtis, &c, with a biographical sketch. 
This volume will be issued, in elegant style, and be embellished with a superb steel portrait. [Ready n1 vol. 12mo. 
[In active preparation]
IV.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL,
Written by herself Edited by L. MARIA CHILD.
A work presenting a new phase of the Peculiar Institution, of especial interest to every woman, and to all who love virtue. 1 volume, 12mo. 
[Ready in November.]
V
HISTORY OF SLAVE INSURRECTIONS. 
By T. W. HIGGINSON.
This volume will embrace the papers in the Atlantic Monthly, contributed by the author under the title of’ The Maroons of Jamaica," The Maroons of Surinam,' &c., with a history of all other notable slave insurrections. A work of peculiar interest to the American people, as well as a valuable contribution to historical literature. 1 volume, 12mo.
A NEW VOLUME OF POEMS
By WALT WHITMAN.
A handsome brochure of 150 pages. 1 volume, 16mo. O26 2w 

DR. E. A. KITTEREDGE
WOULD inform the public that, he has taken a most commodious mansion in Fairmount, Milton, (seven miles from Boston on the Providence railroad,) where he is prepared to give Hydropathic and Kinnisipathic treatment. Diseases of Females specially attended to Office in Boston, 13 Avery Street.
Patients visited anywhere in New England, as usual. Oct. 12.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE SLAVE MOTHER'S LAMENT.
BY CORA WILBURN.
Mothers! in your home of beauty,
Ye know not the anguish wild,
That its burdened lash of tenor
Wield's above poor Afric's child.
Smiling in the happy faces
Of your children, glad and free,
Could you smiling thus caress them,
If bereft of liberty?
On my daughter's form of beauty,
On her changing, pensive face,
I can look but with a shudder-
Fatal is her maiden grace!
For unto s doom abhorrent
I must see my pure one go;
And my lips, in forced silence,
Close upon my heart's deep woe.
And my sons?-Alas! that ever
Unto me the sacred name
And the feelings of a mother
Should call forth the blush of shame!
We is me! for fear and terror
'Round me cast their darkening spell;
O'er the hearts of all who love me,
Broods the shadow of farewell.
Sacred ties of home and kindred,
Riven by the cruel hand;
Chained in bondage everlasting,
By the freemen of this land!
Heart oppressed and soul down-trodden,-
When for comfort can I flee?
Only onto Thee, Great Master!
Thou wilt grant my liberty.
Oh, my husband! long departed
To the free and sunny land;
See, I wear the troth-plight token
Of his true love on my hand!
Tears of bitterness and sorrow.
Such as happy wives ne'er know,
For my woman's love and honor,
O'er its golden memories flow.
Oh, my manly sons! that never
Will these weeping eyes behold:
What availed my bitter sorrow,
'Gainst the ruling power of gold?
Are they sleeping in the valley?
Have they to the mountains fled?
Have they reached the land of freedom?
Have they homeward, heavenward sped?
Oh, my daughters! pure and lovely,
With the white blood in your veins;
Are yon dwelling yet in penance,
Soul-crushed by your gilded chains?
Or discarded, when the glory
Of your youthful prime is o'er,
Do yon weep above your children,
For the dreaded doom in store?
I am lonely, wives and mothers!
I am of my all bereft;
Not a joy-gleam of the future
To my mother-heart is left!
Can you calmly hear of sorrows,
Bear with anguish such as mine,
Folding to your happy bosoms
Children free by right divine?
Northern women! let me tell you
That the boon of liberty
Is to me and mine accorded
By God's merciful decree.
In my breast the love of freedom,
As in yours, exultant beats;
That my inmost soul is conscious
Of the sacred charm that greets
In your happy homes the mother,
Honored by the nation's voice:-
O'er my foredoomed hapless children,
How can such as I rejoice?
'Round us laws unjust are framing
Prison-bars that never yield
To the angel-touch of pity,
For our fate from birth is sealed.
Happy sons and careless daughters!
Children of the loving God!
Hear my supplicating prayer!
See me bending 'neath the rod,
Wielded by unholy despots!
Save the unborn ones from doom!
May the holy stars of freedom
Shed their glory o'er my tomb!
Cottage Rest, Lynn, Oct. 24, 1860.
For the Liberator,
LINES.
BY AUGUSTINE CALDWELL.
O shame! that e'en within the shade
Of hallowed Bunker Hill,
There yet are icy hearts that forge
The chains of Slavery still!
Hearts, too, that know the charms of home,
And all the sweets of earth,
Yet blight the simple joys that spring
Around their brother's hearth.
O sacred soft! once wet with blood
Of whole-souled men and true;
Warmed by the sun's reviving beam,
Refreshed by evening dew;
When will the brighter season dawn,
That we shall find no trace
Of the dark stain now broadly spread
Upon our country's face?
Who that doth for a moment think
Of all the slave must bear,-
The weary hours of cheerless toil,
The darkness of despair,-
But feels within a strong desire
To lend a helping hand,
To break his chain, and purge the soil
From, every tyrant band?
No spirit true will shrink with fear,
Or for a moment quail,
While there is wafted to the ear
A bondman's plaintive wail.
And he who has a tender heart
Will labor as he can,
And, in the cause of Right and Truth
Act nobly as a man.
Salem, Oct. 17, 1860.
HARVEST HYMN.
O, happy day, returned once more,
With golden plenty still replete!
As though she never gave before-
Earth pours her treasures at our feet!
Oh, thanks to God, whose love abides,
And scatters bounties everywhere;
Who in the heart of nature hides
The germ of his unfailing care,
More rich than Autumn's robe of leaves
Should be the garments of our praise;
And ampler than her ample sheaves
The charities that crown our days.
More fragrant than the meadow's breath
The incense of oar souls should rise;
From Life's rude altars wreathed by Faith
With borrowed bloom from Paradise.
Oh, clearly, then, could we behold
In flowers that fade, and fruits that fall,
Sweet hints, which earthly gifts enfold.
Of treasures stored in Heaven for all!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
'A GOSPEL SERMON.'
The performance of necessary work prevented me from hearing the first of two sermons preached by Rev. Samuel J, May, of Syracuse, at the Music Hall in Boston. Chancing to meet that truly Christian minister in the intervening week, I asked what was to be his subject on the following Sunday, October 21st. He replied that he in tended to preach' a Gospel sermon'; and I told him that I was very glad to hear it, since it was that characteristic which bad caused me so much to admire and value the preaching of Theodore Parker.
After remarking that the highest kind of proof is self-evidence, Mr. May stated these three as self-evident truths, lying at the foundation of true religion:
1. That there is a God, perfect in every imaginable excellence, on whom we are dependent, and to whom we are responsible.
2. That God has made all men equal in rights, and possessed of inalienable rights; and that He has made each to be spiritually and personally independent of his fellows.
3. That God will always himself show respect to the inalienable rights of men, and perform his duties towards them; and that one of man's inalienable rights (involving a corresponding duty on the part of any one who has the power) is to have his sufferings pitied and relieved.
In the course of his illustration of these ideas, Mr. May remarked that the creeds of the popular religion had been devised by men living under despotism, unacquainted with, and indifferent to, the rights of man; that, having been educated to revere and obey power, irrespective of right, they had imagined and described their God as having the characteristics of their earthly sovereign, and represented him as authorized, by power, to practise the most flagrant disregard of justice, and as actually following 'his own will' in violation of the plainest dictates of rectitude as well as of benevolence. He said that the believers in these creeds will naturally lead selfish lives, in imitation of their God; and that, in consequence of this characteristic, the churches of the popular religion have manifestly not helped forward anything properly called sanctification in their individual members, nor made even an attempt to remove ignorance and prejudice from their pupils.
At the close of his discourse, Mr. May paid a tribute of affectionate regard to the memory of Theodore Parker. Great, said he, as are the obligations of the world to that noble man, it is indebted to him for nothing more than for his vindication of the character of God. If men's ideas of God are low, their aspirations cannot be high. Hence it is most important that God should be shown to them as He really is, as scrupulous in the performance of His duties as in the exaction of theirs, and as never using power, or exerting authority, irrespective of right.
The principle of retributive justice is the foundation of God's government; retributive justice, exercised alike in this and in all other worlds, and in eternity as well as in time. Well-doing, in all regions and under all periods of His administration, necessarily tends to happiness-ill-doing, to misery. Thus, his administration is always righteous, and its influence upon man always beneficent.
Since, however, the popular religion has always represented God as despotic, jealous, partial, capricious and vindictive, some men have always sought to escape from this monstrous doctrine. They have attempted this in two ways, by rushing into two opposite extremes. Some, by denying the existence of God; some, by exalting his beneficence in the future world, at the expense of his justice, and representing all mankind, of whatever character, as brought to a level of uniform happiness and welfare immediately after death. Happily, we are not reduced to either of these three alternatives. Trust in the uniform and unchangeable administration of a perfect God, and conformity of our lives to it, are far better than either.
Everlasting progress is the duty and destiny of man. And it will be accomplished, in the case of every individual. Beyond the grave, as here, sin will bring forth evil, and righteousness will tend to welfare; and these tendencies will ultimately bring all sentient beings into willing conformity with that rule of right to which God's will also conforms itself.
I must enter my protest against one expression used by Mr. May, because it gives countenance to one of the mischievous errors taught by the clergy of that popular religion whose vices he was exposing.
Speaking of the dreadful hypothesis of a hell, the intolerable sufferings of which are neither suited nor designed to reform the sinners who are subjected to it-and which is to endure forever without exciting even compassion, much less help, either in the Heavenly Father, or the most loving and tender of his' elected' children-Mr. May said,' If the Bible teaches it, then is the Bible no longer worthy of our confidence.'
This expression favors, first, the false statement of the clergy, that the Bible is a unitary document, everywhere consistent with itself, and next, their deceitful theory that, if not accepted as a whole, it must be rejected as a whole. Both these ideas are directly at variance with the truth.
The Bible, instead of being one book, the product of one mind, (as it is deceptively represented and extensively believed,) is the union of two collections of books, written by people of two different and conflicting religions. And not only do numerous irreconcilable discrepancies between its parts disprove the hypothesis of its being a symmetrical whole, but there is not the slightest reason to believe that any one of the forty or fifty writers of these several parts (extending over a period of many centuries) ever once supposed that his particular work would ever be bound in one volume with any other of these works; still less with the collection of Jewish writers, or the collection of Christian writers, in question; and least of all, with the union of these two collections which we now have, entitled 'The Bible.'
If the existence of an endless hell is taught or assumed by any of these writers, (as it seems to be by some of them,) this does not show that even they wrote no good or true things; it only shows that we should follow the counsel of Paul, and, instead of accepting that particular treatise as authoritative, prove it, and holdfast only that in it which is good. But it is absurd to say that the existence of such an error in two, or three, or ten of these writers should discredit the forty or fifty other writers in these two collections. Each of them must be judged by his own merits and demerits; and the right rule in regard to each of them is-'Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.'
Impartial criticism will find far more truths than errors in the Bible; and its truths are those that we can least afford to lose or to disregard. If some of its books are of an inferior, even of a trivial, character, others are most precious statements of religious truth. We cannot afford to lose them. Let us then beware, even by a casual expression, of favoring an error so enormous as the clerical hypothesis that the Bible must be accepted as a whole, or rejected as a whole.-C. K. W.
COLORED INVENTORS, ARTISANS, ETC. We are happy to record the fact, that at the Mechanics' Fair recently held in this city, there were several articles contributed by colored men and women-among them, a Portable Range, invented by Joseph Scarlett; a specimen of Frame Gilding, by Jacob R. Andrews, both of Boston; and a wax-work composition-'Garden of Paradise'-by Mrs. Edward Richardson, of Medford;-and at the Massachusetts Horticultural Exhibition, Joshua B. Smith, of Cambridge port, received a gratuity for Swan's Orange Pears, of his own raising. N.
<c03>
ANTI-SABBATICAI. LITERATURE.
A letter, just received, inquires-'Where can I find the best discussion of the Sunday question?'- As inquiries of this sort are often made, and as the subject is a highly important one, I give a list of some of the best works in regard to it.
1. The best discussion I know, conducted at length, and in the most thorough manner, in regard to the Sabbath, is the following:-
'The Obligation of the Sabbath: a Discussion between Rev. J. Newton Brown and Wm, B. Taylor.- A Hart, Philadelphia, 1853.'-300 pages.
This book, edited by Mr. Taylor, who originally challenged a discussion of the question, thoroughly examines every point belonging to it.
2. The next best discussion is found in the
'Proceedings of the Anti-Sabbath Convention, held in the Melodeon, March 23d and 24th, 1848.'-168 pages-paper covers.
This may be had (very cheap, by the quantity, namely, $10 a hundred,) of R. F. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
3. The best brief treatise, or tract, proving from the Scriptures that there is no such thing as a Christian Sabbath appointed by God for weekly observance, is entitled-'The Sabbath: By Henry Grew, Philadelphia.' This tract, of 23 pages, may be obtained o: the author, in Philadelphia.
4. An admirable brief exposition of this subject, on the ground of reason as well as Scripture, is found in a volume of Archbishop Whately's writings. The volume is called-'Essays on some of the Difficulties in the Writings of St. Paul.' Essay V.-'On the Abolition of the Law'-proves, conclusively, the entire abolition of the Mosaic Law, including the Decalogue, by the establishment of the Gospel. And a long note appended to that Essay shows, as conclusively, not only that the 4th commandment of that Jewish Decalogue imposes no obligation whatever upon Christians, but that the New Testament abolishes the Sabbath altogether, and that no part of the Bible requires, or countenances, the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath.
This note, with a portion of the Essay to which it belongs, was formerly published in Boston, in a little tract of 36 pages, now, unfortunately, out of print.
5.'First Day Sabbath not of Divine Appointment: with the opinions of Calvin, Luther, Belsham, Melancthon, Barclay, Paley and others. Addressed to the Rev. Justin Edwards, D. D., and to the members of the American and Foreign Sabbath Union. By Henry C. Wright. Boston, 1848.'-47 pages-I fear this excellent tract also is out of print.
6.'Stone Him to Death! - or, The Jewish and Christian Dispensations Compared and Contrasted. New York: W. A. Townsend and Co.1859.'-107 pages, paper covers.
This is a reprint of two admirable articles from the Westminster Review, one entitled Septenary Institutions,' the other, Sunday in Great Britain.'
Any one of these six works is sufficient to show that Christianity does not inculcate, nor recognize, the observance of a weekly Sabbath.-C. K. W.
A WORD TO HON. D. E. SOMES.
In a late number of the Liberator, I have seen, for the first time, a letter of yours, addressed to Hon. Gerrit Smith. I have no desire to interfere in a matter between you and Mr. Smith; but we of Central New York regard Mr. Smith as common property with us; and, in my own behalf, I desire to place before you, very briefly, some plain thoughts to which your letter gave rise.
You say to Mr. Smith, You struck out, in the night of our history, and pushed forward through the dark wilderness of bigotry and prejudice, and with your engineering implements cleared the way for the great army of progress.' This is no less true than eloquent, as realized by us nearest the centre of Mr. Smith's great influence. But you add: And now, instead of sharing in the victory, you stand hacking away at the old stumps, and censuring the friends of human rights because they are not armed with the kind of weapons which you expect them to carry.'
In this you show yourself not a little befogged. You are too hopeful in relation to Mr. Lincoln's administration, should he be the next incumbent. This has betrayed you into an attempt to play the caricaturist on Mr. Smith.
You aver that the platform and pledges of the Republican party would bind the Lincoln Administration to protect Mr. Garrison in the publication of an anti-slavery paper in Richmond, and Mr. Phillips in stumping the South,' should he wish to do so. In this I concur. They stand pledged to make good the Constitutional guarantee of' free speech and a free press.' But your argument that they will come up to this standard is, that they will have the power to do so, if they elect their man. Such logic is by no means convincing.,
Convince the friends of impartial freedom that Mr. Lincoln's administration would perform all that you have pledged it to perform, and they would come forth in solid column to his support. But, sir, we judge of the future by the past. In our Legislature last winter, it was the Republicans that killed the Personal Liberty Bill. They have sacrificed principle to gain power, and they will sacrifice principle to retain power, despite all your plausibility.
No, sir, Mr. Smith's mission is not fulfilled. It will require something more than Republican pledges to prove that we are not still in the deepest 'night of our history'! Mr. Smith's great influence is as much needed now as a pioneer influence, as it ever was. And he does well to complain of his old friends for being satisfied with such husks as Republican pledges have already proved themselves to be.
A new forest, under the name of Republicanism, is springing up where Mr. Smith had cleared away the old pro-slavery wilderness; and, from the nature of this second growth, we judge that it promises well to be homogeneous with the former.
Yours, truly, A. HOGEBOOM.
Shed's Corners, N. Y., Nov. 21, 1860.
From the Nantucket Inquirer.
WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR.
'Woman's Right to Labor, or Low Wages and Hard Work,' is the title of a book by Mrs. Caroline H. Dall, the second edition of which has just been issued from the press of Walker, Wise & Co., Boston. It was published simultaneously with a very valuable work by the same author, entitled. Historical Pictures Retouched.'
This Vol. condenses into three lectures thoughts on freedom of vocation,'-making one of a series of twelve lectures, each containing three, written with an earnest purpose to promote the best interests of woman.
Though a comparatively brief period intervened between the first and second edition of this book,- it having been welcomed by the public, eliciting favorable criticisms from the North British Review, the Christian Examiner, and other able and high-toned periodicals, while at the same time its intrinsic merits and elegant style of execution recommended it to a large class of conservative minds, never before led to investigate the subject,-still it has failed to meet with an appreciation commensurate with its deserts.
No work given to the public with a special design to elevate -woman has more completely met the wants of the cause, or the subject of which it treats, than this book.
Many theories which, when abstractedly considered, appear misty and dark, assume symmetrical proportions, and become clear as day, in the illustrative light of facts. In the management of these, the author of this volume has dealt with a masterly hand,-gathering from the whole range of history, ancient and mediaeval, as well as from all ranks and orders of society as it now exists, and substantiating the truth of each position, clearly illustrating the practical workings of her theory at every step.
Advocates of woman's cause have a grateful recognition of the indefatigable industry, the im-
<c04>
mense labor, as well as wide previous culture requisite to the faithful performance of a work so important.
Patiently following the thorny pathway of statistical research to sources of information deeply imbedded in the past, she has opened new veins of thought, and rescued from oblivion facts of deep significance, which, from their complete isolation, have hitherto stood for nothing, and wrought them consecutively, with artistic skill, into a volume, in support of an incontrovertible theory, based upon a comprehensive and philosophical view of the whole scope of human rights.
The book contains some particulars given by Mrs. Eliza Barney, in a letter to T. W. Higginson, on the vocation of women in Nantucket fifty years ago, and at a later date, which cannot fail to be read with interest. The following extract, the conclusion of the last lecture, will give the reader an idea of the rare beauty and classic elegance of the style in which it is written:-
'In the ballads of Northern Europe, a loving sister trod out with her bare feet the nettles whose fibre, woven into clothing, might one day restore her brothers into human form.
Your feet are shod, your nettles are gathered! will you tread them out courageously, and so restore to your sisters the nature and the privileges of a blessed humanity? Opportunity is a rare and sacred thing. God seldom offers it twice. In the English fields, the little Droseru, or sundew, lifts its tiny, crimson head. The delicate buds are clustered in a raceme, to the summit of which they climb, one by one. The topmost bud waits only through the twelve hours of a single day to open. If the sun do not shine, it withers and drops, and gives way to the next aspirant.
So it is with the human heart and its purposes. One by one they come to the point of blossoming. If the sunshine of faith and the serene heaven-resolution meet the ripe hour, all is well; but if you faint, repel, delay, they wither at the core, and your crown is stolen from you, your privilege set aside. Esau has sold his birthright, and the pottage has lost its savor." A. G.
CHRISTIAN LIBERTY.
We are sorry to say that Elder Stephen Brewer, to whose case we had occasion to refer some eighteen months past, still continues in a contumacious state; and, from disturbing the peace and harmony of the Presbyterian Church of Cortlandville, has become an occasion of contention and hard words in the Synod of Onondaga.
Mr. Brewer's offence originally consisted in having neglected his own church in order to hear, of a Sunday afternoon, Garrison, Phillips, Emerson, and G. W. Curtis, who, at different times, had lectured in the village on that day. Being cited for this offence before the Church Session, Mr. Brewer confessed that in the space of three years, be had attended some four times, as charged against him; but he proposed to justify his having done so by facts and reasons connected with the lectures themselves, and his motive for attending. The Session refused to hear him on these points, and as he declined to promise never to repeat the offence, they, suspended him from the eldership. He appealed to the Presbytery, which sustained the Session, and from the Presbytery to the Synod, but with no better success. In that body, however, he found many sympathizers, especially as his Christian character and sound Presbyterianism were, in all other respects, unimpeachable, and the minority succeeded in currying a resolution appointing a committee of two to labor with the Session and the culprit, so as to bring about, if possible, a reconciliation between the Church of Cortlandville and its suspended elder.
The report of this Committee, read the other day before the Synod, expressed, the belief that Mr. Brewer had attended the lecture in question from conscientious convictions of duty, and that ho had refused the promise demanded of him under the persuasion that so to yield to ecclesiastical pressure would be to betray the cause of personal Christian liberty. It then proceeded to state certain views of Mr. Brewer's motives, which the Committee had unsuccessfully urged upon the Church, as reasons for withdrawing their censure, the ground being assumed that there was no case for ecclesiastical discipline, unless it appeared that the accused had attended the lectures in question out of sympathy with the alleged infidelity of the lecturers, of which there was no proof nor reasonable ground of suspicion.
This report excited in the Synod not a little commotion, as though their own Committee had made! themselves, by the opinions expressed in it, almost as amenable to discipline as the suspended elder himself. However, after warm denates, as the report proposed no action, it was finally received and laid upon the table. Stephen Brewer continues suspended, but it seems rather doubtful whether ecclesiastical discipline has gained anything by calling him to account.-New York Tribune.
THE PRINCE.
BY HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.
let us have our word-just one of what every paper is full of. The Prince has been here; has danced, supped, been feted-bought pearls at Ball & Black's,' and been to Barnum's Museum-done New York, in short.
There has been the usual amount of fever and fuming. All the acute symptoms of the lionizing fever have developed themselves in all sorts of foolish pranks, worthy of people a little out of their heads.
But after all, setting these things aside as inevitable to human folly, the visit of the Prince to the States is a deeper and wider thing than it appears at first to be.
It is not merely the generous and kindly boy-in the kindliest and most interesting period of opening life-but it is an embodiment, in boy's form, of a glorious related nation, of whose near kindred America has every reason to be proud. England herself, with all her old historic honors-with garments woven in memorial threads from the looms of Milton, Spenser, Bacon, Shakespeare-comes modestly walking by our doors in the form of a boy just in the fresh morning of his days-modest, simple, kindly-the good son of a good wife and mother- and it is something to make the tear start to see how quickly the American heart felt the pulsation of relationship, and the veneration for the dear old, kindred blood of fatherland, and the proud remembrance of centuries of united Anglo-Saxon history, when as yet the young American oak lay a hidden germ in the leally bosom of the grand old English mother.
Every door has been ready to fly open to this young heir of our and their past history, and by courtesy to place the soil of this great new English world as a carpet beneath his feet, and such a generous impulse is not to be confounded with mere snobbishness or toad-eating vulgarity. There is a healthy, respectable tone and body to it, and its kindly effects may reach far into the vista of future years.
We like the old Shakespearean way of denominating kings by the name of their kingdoms. This youth should be announced among us as Young England; and every heart should devise welcomes, in which enthusiasm should know no bounds but those of delicacy and propriety.
How much better such greetings between two noble kindred nations than the old family quarrel, all whose remembrances should now be grown over with the green harvests of advancing union and Christian civilization.
One thing is not forgotten-that at the feet of this Young England, American citizens have laid that deep and chivalrous homage with which they have always regarded womanhood enthroned in the form of his noble mother.
Americans, of all the earth, are celebrated as women-worshippers. Not among her own subjects has the exceptional history of the Girl-Queen, called to so proud a throne, met with more sympathetic responses of generous admiration and interest.
One smiles sometimes to read how every American who devises something new or splendid in his own eyes, forthwith consults with himself how to send a specimen thereof to Quern Victoria-whether it be an extra barrel of hams, or a mammoth cheese, or a set of Temperance Tales, or what not-but after all, does not this show the place her womanhood holds in the American mind, and the loyalty of heart with which every man of our country acknowledges her lady hood? Traditions of her kindly nature, of her good sense and discretion, of the exemplary manner, in which she has discharged her domestic duties, making her family life an example for her kingdom, -all such stories have found a ready ear and believing heart in America, and therefore the more willingly is much accorded to the son of such a mother.
For the youth, it is due to him to say that be has stood a difficult ordeal, with a right British simplicity and good sense.
A thousand foolish things might easily have been said or done, but we recollect not one. He has been calm, steady, neither too much nor too little excited,
<c05>
but borne himself right worthily of his name and race.
God bless him, and grant long union between Young England and Young America!-New York Independent.
THE PRINCE IN BOSTON.
A reporter for the New York Tribute in giving an account of the reception of the young Prince of Wales during his late visit to Boston, says:-
The event next following the public procession was the most remarkable of all in which the Prince has taken part during his American tour. This was the entertainment given him at the Music Hall, where 1,200 children from the city schools welcomed him with a demonstration, the like of which, I think, has never been elsewhere known. With the ordinary festivities in royal compliment, such as have been showered around the Prince at every point, it is simple enough to deal. We all know what to expect at balls and concerts, and their records need only differ in the degree of approval or disapproval they demand. With these lively artificial shows, a hint of decorations, a suggestion of dashing crowds, and a ready-made phrase or two of general flourish, supply ample description. The worthier offerings of vast and enthusiastic multitudes hardly call for more consideration, and for these the pen is always ready enough with its set frame-work, over which the fancy-work of mere adornment is thought necessary to be varied. But here was a celebration of startling and wonderful novelty, not more remarkable in its dissimilarity from all others, than in its exceeding beauty. I thought I had pushed panegyric as far as it would bear to go, in speaking of the great ball at Montreal, which certainly wan the most brilliant display of that kind that could easily be imagined; but here I find that this half-hour episode, thrown in unpretending with the various celebrations of the day, as far surpasses that and all other preceding festivals, as living loveliness can surpass an impassive effigy. I will endeavor to give, very briefly, an outline of the picture, which is all I can attempt.
Just before the entrance of the Prince, the hall was silently crowded with an assemblage of unusual variety and beauty. Nearly one-half was occupied by the twelve hundred school children, who were grouped in a semi-circular amphitheatre, which descended from the highest gallery to the floor, converging to the centre. This bank of young humanity was perhaps forty feet in height, and sixty in breadth. The little girls, who altogether outnumbered the boys, occupied the edges, and formed the most imposing part of the picture. They were almost all dressed in simple white, although a few dots of sharper color were scattered here and there about. The boys, with excellent artistic effect, were arranged in the centre of the semi-circle. The orchestra was in the space left open upon the stage. The rest of the hall was filled with spectators, ladies having exclusive possession of the galleries. A raised platform at the centre of the floor was held in reserve for the visitors. The hall itself was decorated with great profusion, and better, with great good taste.
For some eager minutes the bright array of handsome children sat, whispering their delighted expectations, fluttering their gay ribbons and muslins in half-suppressed excitement, and looking, all impatiently, at the door through which the Prince was about to appear. As the bustle in the corridors announced his approach, they became for an instant preternaturally quiet; but the moment that he was seen advancing through the passage, they sprang tumultuously to their feet, and in sudden, jubilant ecstasy, shouted and cheered, and shook their handkerchiefs, until the audience, catching their vigorous enthusiasm, shouted and cheered too, almost as unrestrainedly as they. I never saw so astonishing a sight as that disheveled spread of young handkerchiefs. There were none of your languid wafting of is cognition there-only the wildest and most reckless whirl you can think of. The bodies of the children were bidden for a minute by the flashing spray of little handkerchiefs, just as if a curtain had been held over them. Presently the outburst spent itself, and then the orchestra opened the jubilee overture of Weber, a; work written, I think, in honor, of the coronation of George the IV, and which terminates with the national anthem,' God Save the King.' This, instead of being played orchestral, was sung as well, the children giving the melody in unison, while the organ and the orchestra filled the harmonies. The effect was very remarkable and unusual, for the voices of all children have a peculiar penetrating character, which those of adults do not possess, and which make their value so great in choirs, that it is a wonder why they are now so little employed. The children also sang a choral from Mendelssohn; 'St. Paul,' and a chorus from Mozart's Twelfth Mass, with a perfection which showed that the system of musical education in the public schools here is a great and enduring success. Last of all, 'Old Hundred' was sung, the whole audience-not lees than two thousand persons-joining resolutely with the children. I do not know how a grander musical effect could be created. Immediately after this the Prince rose to depart, and then the bunts of cheering and the shaking of handkerchiefs came again, more madly than before. For five minutes the demonstrations did not cease, and long after the Prince had disappeared, those warm-hearted testimonials of pleasant adieu echoed after him.
Josiah Quincy, senior, allowed his name to be used as one of the committee of management of the ball given in honor of Baron Renfrew in Boston, and said: 'It is now nearly, if not quite, 70 years since I had the honor of joining at Concert Hall, in Boston, a contra dance, with the Duke of Kent, the Prince's grandfather. I should esteem it a like honor to unite, on a like occasion, with his grandson. But nature prohibits, and I submit.'
The National Intelligencer, in noticing the reply of Josiah Quincy, when asked for the use of his name in connection with the Boston ball for the Prince of Wales, says:-'It is so well phrased that, in itself, if presents a remarkable illustration of continued strength of intellect. Mr. Q. will attain, if he lives, his ninetieth birthday in February next. He was a guest of John Hancock at a brilliant dinner-party. He has been the associate of all the master minds who formed the Republic. He was subject to the Crown at his birth, and lived to see the struggles of the Revolution-the creation of an empire. He is to-day the most interesting man in the nation-by association and by personal worth, and by the possession of a vigorous intellect in that day of life when, to the mass of mankind, the light of the brain has set.'
THE PRINCE IN A SLAVE STATE. The Prince of Wales reached Richmond, Va., last Saturday night, in company with his suite and the son-in-law of Gen. Cass. He got from the depot to the hotel well enough; but in getting from the carriage into the hotel, he came near being crowded into a jelly. Arriving at his apartments, the curious crowd had preceded him, and made the pillow-cases of his bed unfit for use by handling them. Nearly all the churches in the city on Sunday sent him invitations to attend.
He decided to go to St. Paul's. He went; it was densely packed-so was the square in front. Ho was met at the door by the Vestry. He walked up the aisle, and the people irreverently rose while he did it. After church, the Prince and the Duke of Newcastle visited the Capitol, and looked around generally. While examining the Houston state of Washington, the crowd surrounded the Royal party, and annoyed them beyond endurance, while they insulted, them with such remarks us he (Washington)'socked it into you at the Revolution!" He gave you English the colic!" We reckon you do love Washington-oh, certain!'-until young Davis, the artist, turned upon them, and, aided by two reporters, managed to stop their insolence for a while. But as the party walked toward the Senate Chamber, the crowd started a run, and actually pushed them inside the door.
LETTERS FROM THE LAST SURVIVOR OF THE BUNKER HILL BATTLE.
BOSTON, Oct. 20, 1860.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The statement of the amounts of money subscribed for my benefit which appears in your paper of this morning is, I believe, correct-the gross amount being two hundred and seventy-eight dollars and fifty cents. My daughter has compared it with the subscription book, and finds it right. I desire to return my earnest thanks to each and all the individuals who have so liberally contributed this sum. I have nothing to return them, except my blessing, and the hope that they may perpetuate and long live to en-
<c06>
joy the liberty for which I, in common with others, struggled in early life.
As I have been told that reports were circulated, that I was induced to visit Boston by those who wished to make money out of me, or that others shared in the profits of my visit, it is due to truth and to those who have kindly aided me, that I should contradict this statement. I have received all that has been subscribed for me; and I am sure that so such selfish motives could have actuated those who have taken the superintendence of my visit in charge. Mr. Colton is to receive the compensation for his services which was proposed to him by my Boston friends; and this is all that he receives. This statement I sign with my own hand.
Yours in truth,
RALPH FARNHAM.
ACTON, Maine, Oct. 23, 1860.
To the Editors of the Boston Traveller:
I will give you a brief account of my journey home. When we arrived at Lawrence, there was a large crowd at the depot. They requested me to hold my bat out of the window, which I did, when they showered the 'needful' into it, as I never expected to see in my life. Then as the train moved on, we left them amid such cheers as I never shall forget.
At Dover, N. H., I received the like reception, and the worthy Mayor very kindly attend me over to Great Falls, and presented roe with a ten dollar bill.
At Great Falls I met with the same kind reception as at Lawrence and Dover, and the ticker master of the Great Falls Branch Railroad invited me to a dinner, which I enjoyed very much.
After having Great Falls, I was received with hearty cheers all the way along until I arrived at Acton. I told them when I got home that 'I had seen the elephant,' and I was very glad to get back. I am in good health, and my friends think I am better than when I left home. I am sure that I am as well. I am very grateful for the honor done me by the invitation to visit Boston, and the many attentions which I received when then. I remember with special pleasure my visit to Bunker Hill, attended by the Charlestown City Authorities, the Military and the Music; also, the address delivered on that occasion by the Mayor and Mr Frothingham. I am also greatly indebted for the liberal sums of money, and the many presents I received. My thanks, which is all I have to offer, seem but a poor return for so many favors.
I ought especially to mention Mrs. W. Farnham Lee, and the company of Lancers, and Mayor Dana of Charlestown, and Mr. Gilmore's Concert Band, for their liberal presents.
Though I am in my 105th year, I am not passed all usefulness; I split my own kindling-wood and build my own fires; I am the first one up in the morning, and the first one in bed at night; I never sleep or lay down in the daytime, but rise at 5 and retire at 7, and this I continue summer and winter. I have always been temperate, and for over thirty years past I have not tasted a drop of spirituous liquors, or even cider. I was never sick in my life, so as to require the attendance of a physician.
About 25 years ago I broke my thigh by falling on the ice, and had a surgeon to set it, but this is the only time a doctor ever attended me.
I live on plain farmers' diet, drink tea and coffee, and eat a very light supper, never eating meat at supper. I have no doubt it is owing to these abstemious and regular habits, and the avoidance of medicine at all little ailments, that my life has been so prolonged.
I voted for General Washington for President, and have voted at every Presidential election since, and hope to vote at the nest election. This is the duty of every Christian freeman.
This letter, which my grand-son has written at my direction, I have carefully read and approval, and I sign it with my own hand.
(Signed) RALPH FARNHAM.
In addition to what is stated in the letter relative to his journey home, we learn that after riding eighty miles in the cars, he took an open wagon and travelled seven miles. On reaching home, he at once went to the wood-shed, procured the necessary materials, and built a rousing farmer's-like fire. A smart old man. He has yet, no doubt, many years before him.
VISIT OF RALPH FARNHAM TO THE PRINCE.-By appointment, the venerable Ralph Farnham called on the Prince of Wales at the Revere House. The interview is said to have been cordial and hearty. The Prince shook hands with the old veteran, and said he was extremely glad to see him.
The Duke of Newcastle asked Mr. Farnham if he saw General Burgoyne at the time he surrendered?' O yes,' said Mr. Farnham,' and a brave officer he was too. But you got the best of him there,' said the Duke. Mr. F. said that Burgoyne's supplies were cut off, and they were in a wretched condition.
In speaking to the Prince, Mr. Famham said,' I hear so much in praise of the Prince of Wales, that I fear the people will all turn Royalists.' The remark was received with much merriment.

The interview lasted about fifteen minutes, and was marked by the most cordial courtesy and good feeling. It was an interesting event to witness an old veteran of the Revolution 104 years of age, shaking hands with a Prince whose Great Great Great Great Grandfather was on the throne of England at the time he was born, and whose Great Great Grandfather (George III.) he contended against during the Revolution.
Mr. Farnham said, that, in common with all one countrymen, ho desired to pay his respects to the Prince, to show that past animosities were forgotten, and he hoped never to be received. The Prince presented Mr. Farnham with his autograph. Mr. Everett and several distinguished gentlemen were in the parlor during this interesting interview.
A POLITICAL FORGERY. One of the most: mean and impudent political tricks which has been concocted during the present campaign is the fabrication of the following handbill by some unscrupulous Bell-Everett man or Democrat:-
'FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE CAPTURE OF HARPER'S FERRY. The friends of impartial liberty in Watertown are required to meet in the public square, ON TUESDAY EVENING, Oct. 16, to get up a Torch Light Procession to Boston, and take Part in the Grand Demonstration commemorative of the SURRENDER OF HARPER'S FERRY TO Capt. JOHN BROWN.
Let every man he on hand early. The occasion will keep you WIDE AWAKE.'
 The above first appeared in the Courier of last week, which said that it would be circulated in Watertown this week. The Post of Monday morning copies it, and attempts to fix the paternity upon the' Black Republicans.' The handbill will deceive nobody, for it bears internal evidence of being a humbug.-Boston Journal.

DEATH OF HON. FREDERICK PLUMER TRACY.-The telegraph briefly announces the death of Hon. F. P. Tracy, at Louisville, N. Y., on the 10th inst. He was a delegate to the Chicago Convention-Chairman of the delegation from California-and was on a visit to some friends preparatory to his return home. He was well known here, having formerly been a Methodist clergyman, and stationed over the Purchase street society. Before that, he preached in Boston; and afterwards in Lynn, Salem, and other place in Massachusetts. He was a native of Connecticut, where he also married a very estimable lady, the same year he came to Newburyport, who is now left a window in San Francisco with a family of several children, the Oldest of whom, a young lady of twenty years, is a teacher of one of the public schools of that city.
Mr. Tracy was a man of remarkable abilities-a man of genius, whose intellectual equal, when he was young, we do not remember to have met. As a public speaker, he was fluent, eloquent, brilliant.-Newburyport Herald.
HAYTI. The latest intelligence from Hayti brings the following curious statement.
Among the Acul mountains there has been found, in an old house, a bust of Lord Nelson. It is of white marble, somewhat stained by time and neglect. Nelson is represented in his costume of admiral, and bears on his breast five decorations. One in commemoration of the battle of Aboukir, has the inscription: 'Rear Admiral Lord Nelson of the Nile. Another medal bears the words: 'Almighty God has blessed his Majesty's glory.'
This bust, interesting in its artistic and historical association, was found on an altar devoted to the fetish worship, where for half a century it has been reverenced as the deity of the mountain streams. The names of the sculptors were 'Coale and Lealy, of Lambeth.' Thus, for fifty years a best of an English admiral has been worshipped as a heathen idol. The under of the statue has refused an offer of $500 for it.
