THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALL CUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters related to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed(POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The agents of the American Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 25. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1794.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01.
THE IDEAS OF A SOUTH CAROLINIAN.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR: Never having mixed in politics or connected myself with public life in any before, it may, perhaps, seem impertinent, in one unknown to fame, to express himself at this momentous crisis of affairs. but I think it is the duty of all men, who have the god of their country at heart to utter their thoughts—so long as they are not seditious, but catholic. And he who feels himself prompted by patriotism to speak that which he deems is for the benefit of the State, ought not to be lacking in that "moral courage" which should be the "armor of his faith." If, therefore, you will take the sentiments I utter and the hopes I entertain, as an earnest of that good faith with which I trust all true Southern men are at present inspired, the seed, however humble, perhaps, may not be sown in vain; unless I prove the truth proverb which saith:" a man is a prophet, save in his own country.
Premising that the fearful sacrifice  of blood and treasure, on both sides, has been sufficient to satisfy the most rabid ideas of any Moloch, I Would ask, Does the ' North desire reconstruction of the Union upon principles of good fellowship, in which all sectional feeling is to be ignored? or will she prefer to fulfill the prophecies of our late prophets, who told us that" she would regard the South as conquered provinces, having no rights or privileges which she would be willing to recognize, but that she would doom us and our children to be hewers of wood and drawers of water?" upon her decision will depend the fate of the country as a whole, and whether we patch up a broken machine or reconstruct that grand engine of power whose terrible strength has seldom failed to command the attention of the world.
These two sections have been embroiled for upward of 30 years in mutual crimination—each party behaving itself the most aggrieved. This crimination, upon the election of Mr. Lincoln, culminated in war: and the arbitrament of the sword was chosen. For four years, this arbitration has been progressing, each bound to abide by its decision; that decision has been rendered against the South, and she is bound to obey the fiat. But, as in all honorable combats, where both parties conduct themselves with bravery, each mutually respects the  prowess of the other, and feelings of admiration are inspired by a better knowledge of each other's good qualities. So let the North, with becoming magna<illegible>, offer the right hand of fellowship to the South, and endeavor to heal the wounds of her late adversary. has she any glory to gain by rejoicing over a foe whom she has crushed by force of numbers? or ought she not rather to be proud of the bravery shown by her natural allies? Re-enforced by these people, will she prefer to add to her strength? or does she choose to alienate them?
Coming back into the Union with my mind made up to accept facts and not to brood over fancies, I have endeavored to root out every prejudice of the past, every memory of war, every dream of a Confederacy, and to bend my whole thoughts and acts toward rendering myself a good citizen. I think I should succeed, did I not see, in your journals, a spirit of undisguised hostility to what you call, in decision," the Chivalry." you did not deride us when the cannon roared, and the muskets rattled—little than is it becoming to do so now. Gen. Sherman tells us that "a brave man does not insult a fallen foe." But you will say, Do not mind these people—they are all Radicals; so much the worse —the country, at this awful juncture, cannot afford to indulge in this vice of Radicalism. You have the delicate question of might and right to settle honestly and dispassionately. You have the heartstrings of a mourning people in your grasp; and, as you wield your power, so will you prove your character for greatness or littleness of soul.
You have it in your power to sow in their minds the seed of real devotion or eternal hate to the Union. I believe that those who have no political comities to brood over, have seen and acknowledge the fatal errors of the past, and are willing and anions to make reparation in the present and future. And, believing and knowing this to be true, let me beg the North, in the God's name and the name of Patriotism, to stop this ignoble tirade of abuse with which your journals are daily redolent, Do you expect harmony to be restored to a distracted country so long as the victorious party is belittling it self by calling hard names, and conjuring up a past whose differences have already been settled by such fearful sacrifices on both sides? God forbid that the North shall compel the South to withdraw that  hearty approval which she gave Gen. Lee's surrender, and regret that she did not fight it out to the death, and conjure you to  frown upon levity and abusive words at so eventful and solemn a period of our country's history.
That once vexatious and formidable question of Slavery is buried. I trust now and forever; and they who have seen other systems of labor, and are not blinded by passion and prejudice, will admit that it was the most expensive system of husbandry known to the world—that it has been a stone around the neck of the south, averse to all change, and preferring to follow in the footsteps of her fathers, was content, in her lethargy, to be outstripped in the great race of progress, so long as she was permitted to remain in peace in quiet. But Providence has seen fit to interpose, and the germ of the late conflict and of its present development, was given to the country in the birth of John Quincy Adams. It was his mission here to free the South of the incubus of slavery; and the spark which he kindled upon the alter of Freedom has been nursed by his disciples till a mighty conflagration has wrapt the country in its flames, and burned out this plague-spot from the body politic. and, as Christian men, we must accept it in this light. and like job. who, after the loss of oxen and asses, flocks and slaves refusing curse God, says:" The Lord hath given, and the lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord."
Apart from religious considerations, although, by the loss of the cause and the institution, I have suffered like the rest, yet am I content; for the conduct of the negro in the late crisis of our affairs has convinced me that we were all laboring under a delusion. Good masters and bad masters, all alike,, shared the same fate—the sea of Revolution confounded good and evil; and, in the chaotic turbulence, all suffer in degree. Born and raised amid the institution, like a great many others, I believed it was necessary to our welfare, if not to our very existence. I believed that these people were contest, happy and attached to their masters. But events and reflection, have caused me to change these opinions; for, if they were necessary of the Southern states dilapidated caricatures of that elegance and neatness which adorn the country-seats of other.
<c02>
people? If as a matter of profit they were so valuable, why was it that nine-tenths of our planters were always in debt and at the mercy of their factor's? If they were content, happy and attached to their masters, why did they desert him in the moment of his need and flock to an enemy whom they did not know and thus left their, perhaps, really good  masters whom they did know from infancy? 
Does the Jew look hopefully for the Messiah—so has the negro for forty years been looking for the man of universal freedom, and, when his eager ear caught the sound of his voice thundering at his prison-door, think you that the watchfulness of years was to be drugged into fatal sleep by the well-meant kindness of his keeper? Think you that he paused to ponder whether he should starve or fatten in freedom? nay, he loved us perhaps not less, but freedom more! and who blames him? not the candid man— for if he was our property, and has ruined us by flight, he had nothing to do with the making of that contract which made him property—if there is responsibility- anywhere, a just God will not fail to locate it. Let us not blame the negro any more than the bird that escapes from his cage—he was well fed in his cage, but he prefers the privilege of selecting his own food—let him go. 
But whether this sudden emancipation of four millions of an unlettered and untutored race, unaccustomed to think, act, or provide for their own well-being, is wise, events will prove; and if the prosperity and condition of the country is, at present, sufficiently great to warrant the stupendous experiment, its success would compensate the risk. Yet that his uncultivated mind may become intoxicated with his sudden importance, and degenerate into insolence and contempt for all superiority, and the natural lethargy of his constitution prompt him to enjoy the " liberty of idleness," and thus bring him to speedy want, and tempt him to acts of violence and crime—these are results that are not impossible. And whether some system of gradual emancipation would not have been wiser, both for his own benefit and that of the country; or, whether the Government might not have devised some system of forced labor, whereby, during his probation, he would have been rendered more useful to himself and society— these are questions I do not pretend to discuss, as they have apparently been settled by the course of events. But as an All-wise God directs our affairs perhaps it may prove that the mission of the negro race in this country is over, and that he was only sent here as a pioneer to clear up the wilderness for his successor, the white man. Perhaps he has performed his mission, and may, possibly, like the Indian, gradually disappear from his present localities and this whole Southern country, become the home of the white man, who, under a proper  hygienic system, may redeem every acre of laud hitherto regarded as pestilential. 
I confess that I foresee a grand future for the South. I perceive, by new systems and prompt encouragement, a tide of immigration flowing to hot shores that will exceed all present belief. The old system no longer a lion in his  path, the immigrant will listen to the hymn of the Free South, and, listening, he will dream of that Eldorado which stillies buried in her magnificent soil—of that perpetual summer clime, which will cause the smiling fruits o his labor to blossom at  his bidding; and, dreaming of these, and the countless hamlets which he will cause to rise, like magic, under skies as blue a Italy's and suns as warm as France's, he will say to his brother, "Thither let us go, for that is the land of Canaan." Is such a  picture revolting  to  the Southerner? Why  should it be so? Is he lest intelligent, or less humane than other people? Is it necessary that be must own the laborer in order to obtain his rents? We trow not, when prejudice is once removed. Let him go cheerfully to work, and encourage the immigrant—let him first, if you will  hire him, and gradually instruct  him in his new task; and then, finally, divide the old plantation into farms, and farm them out to worthy tenants. Freed from the care of driving negroes, be will then, for the first time, realize the true ease and comforts of a country life; and, giving more of his time to the cultivation of his mind, he will be better fitted  for  the management of the affairs of State. 
The Southern mind, during these four years of war and suffering, has been working its own leaven and the effort of the North to emancipate the negro will probably culminate in the effect of emancipating the Southern people. For, be it said, even in sorrow, that the mattes of our people are entirely provincial—our ideas, on certain subjects, scarcely extending beyond our barn doors. Let us look for the cause:" Evil communications corrupt good manners." The Southern infant is no sooner born than he is confided to the arms of a negro nurse When he can toddle about the house, he is t the mercy and care of negro children. When he can shoot a gun, he roves the forest and the field with negro boys. When he can ride a horse, and drive a plow, he waters the mules and plows the field with the negro. Arrived at manhood, he presses the cotton bale, and wagons it to town with the negro-that town, distant a few miles from his farm, probably comprises his whole idea of the great world. has he raised the negro by this contact? No, he has met him half way. The picture is not overdrawn and I trust that it may prove a singular fact, that that the Southerner himself will be emancipated by this war from old habits and fossil prejudices. 
With all of these elements at work, who will tell me that we are not going to rebuild our country on a surer and better foundation? There must be men among us that, if sought out by true Northern patriots, will come forth and coalesce with them, irrespective of party, to make this, what its founders intended it to be, the best Government the world ever saw! But upon whom shall we rely to perform this noble work? Old things have passed away, and all things have become new: and with new things, we must have new men, in order to insure new measures. Men whose minds are not warped by the burning hatreds of the past—who have no old political grudges to revenge—men who, although who educated, have kept in the shade, under the fatal impression that there were wise heads conducting State affairs—men who, of honest purpose and enlarged views, having only the good of their country at heart, realize that there is no North, no South no East, no West, but our country, one and indivisible. now nod through ail time! 
Your obedient servant,
AUGUSTIN L. TAVEAU 
Charleston, S. C, April 24, 1865.
The history of anti-slavery benevolence is from beginning to end, a history of torture and unmerited suffering; a record of cruelty such as that of the worst of times and of the most barbarous peoples can hardly parallel. The triumph of Abolitionism in America consists in transforming four millions of well-fed and happy laborers into three millions of paupers—paupers with no home, no country, no recognition; the other million having gone starving, freezing, rotting, to their graves —Cincinnati Inquirer, June 7.
<c03>
Selections.
GENERAL LEE.
What has General Robert E. Lee done to deserve mercy or forbearance from the people and authorities of the North? Has His courage been a whit more magnanimous or even honorable than any of the other leaden whom our poor mutilated and tortured soldiers have such cause to execrate? Is it worse to slaughter in the heat of battle or in the frenzy of victory, like Forrest; or to sit down and fare luxuriously, with the full power to ameliorate the lot of prisoners, within hearing of captured officers and soldiers robbed, ill-treated, starved and dying under the bands of his subordinates? Forrest, the butcher of Fort Pillow, is said to have been a gambler, a speculator, and a dealer "in choice lots of negro fellows."
His previous life fitted him to massacre negroes. The antecedents of Lee were not such as to prepare him for a Djezzhar Pasha. They should have made him generous; and if he actually did not enjoy the power to ameliorate the lot of our prisoners, he did possess the power, and nothing could deprive him of it, to protest before earth and heaven against the atrocities committed upon our captured brethren, and to publish that protest as wide as the knowledge had gone forth of his military ability and his elevation to the supreme rebel command. Lee's early associations had been of the grandest and noblest kind. He did not learn treason from Scott; did not inhale misrepresentation from their of Arlingtou; he did not inherit duplicity with anything that descended to him from the pure Washington.
If we put in contrast Lee's passive cruelty with the active cruelty of Forrest, the only advantage which Lee can boast is the dignified elegance which invests his movements, and results from education. Education, however, should have taught him that in these latter days silent or passive acquiescence in unexampled barbarity is a stain no amount of glory can blot out.
Beaten, conquered, crushed, nearly annihilated, driven out from intrenchments almost impregnable, pursued, put up, headed off, slashed and carved by Sheridan; hammered and driven by Grant, reduced to a remnant, shut in, compelled to surrender, his bearing is as arrogant as if he had yielded from motives of Christian duty, after an indecisive though lost battle.
Then, again, consider him under another aspect. Compare his reports and dispatches with those of Joe Johnston. Lee's are assumption itself, Johnston's are modest.  Lee's are tissues of deception, Johnston's are as fair as one enemy would ask an enemy o write.  From the first, beginning with Bull Hun, Joe Johnston is truthful. Let General Custar answer what reliance should be placed on Lee's accounts of his losses; Custar, who offered to parade the fifteen hundred prisoners he had taken,. and display the captured flags which Lee denied he had lost.
If any man in the United States—that is any" rebel or traitor—should suffer the severest punishment, Robert E. Lee should be the man.
The more gentlemanly in his manners, the more dignified in his bearing, the more refined in his language, the more elegant in his dress, the more improved by education and experience, the higher in rank, the more extensive in command, the more powerful in influence, the more respected from birth and position, the more renowned throughout the world, just the more fit is Robert E. Lee to suffers death as an example to expiate his fearful crimes: the first, against his country, in waging bitter, uselessly protracted  war against the government her had sworn to serve and protect; second, his still more fearful crime against humanity, in permitting, if he had the power to prevent—in not publishing his protest, if he had not the power to prevent— the murder, the deliberate, atrocious, unparalleled torture and murder of thousands of our prisoners in the hands of his armed hands.
Gracious heavens! To .talk about tortures! What torments exceeded those which Lee permitted our soldiers to undergo. To rot piece-meal;. to die diseased, without medicine "or care, or sympathy; to starve; to fall actually to pieces, flesh from bone, and bone from kindred bone, through filth and intentional neglect, what are these less than the rack or the funeral fire? Indeed, is the wheel and the faggot to compare with such protracted miseries?
If Robert E. Lee had the power to prevent or mitigate the sufferings of our prisoners, the worst tyrant and tormentor, from the remotest ages of Paganism down to the cruelest instrument of the French Reign of Terror, was not so wicked as he If he would neither prevent nor mitigate, he could have protested and published his protest; and therefore, as he did not publish his protest, he must live as though he was consenting to the crime. St Paul expressly says that those who stand by and consent to crimes, or to quote literally, "have pleasure in them that do them," are most guilty. Consequently have we not a right to infer from Lee's silence that he did consent, and have we not a further right to judge him the more guilty in that he continued his connection with those who were his associates as well as his subordinates who were actively guilty,
If politics, or policy, or politeness, or pseudo-philanthropy allow Lee to escape the punishment he deserves, there is but one consolation left to the reflecting Christian citizens of the restored republic, that "“God reigneth,” ”God seeth," "God avengeth," and that "after death comes judgment.
What is more, those in power who, from selfish or political motives consent to his escaping earthly retribution, will find that if correct ideas of justice can be drawn from the words of Holy Writ, they will be involved in his guilt and partake of his punishment.
Robert E. Lee in future should live inseparable from a picture in two compartments. One side should represent Lee and his sons in their elegant uniforms, with proper appointments, surrounded by, appropriate service, partaking of luxurious dishes- washed down by exquisite wines, in the midst of the rebel capital and its despotic authorities, or the rebel camp with its conscripted thousands. The other side should depict our loyal federal prisoners robbed of their clothing, in sordid rags, scarcely sufficient to cover their nakedness, insufficient to protect them from the elements, and robbed of money and the means to procure better; rotting in. fifth, "half fed on stinking, repulsive food, or exposed in the paroxsyms of disease to the burning rays of the tropic sun, or drenching rains, without  care, without medicine, with the loss of feet destroyed by frost and want, reduced to skeletons, in every stage of want, suffering and misery, without sympathy, almost without hope.
When Lee dies let such scenes reveal themselves— to his failing vision and be the last be can perceive to If he lives, let these hideous details equally cover
<c04>
his chamber walls and accompany him wherever he goes, pictured in the clouds and upon the earth, mirrored in the water, indelibly impressed in all their livid  horrors  on  everything  he looks upon, waking, upon the lenses of vision, sleeping, upon the tablets of the imagination.—Corr N. Y. Post.
GENERAL LEE AND HIS PHOTOGRAPH. By the latest telegraphic despatch from Richmond we learn the important fact that General Lee has had his photograph taken in "six different attitudes, all very life-like." We do not gather from the despatch the exact character of these interesting pictures, but presume that they represent the rebel leader in the following attitudes: First, in a meditative mood —in the headquarters of Gen. Scott. Here, as colonel and chief of staff, he is depicted, resting upon his arm, listening to the plans of Gen. Scott for the first campaign against the rebels. Second—a sneaking mood—in this, Lee, having determined to become a traitor to his country, is sneaking away from Washington. Third—the dignified attitude—receiving his commission from Jeff. Davis as general of the rebel army. Fourth—in the chivalric mood-permitting the Union prisoners to be starved. It is said that he requested that Jeff. Davis might be included in the picture, but his absence prevented a compliance with the general's wishes. Fifth—submission—the rebel leader surrendering to Gen. Grant Sixth—and last position, Gen. Lee's late entry into Richmond, " cheered by the crowd, including some officers of the Union army," as stated in the newspapers, and, at the same time, directing the United States officers to remove the colored sentinels from his private mansion, as they were quite offensive to himself and his wife.—Providence Jour.

WHO ARE THE MURDERERS?
The murder of President Lincoln, the direct and positive fruit of Slavery, seems likely to be traced to the Confederate conspirators in Canada and to Jefferson Davis himself. President Johnson has consequently issued a proclamation offering a reward of  a hundred thousand dollars for the capture of Davis, of ten thousand dollars for the apprehension of W. C. Cleary, and twenty-five thousand for the arrest of each of the following conspirators in Canada:— Jacob Thompson, Clement C Clay, Beverley Tucker, and George N. Sanders. Evidence is said to have been obtained by the Government that these 'persons "incited, concocted, and procured" both the murder of Mr. Lincoln and the attempted assassination of Mr. Seward. his evidence, we are further informed, has been obtained from documents found on the body of Booth and from the confession of his accomplice Harrold.
The value of the evidence discovered will have of course to be tested in a court of law. Till it is so tested, the public is bound to suspend its judgment. We have no desire to do injustice even to the agents of a loathsome cause. The fact, however, that President Johnson had placed the accusation on record in a proclamation gives some color to the charge. No Government, without clear evidence, would have ventured on a step otherwise so hazardous to itself. Mere partisans may indulge with little injury in rancorous charges; but a responsible Government, bound to heed that it speaks in the name of the nation, cannot enter upon an accusation without reasonable evidence to support it. We judge, then, that the Federal Government is in possession of facts to justify the course it has taken. Whether these facts will establish the charge of murder against the persons implicated can only be determined when we know what they are. Meantime, it may throw some light on the character of the accused if we examine their antecedents. 
We all know Jefferson Davis, the man who made a "nation "of a clique of braggart slave-owners. Is he likely to have encouraged this scheme of wholesale assassination? Nothing but his prudence would lead us to dispute it. His language and policy, on the other hand, would lead us to a very different conclusion. If we were to read the accusation against him by the light of his speeches and proclamation, we should certainly be compelled to say that nothing would delight him so much as the removal of his political enemies by any means whatever. While a vindictive word has never escaped the lips of his rival, Davis seldom made a speech that did not contain threats more or less infamous. When the Federal Government first ordered the enlistment of colored soldiers, he who is now happily a fugitive issued a proclamation announcing that the captured officers of negro troops would be tried by the murderous Black Codes of the Slave States. Long after the negroes were employed as soldiers, no quarter was ever given to either them or their officers. Fort Wagner, Port Hudson, Milliken's Bend, Murfreesboro', and Fort Pillow have been rendered dismally memorable in the history of the war by the butchery or colored men. When did Mr. Davis protest against these murders? Did he recall Forrest after his bloody carnival at Fort Pillow? Did he utter a word of reprobation of the fiendish massacres that miscreant commanded? Did he not continue to the last his commission as the instrument of Confederate vengeance? The men, moreover, who attempted to burn New York, who murdered unoffending citizens in Vermont, who slew prisoners for a pastime, were emissaries and agents of this same Davis. When Young was caught red handed in Canada, Davis published a proclamation accepting the responsibility of what the murderer had done. When the Federal captives in Georgia were so treated that they preferred death to unending torture, Mr. Davis approved of the proceedings of his subordinates. Well, there is in all this evidence of a nature so depraved, violent and unscrupulous, that men might naturally associate the chief of the Confederate Government with the latest and most revolting of all the crimes of Slavery. Still, even Jefferson Davis is entitled to a trial, and just but not vengeful men will suspend their judgment  till the trial is had—Newcastle Daily Chronicle.
TRIUMPH OF DEMOCRACY. By the efforts of the men of our armies, and of our citizens who have supported them in the dreadful wage of battle through their heroism, earnestness and fidelity, our republic now stands before the world at a pure, consistent, integral embodiment of democracy. She is the representative beyond all others now of the cause of equal rights and universal liberty. It is a cause, as we all know, that has many enemies. Sinister but powerful influences are at work all over the world to balk its purpose and to arrest its march. But it is a cause, too, that has many friends, and we may say with Van Artevelde, in an earlier struggle of the feudal, decadence:
"Lo! with the chivalry of Christendom 
I wage my war; no nation for my friend,
Yet in Men nation having hosts of friends. 
The bondsmen of the world, that to their lords 
Are bound with chains of iron, unto me 
Are knit by their affections. Be it so. 
From kings and nobles will I seek no more
Aid, friendship or alliance. With the poor 
I make my treaty, and the heart of man
sets the broad seal of its allegiance there,
And ratifies the compact"
<c05>
THE CONDITION OF AFFAIRS IN SOUTH CAROLINA. 
Rev. Charles Lowe of Somerville, Mass., has recently returned from Charleston, S. C, where he went as a missionary agent of the American Unitarian Association. He has heretofore visited the neighborhood of that city and Savannah. On the 4th inst. Mr. Lowe preached a sermon to his congregation, (printed in the Christian Register of the 10th inst,) from which we take the following extracts as giving some of the results of his observations. The whole discourse deserves careful reading.
THE ELEMESTS OF WHITE SOCIETY.
Let me speak first of those in civil life. There are in the South a few who have, from the beginning till now, been really loyal to the Union, and by no class of patriots has there been shown more noble devotion or more heroic will.
But these loyal men were fewer than any of as believed. 
There is another class of men, some of whom in the beginning were opposed to the act of secession, but who finally were carried along with the current, who understand that the thing is over, that government is entirely triumphant, and whose only wish now is to have order reestablished as soon as it may. They take the oath of allegiance with a sincere purpose faithfully to observe it.
I regret to say, however, that from my observation this class also is much smaller than is generally believed. 
The large majority of persons in civil life are still as unfit to be trusted for any fidelity to the government, except so far as it is enforced, as they were during the prosperous days of the rebellion. Even among those who, for the sake of the protection to their property, have taken the oath of allegiance, there are very many who are as hostile as before. 
Those who have been connected with the army may also be divided into different classes. Some of them have served against their will; others did so only because they felt that honor required that they should be faithful to their State, and they now, tired ' and sickened by the horrors of war, heartily rejoice that they can honorably return to their relations to the old flag. Others, again, who have been approvers of the rebellion, are willing to own that now, since it has failed, they have no course left but to submit, and are ready to be good citizens again. But these, classes embrace a much smaller proportion of the army than is generally believed. Among the officers, much the larger portion, though they are courteous to their captors and obey the etiquette of war, do not disguise the fact of their undiminished hatred of the Union. There are many things which now tend to make it greater than ever. They, go to their homes to find everything changed— and changed in a way to aggravate them, at every point. Their fortunes are destroyed; their neighborhoods broken up. And, what is most galling of all, their proud social position is entirely gone. And, to crown all, the negro not only is lost as property, but is already claiming;, with the likelihood of receiving equal civil and political rights with themselves. What shall they do? Some declare that, as soon as they recover the wreck of their fortunes, they shall go abroad. Some, believing that the profession of arms affords now their only avenue of success, intend to offer their services to some foreign power, not disguising the hope that they may sometime be again in hostility to the United States. Many are about to go to Mexico, to ally themselves with this intent on the side of Maximilian. From all that I could learn of the practices of the Southern army, the war has made this spirit of chivalry more dangerous to civil quiet than it was before. 
Among the common soldiers there are probably many who long to become peaceful citizens again, and if circumstances permit, they will begin industrial pursuits, with no desire again to disturb the peace. The only fear as respects these is, (the same as in the case of our own soldiers,) that the interrupted habits of industry, and especially, the loss of self-reliant enterprise consequent upon the strict habit of obedience required of the soldier, may stand in the way of their thrift, and consequently of their contentment. But there is besides; a large mass of ignorant and unprincipled men whose only political principles are, hatred of the Northern " Black Republicans," and support of the sovereignty of States—and their only religious belief, the divine appointment of slavery. The experience of the last four years has taught them habits of endurance and love of rough excitement. Half a pound of bacon and a quart of. meal a day satisfies all their wants; give them that, and a rifle and ammunition, and the chances to maraud, and their highest aspiration is secured. They hope for nothing better than a "border ruffian" kind of life, with power to disturb and annoy at will.
MATERIAL INTERESTS.
As to the material interests of the South, I reviewed with one of the lending merchants of Savannah the present condition of Georgia, and found taking as a basis the census at 1860, the following results: 
The estimated wealth of the State according to that census, was:
A mount of Aggregate of
property saved. property lost
443,364 slaves.-$271,620,405
Merchandise-3,531,687
Money and solvent debts.-$10,000,000 86,124,701
Capital in manufactures- 1,000,000 3,428,132
Shipping and tonnage.-631,731
Household furniture.-2,125,045
Land, average per acre,
$4 43149,547,880
Bank capital-2,479,111
Railroads-9,000,000 9,000,000 
$172,304,657 $ 396,184,036
This state of things necessitates a very radical change in the social and political condition of the State. The property left (supposing that the former owners are permitted to retain it,) is chiefly land, mostly held in Urge estates. It was the habit of these landholders' to invest what remained l their income after paring the expenses of the year, by buying more land and more slaves. Now it will be absolutely necessary for these proprietors, in order to procure means of living and of carrying on the land, to sell portions of their land. It will be purchased chiefly by immigrants from the North and from Europe, enterprising, industrious men. And this not only secures a new element of population, but changes a system of landed aristocracy into one more nearly approaching that of our New England society, It needs not to be added what an important feature of hopefulness it here. So important does it seem to me, that I hold it now one of the most useful things towards regenerating the South and aiding it in its reconstruction, to encourage the emigration there of the right sort of men, filled with New England habits and ideas. It is no matter what their profession or their taste may be There is an opening for all.
<c06>
WILL THE NEGRO WORK?
It is important to consider besides, 1.Whether they will work; and 2. Whether they will have any desire or capacity to rise in the moral and intellectual scale.
1. Ask any Southern planter and he will tell you that it proved by all experience that the negro will not work except upon compulsion; and you cannot make him believe otherwise. Ask many casual observers who have been annoyed by some experience of the negro's shiftlessness and laziness, and they will say it probably is true. But a careful investigation has brought me to the conclusion, in support of which I think I have abundant proof, but no time now to offer it, that the indisposition to labor and the tendency to shirk, is nothing more than the inevitable result of the long habits of working with no other motive than fear of the lash. It has already been tested and proved (I could mention, if I had time, many very interesting proofs) that with judicious management they can be employed under a voluntary system with as much certainty of service as any other class of people. And there are individual instances of enterprise and thrift (and those not a few) which ought to put this point at rest. 
2. As to the aspiration among them for higher things, little need be said; though it would be pleasant to say much. For this aspiration is so universal and so apparent that it has been noticed and testified to by all, as has also their intelligence and quickness to learn. Not only do they welcome the teachers sent from the North, and try in all ways to avail themselves of their instruction, but almost their first care, when they are settled for themselves, is to provide for the education of their children. In Savannah the colored people have supported free schools at their own cost, by voluntary subscription, ever since the capture of the city, at an expense of three hundred dollars a month, while there has not been one public school supported by the whites. I met the leading colored people of Savannah in many ways—in their committee meetings, in their churches, in their political gatherings and in their homes—and I found among no class of men a higher tone, a more intelligent appreciation of what was most desirable in life, a purer purpose to do what is right, or a more determined resolution to improve all opportunities that God has given them.
SHALL THE NEGRO VOTE?
The question is being agitated in the nation now shall the negroes be allowed to vote? To one who has mingled with them, as I have done, the serious discussions upon the prosperity of it, were it not so serious a matter, would provoke a smile. I hope that, for at least one year to come, there will be no voting allowed in the rebellion States: but when it is permitted, to say that those shall vote who have been laboring to overthrow our Government, and been laboring to overthrow our Government, and who now hate it as much as ever, and are determined to injure it as much as they dare, and that those shall be denied who have been praying for it, and weeping for it, and fighting for it, and now love it. with true, loyal hearts, is too unreasonable to be seriously discussed. To be sure, there is a large mass of negro who are degraded, and unfit to exercise the privilege of franchise, and I should assuredly hope for a qualification requiring the ability to read and write. But this ignorant mass are no more unfit for voters than that large class of poor white citizens who are not only ignorant and degraded, but vicious, lawless, vega bond and violent, the qualification ought to be, of course, applied to then as well as to the negroes; and there is little doubt as to which will rise above it first. In short, the qualification, whatever it may be, must be entirely irrespective of color in order to satisfy either the demands of justice or the interests of the state.

SENATOR SHERMAN ON SUFFRAGE.
IMPORTANT SPEECH IN FAVOR. OF NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
From a speech by Senator Sherman of Ohio, delivered at Circleville, Ohio, June 10, we extract the following:
And first, as to the former slaves of the South, we promised them their freedom by every mode by which one people may speak to another. We proclaimed it by the proclamation of Mr. Lincoln. Congress twice ratified this proclamation, and the people in two annual elections have ratified it. These slaves have won their freedom by their devotion to our cause. They have from the beginning been true friends. They have carried our flag in battle. They have carried our arms. They have been slaughtered for our cause. They have aided our sick and wounded. They have aided our soldiers when in prison, and have guided their escape. They have performed the bumble offices of the camp and the hospital. They never fought against us. They have relied upon our promise, and have performed their part. Without them, and without their presence, as a weakness to the enemy, we might not nave succeeded. By their ample faith in us, following our fleets and our armies, they have earned their freedom. The enemy know and confess, that as inevitable incident of their overthrow is the freedom of the slave. I therefore conclude that we must secure them their freedom beyond all doubt or peradventure, and maintain it against every danger in any form of reconstruction that may be adopted.
WHO SHALL VOTE IS THE SOUTH.
Will you in addition, authorize them to vote? Will you invest them with all the lights and incident citizenship? Have you the power to do it under the Constitution of the United States? It is perfectly clear that, unless the powers of the Rebel States are changed or affected by the Rebellion, Congress cannot fix the qualification of a voter within a State. The Constitution provides but for three election: of President, of Senator, and of Representative. The President is chosen by electors appointed in such manner as the Legislature of the State may elect. Senators are chosen by the Legislatures of the respective States and members are chosen by the people of the several States, and the electors of each State shall have the qualification requisite for electors of each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the state Legislature. If anything is clear, it is that the framers of the Constitution means that each state should prescribe who should vote. The only limitation upon this power is the duty of the National Government to maintain in each State A republican form of government. But again the question recurs, is not all this changed in a state where the voters have voluntarily renounced their allegiance to the general Government? Can such a State renounce all its duties, and yet insist upon its rights? It is generally admitted, and is certainly very clear, that the United states may punish a traitor by depriving him of his life, his property, and his franchise. If one, why not all who are equally guilty? If the entire voting population have openly revolted against their allegiance, it is absurd to say that we have power to kill them, and yet have no power to prevent their voting. Again, we can punish the
Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the states where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interferences with the institutions of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened within slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, congress has power to carry on the way, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institution swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slave in the invaded territory." —J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
counterfeiter of our coin with disfranchisement, and not so punish a traitor? If one, why not all? But it is said, if the loyal people are left, who can vote? It is a sad fact, but a very true one, that the number of such people in the Southern States would form a very narrow foundation for a Republican Government. North Carolina and Tennessee may contain enough such. President Johnson intends to try the experiment in those States, but I fear he will find the spirit of Rebellion too deep-rooted in those who have taken the oath to make them good citizens. How is it when you come to South Carolina and Mississippi? It is said, establish in these a military Government. Well, for a time, that may do, but it is expensive, and contrary to the spirit of our institutions. If we can put negro regiments there and give them bayonets, why can't we give them votes? Both are weapons of offence and defence. Votes are cheaper and better. Both are part of the military necessity put upon us by the Rebellion. Both are unpleasant to the Rebels, but medicines are not usually savory. I conclude, therefore, on this subject of negro voting, that in all States who can claim their full rights under the Constitution, it is a question for the State, and that in revolted States it is a question of policy and military government, to be decided by the national authorities until the State is fully restored to its former condition. In some of the Southern States I would leave them under military rule until they provide the only security for the future; and the negroes should have their share in reconstruction, as they have borne their share in fighting. Negro voting may not suit our natural prejudices of caste. They may be ignorant, docile, easily led, and not safely trusted with political power; but if you admit all this, they have been true and faithful among the faithless. They have joined in putting down the Rebellion; and now to place them at the mercy of those they have helped us to subdue-to deny them all political rights-to give them freedom, but leave them entirely subject to laws framed by Rebel masters-is an act of injustice against which humanity revolts. Suppose you deny them suffrage, what then? The Southern States gain by the freedom of their slaves fourteen new members of Congress, and as many electoral votes. Not three-fifths but five-fifths are counted. If you give the same men who revolted this increased political power, what safety have you? Suppose ten years ago they had had this additional power, Kansas would have been a slave State this day, and they would have had ample political power to subvert your Government without a resort to arms. We must have security for the future. All the evils that may arise from a mixed voting population are insignificant, compared with the only two alternatives-the restoring to Rebels vast political power, and the danger and vast expense of military Governments.

GENERAL BUTLER ON CONFISCATION.
General Butler made a speech at the dinner which followed the monument dedication at Lowell on Saturday, taking ground in favor of a division of the confiscated lands in the South among the colored troops. He remarked:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-Citizens,-Nothing in the occasion could be more propitious-the time being the commemoration of the first martyrs in the cause of liberty and union, the hour being one of profound peace, conquered by the valor of the arms of the united service on land and water-nothing, I say, could inspire one more than the occasion and the time to answer such a toast. All honor to the Army of the United States. All honor to those who have trained themselves to the profession of arms, and in the pursuit of their profession in their country's cause have done noble and gallant service. Double honor be to the Navy-to the successors of Bainbridge and Decatur, Foote and Farragut, who, at Mobile, New Orleans, and Hampton Roads, have added new trophies of the valor of our sailors on the sea, and in the attack on fortifications stronger than were ever yet overcome by naval forces. That the work of our army should be done well was to be expected. Fighting was their profession. They were, true to it as the lawyer to his client, the physician to his patient, or the merchant to his calling.
But what shall we say of that greater army-the volunteer soldiers, the associates of Ladd and Whitney, who, not trained to arms, bared their breasts to the storm, and marched to the defence of the Union one and indivisible? What shall we say of those our fellow-citizens who, when the summons came at the dead of night, when the war-cry pealed for the first time for a generation in this land, left at once their homes, the pursuit of business, the plow, the anvil and the plane, and went forth to battle as veterans in the cause of right? No name appeared to them as standing forth on the page of history to lure them on; no place, high in the regard of the nation, was to be the guerdon of their services; no reward of riches or honors would be theirs for their devotion. Animated by a love of country, they went forward at our call, and have reaped what they well-deserved. But what? The honors we have given them this day in the monument erected to their memory, and in the right hand which every good citizen will forever extend to the citizen soldiery of Massachusetts, who went to battle without pay or hope of reward.
What is the duty of this country to these soldiers? To whom belong the lands forever rescued from rebellion, secession and treason? Do they belong to the men who thrust them aside, and thrust the laws of the country aside at the same time? or do they belong to the men who went forth without bounty or reward to battle for their country? Shall we not therefore take the confiscated lands of the Southern States, and give them as a rich and due reward to the soldiers who will receive no other claim upon the government for their valor? Why should we give them back to those who have forfeited them by treason in the sight of God and man? Why shall we not give them to those who, in my judgment, have best title to them-the men who have earned them by baring their breasts in the field to the storm of treason and war, which they have so bravely opposed?
While, then, we give every guerdon to the citizen soldiers who went forth from the free North, from Massachusetts and New England, and from the States East and West, guided by intelligence and instructed in their political rights, and burning for national honor, what shall we say of another class of soldiers-a class that had had no instruction, no political rights, and had had no joy in the past, and little hope in the future? What shall we say of those colored men who, with instinctive loyalty and patriotism, volunteered with us in our defence? Shall there be no word of encouragement for the negro soldier who stood side by side fighting for the country which had been hitherto unjust to him, but who, relying in the future upon her faith and on the justice, of Omnipotent God, still stood up and fought bravely? Is there no reward to be given to him? Shall we forget him? Shall he be denied even the poor honor of participating in the review of the troops who won those great victories, at the national capital? I trust this country will never be guilty of such ingratitude. If I may make such a promise, I will never cease to urge upon the government to do justice to the negro, at least, to allow him to appear in arms in the capital that he helped to save by his valor. And I again appeal to the men of Massachusetts to say whether the man that is fit to fight is not it to vote. (Cheers.) Whether a man that can carry a cartridge box, is not fit to walk up to the ballot box. Whether the man who knows how to handle a bayonet, does not know to handle a little bit of paper.
I am ready to admit the want of intelligence and cultivation in the negro. But he knew enough to be right in this contest, to be loyal, and that is a great deal more than his master did. (Cheers and laughter.) And therefore as I know, from having seen the rolls of ten thousand of the rank and file of the Confederate army prisoners; as I know that only one in eight was able to sign his name; in this reconstruction we have got to trust to the instinct and not to the intellectual cultivation of the voter. I had rather trust to the loyal black instinct than to the disloyal white instinct. (Laughter.)
Therefore, my friends, I think we can ask the Government to hold on, and first punish the disloyal citizen either by the loss of his life, his liberty or his land-according to the decree of the Government. But do not punish the loyal citizen who has done everything that the ability which God has given him would permit, to further the cause of Union and Government.
Further, ask of the government simply to wait and see who its friends are; to deal only with those who are friends to-day-not of the lip, but at the heart; and deal with the men who have fought for it, and not for those who fought against it; to give political rights to those who have defended them, and not to those who have undertaken to overthrow them. Let us have the whole army, regulars and volunteers,
<c02>
citizen soldiers, black, white and gray, who fought for us, and give each and all their due proportion of the praise; (cheers)-and I will give in conclusion-The citizen soldiery of the country-ever faithful, ever ready, ever true; the surest defence of law and liberty. (Great applause.) 

RADICAL MEASURES THE ONLY SECURITY.
The South is conquered. The South admits it. Now what it to be done with the South? Clearly just that which will effect the redemption of the South and insure the safety of the nation from any future machinations against its integrity and its democratic institutions. Has all been accomplished which is essential to these ends? Clearly not.
Those who imagine that the overthrow of the military power of the rebels is to be instantly followed by a return of law and order are egregiously mistaken. Those who dream that the political heresies entertained by the "natural leaders" of the South and their Northern confederacies are extinguished, are indulging in a delusive vision. Those who assume that the destruction of slavery annihilates at once the barbarism, ignorance, and lawlessness, which were the consequences and accompaniments, of slavery, are sadly deceived. Those who believe that the restoration of trade and commerce is to be a panacea for all the hurts of the terrible conflict, must regard Mammon as a miracle-worker indeed. Those who think pacification and reconstruction easy merely because Lee has surrendered and Jeff. Davis has been indicted, only show how poorly they understand the causes of the insurrection, and how hard it is to root them out.
The civil war is finished as a great war. The insurgent States can be watched and held under military rule. But how are they to be wisely governed? Who shall govern them? To what extent can they be left to govern themselves? These are the questions for the hour, and they are momentous questions. There will be no great difficulty in re-instating and re-asserting the Federal authority in the section so recently in arms against it. But to what degree will it do to permit that section to be represented in the exercise of that authority? How far can it be relied upon for loyalty?
It was recently stated that out of a force of twenty thousand rebels who surrendered, only two thousand could read or write. From this it is fair to infer that a majority of the whites in the seceded States were like the eighteen thousand, who had not acquired the elementary means of judging of public affairs, and so were open to the deceptions of demagogues and ambitious politicians. The character of these intriguing and influential guides of the blind masses is now plainly understood. This statement shows how small is the amount of the trustworthy material out of which to build up patriotic communities, where treason has been running riot for years.
If the only object is to have a loose political compact, with constant disturbances of greater or less magnitude to vex the country, or if the only wish is to set the machinery of traffic in motion for the benefit of a few money-makers, why, then, a superficial adjustment may answer. But something beyond this is demanded as the price, of the blood that has been shed. The insurgent States must be brought into an honest and abiding concord with the other States. To do this they must be held under the direct or indirect guardianship of the stronger party to the fight, until their moral, social, and industrial character is made intelligently democratic. This is the principle-whatever may be the methods employed-which cannot prudently be lost sight of in solving the difficult problem of reconstruction. The experiment, as reported, of the recent election in Virginia is a warning not to be recklessly disregarded.- Boston Transcript.

WHAT SHALL WE BELIEVE?
Most persons must have been considerably puzzled of late by the discordant representation of affairs at the South. We have been told, for instance, that there are not ten Unionists in three counties of Virginia; that prominent men in South Carolina of all classes say, "we accept the Union only on condition the negro be left out," many of them roundly asserting that "there will be a Confederacy yet"; and that Union men cannot breathe freely outside of the military lines in Alabama, while the returning slaveholders "amuse themselves by cutting off the ears, noses or lips of their former slaves." On the other hand, the Macon (Ga.) Telegraph says, "we are all abolitionists, by the stern logic of war." Delegates from five counties in Georgia pledged their support to the administration of President Johnson, and promised every exertion to restore civil law and order in the State. "One of Dick Taylor's men" writes to a New Orleans paper: "All the bitterness remaining in the country after our late glorious but unsuccessful war is confined to the ladies and the stay-at-home gentlemen." And a rebel Major General assures the editor of the Louisville Journal that "the feeling now prevalent in the Southern States is emphatically favorable to the restoration of the Union upon a lasting basis."
These are but a sample of the contradictory accounts which are coming up from the South every day. What shall we believe in regard to them? In the first place, perhaps, it would be well to remember that the South comprises a vast extent of country and a great variety of people, and it is possible that even very contradictory representations may be true. It might be asserted of the North that it is profoundly loyal, and yet a fearful array of copper headism, disloyalty and treason might be produced from almost any quarter. This discordance, therefore, at the South, particularly in this transition period which follows in the wake of the rebellion, should not excite surprise. What we want to know is, which sentiments preponderate, and what is the general tendency? We are happy to believe that the disposition to acquiesce in good faith in the restored supremacy of the Federal Government is already the rule, and not the exception, at the South, and that it is rapidly on the increase. And with regard to this progress we must exercise some patience. New England principles must not be looked for on the slavery-cursed soil of the South now nor for some time. We must not expect discomfited rebels to become enthusiastic patriots in a day. If there is genuine submission, acquiescence in the new situation, openness to the instruction of new events, a sufficient foundation is laid for the superstructure we all desire and are determined to erect, to the glory and everlasting security of American citizenship.citizen ship.—Boston Journal.

THE SALE OF WOOD. It has long been suspected that the Hon. Ben. Wood, of the New York Daily News, had sympathetic relations with the leading rebels, but it was not supposed that money considerations had any influence in inducing him to seek this elevating communion with congenial souls. It appears, however, from the evidence elicited on Friday in the trial of the conspirators, that there were financial reasons for his complicity with treason, and that he did not discredit the name of Wood by indulging in disinterested disloyalty.
Jacob Thompson, the Judas who had charge of the rebel purse, and who varied the business of buying up incendiaries, assassins and prisoners, with speculations in members of the Federal Congress, sent to the Hon. Ben. Wood last August a check for $20,000, drawn by the Bank of Montreal on the City Bank of New York, in favor of D. S. Eastward, who indorsed it over to the proprietor of the News. Mr. Thompson, who seems to have had a still larger experience in the purchase of men after the rebellion than before it, and who appears to have pursued his vocation regardless of expense, paid, in the case of Wood, a very heavy price for a very poor article. The negroes may be not the best judges of the commercial value of flesh and blood, but if Thompson had paraded Ben Wood before the blacks of his plantation as "a twenty-thousand-dollar nigger," no respect for so distinguished a "massa" could have prevented an outburst of ironical jeers at the palpable badness of the bargain.
It is announced today by telegraph that the Government has ordered the arrest of Wood, and there is thus a probability that the proprietor may join the editor of the Daily News in Fortress Monroe. Our readers will not fail to note in this a two-fold violation of the liberty of the press and the liberty of the citizen,-of the liberty of the press in arresting the proprietor of a journal guilty of nothing but giving aid and comfort to the enemies of the country, and of the liberty of the citizen in objecting to a purely commercial transaction between a resident of Montreal and an inhabitant of New York, for the sale of a Copperhead. -Boston Transcript.
DEATH OF MRS. SEWARD. The wife of Secretary Seward died at Washington on Monday morning last. She was a most estimable lady, and her loss will be much lamented.
<c03>

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1865.
After a delightful excursion to Pennsylvania, partly for recreation, but more particularly for the purpose of attending the Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends at Longwood, the Editor of the Liberator has returned home, and will resume his editorial duties next week. During his absence, he lectured at Norristown and at Newtown, Pa.

"THE IDEAS OF A SOUTH CAROLINIAN."
It is to be hoped that the letter bearing the above title, on the first page of this paper, will deter no one from reading it. Documents such as this, which are now springing up in many parts of the South, are at present the most important reading possible for every Northern man, since they distinctly show the great danger to which we are now exposed. The peril from Southern armies is over. The perils from guerrillas, filibusters, assassins, arrogant lords of the lash, and impudent blusterers, male and female, we shall meet, and gradually overcome. This will be only a work of time. But the serious, enduring peril that now besets us is found in the position of just such men as Mr. Augustin L. Taveau; calm, quiet, cultivated, persistent men, who have not yet conceived the idea of losing their position of leadership in the South, and who seem unconscious of the sublime arrogance they display in proposing, under the circumstances, to continue such leadership.
Let me make a brief abstract of the assumptions and propositions contained in this well-written, calm, pious, moderate, magnanimous letter.
The North ought to desire reconstruction upon principles of good fellowship, as between equal partners; ignoring all sectional feeling, that is to say, all practical precaution against future disloyalty to the Union, future violation of the rights of the North, and future oppression of the colored people, on the part of those who have just ceased, under compulsion, from being slaveholders and rebels in arms.
2. The victory which the United States has lately gained is a victory only of force, not of right. The South submits because, and only because, she has been beaten. But the conflict on her part has been an "honorable" one, and she is entitled to "respect" and "admiration" from her late opponent.
3. But if the South is to remain acquiescent in its defeat, and become willing again to act on terms of political equality with the North, there must be no manifestation, by word or deed, in levity or seriousness, on the part of the North, of division or aversion towards that class of Southern people who called themselves (and thus came to be called by others) "the Chivalry." Their credit, their standing, their predominance in political and social life, must be considered sacred.
4. The "once vexatious and formidable system of slavery" is buried. But its death and burial came (not at all from increased enormities and outrages on the part of the South, but) because "Providence saw fit to interpose." And the South must accept this dispensation "as Christian men," just as they formerly maintained and extended slavery as Christian men.
5. The negro was well fed and well treated in slavery. Yet he ought not to be blamed for taking liberty when the armies of the United States offered it to him! Perhaps he loved his master not less, but freedom more! Don't blame him for his flight. "If there is responsibility anywhere, [for emancipation, let it be noted, not for slaveholding,] a just God will not fail to locate it." Yet "whether this sudden emancipation of four millions of an unlettered and untutored race, unaccustomed to think, act or provide for their own well-being, is wise, [on the part of Providence,] events will prove."
6. "As an All-wise God directs our affairs, [this seems a trifle incongruous with the close of the preceding item, but let it pass!] perhaps it may prove that the mission of the Negro race in this country is over, and that he was only sent here as a pioneer to clear up the wilderness for his successor, the white man."
(His Mightiness seems not to have conceived the idea that the mission of "the Chivalry" in this country is over. Their continuance, and their continued predominance, are provided for in the next item.)
7. The Southerner need not own the laborer. Let him hire white immigrants. "Freed from the care of driving negroes, he will then, for the first time, realize the true ease and comforts of a country life; and, giving more of his time to the cultivation of his mind, he will be better fitted for the management of the affairs of State."
This is Mr. Taveau's little plan of reconstruction. Men of the North, soldiers of the Union armies, relatives and friends of the prisoners of Libby and Andersonville, how do you like it? C. K. W.

THE HAYTIEN REBELLION QUELLED. The recent attempt to overthrow the existing government had signally failed. The rebels had been beaten near Gonaives, when they surrendered to the national forces, and dispersed after laying down their arms. The leaders had fled the country, in a vessel which they had kept in readiness for the purpose at Cape Haytien, with the intention of proceeding to Nassau, N. P., for refuge, and they had reached Inagua on the 5th inst., on their way to that place. President Jeffrard had offered pardon to all the insurgents except the leaders, and as the latter had run away, it was thought there would be no further trouble.

CONTENTS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for July:-
1. Young Men in History. 2. Around Mull-I. 3. The Changeling. 4. Ellen. 5. Winter-Life in St. Petersburg. 6. Needle and Garden-VII. 7. A Paper on Candle-Ends. 8. Doctor Johns-VI. 9. Deep-Sea Damsels. 10. Skipper Ben. 11. Assassination. 12. The Chimney-Corner-VIII. 13. Accomplices. 14. The Chicago Conspiracy. 15. Reviews and Literary Notices.
Ticknor & Fields, Publishers, 135 Washington street, Boston.

THE CONSPIRACY TRIAL. J. E. Tilton & Co. have issued Part I. of their attractive edition of "The Conspiracy Trial for the Murder of the President, and the attempt to overthrow the Government by the Assassination of its Officers; Edited, with an introduction, by Ben: Perley Poore." It is printed in large clear type on white paper, and presents the testimony with questions and answers in full. It is beyond all question the best form in which the details of this noted trial have been given to the public. The enterprise of the publishers is worthy of the most liberal patronage.
ERRATUM. In the report of the proceedings of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, published in our last number, the name of Mr. Ezekiel Thacher, of Yarmouthport, was erroneously printed for Rev. Moses Thacher, of Peru, New York, who was one of the twelve persons who, on the 1st of January, 1832, organized the New England (now the Massachusetts) Anti-Slavery Society in Boston, and who has been stout and valiant in the good cause from that day to this. He was the author of the first address published by that Society, and no better one has since followed it.
Brigadier General Wild, of Massachusetts, has been assigned to duty under General Howard, of the Refugee and Freedmen's Bureau, and will be put in charge of the State of Georgia, with orders to report to General Saxton.
Gen. Howard has received a letter from South Carolina, showing that nine thousand colored children are attending school, and that forty thousand freedmen are cultivating the crops in that State.
<c04>

FROM THE LATE EDITORS OF THE NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD.
To THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
At the recent Annual Meeting of the American A. S. Society in New York, the following Resolution was offered by Mr. Samuel May, Jr.:
"Resolved, That this Society regards it as a duty, as it is its pleasure, to acknowledge the eminent ability and moral fidelity with which its organ, the National Anti-Slavery Standard, has been conducted from the first, and at every period of its existence for the term of twenty-five full years; especially does the Society at this time contemplate with satisfaction and approval the wise forecast, the just discrimination, the faithful criticism, the generous appreciation of every advance in favor of freedom made by the American government and people, which have characterized the paper during the eventful and perilous four years of the war; and, in taking leave of its retiring Editors, the Society tenders to them the assurance of its sincerest respect and hearty gratitude."
This resolution was referred, on motion of Mr. Stephen S. Foster, to the persons elected as the Executive Committee, after the refusal of yourself and a majority of the late Committee to serve in that capacity. This motion was carried by a majority of one, under a misapprehension of its meaning, as we have reason to know, of some, and, as we believe, of many, who voted for it. The following substitute was sent to us on the part of those ladies and gentlemen, a few days afterwards:-
"Voted, unanimously, That the Corresponding Secretary be requested to express to Messrs. Oliver Johnson and Edmund Quincy, late Editors of the National Anti-Slavery Standard, our grateful sense of their long service to the cause in that capacity, and of the eminent ability and devotedness with which it has been rendered; and that he cause this minute to be published in the National Anti-Slavery Standard."
This resolution we severally returned to the parties from whom it proceeded through Mr. Whipple, who had communicated it to us, for the reasons contained in the subjoined letters. Here we supposed the matter would end. But as they have seen fit to publish the resolution in the Standard without our letters, we ask the favor of you to print them, that there may be no misunderstanding as to our position and our opinion of the whole matter. E. Q.
June 17, 1865. O. J.
DEDHAM, May 27, 1865.
C. K. WHIPPLE, Esq.:
MY DEAR MR. WHIPPLE-I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 25th instant, covering a Resolution purporting to have been unanimously passed by the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, expressing its "grateful sense of the long service of Mr. Johnson and myself as Editors of the National Anti-Slavery Standard," and of "the eminent ability and devotedness with which it has been rendered." This Resolution I beg leave respectfully to return to you, for the following reasons:-
I. While I should place a due value on the individual good opinion of most of the ladies and gentle men, with whom I have any personal acquaintance, in whose behalf you write, you and they must pardon me if I say that I put none whatever on any they may express in the corporate capacity in which they profess to act. Regarding as I do the existence of an Anti-Slavery Society at this time as not merely an anachronism and an absurdity, but as an impossibility, I must regard the ladies and gentlemen in question, officially, as Nonexistent, and the Society they profess to represent as a Nonentity. Holding these views, I cannot consent, by accepting this Resolution, at once to deny them and to stultify myself.
II. But, secondly, I could not consent, under any circumstances, to accept this Resolution as a substitute for the one offered at the Annual Meeting, and referred to the Executive Committee by a majority of one, in ignorance, I am sure, of the fact that that reference was intended as a virtual rejection and a tacit censure of the Editors of the Standard. I did not expect nor desire any formal expression by the Society of its approval of my conduct as Editor; but so cordial and discriminating a tribute having been proposed, I cannot regard the proffered substitute as worth my acceptance. I cannot, indeed, understand how it is that even this modified need of praise should be unanimously awarded by those ladies and gentle men, if all or any of them hold the opinions as to the editorial conduct of the Standard expressed by one of their number, (Mr. Phillips,) in his speech at New York on the second day of the Annual Meeting, of which the following is an extract:-
"My friend says all the loyal papers talk as well as the Standard. They have done so for two years, and that is my complaint. As the organ of the Executive Committee, I originally instructed that paper to announce such truth and illustrate such principle as would lift the community; I never instructed it to stand on the level of the Republican party. Now, my charge against the Standard, which has no tinge of personal bitterness whatever, is, that when the community were ready for the general idea of emancipation by the war power, the Standard was-but it indicated nothing more. I went about, and tried to bayonet the President into the Proclamation of Emancipation. After a while, the Standard advocated it. When I had gotten it, I instantly changed my base, and demanded of the people an Amendment of the Constitution. The Standard staid where it was. It was some time before it took ground in favor of the Amendment of the Constitution. Well, when the Amendment was granted, I instantly changed my base again. Having clutched from the Nation the parchment, I wanted a guarantee behind it-suffrage, and the crippling of State Rights. (Applause.) Now, I claim that the duty of the Standard was, all this while, to have kept in the van of the Nation, and not to advocate only what four men out of five or seven men out of ten were ready for."
To these charges, urged with an audacity of statement and an unscrupulousness of assertion truly amazing, Mr. Johnson has interposed a flat denial in general and in particular, and defies the proof. If they have the slightest foundation in fact, instead of deserving the faintest praise, we should merit the severest and most unqualified denunciation. I forbear to comment on the painful display of morbid egotism and diseased vanity which this passage contains. It would be laughable were it not so sad.
I speak only for myself, having had no opportunity for consultation with Mr. Johnson. He will answer for himself. Should the Resolution I return be published in the Standard, according to its terms, I ask that this letter be also printed. 
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to yourself, personally,, the assurance of the respect and esteem with which 
I am faithfully yours, 
EDMUND QUINCY.
90 EAST 12TH ST., NEW YORK, May 29, 1865.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE:
MY DEAR FRIEND,-Your letter of the 25th inst., enclosing a copy of a vote, which you say was unanimously adopted on the previous day, by the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, expressing its "grateful sense" of the "long service to the cause" of Mr. Quincy and myself as Editors of the National Anti-Slavery Standard, "and of the eminent ability and devotedness with which it was rendered," came to hand this day.
If I were at liberty to regard this vote in the light of its terms alone, apart from the circumstances attending its passage and from the spirit and purposes of the body from which it emanates, I might accept it in silence if not with gratitude. But I am not at liberty so to regard it, and must, therefore, with entire respect for yourself personally, return it, through you, to the Executive Committee.
It does not comport with my notions of self-respect to accept praise of my "ability and devotedness" from that body so long as it impliedly sanctions, or even neglects to expose and condemn the false imputations cast upon Mr. Quincy and myself by its presiding officer and recognized leader. That you may be at no loss to understand what I here refer to, I must cite the following extract from a speech made by Mr. Wendell Phillips at the recent annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society:-
[Extract as in Mr. Quincy's letter.]
<c05>
I have already, in the most solemn and emphatic manner, pronounced the above statements of Mr. Phillips untrue. I now add that I cannot accept the praise, however flatteringly worded, of a body which impliedly sanctions them, not only in failing to rebuke their author, but in acknowledging him as its presiding officer and leader.
The resolution presented to the annual meeting by Mr. May was in part designed to afford the Editors of the Standard an opportunity to meet and refute the misrepresentations of Mr. Phillips; but that object was defeated by him and his partizans (including several members besides himself, of the Committee over which he presides,) who, shrinking from a discussion of the subject, adroitly contrived to smother the resolution by referring it to that Committee. And now, as an afterthought, and to shield themselves from the indignation which their conduct has excited in the breasts of Abolitionists, these same persons, acting with others whose sincerity I have no reason to doubt, pass a vote in which they affect to entertain a "grateful sense" of the "long service to the cause" of Mr. Quincy and myself, "and of the eminent ability and devotedness with which it has been rendered." I must be excused for declining praise which comes in so questionable a shape.
If the Committee on whose behalf you write owes anything to the late Editors of the Standard, it is this, viz.: to vindicate them from the slanders of its Chairman. While this duty remains unperformed, no politic and formal words of praise that it may utter can be acceptable to me. If Mr. Phillips's statements respecting the Standard are true-above all, if it be true, as he has again and again unqualifiedly affirmed, that the paper, as conducted by Mr. Quincy and myself during the last year, was "A FRAUD AND A DISGRACE UPON THE SOCIETY “and so fraudulent and disgraceful was it in his estimation that he would not contribute a cent to its support, while he and his partizans refused to cooperate with the then Executive Committee in the usual measures for raising the funds by which alone it would be kept alive)-then we are not only unworthy of the commendation bestowed in the vote you send me, but, on the contrary, deserve to have been incontinently expelled from our editorial chairs. I cannot suppose that you considered the subject in this light, or that you believe Mr. Phillips's charges to be true; but, certainly, those of the Committee who do believe them cannot be sincere in offering to Mr. Quincy and myself the tribute which you have sent me.
I respectfully request the publication of this letter in the Standard simultaneously with the vote to which it refers.
Yours, cordially,
OLIVER JOHNSON.

PRES. JOHNSON AND RE-CONSTRUCTION.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,-Undoubtedly, the question of the re-construction of the rebel and seceded States is not of inferior importance to any one which has been before the people since the war commenced; and, undoubtedly, the greatest danger attends a wrong decision and settlement of that question. Much anxiety has been expressed, and some severe criticisms indulged in, in relation to Mr. Johnson's so-called Plan of re-construction in North Carolina, Alabama, &c., and I will not deny that I have shared in that anxiety. But is not this the true view to be taken of President Johnson's course?
He knows that by the Constitution and established usage, each State in the Union has the right to fix and regulate the conditions of suffrage for itself. He will not undertake to override or obstruct that right. He will rejoice to have each of the seceded States determine its status for itself, if it will determine it wisely. He accordingly recognizes the right by appointing a Provisional Governor, with authority to call a Convention of the people; in no other way interfering with that State's recognized conditions of suffrage in the election of the Convention, save to require the oath of loyalty. The Convention thus chosen is to proceed to form a State Constitution. That, as I understand it, is all that President Johnson has done thus far, in the matter of re-construction. He commits himself to nothing further. Of course he can commit Congress to nothing. Now if these professedly repenting States have aught of a sincere purpose or of common sense in them, they will proceed to lay the axe at the root of their old social barbarisms, break down caste and aristocracy, ensure to labor full protection and just compensation, and give all men equal rights as citizens. If these States will undertake this work themselves, and give an honorable pledge to carry it out by making their Constitution and binding law cover these indispensable conditions, all will be right. Far better that they should establish the law and principle for themselves, if they will. President John son simply gives them the opportunity. And he and the nation wait to see how it will be used. That opportunity, too, will bring to the surface, and to the light, whatever of pro-slavery, whatever of hate to the Union, whatever evil designs for the future, they may yet be cherishing. They must declare themselves. On the contrary, if they purpose to put away their hostility to the Union, and their sectional and oppressive designs for the future, their action will show it.
The Constitution which each State forms will "tell the story,”-will show how they feel and what they mean. If they purpose justice, all right. If not, the President, the People, and Congress, will understand it; and nobody is bound to accept their action. The course taken by the President is eminently well calculated to bring the rebel States to book, to a full development of their present purposes and future designs. If their new Constitutions evince a still-continuing purpose of oppression, misrule, and hostility to Republican institutions, let such States remain under Provisional or Military Governorship, until the true light dawns upon them. I cannot doubt that such essentially will be the reply of Congress to any State presenting a Constitution excluding the freed people from citizenship and suffrage. And I believe such will be the working of the President's "plan of reconstruction." Why not?
SAMUEL MAY, Jr.

LETTER FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS.
The New York Evening Post publishes the following letter from Mr. Phillips, explaining his position on the question of repudiation, and denying the damaging charge which has been circulating against him in the newspapers:-
BOSTON, June 14, 1865.
To the Editors of the N. Y. Evening Post:
I thank you heartily for the generosity with which you have treated me the last ten days. For your satisfaction-publish it or not, as you please-I submit this statement, covering all I have ever said on the subject of repudiation.
Half a dozen times, during the last two years, I have said that if the rebel States were reconstructed on the basis of white suffrage, their Representatives in Congress, allied with our Copperheads, would attempt to repudiate the whole national debt, unless their rebel debts were assumed by us; a statement no intelligent man will question.
On the 29th of last May, at the meeting of the Emancipation League, I stated that, in my opinion, the North Carolina plan of reconstruction was a fraud on the nation; that it would result in a party aiming to repudiate the national debt, which party, I believed, would gather into its ranks a large portion of the so-called democratic party, and that, if I had ever been a democrat, or had ever held their views as to national debts, I would never join such new party.
At the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, held 31st day of last May, I said exactly what you have quoted from the National Anti-Slavery Standard, and no more, to wit: that I should hold myself at liberty, life-long, to advocate the repudiation of any rebel debts, no matter how sacredly or formally assumed by any Congress containing rebel States reconstructed on a white basis. Some journals term this "trivial" and a "windmill." It may be so. But I gain, by this proclamation in advance, the right to repudiate, in all time hereafter, under all circumstances, such assumption of rebel debts. Whether this prove a trivial right or not, time will show. I can wait its verdict. Meantime, I trust the country will do its work so faithfully that I shall never need to exercise my right.
Respectfully and gratefully yours,
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
<c06>

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXXVI.
NEW YORK, June 15, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
In spite of the theorem which the Hon. George Smith attempted to maintain at the Cooper <illegible> a week ago, and which Messrs. Greeley, Chaper, Bellows, O'Conor and Beecher, and Mayor <illegible> were equally solicitous should be discussed on their occasion, to wit: That the Government has so much or legal right to try the rebels for treason;-in spice, I say, of this extraordinary position assumed by as many eminent if not unwieldy loyal citizens, the authorities at Washington have laid their ungloved hand upon John Mitchel, sometime disturber of the peace in Ireland, afterward a corrupter of public morals in this country and emulous of negro owner ship in Georgia, later a surpassing rebel through the entire career of the Confederacy, and finally editor till yesterday of the Daily News in this city. The charge on which the arrest was made is plainly aroused to be of treason; and there seem to be men so unpractised in the law and so devoid of religious as the think that Mitehel is morally and legally at the disposal of the victorious North, and even to hope that he will meet the fate which is commonly reserved for traitors. Graft the cupidity of a Yankee upon the authority of an overseer, and there resulted, as we have observed in the past, the most detestable of tyrants that the land of slavery could boast. Add the self-complacency (we will call it) of an Irishman to the impudence of a Southern aristocrat, and the sublime effrontery of Mitchel became both possible and actual. This alone could have sustained the man in wheeling his editorial chair from Richmond to New York, with no more awkwardness, no more suspicious of impropriety, than a horse exchanges a barren for a juicy pasture; though how he expected to be fed where Ben. Wood had abandoned grazing must be explained, if it can be, by those who cherish the Confederate loan at any figure, when there is not so much as a shadow of the lender. The British press have been guilty-our friends and enemies alike-of renewing their historical parallels which are not parallel, and precedents for that which is unprecedented. In urging clemency to Jefferson Davis, they have even held up the impunity of Mitchel and his fellow rebels in Ireland. The cases are not analogous, and the citation is unfortunate. If England is to gain as much by becoming an asylum for Davis as this country has gained by protecting Mitchel, the tranquility of the realm is not likely to outlast the century. One would think the British public had tasted sufficiently of the quality of the common refugees from the Confederacy, without being anxious to import the essence of riot, disorder, lawlessness and criminality. However, if England would promise to embrace John Mitchel, we might easily be induced to transport the villain for life. The aristocracy of that island can make amends for their past treatment of him by procuring him an annuity, a pension, or any other fit testimonial to his trans-atlantic efforts in their behalf.
The Cooper Institute, which has helped me to one paragraph of this letter, shall furnish me with a second, which ought to antedate the former by one evening. I allude to the mass meeting of Wednesday the 7th, which was honored by the presence of Gen. Grant, but more by the reading and unanimous adoption of the following resolution among others:
Resolved, That we hold this truth to be self evident, that to him with whom we can in trust the builet in save the life of the nation, we can likewise in trust the ballot to preserve it; and we invoke the cooperation of the Federal States and State Governments, and the people throughout the Union, to use all lawful means to establish a system of suffrage, which shall be equal and just to all; black as well as white.
The professed object of this assembly was to favor supporting President Johnson in his task of restoring the civil composure of the entire country. Seven days have intervened, but the President has failed to acknowledge the self-evident truth above enunciated. Yesterday he set up Mississippi in exact conformity with the model of North Carolina, and there is a strong probability of his arraying every subjugated State in the same manner, before the Congress convenes in December. This procedure has one advantage: it makes a show of reconstruction is as an accomplished fact, and sends a phalanx of States to knock for admission, where a single applicant would have been sure of a repulse. On the other hand, erected by an identical process, the strength of the system is in its weakest part, and a palpable miscarriage in any instance will be an argument against the whole batch. The soundness of Mr. Johnson's practice will be judged like the credibility of a witness-falsus in uno, jalsus in omnibus; and I fancy that Congress, if it can detect one rotten pin among the number, will bowl at it so effectually as to make a ten-strike.
The latest utterance, and perhaps the weightiest, in advocating negro suffrage, is Senator Sherman's recent speech at Circleville, Ohio. The legislator, though sharing the conservative blood of his brother the General, is a far shrewder man and a better politician. He has presented the black man's cause very fairly, and if his words are not heeded now in Washington, they will be echoed in the Capitol in the winter, and meanwhile will produce an effect upon the Free States that may culminate, as in Connecticut, in an amendment of the several Constitutions which discriminate against color. It can scarcely be doubted that the Government would be much emboldened, and its action be freed from great embarrassment, if the North, which sees the necessity of negro suffrage at the South, could demand it with clean hands, as it cannot now. Still, I would not hold the delinquency of New York to be an excuse for permitting half-justice in South Carolina. The root of the whole difficulty I conceive to lie here-that we are a Republic without a definition. It is true we have an idea, but we have treated it as a glittering generality, and so robbed it of all power. Who will under take to interpret for the nation that "republican form of government" which the Union is bound to guarantee to its members? And yet the President puts forward this obligation as his warrant for galvanizing the conquered territory back into autonomy. Suppose-which is not too violent-that he held the emancipation proclamation of Mr. Lincoln to be invalid; that in executing the clause he now, for the first time in our history, endues with vitality, he had referred to the times and the sentiments of the framers of the Constitution; might he not, with good conscience, have said-“This instrument, at its origin, declared by unavoidable implication that slavery is no bar to a republican form of government; else had abolition been a test precedent to admission into, or even formation of, the Union. And accordingly Georgia was not less, nor Massachusetts more, than republican. If I were never so much inclined, therefore, I could not go behind this record; and in restoring the alienated States, it is no concern of more if they choose to reestablish the institution of slavery.”
Happily, the President does not adopt this logic, though I cannot see why he might not have done so, or who would venture to correct and oppose him. Apparently he defines for himself a republican forms of government so far as to exclude from it the existences of slavery. What hinders him from going farther! New York, which imposes a property qualification upon the colored elector? Illinois, which will not tolerate him on any condition? True, these States have been esteemed republican, like Vermont and Massachusetts, but also like Kentucky and Tennessee. Can the President create a better State than Kentucky, and no better than Illinois or New York? Where is his authority for stopping short of the best pattern of a republic, to repeat an inferior? We who would not have endured a restoration of Slavery on the place that in ‘89 it was not repugnant to a republican form of government, how can we be indifferent to a minder yet still genuine type of anti-republicanism?
The clause in question has either a meaning <illegible> from the Constitution, in its spirit or letter, or it has none. We want in either case a definition-by interpretation or by amendment. Whenever we get it, there is an end of caste at the North and at the South.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Allow me a little more space in order to commend to the notice of your readers a most finished work of art just completed in this city. I allude to a medallion portrait of Mr. Theodore Tilton, editor of the Independent, by Salathiel Ellis, who modeled the classic profile of Isaac T. Hopper some dozen years ago. Admirable as was the latter performance, it is fully equally by the present, which the most intimate friends of Mr. Tilton pronounce wonderfully perfect and incapable of improvement. Single copies may be obtained of the artist, at 83 Amity street, or at the print -store of W m. Schaus, 749 Broadway, for the moderate sum of one dollar. Mr. Ellis has also in preparation a speaking likeness of Mr. Sidney Howard Gay, editor of the Tribune. I hope each of these pieces will find plenty of purchasers, from personal and artistic considerations.
M. DU PAYS.

LETTER FROM JOHN MAWSON, ESQ.
SALTWELL, GATESHEAD, (Eng.) May 9, 1865.
MY DEAR FRIEND-For a long, long time, I have purposed writing you, but have put off day by day; and days of delay grow into months and years. Mean-time, our hair gets grayer, our relations and friends depart one by one, and the world unseen has increased attractions, and claims a larger share of our affection. ate thoughts and sympathies. But if our family and friendly relations have undergone great changes since we parted from each other, what still more wonderful and terrible changes have taken place in the social, civil and political world around us! In the highest aspects and forms of some of these changes, you have been called, by Providence, to take a prominent part.
That our good Father has spared you during thirty five years of toil, and labor, and anxiety, and doubt, and weariness, and affliction, and persecution, to see the accomplishment of an object most dear to your heart, is to me and my family the source of most intense and sincere pleasure and rejoicing; and you may be sure how earnestly we pray that your valued life may long be spared to see the complete settlement of the great questions which still agitate your country, and then spared to rest from your labors to realize, for many years to come, all that blessedness and peace which must ever fill the good man's mind and heart, after a life of conscientious duty and then, amid the blessings of millions of ransomed ones, and of all good men and women over the wide world, to enter upon your promised rest in our Father's home.
As one part of your rest, and as a means of benefiting your health, I do hope the opportunity will soon come when you will be able to confer upon your English friends the great gratification of again shaking hands with you, and mingling their sympathetic joys with yours over the great and glorious, and sad and sorrowful events which have transpired, and led to such unlooked for and wonderful results. We may truly exclaim, “What hath God wrought!" He has made the wrath of man to praise him, and the remainder he will restrain. So, then, my dear friend, come! Every heart that knows you is waiting to welcome you; every hand will be outstretched to receive you, and none more ardently and earnestly than my own. Let us have the intense pleasure of entertaining you as long as you will permit us; and I hope you will come and go with the feeling that you have here another among your many homes. Your name is with us a household word.
Perhaps you will be able to come over with our dear friend, GEORGE THOMPSON. How delighted we shall be to hear that there is hope of this! Tell him how I rejoice to think that he should have lived to see and hear the sights and sounds which have greeted him every way in this his triumphant visit to your shores. May the everlasting arms be round him to protect him, and bring him safe home to his family and friends! 
And now, my dear friend, about the great struggle and its results. Though my heart has always been saddened by its sanguinary features, yet of the result I have never had any doubts; as I have always said, on the side of the North were ranked a few true, noble, faithful men and women a few who had never bowed the knee to Baal a few who held fast to the principles of eternal truth and justice; and I believed, for their sake, God would spare the city, and save the kingdom. What a history is contained in the experience of this handful of men and women! What a power has been developed by the firm and consistent adherence to right and truth! And how the little leaven has leavened the whole nation! Truly, looking at the rapid succession of events, we may say, a nation has been born in a day! What a lesson to future generations is contained in the experience of those good and true men and women, and in the four years of refining and purifying through which your country has passed!
"Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again"-
oppression cannot always live. In the darkest hours of a nation's experience, there is always a ray of light; and as we believe that God rules and reigns over all, so we may be sure that a glorious future will dawn upon the universe. As co workers with God, we may each perform some humble part in securing this great con-summation. Patriarchs, prophets and apostles labored for this in ancient days; patriots and philanthropists have become martyrs for it in our times; we have been how the blood of the martyrs has become the seed of the church of principles which no combinations of mere worldly force could overturn. In John Brown, and now in Abraham Lincoln, we seem to have this truth brought close to our own hearts and homes; and an obligation rests upon each of us to put on the mantle they have left behind, and to hold still more firmly, and spread still more earnestly, those principles for which their lives were sacrificed.
You will see from our papers that the tragical death, of your beloved President has been to us a national sorrow. He has been mourned with a great mourning. Every heart, from the Queen downward, has been touched, and has vibrated with a feeling of in tensest sympathy for his family, for his country. I see in this a cementing of the two countries in a stronger, firmer, tenderer, more loving band of union than any thing which the arts of diplomacy could ever de-rise; and I am delighted to find, from the last Liberator, that these expressions of sympathy are fully appreciated and reciprocated by your great nation. As I prayed for Abraham Lincoln, I pray most earnestly that God may guide and instruct Andrew Johnson and his advisers in the great work of reconstruction, and that all things may be settled on a true and sure foundation.
Yesterday we had news of the capture of Jefferson Davis. your nation can now afford to be magnanimous. In spite of his efforts, your nation still lives-lives more truly-purified from its greatest curse; lives more nobly-and will sooner and better realize its great destiny. Let, then, his life be spared, and in exile and banishment may he atone for his great crime by living as a warning to all who may be tempted to establish a kingdom on the groans, and tears, and toils of an oppressed people, and whose first step in the unholy attempt may be to upset a free and constitutional government.
I often think with great pleasure of your visit to Newcastle; of our delightful meeting in Manchester; of the long, pleasant and profitable conversation we had in coming from Manchester by railway. Your words and counsel are still fresh upon my mind, though nearly twenty years have gone.
Your true and affectionate friend,
JOHN MAWSON.
We warmly reciprocate the kind sentiments expressed by our long-tried and much esteemed friend MAWSON; assuring him that, though we must defer our contemplated visit to England for the present, we cherish the hope of being permitted to take him by the hand another season. Throughout our late terrible struggle with secession, he has intelligently and faithfully stood by our Government, and rendered it good service. Ed. Lib.
<c02>
THE LATE ANNIVERSARY.
PHILADELPHIA, 6th mo., 12th, 1865.
ESTEEMED FRIEND WM. LLOYD GARRISON. In no spirit of controversy, but in one of all-absorbing love and appreciation, I feel the judgment of the hour. The Proclamation of President Johnson, reconstructing North Carolina and Mississippi, and the brutal treatment of colored people in many parts of the South, fill me with anxious apprehensions. We must promptly oppose the wrong, and marshal thereunto the whole moral force of the nation.
Justice dedicates her first thoughts to thee, as our long tried and devoted President, and to Oliver Johnson, as our late faithful editor.
Gratitude and benedictions unto the retiring, and encouragement and benefactions unto the newly in-stalled, is the spirit with which I, as one, part with the old, and greet the new.
The late anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society marked an era. Drawn thither by an irresistible duty, because of love for the free, the true and the right, I expected to find more of generous out-pouring of thanking and praise for the triumphs of the hour; and own it was difficult to suppress a shade of regret at the hasty disposition of the resolution, relative to the organ of the Society and its late editorial board; the too frequent indulgence in mere personalities and unprofitable criticisms; and the omission of resolutions, mingling our sorrow and sympathy with that of the Nation, for our irreparable loss in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, alike the revered head of the Republic and a faithful friend of our cause.
I knew extremes would be presented, for differences of opinion existed; but I did think time would be afforded to harmonize those extremes, and settle upon some basis alike satisfactory to all; being satisfied a large number of the real friends of the cause entertained an idea that such was feasible. But, finding little or no opportunity, and seeing time prevented long-tried and devoted friends having a hearing, I withheld that which, perhaps, had no other merit than being a deep and conscientious feeling of duty.
It seemed to me there was an intermediate course between entire dissolution and continuance in the old way, which was the more apparent from the many excellent arguments offered by each wing of the opposition.
There, may be a prospective use in its presentation now.
As there is no rest or loss in nature, so there is no death to the soul. When the service of the body is performed, it very properly undergoes dissolution. But the soul does not perish. It passes into a condition commensurate with its aspirations. If it has done its best, it expands into that higher life, where there are larger fields and more glorious opportunities.
The American Anti-Slavery Society was born at the right time-lived at the right time, a useful, important and remarkable life; and, so far as being confined to chattel slavery, its mission has been performed. This life might go out, but the great soul live, expand, ascend.
From its past usefulness, it is fitted for the new birth. We drop the term “Anti-Slavery," because there is no more use for it. For if not totally eradicated, every one must acknowledge the signs of the times point directly to the legal extinction of the filthy thing receiving the joyful acquiescence of the people. Let this work! Let the weight of this Society be thrown in the right direction. When we take down our name because we believe slavery dead, it goes very far towards making it so. The world hears and accepts the verdict.
There are times, in the history of every cause, when a masterly move of this kind forces victory. We stamp the age with a thought. We hasten by anticipating. We prepay and insure a passage. We write our letter-fold, seal and direct it-and when the postage is prepaid, it will go.
The animus of this Society must be preserved. There is a soul here which will never die, but ascend to higher duties. What are they? Such, indeed, as comprehend the work it was born and lived to do-not one iota less, but very much more. It is strengthened by its long life, emboldened by its successes, and stimulated by the thought that there are wrongs to be righted, and rights to be protected.
The present is an epoch in our history marked by the termination of the slaveholders' rebellion, by the death of a martyr to the cause of freedom, with which, and that of our John the Baptist, whose “souls go marching on," we might agree, as a mere anti-slavery organization, to arise as the AMERICAN EQUAL RIGHTS SOCIETY, and thus with them and the spirit of the age “go marching on."
We would thus keep the soul alive, and retain every element of success. It would comprehend the work of seeing to it that slavery be totally eradicated that the rights of the newly emancipated be obtain-ed and protected that woman, whether white or black, be disenthralled; in a word, that the spirit of our Declaration of Independence, and the dictates of de-voted and philanthropic hearts be given a voice.
It seemed to me the “house should not be divided," the Society being too valuable to be dissolved or dissipated. Its members once scattered, may never be brought together again with the same force. Hold them now! This change would be hailed with joy by those who breathe “excelsior" with every day's new life; would be felt among political bodies, and give a tone to that reconstruction which we fervently hope will be regeneration. 
And then, our ever welcomed organ: it should have continued as the National Equal Rights Standard, with its able and devoted staff.
Its influence has been wonderful. It has educated: wherever read. But as regards its circulation, it has been sectional-the North alone being open. Hence, it has not lived out its title of “National" and some-thing is yet to be done. There is an element in the South to be converted one that needs an anchor, and another that looks for a beacon:
"Spread it, then;
And let it circulate through every vein
Of all your empire."
It was in this spirit that I would have offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That, in view of the legal enactments relative to the total abolition of slavery, the almost unanimous approval of the people thereto, we drop the title “anti-slavery," and in consideration of the many wrongs yet to be righted, and rights that re-quire protection, substitute the title Equal Rights, and call our Society from this time forward the American Equal Rights Society, and our organ the National Equal Rights Standard, and pledge ourselves to the prosecution of all that work which is comprehended under such name.
True, our good friend, Aaron M. Powell, suggested something of this kind, but there seemed to be a settled determination to press the extremes, and thus many were unprepared to vote. 
It may be that all will yet work for the best. Sincere hearts will hope so. These tributaries may yet flow into the right channel, and swell the great river of Progress. 
When the ratification of the amendment of emancipation shall be proclaimed by our Government, or at some proper time thereafter, all our friends may agree to some such change as suggested, and this prove simply “a word fitly spoken —like apples of gold in pictures of silver."
Animated alone by the one spirit of living for the best, and having confidence in the right, I shall ever be grateful for the past, and hopeful for the future, as the friend of all, ALFRED H. LOVE.
This letter was first sent to the Anti Slavery Standard, by our friend Love; but the new editor declined publishing it on the ground of not wishing to engage in any controversy on the subject! This is the kind of free discussion henceforth to be allowed in the columns of that paper. Surely, there is no semblance of the spirit of controversy in this letter; and, coming from one so gentle in disposition and true in heart, it ought not to have been suppressed on such a pretence.-Ed. Lib.
<c03>
LETTER FROM CHAPLAIN FOWLER. 
SAVANNAH, (Ga.,) June 9, 1865.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-We have had quite an interesting season here. Should I attempt to tell you all we are doing, I should not only weary you, but repeat what you must have heard. I came here immediately after your party left Hilton Head for the North, and have been at work as much of the time as my health and regimental duties would allow, among the colored citizens. You will see by the papers I send you what we have done.
Besides the Union League, there is another smaller League, auxiliary to the National Colored Man's Equal Rights League.
We have been circulating petitions, asking the right to vote; also asking that, if a Military. Governor is appointed, a man may be selected who will respect the rights of all. I send you copies of these.
The colored people are all alive to this great question of voting. They see clearly that, without this privilege, their condition will be intolerable. I send you some resolutions on the subject.
They have several very interesting schools of their own starting and maintaining here. They have several fine churches of their own. Their ministers and teachers are gifted with a large share of common sense, but their expression is very bad. I never felt before the indispensable necessity of having some seminary in the North, where the educators of these people can be prepared for their work. I think they should be sent to different schools, where they can be admitted, and I hope there will soon be many such. It is far better to put them among Northern pupils, where all the influences about them will help them to break off faults and acquire good habits. One of the greatest drawbacks here is the social influence. I wish a general system could be adopted among all the friends of the freed people In the North, of taking home some of these children to bring up and educate for teachers. A boy from eight to twelve could pay his way till twenty one, and get a tolerable education in a Northern family; and those who were disposed to do more could send one to college. In this way, very much might be done to help these people.
I am glad to see the noble stand Mr. Phillips takes about colored men voting in these States. Unless this privilege is given, they will be but little bettered by liberty, and I fear the country will gain but little by emancipation. The war will come again in a new form. I say it not as a threat, but as an inevitable fact; unless the petition of the soldiers of the first South for the ballot is granted, they will be driven to fight for their rights at home, or go to a country more just than their own. It is a fact, which I well know from the universal testimony of colored men daily arriving from all parts of the State, that, in very many counties-indeed, in three-fourths of the State-the old slave system, with dogs, cow skins, and other instruments of tyranny, is in full operation unmodified I know of instances where men have been hunted with hounds, shot at, and some killed, within two weeks. I know, also, of two large planters who work slaves 150 miles west of this-one allowing only four quarts of cowpeas, and the other only four quarts of corn to the hand per week, and nothing else. These are facts, sworn to before me and the proper officer. I trust this state of things will soon be broken up.
J. W. FOWLER.
THE PRESIDENT AND THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS. Last Tuesday afternoon, a committee appointed by the Yearly Meeting of the New York Friends, to pre-sent a memorial to the President and Cabinet, had an interview with President Johnson. After referring, with simple eloquence, to the manner of the death of President Lincoln, they came to the question of the enslaved millions in the South, and then made the following appeal:" We therefore respectfully, yet earnestly petition that, in the reorganization of those States which have wantonly rebelled against the Federal authority, the influence and power of the government may be so exercised as to secure to all per-sons, without distinction of color, an equality of rights and franchise. Thus would we practically carry out in spirit those self-evident truths contained in the Declaration of Independence, '’ that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these rights are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." 
In response, President Johnson said he would not make a speech, but would talk to them in the spirit of friendship and fraternal regard. He wished to talk to them as though they were all members of the same family. He told them of the difficulties in the way of conferring the right of suffrage as they desired, and I gave them many instances of his experience among the slaves of the South, whose habits and feelings he professed thoroughly to understand. But one great act might be said to have been fully accomplished by the war, after the restoration of the Union, and that is the complete abolition of slavery. There are many other things that would require time to accomplish, and among these might be the question of suffrage. The President referred to his own experience in the rebellion, and to the fact that while he had suffered personally and peculiarity and in other ways, he had no complaints to make, but would do his best to bring peace and order to the country.
The kind, frank and familiar manner with which he met and treated this committee of Friends made a pro-found impression upon them, and they left Washing-ton yesterday, fully convinced that they could repose implicit confidence in Andrew Johnson. They felt and saw that he was animated, by a true Christian spirit, and by those teachings of the immortal Jefferson to which they referred in their memorial. After a fervent benediction had been pronounced by one of the female members of the committee, they called upon the Cabinet. Secretary Stanton was especially frank and sympathetic, showing fully his knowledge of the great questions involved in the struggle, and a religious determination to do his share of the work. Washington Chronicle, 15th.
MARSHAL LAMON'S WARNING TO MR. LINCOLN. The Washington Republican says that Marshal Lamon, of that city, (who has just resigned his office,) warned President Lincoln in December last of plots against his life. He addressed to the President the following letter:
WASHINGTON CITY,
"December 10, 1864, 1 1-2 o'clock, A. M.
Hon. A. Lincoln, President of the United States: 
SIR: I regret that you do not appreciate what I have repeatedly said to you in regard to the proper police arrangements connected with your household and your own personal safety. You are in danger!
I have nothing to ask, and I flatter myself that you will at least believe that I am honest. (If you have been impressed differently, however, do me and the country the justice to at once dispose of all suspected officers and persons, or accept my resignation of the Marshal ship, which is hereby tendered.) I will give you further reasons than those hereinafter named which have impelled me to this course.
To-night, as you have done on several previous occasions, you went unattended to the theatre. When I say you went unattended, I mean that you went with two guests, but without any guard. And you know, or ought to know, that your life is sought after, and will be taken, unless you and your friends are cautious, for you have many enemies within our lines.
You certainly know that I have provided men at your mansion to perform any duty that will properly conduce to your interests or your safety.
GENERAL GRANT AND PRESIDENT LINCOLN. A correspondent of the Chicago Republican writes as follows:
"Subsequently to the capture of Vicksburg, Jesse K. Dubois, of Illinois, was in Washington, to obtain a sick furlough for his son, who had been at the siege, and was then in Memphis hospital. Mr. Lincoln him-self went to the War Office with Mr. Dubois to obtain the furlough. Returning from the office, and while Mr. Lincoln, Mr. Dubois and Mr. D. L. Phillips were standing at the railing which separates the War. Office grounds from those of the White House, the following conversation, in substance, took place:
Mr. Dubois" Mr. President, I do not like Gen. Grant's paroling those prisoners at Vicksburg. We had better feed than fight them." 
Mr. Lincoln-straightening himself up to his full height, and his countenance beaming with that peculiar smile which indicated that he was highly pleased: “Dubois, General Grant has done so well, and we are all so pleased at the taking of Vicksburg, let us not quarrel with him about that matter." He also added:
“Dubois,” placing his foot upon the base of the railing, and taking a less erect posture, “do you know that at one time I stood solitary and alone here in favor of General Grant? Even— (meaning a member of Congress from Northern Illinois) came and told me that he (Grant) was not worth a,-and that I would have to remove him. But I remembered that you and Hatch and others had been down there about the first of April, and had not said a word to me on the subject.”
<c04>
THE TEMPERANCE CELEBRATION.
The friends of temperance rallied in large numbers on the Common, on the 17th,.and the Parade Ground with, the Sunday School children in their holiday attire, and the members of the various temperance organizations with their variegated insignia and banners, the bands of music, drum corps, etc., presented a beautiful appearance.
The procession occupied about two hours in making the circuit of the Common, after which the delegations adjourned to the tents and the shade on the Charles and Beacon street malls, where they were furnished with a collation. 
The following resolutions were unanimously adopt
1st. Resolved, That the cause of Temperance having been tested by the practice of the generations of Americans, in the half a century that has elapsed since the reform began, has proved itself so effective in the restrictions of the use of intoxicating drinks as a beverage, that it has ceased to be an experiment, and no one at home or abroad can longer deny or doubt the possibility or question the propriety of total abstinence.
2. That the removal from our land of the great iniquity of slavery, by the wonderful providence of an all-wise, good and mighty God, has opened the way for renewed activity in this cause; and that we rejoice to see such a host of young and old, ready to de-vote themselves with fresh ardor to this most needed reform, assembled on this natal battle-day of the Re-public, when the first organized resistance to foreign tyranny solved the problem of our nationality, and began that work for the world and liberty under law, which the war just concluded has so grandly advanced to its consummation; and that we hail this celebration on this day as a happy augury of the deliverance of our youth from bondage to intemperate thirst, and of our land from the blight and peril of in-temperance.
3d. That our patriot soldiers, returning from the perils of war, demand from us especial efforts to rescue them from the greater perils of the inebriating cup, and that we will labor earnestly and untiringly to save these defenders of our national life from their own destruction through this fatal appetite, so that they may be models to our youth by their sobriety and virtue, no less than by their valor and patriotism.
4th. That we believe the surest way to redeem the wanderer and preserve the unfallen is by the use of the old familiar, potent pledge; and the cause of temperance can only be permanently successful by the renewal of that vow on the part of the children and youth of every generation, as well as by the frequent presentation of this duty in Sabbath and day schools, in the congregations and churches and popular assemblies. 
5th. That the chief object of legislation being the establishment and maintenance of virtue, on which basis alone can a people be prosperous and happy, it is the preeminent duty of the Legislature to enact and the Executive to enforce such laws as seek the suppression of social vice: and that, as the most general, most fashionable, and most fatal vice is that of intemperance, sending thousands annually to early graves, filling our prisons and alms-houses with its victims, increasing the taxation and diminishing the wealth of the State, inflicting unutterable woe and wretchedness on the victims of the appetite themselves, as well as on their mothers, wives and children, the welfare of society, the salvation of our youth, the endurance of our free institutions, demand that laws should be enacted for the removal of all temptations to this indulgence by prohibiting its sale for such purposes, and that these laws should be enforced by the Executive of the State with the utmost efficiency in every part of the Commonwealth, and especially in its chief centres of population and vice.
6th. That we therefore recognize the prohibitory law of the State as being a most just and necessary enactment, and the organization of a State Police under the Constable of the Commonwealth as a step to-wards the better enforcement of that righteous law; and that we hereby declare that whatever efforts His Excellency shall make for the complete extirpation of this illegal and most harmful traffic will be heartily and faithfully supported by the people of the Commonwealth. 
7th. That we especially rejoice that this convention has been held in the city of Boston, and has been so largely composed of her youth and citizens; and that we feel that the reform thus happily inaugurated will not cease till the capital of our State and the metro-polis of New England shall have purged herself of all submission to, and complicity with, intemperance, by the enforcement of the laws that will lead to its extinction, and by the casting of her great influence on the side of this reform, so that she shall be the centre of our moral, as she now is of our social and commercial life, and shall thus and then worthily represent the ideas and institutions upon which she was founded by our fathers, and through which alone she can win an enduring renown.
JOHN MITCHEL.'S RECORD. The arrest of John Mitchel makes his record a matter of some interest to the public. He is a vigorous and powerful writer, an Irishman, of the Protestant religion, a bitter opponent to Catholicism, and was engaged in the Irish rebel-lion of 1848, for which he was sentenced to be trans-ported for fourteen years. Escaping the punishment of forfeiting his parole, he migrated to the section of the country, where he engaged in the publication of the Citizen, receiving the support and countenance of his countrymen, and at last migrated to Alabama. Here his pen was wielded and his voice raised in sustaining the cause of the slaveholders, and some time after the breaking out of the rebellion he was made an associate editor of the Richmond Enquirer, which was the official organ of Jeff. Davis.
Some of his speeches were in the highest degree denunciatory of the government, whose protection he has recently sought, and his voice was always lifted up against the soldiers of the Union. As soon as Richmond fell, and the cause of his master Jeff. Davis was clearly lost, John Mitchel came to New York, and on the 1st instant assumed the editorial charge of the Daily News, which position he held until his arrest.
Mitchel has held no office, civil or military, at the South, but he had three sons in the rebel army. A specimen of his style of writing may be seen in the following extract from an article in the News a few days since:
"The jailors and hangmen will not prevail this time. The formidable chief and ruler of a great nation in arms will not, we apprehend, be publicly choked on the gibbet. Neither will Gen. Lee, that model and mirror of modern soldiers, that peerless Bayard of his time, be forced to stoop his stately head to the shears of the penitentiary hairdresser.
There are some things which cannot be accomplish-ed by any nation, howsoever rich and wilful; and one of these things is, to turn honor and patriotism into a police court crime, and to get mankind to assent to the transformation. Our country has vast wealth, many tons of green paper, and also much ingenuity and persistency in the pursuit of its objects; but it positively has not money enough to turn Mr. Davis into an assassin, nor to buy the assent of the world to the proposition that Lee is a common burglar and fire-raiser.
There is truth and manhood enough in our own people to make such an infamy impossible; and if there were not, we are likely soon to hear such a chorus of indignation ringing and swelling from all the ends of the earth, that although of course we, being the greatest people in creation, care for nobody's opinion, and are a law unto ourselves, yet we will be unable to stand up against such a tempest of execration.
If General Lee, or any officer or private of that army, be arrested and tried for treason, it is an end of the obligations of the surrender upon their side; they are no longer bound not to take up arms against the United States; and the next bloody revolt will be a question of time and of opportunity only."
THE NEW ARMY. The Washington correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer makes the following statements, which may or may not be true:
"It is probable the regular army, or permanent military establishment of the country, will be organized on the following basis: General officers-one general, five lieutenant-generals, fifty major-generals, and seventy-five brigadier-generals. The regular army proper to be composed of nineteen regiments of infantry, six regiments of cavalry, and five regiments of artillery, all filled up to the maximum number; besides these, fifty thousand colored troops will be retained with the regiments filled up to the maximum number.
Hancock's corps will be increased to a full corps of three divisions of three brigades each, about thirty thousand men. The Veteran Reserve corps, twenty-five regiments filled up to the maximum number.
The Medical Staff will be increased to one hundred full surgeons, and with a corresponding number of assistant surgeons.
The infantry and cavalry regiments of the regular army comprise three battalions of eight hundred men each.
Under the proposed arrangement, the total strength of the army will be nearly as follows: Regular infantry, 45,600; regular cavalry, 14,409: regular artillery, 12,000; colored troops, 50,000; Hancock's corps, 30,000; Veteran Reserve corps, 25,000. Total 177,000 men.
Senator Clark of New Hampshire, in his eulogy on Mr. Lincoln at Manchester on the 1st instant, said that in the late President's great debate with Mr. Douglas, the “little giant" had accused him offending bar, alluding to his keeping a grocery store. “True," said Mr. Lincoln, “the Judge and I have both tended bar-I on the inside, he on the out." Mr. Douglas never again alluded to this portion of history.
<c05>
A CHAPTER OF HORRORS. Rarely, If ever, have we been called upon to record in a single issue such a multitude of local horrors as is comprised in the columns of the Journal to-day. The one most terrible is the murder of a couple of children in Boxbury, a brother and sister, the former twelve years of age and the latter fourteen. The girl was previously ravished, I and the murders then followed, evidently for the purpose of destroying evidences of the first terrible crime. The fiendish brutes who committed this series of tragedies are still at large. Among the other events which complete the chapter is a probable suicide of a prominent citizen, the accidental shooting of a little girl in Knee land place, a fatal accident on the Broadway Horse Railroad in Federal street, a sudden death of a painter on Washington street, and a total accident to a woman by falling in a railroad culvert in Lynn. BOSTON Journal.
THE CONSPIRACY TRIAL. Washington, 16th. Several witnesses were examined to day, among them D. S. Eastward, who is employed in the Bank of Montreal, who testified as to Jacob Thompson keeping his accounts in that bank. Witness said Thompson originally made a requisition on that bank for $20, 000 in currency in favor of Benjamin Wood, but this was afterward changed by direction of Thompson in favor of D. S. Eastward. The draft for this amount was dated August 10, 1864, and was drawn on the City Bank of New York. The back of the draft is thus indorsed “Pay to Hon. Benj. Wood or order. D. S. Eastward, B. Wood."
George Wilkes and A. D. Russell testified as to the signature of B. Wood, and that he was a member of Congress at the time, and is also proprietor of the New York Daily News.
With the exception of the above, the testimony given to-day was not of any general interest.
THE NEGRO OPPRESSION IN RICHMOND. Washington, June 16. The President to-day received the committee appointed by the public meeting of colored people of Richmond to make known to him the wrongs, as they conceive them to be, by which they are sorely oppressed. In the address, which they presented, they complain of insults, imprisonment, and the most cruel punishments, the like of which was never heard of in the slave-pens of southern traders. 
The President made the following indorsement on the papers presented: 
EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 16.
Respectfully referred to Major. Gen. Howard, Chief of the Bureau of Freedmen, &c., for his consideration and report as to the action necessary and proper to be had in view of the within statements.
ANDREW JOHNSON.
The Richmond Whig says the wholesale impressments of negroes which took place in that city about ten days ago was not ordered by Mayor Mayo, but by General Patrick, for the purpose of cleaning up the thoroughfares and by-ways as an indispensable sanitary precaution. Mr. Mayo instructed his police, in the most direct terms, not to make any arrests. 
MAYOR MAYO TURNED OUT OF OFFICE. New York, June 15. The Herald's Richmond correspondence says Gen. Terry has arrived there, and assumed command of the Department of Virginia in the place of Gen. Ord. 
General Turner has been assigned to the military district of Henrico county, embracing Richmond. His first act was to quench the rebel mayor Mayo, who had been re-instated with his negro hunting rebel police.
A band of guerillas, 500, have lately collected in Patrick county, Va., and are threatening the inhabit-ants with vengeance. Four have been arrested, and two were at once tried, convicted and sentenced to be shot. The others were sent to the penitentiary.
A GOOD ACT. We are glad to learn that one of the first acts of Gen. Terry, after taking command of the Department of Virginia, was to remove Mayor Mayo from the position to which he had been rein-stated by Gen. Halleck. Any one who ever saw Mayo, or who knows anything of his habits and character can question his utter unfitness for the place. He might do for Mayor of Richmond when the slave code was in force, and he would be a very fit man to enforce it rigidly. But with Richmond a free city, he is entirely out of place in that or any office. We hope the day for the appointment of men of his class to offices of trust and power in Southern cities is past.—Boston Journal. 
GEN. GRANT. Gen. Grant, in conversation with his friends, says that it is too soon to declare that the loyal blacks at the South shall not be allowed to vote. Aside from the abstract right and the legal problem of what authority can confer or withhold the franchise-whether it be Congress or the States-the question may assume the shape of a political necessity. The government and people may have to choose between keeping a standing army of 100,000 men at an expense of $100,000,000 a year to the tax-payers, to support the white minority in the South against the white rebel majority, or of enfranchising the blacks, and thereby enabling them to support the white loyalists. Gen. Grant foresees that the suffrage question may take this form.
The Hon. Wm. Beach Lawrence, the wealthy democrat of Newport, R. I., well known in political circles as an ultra pro-slavery man, has written a letter to Hon. Charles Sumner in favor of colored suffrage. He says that slavery being abolished, the colored man is a citizen, and has a right to take part in the reconstruction of the South. Besides this, Mr. Lawrence thinks that the peace, repose, and safety of Southern communities will be promoted by the negroes voting. His argument is long and able. Mr. Lawrence is a noted commentator upon international law, and when he talks in favor of negro suffrage, the small fry among the democracy may as well hasten to fall in with the progress of events. When the Newport aristocracy announce that the logic of events is, that hereafter in this country every freeman is to be a citizen and a voter, the signs of the times become auspicious.
CONSTABLE OF THE COMMONWEALTH. The new law establishing a State Police became operative yesterday; according to the terms of the act, and Governor Andrew has nominated Col. William S. King of Roxbury, Colonel of the 4th Mass. Artillery, and for merly Lieutenant Colonel of the 35th Mass Infantry Volunteers, for the office of “ Constable of the Commonwealth."
This nomination is an excellent one, as Col. King is well known as a very popular and efficient officer, having distinguished himself by bravery on several occasions in the late war, and by executive ability in different positions. Transcript.
A SHOCKING ACCIDENT took place at Deerfield, Mass., on Thursday afternoon. As the train from the north was approaching the station, three young ladies were having a frolicsome race by the side of the railroad track to see which would reach the depot first, when one of them Miss Elizabeth Brown, daughter of George Brown of Whately attempted to cross a stone bridge in advance of the train, and as there was little room outside the rails, ran between them. But she had not calculated the velocity of the train, and the engine coming upon her from behind, killed her instantly, mangling her body in a shocking manner. Her age was 18 years.
PROPOSED SALE OF THE ASSASSINATION THEATRE. Washington, 16th. The Young Men's Christian Association of this city, for themselves and kindred associations throughout the country, to-day received a definite proposition from John T. Ford for the sale of his theatre in which President Lincoln was assassinated. The building is to be used for public purposes by that organization. The price fixed is $100,000 The association have until next Tuesday to decide whether they will accept the terms.
JUDGES DRIVEN FROM THE BENCH BY BAYONETS. St. Louis, June 14. Judges Boyer and Driden of the Supreme Court of this State, having declined to vacate the Bench in conformity with the ordinance passed by the State Convention, Gov. Fletcher to-day, through Gen. Coleman, commanding the militia of this district, forcibly dispossessed them of their seats, and installed Hon. David Wagner and .Hon. Wm. L. Lovelace. Judge Barton resigned some time since, and the Governor appointed Nathaniel Holmes in his stead. The affair created a good deal of excitement.
TERRIBLE EXPLOSION IN TEXAS. Cairo, Ill. 16th. New Orleans dates of the 10th are received.
An explosion at Navasota, Texas, on the 23rd ult., destroyed 200 buildings and killed several persons; loss over $100,000.
The rebel garrison at Brownsville left for their, homes before the arrival of Gen. Brown, refusing to be paroled. Col. Ford escaped to Matamoras, and Gen. Slaughter, with about fifty followers, is some-where on the Rio Grande.
The New Orleans Mayoralty question has been settled by Gen. Canby appointing H. W. Kennedy as .Mayor.
LEE AND STEPHENS APPLYING FOR PARDON. New York, June 16. The Times despatch says, among the applications for pardon are those of Robert E. Lee and Alexander H. Stephens. The latter enters at' length into an apology or vindication, and among other reasons cites the fact that the Tribune advocated the right of the Southern people to independence, and he was led to believe it would be accorded them without the fear of a war. 
<c06>
FOURTH OF JULY!
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION.
A mass meeting of the friends of Freedom will be held at the Grove in Framingham, 
On TUESDAY, JULY 4TH, 1865.
It is hoped that all the friends of complete Emancipation and of universal Suffrage, for which we now. plead, will endeavor to be present and testify their appreciation of the great national issues impending. The crisis, certainly, is one which calls for the freest expressions of noblest thought and principles.
Among the speakers expected are Rev. Merrill Richardson, Wendell Phillips, Frederick Douglass, Stephen S. Foster, Charles Lenox Remond, Abby Kelley Foster, Wm. Wells Brown, Andrew T. Foss, Mrs. F. W. Harper, Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh, and others.
Trains will be run on the Boston and Worcester railroad and branches as follows:
Leave Boston at 9.15, and Worcester at 9.40, A. M., stopping at way stations; also from Worcester at 9.25 -an express train; and Millbury regular train —Milford 7.10, and 9.20; Northboro', 9.40; Marlboro, 7.24, and 10.08. Fares to the Grove and back from Boston, Worcester and Millbury, $1 for adults, and 50 cents for children. From Graiton, Newton and West Newton, adults 90 cents, children 45 cents. From Milford and branch, Northboro', 'Malboro', Wellesley, Grantville, Cordavitle, Southboro' and Westboro', 75 cents for adults, and 40 cents for children. From Natick, Holliston and Ashland, 50 cents for adults, and 30 cents for children. Returning, leave the Grove for Boston, Milford and Worcester, at 5, P. M. For way stations above Framingham, except Westboro', at 5; Northboro' branch, at 5.30.
Admission fee to the enclosure of the Grove: for those not coming by cars, 15 cents for adults, and 10 cents for children. Those who come by railroad admitted free. No fireworks allowed within the Grove enclosure.
The house at the Grove will be open for refreshments.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Waverley Hall, opposite the Railroad Depot at South Framingham.

THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE, 
SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865. 
Its main objects will be 
First-he discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all. of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second-he maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Third-he earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with, a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fourth-The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation.
Fifth-The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory.
Sixth-The collection and diffusion of trustworthy in formation as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh-Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended, in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a. writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide.
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors:
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW,
J. R. LOWELL,
JOHN G. WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT, (Ex-Pres. Trin. College, Hart-ford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,)
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,)
CHARLES E. NORTON,
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W. D. WHITNEY, (Yale,)
Prof. D. C. GILMAN, (Yale,)
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,)
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr. McCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON,
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C. J. STILLE,
HENRY T. TUCKERMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR,
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE,
RICHARD GRANT WHITE,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THEODORE TILTON,
GAIL HAMILTON,
R. H. STODDARD, &c. &c.
A more extended list will be published in a few days.
Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS, Publisher,
No. 130 Nassau St., New York. Juno
June 16.

HIGHLY IMPORTANT
AND
INTENSELY INTERESTING!
SPIRITTUALISM AS IT IS! Facts, Fancies and Follies! A New Explanation. The result of Scientific Investigation.
Send 25 cents to WM. BAILEY POTTER, New York.
June 23. 4w
DR. DIO LEWIS'S TRAINING SCHOOL
FOR Teachers of the New Gymnastics will open its eighth course on the 5th of July next. The training will take place in the open air, under a simple roof, at Lexington, the pupils boarding in Dr. Lewis's Health Establishment at Lexington.
For a full circular, address .DR. DIO LEWIS, Lexington, Mass.
June 23
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, 
OTTAWA, La Salle Co., .Illinois.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
THE JAGUAR HUNT.
BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE.
The dark jaguar was abroad in the land;
His strength and his fierceness what foe could withstand?
The breath of his anger was hot on the air,
And the white lamb of Peace he had dragged to his lair.
Then up rose the Farmer; he summoned his sons:
"Now saddle your horses, now look to your guns!" 
And he called to his hound, as he sprang from the ground 
To the back of his black pawing steed with a bound.
Oh, their hearts, at the word, how they tingled and stirred! 
They followed, all belted and booted and spurred. 
"Buckle tight, boys!" said he, "for who gallops with 
me, 
Such a hunt as was never before shall he see.
"This traitor, we know him! for when he was younger, 
We flattered him, patted him, fed his fierce hunger: 
But now far too long we have borne with the wrong, 
For each morsel we tossed makes him savage and strong." 
Then said one, "He must die!" And they took up the cry, 
"For this last crime of his he must die! he must die!"
But the slow eldest-born sauntered sad and forlorn, 
For his heart was at home on that fair hunting-morn.
"I remember," he said, "how this fine cub we track 
Has carried me many a time on his back!" 
And he called to his brothers, " Fight gently! be kind!" 
And he kept the dread hound, Retribution, behind.
The dark jaguar on a bough in the brake 
Crouched, silent and wily, and lithe as a snake:
They spied not their game, but, as onward they came, 
Through the dense leafage gleamed two red eyeballs of 
flame.
Black-spotted, and mottled, and whiskered, and grim, 
White-bellied, and yellow, he lay on the limb, 
And so still that you saw but one tawny paw 
Lightly reach through the leaves, and as softly withdraw.
Then shrilled his fierce cry, as the riders drew nigh, 
And he shot from the bough like a bolt from the sky: 
In the foremost he fastened his fangs as he fell, 
While all the black jungle re-echoed his yell.
Oh, then there was carnage by field and by flood! 
The green sod was crimsoned, the rivers ran blood, 
The cornfields were trampled, and all in their track 
The beautiful valley lay blasted and black.
Now the din of the conflict swells deadly and loud, 
And the dust of the tumult rolls up like a cloud: 
Then afar down the slope of the Southland recedes 
The wild rapid clatter of galloping steeds.
With wide nostrils smoking, and flanks dripping gore, 
The black stallion bore his bold rider before, 
As onward they thundered through forest and glen, 
A-hunting the stark jaguar to his den.
In April, sweet April, the chase was begun; 
It was April again, when the hunting was done; 
The snows of four winters and four summers green 
Lay red-streaked and trodden and blighted between.
Then the monster stretched all his grim length on the
ground;
His life-blood was wasting from many a wound; 
Ferocious and gory and snarling he lay, 
Amid heaps of the whitening bones of his prey.
Then up spoke the slow eldest son, and he said, 
"All he needs now is just to be fostered and fed! 
Give over the strife! Brothers, put up the knife! 
We will tame him, reclaim him, but not take his life! "
But the Farmer flung back the false words in his face: 
"He is none of my race, who gives counsel so base! 
Now let loose the hound!" And the hound was unbound, 
And like lightning the heart of the traitor he found.
"So rapine and treason forever shall cease!"
And they wash the stained fleece of the pale lamb of 
Peace;
When, lo! a strong angel stands winged and white 
In a wondering raiment of ravishing light!
Peace is raised from the dead! In the radiance shed 
By the halo of glory that shines round her head, 
Fair gardens shall bloom where the black jungle grew, 
And all the glad valley shall blossom anew!
Atlantic Monthly for June. 

VICTORY!
[To B. T. and M. T., on receiving the news of the capture of Richmond, on Easter morning.] 
Richmond fallen! Lo, victorious,
See, at last, the Union stand! 
Broken by her blows of thunder 
Sinks the vile Rebellion's hand. 
Broader light is breaking, 
Easter hymns awaking—
Hail the resurrection of a land.
Ye with Titan-force have struggled
For the Highest and the Best; 
Hark! the tongues of earth salute ye, 
North and South and East and West, 
And the Spring is wreathing, 
Bud and blossom breathing, 
That your war-worn heroes' brows be drest.
Home shall march those gallant soldiers,
(Each a peaceful citizen!) 
Lay the harness by, and labor 
Freer, stronger, manlier then: 
But in song and story 
Long shall live their glory 
Who have bled to free their fellow-men!
You, my friends, your wound forgetting,
Proudly on the triumph look, 
Though in fire and storm of battle 
God your hero-brother took. 
He, so loved and cherished, 
Hath not wholly perished—
Shines his name in Freedom's golden book!
Europe lies in glimmering twilight, 
Half in dawning, half in night—
But your arms uplift the hammers 
Which shall forge her sword aright:
See! the sparks are burning! 
See the glow returning, 
Soon to bathe her hills in morning light!
Float aloft, thou starry banner! 
In the sunrise float unfurled!
Lead the holy wars of Freedom 
To release the groaning world! 
Till the Word is spoken—
Every fetter broken—
Ancient Wrong from every fortress hurled! 
Take my song, O friends beloved! 
This the truth it would avow—
That, in yours, THE PEOPLE'S FUTURE
Lifts its grand, victorious brow! 
O'er the severing Ocean 
Flows a new devotion 
To your banner, Freedom's emblem now!
DR. FRITE HENNEBERG.
THREE WORDS OF STRENGTH.
There are three lessons I would write—
Three words as with a burning pen,
In tracings of eternal light 
Upon the hearts of men.
Have hope. Though clouds environ now,
And gladness hides her face in scorn, 
Put thou the shadow from thy brow—
No night but has its morn.
Have faith. Where'er thy bark is driven—
The calm's disport, the tempest's mirth—
Know this: God rules the hosts of heaven, 
Th' inhabitants of earth.
Have love, Not love alone for one, 
But man, as man, thy brothers call,
And scatter, like the circling sun, 
Thy charities on all.
Thus 'grave these lessons on thy soul—
Hope, Faith and Love—and thou shalt find
Strength when life's surges roughest roll, 
Light when thou else wert blind.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
ABRAHAM LINCOLN:
PERSONAL REMINISCENCES,
BT AUGUSTE LAUGEL. 
[Translated for the Liberator from the Revue des Deux Mondes.]
[CONCLUDED]
The question of reorganization, or, as they call it in the United States, the reconstruction of the Southern States reconquered by the Federal arms, preoccupied Mr. Lincoln from the very beginning of the war. On this point again it can not be affirmed that he had a really decided plan. It was always repugnant to his mind not to treat the Southern States reconquered by the Federal arms as still constituting real States. He did not like to regard them as simple territories fallen from their ancient dignity, and making a part of that domain outside of the Confederation properly so called which the arms or the diplomacy of the Union might at any time acquire. He was disposed to recognize in States brought to terms, any substitute or platform of a government, provided it declared itself faithful to the Union. He allowed, somewhat arbitrarily, it must be confessed, to a tenth part of the inhabitants of a State to reform the political frame-work, and to summon Conventions, Legislatures, Governors. He was always impatient to replace a civil power, however fragile or ephemeral it might be, by the side of the military power, in order to remove from the occupation the character, or at least the appearance of conquest. This prepossession may have drawn him into some mistakes, but it seems to us to do honor to his liberality. Moreover, as he himself said in his proclamation of the 9th July, 1864, he would not bind himself inflexibly to any definitive plan of reconstruction. This he repeated on the 11th of April, in his last public discourse. "We are all of one mind," he said, "on this point, that the seceded States are not in their normal situation with respect to the Union; and the object of the Government is, to place them in a regular position. What I say of Louisiana applies to the other States, and yet so great peculiarities apply to each, and so new and unprecedented is the whole case, that an inflexible plan would become a new entanglement; and I may perhaps make a new proposition to the South when the time comes for it." 
Mr. Lincoln held no more tenaciously to men than to measures. All were good in his eyes who could serve his great national object. As soon as they became obstacles, all were rejected. He never sacrificed the slightest duty to his personal friendships. The Democrats had as easy access to him as the men of his own party. He had never any favorites, and always withdrew from influences too encroaching. Singly responsible, and at a time when responsibility was a weight almost crushing, he was able to preserve his independence entire. He used his prerogatives with a firmness that may have sometimes seemed audacious, but he never made the interests of the Union subordinate to the mere satisfaction of his own pride. He surrendered to England the Confederate Commissioners taken on board the Trent, without consulting Congress, the Senate or the Cabinet, and without allowing himself to be troubled by the murmurs of the national self-esteem. He took from General McClellan the command of the army of the Potomac on the morrow as it were of the victory of Antietam, because the sentiments of that General, were not in harmony with those of the country, and because he wished to spare the republic conflicts between the military and civil power. He at once relieved General Fremont at St. Louis, and General Hunter in North Carolina, because their emancipation proclamations went beyond and anticipated the action of the Government. He removed General Butler, once from New Orleans, and again from the army of the James, when that energetic auxiliary because troublesome and ceased to yield to discipline. He tried successively McClellan, Burnside, Hooker, Grant, till he found in this last a General capable of conducting the operations of the war on a consistent plan with energy and success. He interfered as little as possible with details, especially towards the last of the war. He laid but one absolute obligation upon his Generals,—to save to the Union at any cost its capital. 
The feature of Mr. Lincoln's character which has probably been the most misunderstood is his firm, inflexible will; because, having none of the little vanity of power, he was solicitous to veil rather than to display the signs of it. And besides, this will was bent only upon certain capital points. It gave place, in all details or questions of a secondary order, to affable and indifferent complaisance. It was also, if I may so speak, defensive rather than aggressive, avoiding useless conflicts and barren victories. One would never have suspected such a fund of tenacity in a man who listened to every body; a man of so much kindness in conversation, who received with the same cordiality deputations from all parties. He was more accessible than any of his ministers: more so than Mr. Seward, shut up in his cabinet of State, holding the tangled threads of American diplomacy: than Mr. Stanton, the Minister of War, indefatigable in labor, desirous to merit the name of the American Carnot, given him one day by Mr. Seward. To whoever knows any thing of Washington, it will seem wonderful that Mr. Lincoln should have succeeded in preserving this integrity and in-dependence of personal will, and yet have remained so affable and accessible. Washington is in reality a purely political city. Take away the White House and the Capitol, and nothing remains. The hotels and private houses are but ante-chambers to Congress. There one constantly elbows senators, deputies, envoys, governors of States, from all parts of the Union. No lasting influence, whether social, political, or merely worldly, there interferes with the exercise of the rights and the fulfilment of the duties of public life. The representatives from Nevada or California have none but general questions to debate with those of Massachusetts and Maine. One is ever upon the forum; and in such a medium, where party spirit is constantly being sharpened and exalted, it is difficult to preserve that measure and coolness which are the defences of individual will. During the four years of his presidency, perhaps not a day passed without subjecting Mr. Lincoln to the pressure of various ambitions, rancor, and personal claims. He defended himself by his discretion, evaded attack by his flexibility, and in the midst of universal agitation, preserved his calmness by his resolute moderation.
He never had a real cabinet, though he sometimes called a ministerial council. Isolating himself in his responsibility, he confined the ministry to their respective functions, in foreign affairs, finance, or war, leaving each in his own sphere an almost complete authority. If he thus isolated himself too much, as his detractors said, it was attributable neither to pride nor ambition. The interests of the country obliged him to keep at work at the same time ministers who were sometimes divided from each other by personal dislike or distrust. On almost all subjects he lacked their special information; but his great science was the knowledge of men, and he knew how to make use of them, and to find the best, for the fulfilment of the special tasks that he felt himself incapable of accomplishing. As ignorant of the affairs of Europe, of its dynasties, of its statesmen, and its entangled politics, as he was well informed respecting his own country, he had the good sense to leave the diplomatic work entirely with Mr. Seward, who was abler than any other to cause the rights and dignity of the United States to be respected, without leading them into foreign embarrassments. On one point only did he take ground with Mr. Seward: He was determined by every honorable means to save his
<c03>
country from a war with European powers while it was torn by civil war. In spite of much provocation, he never employed, with respect to these powers, any but the most kindly and cautious expressions. He thereby showed himself to be not only a skilful politician—he obeyed a secret instinct of his heart. A man of the West, he did not experience in regard to Europe, its appreciations, its criticisms, the lively susceptibility of the inhabitants of the Atlantic States. There was at the bottom a little indifference, perhaps a touch of disdain, in the uniform tranquillity of his language.
His great love, his great respect, were for the American people. The spokesman of the nation, he aspired neither to guide nor to resist it. He chose to walk by its side. He excelled in leading the politicians, who were sometimes simple enough to think they were leading him. He never aimed at leading the people He had entire and absolute faith in the wisdom, the good sense, the courage, and the disinterestedness of his nation. That faith remained as pure at Washington as in the wilderness of Illinois. His mind was not imprisoned in that strange capital, half city, half village, where, as its marble palaces are built among meaner dwellings, so the lofty purposes of statesmen are stifled and obscured by the baseness of political beggary, shameless covetousness, and the falsehoods and intrigues of low ambition. His eyes overlooked them all, and were continually turned from Massachusetts to Missouri, from Illinois to Pennsylvania. He knew how to rid himself of the troublesome by a witticism, and he replied to pretentious exhortations by parables or piquant anecdotes. His firm, elastic nature resisted the most unexpected blows of fortune, and he often sustained the courage of his friends by his stoical good humor. Under his odd and sometimes trivial language, lay a profound good sense. His words went straight to the hearts of the people, and engraved themselves on every mind. What discourse pronounced during the Presidential campaign of 1864 is worth this simple touch of Mr. Lincoln,—" It is not the place to change horses, in the midst of the stream."
Mr. Lincoln's causticity not only covered great wisdom: it concealed also a soul somewhat shrinking and sensitive, and endowed with almost feminine gentleness. His comic vein, was, if I may so speak, a sort of modesty. The purity of his life had given to his feelings a delicacy very touching in so robust a nature, concealed as it was under a rude exterior. "Come and see Saint Louis under the oak of Vincennes," said my friend Charles Sumner to me one day. Then he informed me that once a week, however pressing the President's avocations might be, he opened his Cabinet to all who had a request to prefer or a complaint to make. We set out for the White House, and penetrated to Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet, where we took our places unannounced, with a dozen others, each waiting his turn. The walls were hung with immense maps of the theatre of war. Over the chimney hung the portrait of President Jackson,—his hard, dry face bearing the impress of vast energy. On the marble there was nothing but a beautiful photograph of John Bright, the eloquent defender of the American Union in the English Parliament. Through two great windows I could see the silver lines of the Potomac, the hills of Maryland and the unfinished obelisk of Washington, rising against the blue sky. The President was seated at an immense writing table which stood across the space between the two windows. He did not remark Mr. Sumner, being engaged in conversation with a petitioner, whom he sent away almost immediately after our arrival. The door keeper, in ordinary citizen's dress, like the rest of the world, led forward a woman. She was in great trouble, and had some difficulty in explaining that her husband was a soldier of the regular army who had been long in the service, and wished to be authorized to quit his regiment on account of his family. She was every moment more and more embarrassed. "Let me help you," said Mr. Lincoln kindly, and he began to question her with the method and clearness of a lawyer. His profile showed dark against the bright square of the window, illuminated by a flood of sunlight. His right hand was often passed through his hair, which it left in bristling disordered locks. While he spoke, all the muscles of his face in movement gave an odd, unharmonious expression to his head, somewhat like the sketches of Mephistopheles; but his voice had an almost paternal gentleness. After having questioned the poor woman, "I have no power he said, to grant your request. I have the right to disband all the armies of the Union, but I cannot dismiss a single soldier. Only the Colonel of your husband's regiment can do that." The woman complained of her poverty. Never before, she said, had she suffered so much. "Madam," said Mr. Lincoln, his voice changing to a tone of slow and touching solemnity, "I share your sorrow. But remember that so it is with all of us, whoever we are: we have never before suffered what we suffer to-day. We all have our burden to bear." Then he leaned toward her, and for some time we only heard the murmur of the two voices. I saw him write a few words upon a paper, which he gave to the supplicant, and then dismissed her with all the forms of the most scrupulous politeness. The moment after, a young man entered and stretching out his hands as he advanced toward the President, exclaimed, in a ringing voice, "As for me, I have come to shake hands with Abraham Lincoln." "Much obliged," said the President, offering his large hand, "this is the business-day."
This respect for the people is to be found in all his speeches to the army. At the inauguration of the National Cemetery at Gettysburg, Mr. Everett, facing the battle-field where the destinies of the American republic were decided, made a long discourse, in which he exhausted all the resources of his marvellous eloquence. How much should I, notwithstanding, have preferred to listen to these simple words uttered by Mr. Lincoln, in view of all those graves:—
"Fourscore and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth upon this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation or any other nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war; we are met to dedicate a portion of that field as the final resting-place of these who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But, in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or to detract. The world will little note nor long remember what we may say here; but it can never forget what they did here. 
It is for us, the living, rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work that they have thus far so nobly carried on. It is rather for us here to be dedicated to the great task remaining before us; that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly resolve that those dead shall not have died in vain. That the nation shall, under God, have a new birth of freedom; and that governments of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth."
Is not that the true eloquence which the orator does not seek, and finds without thinking of it? Under the pressure of a powerful emotion, he cast aside vain ornament, and attained the purity, the conciseness, the nobility of the great classic models. Does not the listener also feel in these accents, so pathetic and self-controlled, something of that tenderness of which I have spoken? One would have said at times, on beholding Mr. Lincoln, that his heart was in mourning for all the dead of those four terrible presidential years. An almost superhuman sadness passed sometimes over that forehead whose wrinkles had become furrows; over that strange countenance, where the laugh of old times was changed into a sad contortion. I recollect as if it were yesterday to have met the President at night-fall. He had left the White House according to his wont to get the news at the War Department No one accompanied him, though he had often been besought not to risk himself alone. He despised the danger and detested all restraint. Wrapped in a plaid for a protection against the cold, he
<c04>
walked slowly, lost in thought, like a tall phantom. I was struck with the pensive, suffering expression of his face. Agitation, anxiety, emotion, had slowly bowed and at length broken that strong rustic frame, had worn out the giant's nerves of steel. For four years he had not had an hour of rest. Even his holidays were dreadfully suffering seasons. When the saloons of the White House were opened, the tide of visitors passed before him without stopping, and his broad loyal hand shook every hand that presented itself. The servant of the American people, he was condemned to remain at Washington, when the rest of the world fled away from its heat and dust. He could only escape for a little verdure to the smiling hills that surround the presidential country-seat by the side of the soldier's home, the State asylum for the invalid soldiers-of the Mexican war. In his walks, he saw the beautiful woods cut down, to make room for the parapets and the glacis of the forts. At a little distance, he passed the great cemetery where ten thousand fresh graves are dug in rows. I have seen in the middle of these woods that city of the dead, where rise ten thousand white stones, all alike, each one bearing the name of a soldier. One seems to pass a review in stretching along these interminable files. Their monotony is something terrible. Mr. Lincoln had beheld them young, strong and full of health,—these soldiers who sleep there now in untroubled order forevermore. 
His country retreat was not always safe from the incursions of the enemy, and Mr. Lincoln once saw from his window Breckinridge's cavalry venture to the very foot of the neighboring forts and set fire to the house of his friend Mr. Blair. At a musket-shot from this country-seat is the dwelling of a partisan of the South, who at the outset of the war made nightly signals to the rebel posts on the other side of the Potomac. He was arrested and thrown into prison, but Mr. Lincoln caused him to be set at liberty. Everywhere around him he saw the signs of war; the starry streamers floating against the sky above the red lines that dress the summits of the charming hills round Washington; the black-mouthed cannon asleep upon their stands; the cannoniers, the heavy smoke, the transports sailing up or down the Potomac. On this road between the wooded heights of Meridian Hill, he had to cross a barren devastated plain, where nothing was to be seen but vast wooden hospitals, built up hastily at the beginning of the war. He lived, it may be asserted, in a camp. Everywhere were blue coats, troops of horsemen on the gallop, detachments on the march. Mounted Generals—each followed by his staff, ambulances, train-wagons driven by negroes and drawn by mules,—all the confusion of war, without any of its grand emotions. This busy, anxious life had neither leisure nor pleasure. Mr. Lincoln's moderate fortune did not permit him to offer to many the hospitalities of the White House. He had refused to receive his salary except in paper-money, though Congress would willingly have authorised its being paid in gold. He impoverished rather than enriched himself in the four years during which he held the reins of government, while the budget of the United States reached, at a bound, a sum to be compared only with that of the oldest and the wealthiest European States. He did not take a single instant from State affairs. He entered but a single time the beautiful conservatory of the presidential mansion during that whole four years. His only relaxation was when Mrs. Lincoln on rare occasions took him almost in spite of himself to the theatre. He was passionately fond of Shakespeare. " It matters little to me," he one day said to me, "whether Shakespeare be ill or well played. The thoughts are enough." 
I had one day, in the month of January, the honor of being invited to accompany him to the representation of King Lear. I went with him to that same Ford's Theatre, and to the same box where he was afterwards so cowardly assassinated. The Washington theatre is small and out of repair. You reached the Presidential box by a passage left open behind the spectators in the galleries, and to gain entrance, there was only a door to be opened and a curtain to be raised. The back of the box was hung with a piece of red velvet, but they had not even taken pains to cover, either with velvet or cloth on the inside, the pine boards that formed the front. It will be easily imagined that I was more occupied by the President than by the piece. He listened attentively, although he knew the play by heart. He followed with attention all the incidents, and talked with Mr. Sumner and myself only between the acts. His second son, a boy eleven years old, was close to him. Mr. Lincoln held him almost all the time in his arms, often pressing the child's smiling or astonished head to his broad breast, and replying to his numerous questions with the greatest patience. Certain allusions made by King Lear to parental grief brought a cloud over the President's forehead. He had lost a young child at the White House, and was inconsolable for its death. I may be pardoned for awakening such personal recollections, that in other circumstances I should never have dreamt of imparting except to a few friends, for it was on that very spot where I saw him surrounded by his family, that death struck this man so full of kindness, gentler than a woman, simple as a child. There it was that he received the Parthian arrow of vanquished slavery, and fell never to rise again,—the noble victim of the noblest cause.
Even by his death, Mr. Lincoln served the cause to which he had already given so much; for there are emotions so powerful that they weld all souls together. They elevate the hearts of nations. They impose silence on brawling opposition, they fling a veil of forgetfulness over the past, and harmonize all wills to one desire. We need not, then, too greatly pity the United States, for having lost this chief in whom they had placed their confidence. He will remain at the Presidential mansion, invisible, but inspiring for years to come the counsels of the nation. And it is the prerogative of a free government to form men enough for its service to prevent the absolute necessity of any one of them. The destinies of the nation are never suspended by the fragile thread of a single life. Those who find themselves raised to the highest functions of State, adapt themselves with wonderful facility to the new circumstances in which they are placed. Liberty began their education—responsibility finishes it. Compare the judgments of Europe respecting Mr. Lincoln four years ago with the testimonies of respect lavished to-day upon his memory! Doubtless the exercise of power in the most critical circumstances, enlarged his capacities, but he was essentially the same man when he accepted, with modest resolution the burden of authority, and when his first words woke no other echoes than those of vain and frivolous criticism.
Mr. Lincoln's successor arrives at power in circumstances the most tragic and the most unexpected, and yet he feels no misgivings at the fearful responsibility imposed upon him at an hour's warning. The malevolent criticisms of a New York democratic journal relative to his appearance on the day of Mr. Lincoln's second inauguration had thrown unmerited disfavor upon this statesman, and caused his courage in the Senate on the first threats of Secession, and later in Tennessee, torn by civil war, to be forgotten. The tone and attitude of Mr. Andrew Johnson have already dissipated the uneasiness of such as could think him unworthy of his great task. The orator whose voice has so often moved the Senate, and who for a single day only had been below himself in consequence of temporary indisposition, has found again his noble, firm and lofty accents. If more severity is mingled with them than in the discourses of Mr. Lincoln, may it not be explained by the terrible emotions which have agitated the city of Washington and the whole United States? Where in history can we find anything to be compared with this last act of the great drama of the war—with this people cast down from and the heights of triumph into an abyss of trouble and mourning? Could Mr. Johnson escape the feelings which filled all hearts from one end of his country to the other? Was it for Mr. Lincoln's successor to
<c05>
affect not to feel them? Yet, as every one knows, he granted to General Johnston a capitulation as honorable as General Lee had obtained of his predecessor. The. North is determined to exercise moderation towards all who loyally return to the Union, but it will not compromise the future,—the peace purchased by such great sacrifices, the interest bound up with its cause, by blindness or weakness. It will not leave to chance or to the cunning of its late adversaries the regulation of the great questions which remain to be settled to secure the supremacy of the principles it has so gloriously defended on the field of battle.
But if there is no need to offer to the American Republic, stricken in the elect of its choice, yet already grouped around a new chief, the testimony of anxious compassion which its pride would reject, one may at least pity that hard-wrought laborer who did not live to receive the payment of his work, and who during all his life knew no rest. His loss is mourned in the United States, no less as a private grief than as a national calamity. Black crape is not waving over the palaces of the public administration only; it is hanging sadly from the humblest dwellings—a people in tears follows mournfully the coffin that is borne slowly from Washington to Illinois. As always is the case with a people suddenly seized upon by sorrow, it knows not yet the full worth of what it has lost. Condemned by events to become a great man, Mr. Lincoln has obtained the glory that he never courted. How earnestly and how joyfully would he have repelled it, could he at that price have spared his country the sad trials amid which his name has been slowly lifted? That glory will survive how much noisy and deceitful renown! It will add new features to that pure ideal which finds greatness in simplicity, which bends power before the law, and which never separates heroism from self-abnegation. I shall have said all, in calling Mr. Lincoln a Christian statesman, taking that word in its most sublime sense. He thought not of himself, and therefore his country and the world will remember him forever.
AUGUSTE LAUGEL. 

LETTER FROM AN OLD SUBSCRIBER. 
MONKTON, (Vt.) June 9, 1865. 
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND,—Enclosed are three dollars to pay (2-60) for the remaining numbers of the Liberator that may remain unpaid of the current volume.
After reading some of the speeches at the Anniversary Meeting in New York, I regretted there should not be more complete harmony among the friends of the freedmen. But on looking back over more than thirty years of the struggle now drawing to a close, one is reminded of the several cases of disagreement that occurred, concerning the less essential modes of abolishing slavery; and which its abettors doubtless construed into signs of weakness on our part, and consequently strength on theirs. Perhaps there were few amongst us who did not partake, despondingly at times, of the same sentiment. How often have we deplored the existence of " a divided North" opposed to an "united South"; and drawn gloomy conclusions from the spectacle? And often it might be truly said of us "although faint, yet pursuing"! We can see now that had we in those dark days trusted more in the wisdom, power and goodness of "Him who came to break the bonds of the oppressor," and less in the arm of flesh, we should have been spared many of those afflictions to which we subjected ourselves. But now that we can more calmly look back over the ground we have gained, and perceive in how many ways the spirit of slavery had Instilled its venom into our social blood, who can wonder at the want of more concord amongst us? Nay, rather, who does not mingle wonder with rejoicing over the victory thus far gained, seeing how our limbs were entangled in the meshes of our enemy?
"Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? " doubtless was the silent but earnest query put up by many fainting hearts. And the answer of the watchman has been fulfilled to the letter. Following some of those darkest days came occasionally, a " morning of hope," and again we were plunged into the "night of discouragement." At length we feel assured that the sun is fairly up and the darkest cloud is dispersed; yet there remain some smaller ones,—one indeed not " bigger than a man's hand " that warns us of danger yet to come, and that may require all the wisdom of our best friends to guide us past the rock of "repudiation " and through the whirlpool of " reconstruction," into the ocean of brotherhood, industry and peace.
On how many a bygone day were the words of H. W. Beecher applicable—"The great want of the world is a Christian heart." Let the world come into the possession of that now, and the errors committed by the land may be easily corrected. Let every man and woman be in earnest in building up the wall over against his or her own house, and we may rest assured the Lord will do his part.
For more than twenty-five years I have entertained a respect for the Liberator, although not at all times an unqualified believer in its teachings; but, perhaps unworthily, I have known what it was to be " under the ban," to encounter the frown, because I could not wholly abjure that skeptic, Wm. Lloyd Garrison. But mark the change! Where are they now who at one time gloried in their anti-Garrison sentiments? Their charges of infidelity are all hushed or only whispered with chagrin, and they are ready to shout with the old and tried abolitionists, " Glory! " Those who have " borne the burden and heat of the day " can well afford to allow " eleventh-hour " laborers to receive their " penny " of reward also.
Very insignificant as have been my labors in the cause of emancipation, I confess it is not without regret that I regard the time near at hand when both the American Anti-Slavery Society and the Liberator shall be laid down. "There is a time for all things." When the house is on fire, then apply the water, but if they that have done well in assisting to extinguish the fire, should, after that, persist in working the engine from habit, they must not complain if a heavy drawback is made on the approbation once bestowed upon them. In this simple way, I have become willing to see both the American Anti-Slavery Society and the Liberator laid down; and with the hope, too, that some one or more earnest men, with equal talents, and equal perseverance, will be found ready to work as faithfully for moral as well as political reconstruction. When paying this, I suppose, my last subscription for the Liberator, I could not well refrain from saying a farewell word, and it has run on to this. Excuse the length of my letter, and believe me to remain, with much esteem, very truly,
Thy friend, HENRY MILES. 

A SUGGESTION TO THE FRIENDS. 
To the Editor of the New York Yribune:
SIR: People have grown in the last four years. Even the Quakers have awakened, and are doing much to help the "Freedmen." In their "Yearly Meeting" now being held, much interest is manifested, and much is proposed to be done to elevate the black man. I do not like to be personal, but a few years ago, as all of us know, this Society disowned or excommunicated Isaac T. Hopper. His offense was that he was an earnest and sincere anti-slavery man. He worked diligently and faithfully, with his whole might, until his death, for the slave. His whole life was one of goodness, devoted unselfishly to ameliorate the condition, and to make free those held in bondgae. Now, let me suggest to the Friends, that the first hard work they do be to expunge the resolution from their minutes, disowning Isaac T. Hopper. This will be only simple justice, and the Friends will never stand right before the world until they do so.
LLEWELLYN.
New York, May 31, 1865.
GOVERNOR SHARKEY. Judge Wm. L. Sharkey, who has just been appointed by President Johnson Provisional Governor of Mississippi, was an old Whig and a strenuous opposer of repudiation. But such was his high professional and personal standing that he was for many years at the head of the Judiciary of Mississippi, though owing his appointment to political foes. His decisions show him to have been sufficiently pro-slavery for his day and generation. He is said to have been a Union man during the rebellion, though he was not prominently so.—Boston Journal.
<c06>
MASON AND SLIDELL. We hear but little of late of the rebel commissioners in Europe. The London correspondent of the New York Herald thus alludes to them:—
I happened the other day to meet Mr. Mason, the late so-called rebel commissioner here, at a friend's house, where he called for the purpose, as I believe, of trying to get some family matters arranged. He, at least, has given up all hope, and did not hesitate to say that he would counsel every Southern man to accept the present position; for it would prolong the struggle to do otherwise. Yet I could not help noticing that he still fondly clung to the idea that Texas might hold out. Mr. Slidell is, I hear, also dreadfully cut up and depressed.
The vessels which were built here in the hopes of being, by some trick, got out of the country and <illegible> to Jeff. Davis & Co., are now for sale to any government which stands in need of such ships, as is also as infinite quantity of arms, &c. It is reported they will be sold to Paraguay, to assist that country in its struggle with Brazil.
THE SURRENDER OF THE REBELS IN FLORIDA. A letter of the Cincinnati Commercial from Macon, Georgia, says:—
The rebel troops, in Florida, with all the public property, were surrendered to McCook, at Tallahasee, on the 10th day of May. The number of troops paroled and already reported is 7200, and will doubtless reach 8000 when the returns are complete.
The amount of property received from the rebel authorities was: Ordnance stores—40 pieces artillery, 25,000 small arms, 450 sabres, 1618 bayonets, 1200 cartridge boxes, 710 waist belts, 63,000 pounds lead, 2000 pounds nitre, 200 sets accoutrements., 10,000 rounds artillery ammunition, fixed, 121 300 rounds small ammunition, 700 pounds musket balls, 325 pikes and lances, besides large amounts of other ordnance stores. Quartermasters' stores—70 horses, 80 mules, 40 wagons, 3 ambulances, also tools of various kinds, with much stationary, clothing, and camp and garrison equipage. Commissary stores—170,000 pounds bacon, 300 barrels salt, 150 barrels sugar, 100 barrels syrup, 7000 bushels corn, 1200 head of cattle, also quantities of flour, ground peas, &c. A large amount of hospital stores were also turned in to the medical officer, Dr. Chapman.
Totally unserviceable horses and mules were either exchanged for corn or forage, or loaned to citizens subject to the order of the Federal authorities. 
A memorandum of all the cotton in and about Tallahassee, Thomasville and Albany, was taken, together with the names of the claimants, where, when and by whom stored, also the marks on the bales. The schedule is to be forwarded to the War Department. Numbers are claiming cotton which never belonged to them, and which, they evidently could only have taken possession of by fraud or violence.
General McCook's method was such as to disarm bitterness. He was cordially welcomed by the citizens, who assured him that there was no longer the least disposition among the people of Florida to act in opposition to the wishes of the government, and reconciliation and reconstruction, at the earliest possible moment, were most earnestly desired.
ALPHABETICAL RECORD OF THE REBELLION.
An exchange publishes the following:-
A—Stands for Andersonville—the ghastly monument of the most revolting outrage of the century.
B—Stands for Booth—let his memory be swallowed up in oblivion. 
C—Stands for Canada—the asylum for skedaddlers, and the nest in which foul traitors have hatched their eggs of treason. 
D—Stands for Davis—the most eminent low comedian, in the female character, of the age. 
E—Stands for England—an enemy in our adversity; a sycophant in our prosperity. (Music by the band—air, Yankee Doodle.) 
F—Stands for Freedom—the bulwark of the nation.
G—Stands for Grant—the undertaker who officiated at the burial of the rebellion. 
H—Stands for Hardee—his tactics couldn't save him. 
I—Stands for Infamy—the spirit of treason. 
J—Stands for Justice—give it to the traitors.
H—Stands for Kearsarge—for further particulars, see Winslow's Soothing Syrup. 
L—Stands for Lincoln—we mourn his loss. 
M—Stands for Mason. (More music by the band-air, "There came to the beach a poor exile," &c.)
N—Stands for Nowhere—the present location of the C. S. A.
O—Stands for "O dear, what can the matter be!" For answer to this question, apply to Kirby Smith.
P—Stands for Peace—nobly won by the gallant soldiers of the Union. 
Q—Stands for Quantrell—one of the gorillas in the rebel menagerie.
R—Stands for Rebellion—which is no longer able to stand for itself.
S—Stands for Sherman—he has a friend and vindicator in Grant.
T—Stands for Treason, with a halter around its neck. 
U—Stands for Union—"Now and forever, one and inseparable."
V—Stands, for Victory—further explanation is unnecessary. 
W—Stands for Washington—the nation is true to his memory.
X—Stands for Xtraditon—English papers, please copy. 
Y—Stands for Young America—who stands by the Union.
Z—Stands for Zodiac—the stars are all there. (Music by the band.—
"The Star-spangled Banner, O long may it wave
O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave.")

WANTED,
A SITUATION as travelling nurse to wait upon an invalid lady. Good references can be given. Apply at 57 Joy street, or at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street, Boston, Mass.
June 9.

Farm for Sale Franklin, Mass.,
CONTAINING thirty-five acres of tillage and posture, including eight acres of wood-land. Also, house, barn, and carriage-house, all in excellent order, built some fourteen years ago, with all the modern improvements, range, bath, &c. Also, apple, pear and peach trees, grapes, currants, etc. Further information can be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, No. 221 Washington Street, Boston.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles Street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co. 
Oct. 30—ly 

Dr. Ayer's Cathartic Pills
ARE the most perfect purgative which we are able to produce, or which we think has ever yet been produced by anybody. Their effects have abundantly shown to the community how much they excel the ordinary medicines in use. They are safe and pleasant to take, but powerful to cure. Their penetrating properties stimulate the vital activities of the body, remove the obstructions of its organs, purify the blood, and expel disease. They purge out the foul humors which breed and grow distemper, stimulate sluggish or disordered organs into their natural action, and impart a healthy tone, with strength to the whole system. Not only do they cure the everyday complaints of everybody, but also formidable and dangerous diseases. While they produce powerful effects, they are, at the same time, in diminished doses, the safest and best physic that can be employed for children. Being sugar-coated, they are pleasant to take; and, being purely vegetable, are free from any risk of harm. Cures have been made which surpass belief, were they not substantiated by men of such exalted position and character as to forbid the suspicion of untruth. Many eminent clergymen and physicians have lent their names to carry to the public the reliability of our remedies, while others have sent us the assurance of their conviction that our Preparations contribute immensely to the relief of our afflicted, suffering fellow-men.
The Agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis our American Almanac, containing directions for the use and certificates of their cures, of the following complaints:—
Costiveness, Bilious Complaints, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Heartburn, Headache arising from foul stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Morbid Inaction of the Bowels and pain arising there from, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, all diseases which require an evacuant medicine. They also, by purifying the blood and stimulating the system, cure many complaints which it would not be supposed they could reach, such as Deafness, Partial Blindness, Neuralgia and <illegible> Irritability, Derangements of the Liver and Kidneys, Gout, and other kindred complaints arising from a low state of the body, or obstruction of its functions.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations which they make no profit on. Demand AYER'S and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass, and sold by all druggists.
June 2. 2m.

